Annual Report 2016/17 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 1 The first 100 years Contents Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 so next year we turn 100. Read about our amazing history on page 132. 2 This is Clas Ohlson 4 The year in review 8 CEO’s statement BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 12 Drivers and trends 16 Stakeholder expectations STRATEGIC ORIENTATION 18 Strategic platform 20 Targets and target fulfilment 22 Our sustainability journey OUR WAY OF WORKING 26 Our business model 28 Governance and responsibility 32 Our people OPERATIONS 38 Customer offering 46 Customer interaction 54 Purchasing 60 Distribution 64 Expansion 66 Markets 2 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 INTEGRATED 2016/17 Annual Report This report provides a summary for the 2016/17 financial year and key issues for Clas Ohlson’s future. We describe how we are positioned to face a rapidly changing and complex business environment, based on our ability to create long-term value for our most important stakeholders. This is the first time we have integrated financial and non-financial information in a single report. The report includes standard and specific disclosures based on the GRI G4 guidelines for sustainability reporting. The scope of the GRI index is described on our website http://about.clasohlson. com/sustainability/. The statutory annual report encompasses the Directors’ Report and the financial statements on pages 68-121. ANNUAL REPORT 70 Directors’ Report 75 Proposed allocation of earnings 76 Risks and uncertainties 80 Chairman’s letter Clas Ohlson 81 Corporate governance Clas Ohlson is a Swedish company and is subject to Swed90 Board of Directors ish law. All values are stated in Swedish kronor (SEK). Values 92 Senior management in millions of SEK are abbreviated MSEK and thousands 94 Consolidated financial statements of SEK as SEK 000. Unless otherwise specified, figures in 97 Parent Company financial statements parenthesis pertain to 2015/16. Data regarding markets and 100 Notes competition reflect Clas Ohlson’s own assessments if a specific source is not quoted. These assessments are based on 118 Certification of the Annual Report the best and most recent factual data from published sources in the public sector and the consumer goods industry. 119 Auditor’s report 122 The share This Annual Report has been prepared in Swedish and translated into English. 126 Quarterly data In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, 127 Key ratio definitions and glossary the former shall have precedence. 128 Alternative performance measures 130 Ten-year overview 132 History 134 Store overview On the cover: Our store in Insjön, Sweden 136 Annual General Meeting and calendar The photo shows the Clas Ohlson store in Insjön – the first ever store we opened. Its 3,200 square metres make it the largest Clas Ohlson store in the world. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 1 3 Our business concept: We sell dependable products at low prices and with the right quality according to need. Welcome to Clas Ohlson CLAS OHLSON IS AN INTERNATIONAL RETAIL COMPANY that is expanding through new offerings, new stores and by establishing operations in new markets. Clas Ohlson offers products and services to solve everyday practical problems in six countries via more than 200 stores and online shopping. We have a wide range of affordable products in more resource-efficient and we respect people five product areas: Hardware, Electrical, Multiand the environment. media, Home and Leisure. The company is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, has sales of approximately Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order 8 billion SEK and about 4,800 employees. business based in Insjön, Sweden. We have one hundred years of retail tradition and we like doClas Ohlson offers a proactive, knowledgeable ing good business. Salesmanship is the core of the and available customer service, and an inspiClas Ohlson spirit and rests on four cornerstones: rational shopping experience through all sales drive, warmth, innovation and commitment. channels. We urge our value chain to become 2 4 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 THIS IS CLAS OHLSON OUR VISION To develop Clas Ohlson into a leading international modern hardware retailer, with high profitability that adds value for all stakeholders. CLAS OHLSON locations We have more than 200 stores in six countries and our entire affordable product range for solving everyday practical small problems is available Stores Sales Employees around the clock at clasohlson.com. NORWAY SWEDEN FINLAND NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden, Norway and Finland. 3,190 MSEK 3,588 MSEK 913 MSEK 7,691 MSEK 1,578 2,485 496 Finland, 11% Sweden, 45% 80 87 37 Norway, 40% OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES UK, Germany and Dubai. 299 MSEK Outside Nordic countries, 4% UK GERMANY DUBAI CHINA Franchise operations 41% of our purchases are made 185 40 directly via in-house purchasers 7 3 2 62 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 3 5 We developed our offering and launched many new products during the year. 4 6 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 THE YEAR IN REVIEW We are continuing to grow WE ARE ENDING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AT NEW RECORD LEVELS, with sales of close to 8 billion SEK. We are thereby ending our full-year with operating profit of 610 MSEK, a good result that we are very pleased with given the currency challenges we faced during the year. We increased our sales in all markets and through Continued expansion all sales channels. Sales increased by 5 per cent to We entered a new geographic market during the 7,990 MSEK. In local currencies, sales increased financial year when we established operations in by 4 per cent. Sales in comparable units increased Germany. We opened a total of 17 new stores by 1 per cent. (10), a net addition of 11 stores (7). We also continued to develop our online shopping channel Increased profitability with high growth. Operating profit for the financial year amounted to 610 MSEK. The operating margin amounted We strengthened our team and the number of to 7.6 per cent and earnings per share increased employees increased to just over 4,800 during to 7.59 SEK. the year. Sales, MSEK Operating profit, MSEK Employees 7,990 4,848 610 7,330 7,602 4,504 4,612 4,743 6,808 4,280 6,519 596 531 506* 431 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 * Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 5 7 THE YEAR IN REVIEW Significant events QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER QUARTER 01 02 03 04 • Opened the first store in • Phased out paraffin and fossil • Awarded prize for best digital • Finalist in “Store of the Year” Germany on Jungfernstieg substances from all indoor signage in the industry award in the category “Living” in Hamburg candles for flagship store on Jung• Acknowledged by the Boston fernstieg in Hamburg • Launched Cocraft Pro Edi• Launched Clas Ohlson ProConsulting Group and tion, a tool for demanding duct Innovation Challenge, Global Child Forum for • Arranged the Battery Hunt do-it-yourselfers an initiative to boost sustainchildren’s rights work with battery manufacturer able product innovation Varta, the Keep Sweden Tidy • Won PostNord’s annual • New President and CEO Foundation and Eco-Agents environmental prize for our • Launched the new smaller Lotta Lyrå appointed and in Norway work on reducing the environstore format Clas Ohlson takes office on 1 August mental and climate effect of Compact Store 2017 • Launched a new range of transporting goods more than 120 products • Launched online shopping in • Opened new stores in for pets • Won “Online Customer Expethe German market Svolvær in Norway, Helsinki rience of the Year” and “Onand Jyväskylä in Finland, • Launched the new Workwear line Customer Service of the • Opened new stores in HornsAlstertal in Hamburg, Gerby Clas Ohlson collection Year” awards at the Nordic tull, Stockholm, Sweden, many and in the Mercato eCommerce Summit Altona in Hamburg, Germany Shopping Mall in Dubai • Opened new stores in Ängeland Stovner in Norway holm in Sweden, Vinstra, • Opened new stores in SandLillestrøm and Harstad in nes, Voss and Finnsnes in Norway and Espoo in Finland Norway This year’s winner of the Clas Ohlson PRODUCT INNOVATION CHALLENGE The competition was launched in the autumn of 2016 to help us help customers live more sustainably. We received more than 100 complete entries and 10 went through to the next round of interviews and testing. The winner was Altered:Nozzle, a tap nozzle that reduces water consumption by up to 98%. Read about the winner of the Clas Ohlson Product Innovation Challenge on page 43. 6 8 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 THE YEAR IN REVIEW First step into the GERMAN MARKET Clas Ohlson opened its first store in the German market in May 2016 on Jungfernstieg in Hamburg. There was widespread interest and a fantastic atmosphere when the doors were opened to German consumers and customers poured in. We can see that Germany is a market with great potential and we are convinced that our concept is highly suited to German consumers. Launched COCRAFT PRO EDITION We launched Cocraft Pro Edition – a brand new tool series ranging from gardening machines such as lawn trimmers and hedge shears to power tools such as screwdrivers, reciprocating saws, angle grinders and hammer drills. We worked hard to ensure that all of the products in the series are of the highest quality and performance at a reasonable price. We offer a five-year guarantee for machines and a ten-year guarantee for hand tools. ONLINE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE and Online Customer Service of the Year Clas Ohlson won the “Customer Service of the Year” award after receiving the highest score in the 2016 Mystery E-shopper Survey, which assesses marketing, website and customer service. We also won “Online Customer Service of the Year” with our customer service team recognised for taking the time to help the customer regardless of the type of question, and being prepared to go the extra mile to leave the customer satisfied and make their interaction with Clas Ohlson a positive experience. NEW SMALLER FORMAT Clas Ohlson Compact Store The Group’s first Clas Ohlson Compact Store was opened in October in Hornstull in Stockholm. As the name suggests, the store has a compact format but, as always with Clas Ohlson, is filled with smart products and practical solutions. The new “Hire from Clas Ohlson” service is also available where customers can hire high-quality tools from Cocraft PRO Edition and other DIY favourites – everything from a fully equipped tool box to circular saws and measuring tools. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 7 9 Establishing operations in Hamburg, Germany is a historic milestone for us. 8 10 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 CEO’S STATEMENT Wholehearted focus on growth and expansion Clas Ohlson offers smart, simple and practical Clear focus and long-term plan solutions at attractive prices that help make The past year was a key milestone for Clas Ohleveryday life simpler for our customers. Help and son on our journey towards our vision. It was the inspiration are the key words of our mission. year in which, after much preparation, we took our first step into the German market. It was also Our aim of delivering value for customers, the year when we introduced the Clas Ohlson investors and employees pervades everything we Compact Store format that we believe is a key do. A profitable and sustainable company in the tool in increasing our availability and expansion long term must be one step ahead of stakeholder in both existing and new markets. We consolirequirements and expectations, and this is the dated our position in our existing markets and driving force behind our three strategic priorities: expanded our store network by a net of 11 stores. We will increase sales in comparable units, drive growth and international expansion and enhance I am delighted and proud that we delivered accorefficiency and build an organisation and processding to plan and achieved what we promised. We es that support our growth plans. increased sales and were very close to generating #1 #2 #3 Increase sales Expand with Enhance efficiency in in comparable new stores in the processes and units Nordic region and the organisation internationally CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 9 11 CEO’S STATEMENT 8 billion SEK for 2016/17. Operating appreciate our wide range and our proprofit amounted to 610 MSEK and prietary brands are performing very well. our operations have become even more It provides us with a stable platform to efficient. build on. Nevertheless, the year presented a numRestructuring in UK ber of challenges, particularly regarding The past year was also dominated by the company’s key currencies. The US the restructuring programme we are dollar – our most important purchasing carrying out in our UK operations. We currency – strengthened during the year have witnessed an unsatisfactory trend and impacted purchasing costs, although in the UK for several years and we are we were relatively successful in offsetting now taking action. We closed six stores these costs. The Norwegian currency also during the financial year and withdrew strengthened, resulting in a negative effrom locations that were not the right fit fect on earnings in recent quarters since for us. Instead, we are concentrating our we hedge parts of these currency flows. efforts on smaller format stores in the London region and have noted a positive The road to Hamburg trend to date. Establishing operations in Hamburg, Germany is a historic milestone for us. Continuous development A large number of employees were inToday, Clas Ohlson has a network of volved in the preparations and we were 218 stores in six countries. To provide delighted to welcome the first German our customers with the optimal offering, customers to our store on Jungfernstieg the stores we open are always adapted to in Hamburg on 19 May 2016. local conditions in terms of, for example, buyer behaviour and store traffic. We launched online shopping in Germany during the year, and opened another It is perfectly natural for us to want to two stores in Hamburg in Alstertal and continue to expand and open more Altona. Our customer surveys have stores. During the 2017/18 financial shown that our German customers year, Clas Ohlson plans to establish 10We will develop and strengthen our online shopping, which is an increasingly important channel in our store customer interaction. 10 12 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 CEO’S STATEMENT 15 new stores net. We will also develop for 25 per cent of sales. We have also CEO of Clas Ohlson on 1 August 2017. and strengthen our online shopping, made progress in the area of transporI greet Lotta a warm welcome to the which is an increasingly important chantation and have more than halved our company. nel in our customer interaction. relative CO2 emissions since 2007. Our new target is to reduce CO2 emissions in I would like to thank all of our customWe must also continuously develop and relation to our net sales over time. ers and shareholders for their confienhance the efficiency of our operations dence in Clas Ohlson. It drives us and to remain competitive in the future. We continued to develop our spare part inspires us. I would also like to take this Over the past year, we took important operations during the year. We also opportunity to thank all of the fantastic steps in what is currently our most tested new concepts for developing our employees we have at this company. comprehensive change project, sCORE service offering, for example, with hire Together, we all help make Clas Ohlson – Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Effiof high-quality tools, something that we a company that is ready to meet the ciency. Implementing this new business view as the next step in our long journey future. system will support our expansion and toward increased resource efficiency. provide better conditions for meeting consumer expectations. We are already Looking ahead using the new system in several markets Clas Ohlson has a stable basis with proand the plan is to continue to roll out prietary brands, an attractive offering the programme throughout the compaand a strong market position in estabny over the next two years. lished markets. We are all committed to giving our customers better customer From Here to Sustainability service every day. I am quite convinced Retail is the link in the chain that joins that by focusing on the customer in products and consumers. It brings with everything that we do, and based on it a great responsibility and the opportucreating long-term value for our most nity to make a difference. Our long-term important stakeholders, we will continambition is to contribute to a more reue to strengthen our position and our source-efficient value chain. We call it profitability. From Here to Sustainability and on this journey we will continue to integrate Over the next financial year, we will sustainability into our strategy and our develop and enhance both the products way of working. and services in our customer offering. Peter Jelkeby We will also continue to focus on Acting President and CEO We are primarily advancing our posiproprietary brands to achieve superior Insjön, Sweden, June 2017 tions in products and transportation, quality and design. which are areas where we have the greatest opportunity to influence. We have In the autumn of 2016, my colleague increased sales of products for a more and friend Klas Balkow decided to leave sustainable lifestyle from 6 per cent in the company after ten years at the helm. 2014/15 to 14 per cent today. By 2020, I will shortly hand over to Lotta Lyrå these sustainable products will account who will become the new President and CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 11 13 MEGATRENDS with a long-term impact Globalisation Digitalisation In our connected world, people, goods and capDigital services and tools are changing the way ital continue to criss-cross country and regional we search for information, interact and shop. borders. Many countries are now imposing Everything we do can be converted into data consistent demands for greater environment and analysed. The Internet of Things means consideration, respect for human rights and takthat products can also be connected and coming a tough stance against corruption. We also municate with each other. All of these factors see increased protectionism. This is why we are affect the customer offering and interaction with facing change that will require greater flexibility, customers, and create opportunities for new planning and more robust governance of how players and new business models. we do business. 14 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS Trends that shape the future UNDERSTANDING HOW OUR BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IS CHANGING, the external forces exerting an influence and the challenges and opportunities this means for our business and our ability to develop and create value is decisive for how competitive we will be in terms of meeting customer needs. Megatrends such as globalisation, digitalisation, The retail sector is also experiencing major higher demand for resources, climate change and change. Purchasing and behaviour patterns are demographic changes impact and change our changing and existing structures and work methindustry, our market and the society in which we ods are being challenged by new players. operate. Prevailing consumer trends are highly reflective of these megatrends. This section describes the megatrends that will ultimately affect us all in the long term and some Naturally, our industry is also influenced by of the trends that currently affect us the most. macro economic conditions, such as political uncertainty, Brexit and currency fluctuations. Higher demand for resources Climate change Demographic changes Vast quantities of resources in the form A global consensus on the Paris AgreeThe continued population rise in northern of water, energy, materials and food are ment has put climate change at the Europe is mainly concentrated to the large consumed every day. Rising demand for top of the agenda. Stricter regulations cities where an urban lifestyle influencresources among the growing middle class could mean higher costs for such items es purchasing habits and patterns. The will affect both costs and availability, thus dias non-energy-efficient processes and population growth is driven by increased recting focus to improved resource efficiency, transportation with high CO2 emissions. immigration and we see a greater diversity innovation, chemicals and other environmenConscientious consumers will increasingly of people with different cultural backgrounds tal impact throughout the value chain. seek out products and services that help who want a more customised offering. them to reduce their costs and negative environmental impact. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 13 15 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS Five trends that affect us the most today Sustainable WAY OF LIVING An urban lifestyle with longer working days and business travel means many find it difficult to find enough time in the day. Products and services that in different ways make everyday life easier are increasingly in demand. On top of this, more and more people want solutions that are compatible with a sustainable lifestyle. We see growing demand for green products, a desire to use the planet’s resources sparingly and a trend towards wanting to hire, borrow or share products rather than owning them. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS we will continue to develop the offering of smart, affordable products that solve small practical problems and develop services that make customers’ everyday lives easier and support a more sustainable lifestyle. INFLUENTIAL and engaged consumers Nowadays, it is easy for consumers to find all the information that they want about companies, brands and products, and influence others via social media. With an infinite supply available, it is increasingly important to stimulate commitment by improving the relevance of communication, service and product range. Robust demands are also made by many for companies to assume their responsibility in the production chain and serve as good members of society. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS being transparent, and continuously working to provide relevant smart solutions, inspiration, tips, good advice and clear product information. Both the offering and communication must be customised according to data and insight into what customers want and how they shop in order to present relevant and personal offers. 14 16 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | DRIVERS AND TRENDS FLEXIBLE, digital customer journeys Mobile, digital technology is playing an ever important role in the lives of consumers and has revolutionised purchasing and behaviour patterns in the retail sector. Constantly connected consumers want to shop when, where and how they want, and they expect a simple and consistent shopping experience regardless of the sales channel they use, tailored to their needs. The rising trend of online shopping means that the main purpose of the physical store is as a meeting place and an arena for experiences. Customers expect quick, reliable and convenient deliveries and the range of delivery options offered is continuously expanding. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS a continued focus on integrating and developing our various sales channels, and delivery options and on our capacity to interact with our customers through digital channels to further improve our availability and service level. Digitalisation provides us with tools to enhance understanding of customer behaviour, drive sales, build loyalty and easily serve and support customers throughout the entire decision-making and purchasing process. COMPLEX competitive environment Competition in the retail market is fiercer than ever before. Local, traditional retailers are being challenged by global e-retailers such as Amazon and Alibaba, while other digital players, for example, Google and Facebook are always expanding their business and pushing the boundaries of existing business models. Many companies have a similar range that competes for the same customers and it is easier than ever before to compare prices and performance. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS pursuing our work on developing our omni-channel strategy, our product range and our service offering to offer customers relevant and affordable solutions in all channels that inspire them and help customers’ everyday lives. Battle for TALENT Attracting and retaining highly skilled employees is a strong competitive advantage, while lacking the right skills is one of the greatest threats to a company’s success and growth. The young, digital generation of millennials know exactly what type of workplace environment they want – one that they can contribute to and evolve in without losing their work-life balance. FOR CLAS OHLSON, THIS MEANS that we strive to increase flexibility and we are being clear in what we offer to our employees. Clas Ohlson aims to be an attractive workplace in which to grow, and we support our employees on their journey forward. Our leadership, skills development and belief in our employees equips us for the future and cultivates an organisation prepared to shoulder new challenges. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 15 17 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT | STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS Valuable insight from stakeholders A PROFITABLE AND SUSTAINABLE COMPANY in the long term must be one step ahead of stakeholder requirements and expectations. We maintain a close dialogue with our customers, employees, suppliers, owners and various players in society to understand their view of the future, which helps us set our strategy. CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES Understanding our customers and their needs and ex4 800 employees in seven countries work hard to give pectations is vital to success in an increasingly competour customers the very best service and best offering. itive market. We interact with our customers every day Committed and goal-oriented employees are fundain our stores, through our customer service centre, on mental to our expansion and future development. We our chat function and in social media. The 2.5 million carry out a survey every other year and ask employees members of our Club Clas customer club also provide about their opinion of Clas Ohlson, our strengths and valuable information and important insight into how we areas for improvement. This year’s survey revealed a can improve our offering. Our annual customer survey healthy work climate and excellent leadership. More shows that we have very high customer satisfaction in than 80 per cent of employees are proud of working for all markets and that customers are very likely to recomClas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to mend us to their friends. others as an employer. LOOKING FORWARD, we can see that customers LOOKING FORWARD, values-driven companies will want relevant, innovative products and services with attract the right skills. The importance of leadership, superior environmental performance. A resource-effidiversity, skills development, flexibility and focus on cient offering is increasingly important in purchasing health and well-being is expected to increase. decisions. 16 18 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND TRENDS | OUR STAKEA close dialogue helps us set our strategy for the future. SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS SOCIETY Clas Ohlson Series B shares have been listed We have close and trusting working relationWe influence, and are influenced by players in on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999 and the ships with more than 700 suppliers in about society at a global, national and local level that company now has slightly more than 33,000 30 countries. A strong supplier network is a encourage companies to assume a broader shareholders, comprising companies, instituprerequisite for an affordable, innovative and responsibility. The launch of the UN 17 Sustions and private individuals. Many shareholdsustainable offering. We are constantly movtainable Development Goals gives businesses ers have been with us for many years. Stable, ing towards products under our proprietary a more prominent role in solving the challenges engaged owners are pivotal for long-term brands and suppliers expect a long-term faced by society. It increases expectations that profitability and sustainable development. We partnership and scope in return for meeting we understand our impact along the value chain, meet our shareholders at the Annual General the robust requirements that we impose. manage it accordingly and follow the UN Global Meeting in Insjön, and at shareholders and Important issues are discussed during regular Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human investor meetings. Important information contact with suppliers, on various training rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. about shareholder value is obtained via the courses and as part of audits. Nomination Committee and the Board. LOOKING FORWARD, we will be expected to LOOKING FORWARD, suppliers want to assume increasing responsibility for the compaLOOKING FORWARD, long-term profitability move away from only supplying goods ny’s indirect impact and make use of innovaand shareholder value remain key topics. towards entering into strategic partnerships tion to drive a shift towards more sustainable based on jointly established targets. development. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 17 19 Shared priorities govern the framework and set the direction. 18 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | STRATEGIC PLATFORM Inspiring a better everyday life WE WORK TOWARDS CREATING A STRONGER GROWTH PLATFORM by developing the foundation of our concept, whilst adapting to a changeable world and a growing Clas Ohlson. Our Group-wide priorities of growth, expansion and efficiency govern the framework and set the direction. We work towards measurable, short-term priorities in each strategic focus area that are monitored every quarter. OUR MISSION To help and inspire people to improve their everyday life by offering smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices. #1 #2 #3 Increase sales Expand with Enhance efficiency in comparable new stores in the in processes and units Nordic region and the organisation internationally STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS Our way Our people Customer Customer Supply chain Expansion of working We will be high offering interaction We will optimise We will expand, We will rationalise performers and We will be the We will increase our supply chain while also reducing and simplify our customer-oriented. natural choice for customer loyalty – both purchasing our CO2 emissions way of working. practical and susand attract new and distribution. in relation to tainable solutions. customers. our net sales. See pages 26-37. See pages 32-37. See pages 38-45. See pages 46-53. See pages 54-63. See pages 64-65. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 19 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT Ambitious targets FINANCIAL TARGETS GROWTH PROFITABILITY TARGETS TARGETS TARGETS TARGETS Annual sales growth in Establishment of 3–8 An operating margin of at The dividend is to comprise at comparable units of at least new stores net during the least 10 per cent. least 50 per cent of earnings 2 per cent. 2016/17 financial year. per share after tax, with conThe target for the 2017/18 sideration for the company’s financial year is 10–15 new financial position. This is our stores net. dividend policy. COMMENTS COMMENTS COMMENTS COMMENTS By increasing sales through Through increasing the store By investing in continued Owners will take part in the the existing structure, Clas network and expanding into expansion and having a company’s earnings over Ohlson can continue to new markets, Clas Ohlson cost-efficient organisation, the the long term through stable develop its business. can progress toward its operating margin will be at dividends. vision of becoming a leading least 10 per cent. international modern hardware retailer. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT During the financial year, We opened a total of 17 new The operating margin The proposed dividend for sales in comparable units stores in Sweden, Norway, amounted to 7.6 per cent for the financial year of 6.25 SEK increased by 1 per cent. Finland, the UK, Germany the financial year. per share corresponds to 82 and Dubai during the year. per cent of earnings per share The net addition was 11 before dilution, which is in line stores. Our first store in Gerwith the dividend policy. many opened in May 2016. Sales growth Number of new stores Operating margin, % Payout ratio, % in comparable units, % 1 3 82* 10 2 2 11 96 17 9 81 74 72 8.1 13 8 7.8 7.6 11 10 6.6 6.7* 7 -4 6 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17* 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 Target 50% Target 2% Target, interval Target 10% * Excluding non-recurring items * Proposed dividend 20 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | TARGETS AND TARGET FULFILMENT SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS TARGETS TARGETS TARGETS The percentage of products for a more Reduce relative emissions of CO2 attribut98 per cent of suppliers are to comply sustainable lifestyle is to represent at least able to freight by not less than 50 per cent with the requirements of our Code of 12 per cent of sales by 2020. The target between 2007 and 2020 to 16 g CO2 per Conduct as regards working conditions, was achieved and revised in May 2017 so tonne kilometre. The target was achieved human rights and environment, with no that products for a more sustainable lifeand revised in May 2017 so that we will serious deviations. style are to represent at least 25 per cent reduce our CO2 emissions in relation to our of sales by 2020. net sales. COMMENTS COMMENTS COMMENTS We will increase the percentage of prodWe endeavour to re-direct our freight to Monitoring compliance with the requireucts that support a more sustainable lifegreener transport alternatives to reduce ments of our Code of Conduct helps style, products that have a positive or signiClas Ohlson’s emissions of CO2. The share improve standards for suppliers, their ficantly lower environmental impact than of rail freight must increase at the cost of workers and local communities and standard products and which surpass our road freight and amount to at least half of increases confidence in the Clas Ohlson set requirements in terms of quality and total overland freight within four years. brand. product safety and that are manufactured under reasonable conditions. TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT TARGET FULFILMENT The percentage of products for a more Relative emissions of CO2 declined from We focus on efficient monitoring prosustainable lifestyle amounted to 14 per 18 g to 14 g per tonne kilometre of goods, cesses, training and proactive developcent of total sales for the financial year, which was the result of increased shipment activities with strategic suppliers. up 4 percentage points year-on-year. ment consolidation, improved fill rates on 98 per cent of supplier complied with outbound pallets and better environmental the requirements in 2016/17. performance of our sea transport. Sales of products for CO2 emissions, grams of CO2 per Percentage of suppliers meeting the a more sustainable lifestyle, % tonne kilometres requirements of the Code of Conduct with no serious deviations, % 98 23 14 98 14 22 22 96 18 10 6 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 14/15 15/16 16/17 Target 12% Target 16 grams CO2 per tonne km Target 98% CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 21 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Sustainable is a prerequisite for achieving our vision. 2016/17 2020 Long-term ambition An integrated approach A sustainable customer A resource-efficient value Continued integration in our strategy and prooffering chain cesses, focusing on the customer offering, We promote products and services for a We reuse, recycle and invent products purchasing and transport. more sustainable lifestyle and help our cusand services and develop our way of tomers reduce their environmental impact. working. All with the ambition of conAchieved our targets for transportation and custributing to a more resource-efficient tomer offering. Defined new, ambitious targets Our sustainable customer offering plays an value chain. for 2020. increasingly tangible role and helps us to realise Clas Ohlson’s vision. Developing target for transportation by linking our emission targets to our expansion and We specify our role in a circular economy. growth targets. Accordingly, we reduce our CO2 emissions in relation to our net sales. 22 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Prerequisite for long-term business SUSTAINABILITY IS A PREREQUISITE for long-term profitable business. We have paved the way for integrating the environment and social aspects into our strategy and organisation. We passed several milestones during the year and set new targets. From Here to Sustainability, the green introducing a programme for training speech bubble in stores and online, atsustainability ambassadors. tracts attention to our sustainable offering. It raises awareness of products and Transport keeps moving services offering better environmental We have more than halved our CO2 Towards a resourceperformance than comparable products emissions from transport compared with and services and how they contribute to 2007, and thus attained our target for efficient VALUE a more sustainable lifestyle. 2020. Since transport is the key to sigCHAIN nificantly reducing our impact, despite Our long-term aim is to help make From Here to Sustainability also details our expansion, we set a new target of the value chain more resource-effithe journey we as a company are mareducing CO2 emissions from transport cient. In order to do this, we need ing. It outlines our ambitions and presin relation to sales. to promote transparency and exents the most important issues for us. pand our offering of service soluOur eight prioritised sustainability areas Responsible purchases tions that supplement our product help us to navigate our journey. 98 per cent of our audited suppliers offering. comply with the requirements stated A differentiated offering in our Code of Conduct without any Retail has traditionally been about Clas Ohlson has increased sales of serious deviations, a level that we intend selling products. Developing serproducts for a more sustainable lifestyle, to maintain until 2020. vices that help customers reuse which now represent 14 per cent of our and recycle products is central sales. Our new target is for 25 per cent But we are also raising our ambitions for achieving resource efficiency. of our sales to derive from such products here, for example, we have entered into During the year, a number of stores by 2020. a partnership with Sedex to enhance launched a service for hiring, rather transparency of responsible purchases. than buying, tools. The results of Achieving this target requires an attracThis collaboration will result in higher this pilot project will form the basis tive offering, increased visibility in our audit efficiency and allow us to allocate for developing the concept and sales channels and know-how among resources to strategic initiatives for longexpanding it to a larger scale. in-store staff. For this reason, we are term change among suppliers. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 23 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Eight prioritised areas Our eight prioritised areas define the environmental and social aspects that we are to focus on, how we are to create value and how we measure our progress. 1 2 Products for a more sustainable lifestyle Resource-efficient business models Many products generate their greatest impact on the environBy developing more resource-efficient business models, we ment when they are used. We have a important role to play see that we can contribute to society’s shift from a traditional in enhancing awareness about environmental performance of linear approach to manufacturing, use and waste toward a products, presenting alternatives, and enabling our customers more circular economy. We are working to identify and evaluate to make well-informed choices. new business opportunities that contribute to a higher degree of resource efficiency. Our growing sales of spare parts and Our five criterias for products for a more sustainable lifestyle, repair service, which are available in all markets, means that described on page 40, are to set apart the products that have we are extending the lifetimes of our products, and we help a significantly enhanced environmental performance than comcustomers to reuse products, for example, by collecting and parable products. We will continue to meet consumer demand, charging deposits for ink cartridges. while we identify and create partnerships for developing new products for a more sustainable lifestyle. OUR TARGET We are carrying out and evaluating pilot projects, such as installation and tool hire, to define relevant targets. OUR TARGET is for products for a more sustainable lifestyle to represent 25 per cent of sales by 2020. Read more on page 40. 3 4 Being an attractive employer Energy efficiency Intensifying competition for employees means that it is As we continue to grow as a company, it is essential that even more important to be a company that shares the our CO2 emissions do not follow suit. More than 70 per values of its new and existing employees. We find levercent of the CO2 emissions that we can address are linked age in being, and being perceived to be, a sustainable to the transportation of products. Most of our products – and ethical company. 95 per cent – are now transported by sea or rail, both of which have favourable CO2 profiles. We attract new, talented employees with new skills, in parallel with the growing importance of diversity issues. We also reduce energy use in our stores, our distribution We believe that this benefits innovation and helps us centre and our offices. to anticipate tomorrow’s needs and challenges. Good health, safety and well-being are key for success. OUR TARGET is to reduce our CO2 emissions in relation to our net sales. Read more on page 62. OUR TARGET is for employee attendance to exceed 96 per cent by 2020. Read more on page 36. 24 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 STRATEGIC ORIENTATION | OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Reusing INK CARTRIDGES We accept empty ink and toner cartridges for printers to simply reuse and reduce the risk of these cartridges being mixed with household waste. Customers in Sweden, Norway, Finland, the UK and Germany can hand them in at every store, while members of the Club Clas programme and our Clas Office corporate customers also receive compensation for returns. We accepted more than 500,000 cartridges during the financial year, compared with 330,000 the year before. They are sent to our supplier, where they are refilled and delivered back to us. We then sell them under our own brand at an attractive price. In this way, we are developing more resource-efficient business models. 5 6 Materials and chemicals in products Human rights, children’s rights and We see more consumer engagement, more stringent legislative employment conditions requirements and greater insight into the impact of hazardous Almost 70 per cent of our products are manufactured in chemicals on our health and the environment. Through setting countries where there is an elevated risk of deviations from clear supplier requirements, good control and better transparenour Code of Conduct, meaning that it is important to concy, we ensure that we are always one step ahead and can retain tinuously check and monitor that our suppliers respect our our customers’ confidence. requirements regarding working conditions, human rights and environmental issues. We already impose higher requirements than those set by legislation for products used by children or that come into contact To help bring about a positive change among suppliers, with skin or food. We are continuing to improve our processes we concentrate on offering training courses and guidance to manage, control and remain transparent with this information, together with other companies and organisations, alongside which also provides us with better conditions for identifying and conducting regular audits. prioritising chemicals that can be phased out. OUR TARGET is 98 per cent supplier compliance with our OUR TARGET is to annually update requirements based on requirements, with no serious deviations. Read more on scientific findings. Read more on page 56. page 58. 7 8 Business ethics Our role in society Clas Ohlson has a strong corporate culture and our core values By acting as a positive force in the communities in which we form the basis of being a responsible and trustworthy company. operate, we improve the confidence that our employees, Our Code of Conduct and our Code of Business Ethics define customers, and other local stakeholders have in us. the requirements and instructions that both employees and partners are expected to follow. Clas Ohlson has zero tolerance By viewing the impact that we have from the perspective for corruption and bribery. of future generations, we acquire the long-term aspect we need in our work. Subsequently, we focus on children’s We endeavour to ensure that all understand their roles and that rights and support the UN Children’s Rights and Business the company expects that everyone conducts themselves in line Principles. For many years, Clas Ohlson has pursued prewith our Code of Business Ethics, regardless of where in the ventive efforts in China on issues related to child labour and world we do business. Regular employee training took place children’s rights to their parents. We have also worked to throughout 2016/17. inform and involve children in our home markets in activities with a link to important environmental issues. OUR TARGET is to continue to train employees and partners in 2017/18 and more clearly relate this issue to human rights. OUR TARGET We are analysing the area to define targets. Read more on pages 28-31. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 25 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR BUSINESS MODEL How we create value for our stakeholders OUR VISION IS TO DEVELOP CLAS OHLSON into a leading international modern hardware retailer, with high profitability that adds value for all stakeholders. Our value-creation model explains how we are to realise this vision. RESOURCES OUR BUSINESS MODEL OPERATIONS • More than 200 stores and online shopping in six countries • Distribution centre in Insjön, Sweden, as a hub for efficient distribution ty FINANCIAL CAPITAL bili a in a • 2,251 MSEK in equity st al u es ur v su do to an re re ltu he cu HUMAN CAPITAL m e at • A strong corporate culture Fro or o rp Customer Customer • 4,800 highly skilled and motivated interaction offering employees Our c Customer RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL focus • Our strong brand • 75 million visitors to our physical stores Distribution Purchasing and increasing numbers to our online store • 2.5 million members of our Club Clas loyalty programme • Close partnership with more than 700 suppliers in Europe and 750 manufacturers in Asia NATURAL RESOURCES • Efficient use of natural resources for production and distribution THE CUSTOMER IS THE FOCUS of our business model. We base everything on our customers and their needs, and offer smart, simple and practical solutions at attractive prices that help make and inspire a simpler everyday life and a more sustainable lifestyle. Our values and our strong corporate culture feature in all that we do. We endeavour to integrate sustainability aspects across the entire value chain. Our operations are based on clear and efficient processes for the customer offering, customer interaction, purchasing and distribution. 26 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR BUSINESS MODEL Left in the company, 1% Employees, 7% Economic value by stakeholder Shareholders, 5% Suppliers and group business partners, 76% Society, 11% We create value for our customers, but also for other stakeholders such as employees in the form of salaries, suppliers for purchases of products and services, owners in the form of dividends and society in general by taxes and fees. OUR OFFERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS • High availability of a broad, affordable and attractive customer offering • Safe in the knowledge that products meet high 15,000 quality, safety and environmental requirements • Products for a more sustainable lifestyle products 10,000 for an easier everyday life spare parts EMPLOYEES • A reliable and long-term employer who offers a stimulating, developing and safe work environment • Our recruitment process seeks to increase diversity at every workplace SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS • Long-term and beneficial business relationships • Training in responsible business SOCIETY • Contribution to economic development 218 • Job opportunities • Involvement in the local community 1,300 • Contribution to higher resource efficiency stores • Contribution to reducing environmental and climate impact and online store products for a more SHAREHOLDERS sustainable lifestyle • A long-term, sustainable investment that yields solid returns and value growth CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 27 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Governance for STRATEGIC FOCUS efficient operations LONG-TERM AMBITIONS ROBUST CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND A VALUES-DRIVEN CULTURE help us We enhance efficiento optimise the efficiency of our processes and integrate ethics, the environment and social cy and simplify our issues in our strategic decisions and our way of working. way of working by implementing a new business system, developing processes and organisation, and Clas Ohlson will continue to grow and develop An ethical approach ensuring the integrahigh profitability that creates value for our cusOur Code of Conduct and Code of Business tion of sustainability issues. tomers, employees and other stakeholders, and Ethics describe Clas Ohlson’s commitment to make positive contributions to the communities maintaining a high standard of ethics when we PRIORITIES FOR in which we operate. Our culture and our values do business and our expectations of each employ2016/17 define our way of working. We often talk about ee and partner. We have a zero tolerance policy • Strengthening our culture and our the Clas Ohlson spirit. For us, this is an approach regarding corruption and bribery. Our Code of values based on salesmanship and its cornerstones: Business Ethics and our Code of Conduct are • Implementing drive, warmth, innovation and commitment. included in all purchase agreements and we strive sCORE and develThese values have existed since our start in 1918 to include them in all major contracts. We are oping related processes and have always been fundamental to all work clear that violation of the Code of Business Eth• Optimising our undertaken in the company. ics could, in addition to the termination of the organisational partnership, lead to consequences under labour structure Strong governance law and criminal law. • Integrating sustainability into strategic The governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon planning Swedish legislation, primarily the Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book and the PRIORITIES FOR Swedish Corporate Governance Code. All busi2017/18 • Implementing ness activities are to be conducted in accordance sCORE and related with the applicable legislation of the countries in processes which we operate. Reporting DEVIATIONS • Adapting and developing the organisation Read more about the governance of Clas Ohlson Any suspected deviations from the Code of • Ensuing focus on in the Corporate Governance Report on pages Business Ethics and Code of Conduct can be sustainability in the 80-89. reported by e-mail, to an immediate superior or strategic planning to an immediate manager, Head of Sustainability or General Counsel. Such reports can be made anonymously. 28 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR RESPONSIBILITY Employee INTERVIEW Training highlights good business ethics. Hello! General Counsel TINA ENGLYST Tina has been our General Counsel for six years and deals with matters on corporate governance, company law, contracts, intellectual property and business ethics. Our strong core values provide the platform – drive, warmth, innovation and commitment. Respect for What is business ethics about? How do we adapt to local challenges? “Business ethics encompasses competition “The challenges we face in business ethics CHILDREN’S law, conflicts of interest, corruption, general ethical considerations and core values. The differ between the Nordic counties, which have a low risk of corruption, compared with RIGHTS For many years, Clas Ohlson has pursued training courses that we arrange form an China and India, for example. We need to preventive efforts on issues to do with child important part of preventive activities.” adapt our reactive and preventive efforts to labour, product safety, responsible marketlocal conditions, which of course can be even ing and other issues that impact children. Tell us more about these training more of a challenge. Business ethics cannot We support the UN Children’s Rights and courses. simply be ticked off the list once you’ve taken Business Principles, which were prepared “We regularly arrange courses in our Code of action. A continuous focus on the issues at by the UN Global Compact, Save the Business Ethics for all senior executives and hand is needed, as is widespread involveChildren and UNICEF. The Children’s Rights country manages, as well as for employment at all levels.” and Business Principles guide companies ees who work with large-scale purchasing in their efforts to respect and promote and agreements, and our agents in Asia. children’s rights in their own operations and The courses are held in small groups in the in relation to products and services, at the relevant language, and are adapted to local workplace, the point of sale and in society. conditions.” CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 29 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY Our most significant risk of corruption according to plan and the roll-out is POLICIES exist in the purchasing process and when scheduled for completion in January AND GUIDELINES entering into larger contracts. Therefore, 2019. The sCORE programme is a we conduct regular training for all emstrategically important initiative that will approved by our Board ployees who work with purchasing and further strengthen Clas Ohlson. • Code of Conduct high-value contracts and for our agents • Code of Business Ethics in Asia. Two minor violations of the Governance for greater • Financial policy Code of Business Ethics were reported sustainability • Information policy • Information Security policy and resolved during the year. We integrate key sustainability issues • Insider policy into our strategy and relevant process• Diversity policy Efficient business processes es, with each function responsible for • Security policy Our processes are managed on the basis driving and pursuing this work. Until Our most important policies, guideof a Group-wide model that is continuDecember 2016, Clas Ohlson had a lines, instructions and manuals are ally refined and improved. The implesustainability forum that defined the regularly updated and communicated. mentation project for our new business company’s strategic orientation, set General guidelines and instructions are system, Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail targets and monitored progress. The published on our intranet and policies that include partners are available on Efficiency (sCORE), will enhance the sustainability function is now part of the website. efficiency of the supply chain, make it Group Management and the Board easier to address changes in demand receives regular updates. patterns and purchasing behaviours and make opening new stores and distribuWe have in-house audit teams stationed CODE OF CONDUCT Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct applies tion centres quicker and more effective, in China, our largest purchasing market, to all parts of our operations and coneven in new countries. and perform regular audits to ensure tains guidelines for employees, suppliers compliance with our high expectations and business partners with regard to The project, which commenced in the regarding working conditions, human human rights, labour standards, health and safety, the environment and anti2013/14 financial year, is proceeding rights and the environment as defined corruption. The Code is based on international conventions and national legislation and regulations, including the UN Declaration on Human Rights, the UN’s Children’s Rights and Business Principles, the ILO core conventions and the OECD guidelines. CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS Our Code of Business Ethics describes Clas Ohlson’s commitment to maintaining a high standard of ethics, making sound business decisions without consideration for personal or third party gains, not accepting, offering or paying bribes, and complying with applicable laws and regulations. Clas Ohlson also follows the Swedish Anti-corruption Institute’s (IMM) Code on Gifts, Rewards and Other Benefits (the “Code of Business Conduct”). 30 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | GOVERNANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY in the Code of Conduct. There was 98 identifies new risks. The Group’s Risk per cent supplier compliance with our Committee compiles, coordinates and requirements, with no serious deviations, develops risk management, and reports during the financial year. Read more to Group Management and the Board. about our supplier demands on page 58. Operational risks mainly comprise Focus on risk management establishing operations in new markets, Risk management is a high priority and purchasing in Asia, IT systems, competiwe are continuing to develop our tools tion, logistics, strikes, supply of key emfor identifying and managing risks. ployees, social responsibility, an attracWhen handled correctly, risks may lead tive product range and shrinkage. Risks to opportunities and add value to the of a financial nature primarily comprise business. We continuously update the changes to the economic climate, salary Group’s risk situation by conducting inflation, higher raw-material prices and a documented process in which risks transport costs, and currency exposure. are identified, measured, managed and reported to Group Management and the In 2016/17, sustainability-related risks Board twice a year, or as required. were more clearly integrated into our risk process. The risks are compiled in risk charts that provide a clear overview of the total risk Read more about risks and risk manageexposure and priority action to take. ment in the Directors’ Report on pages Each function is responsible for moni76-79. toring and managing existing risks and RISK MANAGEMENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Risk Committee compiles, coordinates and develops the Group’s risk management, and submits a report GROUP MANAGEMENT to Group Management and the Board. RISK COMMITTEE Governance Reporting Finance & Administration Marketing Communications Product range & Purchasing Business development Retail expansion Information & IR Retail operations Supply chain Each function monitors and manages existing risks, identifies any new risks and submits a report to the Risk HR Committee. Sustainability CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 31 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR PEOPLE STRATEGIC FOCUS LONG-TERM Values that engage AMBITION Clas Ohlson will ensure a high-performance and customer-oriented organisation by focusing on leadership, skills development and increasing diversity. COMMITTED AND GOAL-ORIENTED EMPLOYEES who share our values and want to PRIORITIES FOR grow with us are fundamental to our continued expansion and development. Together, we 2016/17 will find new, smart solutions to practical everyday problems. Today Clas Ohlson employs • Strengthening and developing leaderabout 4,800 employees in seven countries. ship with a focus on increased involvement, customer satisfacClas Ohlson is to be an attractive employer have a passion for doing business that is good for tion and profitability that can develop and retain competent and us and our customers. • Developing the committed employees, while attracting new skills of our emskills. This is the key to continued successful Values are key to recruitment ployees using our new training platgrowth. We offer a stimulating work environIn the recruitment process, we seek employees form and our ment with many opportunities for personal and who want to grow and develop with Clas Ohlson store-training professional development. Our expansion opens and who share our values. We promote diversity concept the door for challenging and varied work duties and we are certain that a variety of competen• Developing our ability to attract as well as international career paths. cies and backgrounds are needed for continued and retain key successful growth, in both new and established talents We have a passion for business markets. • Increasing diversity Our strong core values are the foundation for all among our employees work conducted in the company and how we apHaving a service mindset, commitment and a proach each other, our customers, suppliers and business-oriented approach are important prePRIORITIES FOR society at large. Our core values rest on salesmanrequisites to enjoy working with us. 2017/18 ship. We understand customers’ needs and we • Strengthening leadership • Developing the skills of our employees OUR VALUES • Developing our Salesmanship is the core of the Clas Ohlson spirit and rests on four cornerstones: ability to attract and retain key talents • Increasing diversity Drive, warmth, among our employees innovation and commitment. 32 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR PEOPLE Being an attractive employer is the key to continued successful growth. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 33 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR PEOPLE Skills development and Skills are mainly learnt in daily work career paths duties. New work assignments are a path Our induction programme ensures to new challenges within the Group and that all new employees receive a broad there are major opportunities to advance understanding of Clas Ohlson’s history skills or change direction, and to work and values, our vision, mission and our internationally. We use career planning sustainability work to carry with them and internal development to ensure that when dealing with customers and other the Clas Ohlson spirit is transferred to stakeholders. new markets. We need to change as conditions change. We primarily recruit internally, and more Each employee receives continuous than 50 per cent of our store managers skills development and individualised held a different position at the company further training, separately or in groups. in the past. The Clas Ohlson Academy coordinates and offers training at all levels and in all markets. 78 CLASROOM is our new training portal Clasroom, our new training portal specialising in products, was rolled out to all markets in the 2016/17 financial year. Heightened product knowledge increases confidence when interacting with customers, and we know from the most recent employee survey that product training is the engagement index most sought after type of training among both managers and employees. Clasroom Commitment among employees is high allows the user to choose when and where they want to take part in the course and with the index rising from 77 to 78 can be used on both computer and mobile platforms. in the most recent employee survey. Widespread COMMITMENT A full 89 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s employees participated in our most recent employee survey that was carried out in the autumn of 2016. More than 80 per cent of our employees are proud of working for Clas Ohlson, and the majority would recommend us to others as an employer. Commitment has increased from 77 to 78, which is above benchmark, i.e. in comparison to similar workplaces. 34 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR PEOPLE Focus ON DIVERSITY The gender division in the entire Group is 42 per cent women and 58 per cent men. 34 per cent of managers were women during the year, unchanged compared with the preceding year. The target is that neither men nor women will account for less than 40 per cent of each individual professional category. We also strive for increasing the balance of ages and recruiting older employees to the company. Diversity meets market needs employees have the same rights, opporWe endeavour to ensure that every tunities and obligations. No one shall workplace has employees with different be discriminated against due to gender, backgrounds, skills and experience. age, religion, ethnic origin, disability or Greater diversity boosts creativity and sexual orientation. innovation and helps us to meet the needs and challenges of our growing We work to increase diversity through markets. recruitment and focused skills development. The Board adopted a Group-wide Clas Ohlson is also to be an inclusive diversity policy in the 2016/17 financial workplace where we respect each other year. We also conducted an analysis of and follow Clas Ohlson’s core values. We the current status, set relevant targets have a zero tolerance policy for all forms and defined key indicators. of discrimination and harassment. All Employees by country, % Age distribution, % Managers, proportion of women/men, % Germany, 1% China, 1% 27 33 34 34 34 UK, 4% 50 years and older, 12% Between 30 and Sweden, 51% 49 years old, 44% Finland, 10% 73 67 66 66 66 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 Norway, 33% Below 30 years old, 44% Men Women CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 35 TRAINEESHIPS that lead to a job Together with the Swedish Public Employment Service, we have been working since 2013 to help young people who are excluded from the labour market to gain important practical work experience. We accepted 80 trainees in 2016/17, of whom about 25 per cent were offered employment at the end of the trainee programme. We added a declaration of intent called “Sweden together” to the Tomorrow’s leaders Focus on well-being framework of the programme Excellent leadership creates personal It is important to us to be able to where Clas Ohlson assumes its and corporate growth. At Clas Ohlson, offer a stimulating and healthy work responsibility as a major employer leadership involves utilising and develenvironment, where employees enjoy to help improve integration. For us, oping our employees to generate good physical and mental well-being, and feel this involves challenging ourselves business with a constant focus on the a sense of security and belonging. Clas as regards language requirements customer. Ohlson works actively and preventively for the trainees we accept. During to improve the company’s employee the year, we also expanded our Internal leadership programmes support attendance, through initiatives such as partnership with the Public Emour leaders in their development and leadership and preventive healthcare. ployment Service to include longensure a common management style and term unemployed persons over the the future supply of leaders. During the Employees who are contented and hapage of 50. financial year, we primarily focused on py are committed, stay longer and are skills development for team leaders and important ambassadors for Clas Ohlson. We have been working on a managers in key positions throughout Our goal is for employee attendance to recruitment programme in Finland the company. exceed 96 per cent on an annual basis. for four years aimed at young Employee attendance for the 2016/17 people aged between 18 and financial year was 94 per cent. 30 with upper-secondary school qualifications or lower, who are Employee attendance, % unemployed or threatened by unemployment. Participants complete 94 a five-month placement in stores, combined with theoretical courses, 95 95 94 94 which leads to a basic professional diploma in retail. Half of the 18 participants in the programme in 2016/17 were offered employment with Clas Ohlson. 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 Target 96% 36 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OUR WAY OF WORKING | OUR PEOPLE Employee INTERVIEW Hello! New role in Hamburg Team Leader broadens MATTIAS CARLSSON Mattias has worked at Clas Ohlson for five years, horizons. first as a sales assistant in Haninge, Sweden, and now in Hamburg – in the new role of team leader. Why did you apply for the position in Germany? “I enjoyed working as a sales assistant at the Clas Ohlson store in Haninge, but felt that it was time to try something new. I lived in Germany as a child and have always though that it would be great to return, so I jumped at the chance when I found out that we were going to open stores in Germany.” Tell us about your job as a team leader. “I first worked as a category expert but a year ago I was given the chance to take over the role of team leader at the new store on Jungfernstieg. Being a team leader means that I am expected to prioritise and delegate work duties to my colleagues, which involves a great deal of responsibility for me. I am learning new things all the time and really enjoy the role.” What’s the difference between Haninge and Hamburg? “They are much the same, but there are some differences. We have to work a little harder here in Germany on explaining the wide range to customers and among colleagues, so we are probably more direct in how we communicate because giving and receiving instructions and assigning direct tasks is more common. I consider the style in Sweden to be more coaching. “I very much enjoy working in retail and Clas Ohlson’s values and corporate culture suit me. Clas Ohlson is on an exciting journey and I want to be part of it!” CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 37 We work continuously to improve our customer offering. 38 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Products to make everyday life better STRATEGIC FOCUS CLAS OHLSON OFFERS SMART, simple, practical and affordable solutions for the home LONG-TERM AMBITIONS and office. Our offering is intended to simplify everyday life and provide inspiration. The prodA product and service uct range should be broad and attractive as well as distinctive and competitive in all of the offering based on markets in which we operate. customers’ needs, prevailing trends and that inspires people to adopt a more sustainClas Ohlson has a broad range of products in Products for a sustainable lifestyle able lifestyle is key to five different categories: Hardware, Electrical, Our broad range of products and millions of being best at solving Multimedia, Home and Leisure. The product customer meetings give us both a responsibility everyday practical problems. range includes both proprietary brands and other and an opportunity to make a contribution to well-known brands. In addition, we offer spare the sustainable development of society. Actively PRIORITIES FOR parts and accessories that prolong the service life striving to offer more products that contribute to 2016/17 of products. Our customers receive assistance, a more sustainable lifestyle is therefore a priority • Strengthen our proprietary brands advice and tips from our employees in stores, by as we develop our product range. This is also • Ensure prices telephone or online. something that we know our customers are reare competitive questing, and we are convinced that it will have • Expand the range A continually evolving product range an increasingly significant impact on purchase for a more sustainable lifestyle We work continuously to improve our customdecisions in the future. er offering. New products are added, existing PRIORITIES FOR products are developed and altered and others 2017/18 are phased out. We carefully monitor trends and • Optimise category consumption patterns and adapt our offering to STRICT REQUIREMENTS and product mix • Ensure an affordlocal markets. and continuous evaluation able and sustainFor a product to be included in our product able offering About 15 per cent of our product range is rerange, we place strict requirements on function, • Strengthen our proprietary brands placed every year, and our customers see new price, quality and chemical content, and require • Increase sales of products every week in our stores and in our onthem to be produced under good conditions. products for a more line store. It should be easy to find the right proProducts that we already sell are continually sustainable lifestyle duct for your needs, but we also want to inspire evaluated on the basis of demand, customer customers to discover new solutions and to a satisfaction and profitability. more sustainable lifestyle. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 39 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING 25% sustainabl We increased the percentage of products for a more sustainable lifestyle during the 2016/17 financial year to 14 per cent of sales, which exceeded the target of local variations in the range in the UK, Germany and Dubai. A number of spare parts are also available in our physical stores that manage stock levels based on We have become more ambitious and set new targets. The proportion 12 per cent by 2020. For this reason we local demand. of products for a more sustainable have become even more ambitious and lifestyle should represent 25 per cent set a new target that the percentage of Everything for the office. And of sales by 2020. products for a more sustainable lifestyle more besides. is to represent at least 25 per cent of Clas Office is our offering for small and sales by 2020. mid-size companies. Sales to companies are nothing new, but Clas Office enables CRITERIA for Spare parts prolong service life us to provide even more relevant offerproducts for a more Our range of spare parts is good business ings and discounts, along with easier sustainable lifestyle for both us and our customers, while options for registration and invoicing. Products for a more sustainable it helps us to save resources and extend Our availability through the store lifestyle should fulfil our general the service life of a product. Our online network and online store, our broad requirements and at least one of store offers a simple search system covproduct range and our expanded range the following: ering over 10,000 spare parts, including of office products all help to make it • Reduce energy or water products that are no longer stocked. easier for companies to consolidate all of consumption in the home Our range of spare parts is very poputheir office purchases to a single supplier • Support recycling or are lar and sales during the financial year – regardless of their industry and their made from recycled materials increased by 17 per cent. needs. Clas Office is currently available • Help reuse or reduce waste in the Swedish and Norwegian markets. • Have an improved environmental The range of spare parts is available in all performance, such as eco-laof Clas Ohlson’s markets, although with belled products • The use of materials is optimised or potentially hazardous chemiShare of products for a more sustainable lifestyle, % cals are replaced. 14 We assessed all products in the range during the financial year, 10 and now close to 1,300 have been 6 approved, compared with 450 the year before. 14/15 15/16 16/17 Target 12% 40 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 Smart SOLAR PANELS illuminate Our major investment in solar panel lighting is ongoing. We launched a range of new items during the spring. We are broadening our range while investing in design. Lamps with solar cells are particularly smart products that people can place wherever they like. They light up a space while also being kind to both your wallet and the environment. LIGHT A CANDLE and let it burn Clas Ohlson is taking further steps to offer customers products for a more sustainable lifestyle and is now producing the entire candle range for indoor use from renewable raw materials. Our straight candles, tea lights and pillar candles are made from 100 per cent stearin, while the scented candles are manufactured from vegetable wax, so now our customers can light a candle with a clear conscience! Focus on child SAFETY For children, the entire home is an exciting world to explore, but even the most everyday items could be a danger for little people. For this reason, Clas Ohlson has produced several products that reduce the risk of injury from crushing or falling, for example. In addition to various solutions that make the home a safer place, Clas Ohlson’s range has for some time contained several products that help improve child safety outside the home too, such as reflective vests, ear defenders and life jackets. AFFORDABLE AND SMART for pet owners In the spring of 2017, Clas Ohlson launched an entirely new range for dog and cat owners containing smart and affordable products that make everyday life with a pet that little bit easier. Our desire is for all products in the range to offer something extra – for instance, all leads have reflectors sown into them. Several products have a clear environmental profile, such as dog waste bags that are made from 100 per cent biodegradable material and bowls made from recycled plastic. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 41 WORKWEAR by Clas Ohlson After having tested the sale of workwear in a small number of Strict quality, safety and health legislation for products used by children stores, in May 2017 we launched requirements and products that come into contact a proprietary collection under the Quality is important to us and our with skin or food. Testing is carried out Workwear by Clas Ohlson brand. customers. We are particularly diligent in our own workshops and laboratories, with products that carry our proprietary and we also cooperate with several indeThe range, which comes in unisex brands and these undergo numerous pendent test institutions such as Intersizes, includes trousers, T-shirts, tests before being approved. The first tek, Semko and SP Technical Research shirts, jackets, belts, suspendcontrol occurs when our engineers conInstitute of Sweden. ers, hats, socks, knee pads and duct advanced tests for quality, function, thermal underwear. These clothes safety and durability on the sample Smart packaging can be used for all manner of DIY products brought home by buyers from We updated the packaging requirements projects, while the fit and design trade fairs or purchasing trips. We only that we impose on our suppliers during ensure you feel comfortable even place an order when the engineers have the year. These requirements include the in other situations. deemed the product to be up to standard choice of materials and design, where we and the supplier is in compliance with strive to avoid unnecessary packaging Workwear by Clas Ohlson offers our Code of Conduct. Read more about materials, particularly for products that details that are usually only found the requirements we place on suppliers we sell in high volumes. in more expensive clothes, and on page 58. the products are certified by Together with our supplier in China, Oeko-Tex®, which is the world’s Continuous monitoring is an importwe carried out a pilot project in order to leading certification standard ant part of our quality work and we take the next steps in terms of packagfor textiles that adheres to strict consistently monitor claims statistics ing. We produced optimised packaging requirements regarding hazardous and customer assessments to continue for transportation, sales packaging and substances. developing and improving the entire a more sustainable selection of materiproduct range. als. We also enhanced our organisation in China by recruiting a packaging We also work to minimise the use of technician to put us in a position to take hazardous chemicals in the company’s greater responsibility in terms of our product range, and we have imposed packaging and packaging material. stricter requirements than those set by 42 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Employee INTERVIEW Hello! Packaging is an important part of our The packaging department products. BJÖRN OGRAHN Björn is Function Manager for packaging design and works on the design of product packaging for our proprietary brands. Packaging that can stand with almost anything Packaging is an important part of our products, serving to protect them during transportation but also in terms of good exposure and handling in the store and when being transported home from the store. “Recycling is high up on the agenda and we work continuously to reduce packaging waste. Our packaging should be as sustainable and recyclable as possible,” explains Björn Ograhn, Function Manager for packaging design. When we select and launch new products, analysing and optimising the packaging is now an obvious part of the process. This applies to everything from the selection of materials and design to choosing to do away with packaging entirely in specific cases. In the case of older products that have been present in the range for many years, we systematically assess all product areas to identify any opportunities for minimising the amount of packaging material, above all else. “We have taken another look at several areas, and have just completed a review of the packaging for audio and video cables. We have reduced the size of packaging and thus optimised transportation by 10-20 per cent. The packaging will also be made from FSC-certified paper and the plastic tray from recycled RPET plastic.” Altered:Nozzle won Clas Ohlson’s PRODUCT INNOVATION CHALLENGE A new, innovative nozzle that fits all types of taps and reduces water consumption by up to 98 per cent won Clas Ohlson’s Innovation Challenge. It will be available in all markets and in all sales channels from June. “Altered:Nozzle is our contribution to solving a growing global problem,” explains Johan Nihlén, CEO and one of the founders of Altered. By dispersing water finely, each drop is utilised fully and you only consume a fraction of the water that a normal tap requires. Clas Ohlson’s Product Innovation Challenge is one part of From Here to Sustainability and is a competition for anyone who has an idea for a product that is new on the market, that fits into our range and contributes to a sustainable lifestyle. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 43 OPERATIONS | OUR CUSTOMER OFFERING Proprietary brands offer a wider selection. Increased share of proprietary brands approved, both in Insjön, and out at the manuOur proprietary brands complement the range in facturing plants before we place the first order. all categories and offer customers a wider selection and more opportunities to choose the price Our proprietary brands accounted for 35 per and product features that best suit their needs. cent of sales during the 2016/17 financial year, and our objective is to increase this percentage We place strict requirements on quality, funcfurther. During the year we clarified and reintionality and sustainability. All of our proprietary forced our brand strategies with new objectives products undergo numerous tests before being and guarantees. Outdoor life, training, cycling and Fittings, hooks, hangers and Problem-solving, smart kits travel accessories that inspire bathroom furnishing with a focus and consumables, for example, people to lead an active life. on design. paint, cleaning items and office materials. Electric tools, stationary machinKitchen equipment and electrical Work light fittings, heating, ery, tools, painting accessories, appliances, household products ventilation, digital measuring gardening tools, garage storage and products for hygiene and instruments and electric installaand padlocks. health. tion materials. Multimedia products such as sound Designed products relating to Water sports equipment includsystems, earphones, cables and lighting, as well as energying bath toys, snorkels, swimtelephone accessories, as well as ofefficient products and light ming goggles and wet suits. fice machinery and alarm products. sources. 44 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER OFFERING Our five PRODUCT CATEGORIES Hardware In the Hardware category, we sell tools, fittings and materials that make it easier and more enjoyable to renovate, build, paint and repair. We focus on smaller projects. Clas Ohlson has the tools to get the job done, the paint to paint with and everything else needed to renovate and make home repairs. COCRAFT, CAPERE and CLAS OHLSON are our proprietary brands in this category. Electrical Clas Ohlson has many smart, safe and energy-efficient solutions for an electrical-smart home or office. The degree of innovation is high and the design of the products has been given an increasingly important role. Clas Ohlson offers products to transmit, charge, monitor, measure, light, heat, link, install, drive and ventilate. A large proportion of sales in this category come from our proprietary brands COTECH and NORTHLIGHT. Multimedia Our Multimedia range uses simple and smart solutions to connect networks, music, films, printouts and much more. Large parts of the range are replaced frequently due to new needs and the rapid pace of technological development, but we also supply products from older generations of technology. EXIBEL and CLAS OHLSON are our proprietary brands in this category. Home We have thousands of affordable products that make everyday life easier and more enjoyable. The range includes products for the kitchen, broom cupboard, wardrobe, laundry room and bathroom. Large parts of the range are changed each year to follow existing trends. We offer our proprietary brands COLINE and CLAS OHLSON in the Home category. Leisure The Leisure category contains products for outdoor living, the garden, sports and exercise, as well as travel, boating and games. Carefully selected products contribute to active leisure for children and adults, both outdoor and indoor, all the year round. COCRAFT and ASAKLITT are our proprietary brands in this category. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 45 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION It should be simpl, affordabl and inspiring. 46 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION Customer interaction is key STRATEGIC FOCUS LONG-TERM SHOPPING AT CLAS OHLSON SHOULD BE EASY, as well as inspiring and affordAMBITIONS able. We offer accessibility and service through a mix of various sales channels. Clas Good service and Ohlson’s service concept is based on the energy and competence of our employees. an easy shopping experience are both key to increasing loyalty among existing customers as well as attracting new customers. We want to appear committed and proactive when meeting our customers. Our people in PRIORITIES FOR stores, in customer service or in chat-rooms, who 2016/17 • Strengthen our meet the customers every day, are important excellent customer brand bearers and brand builders. service • Further develop We meet customers via many channels new store formats • Develop and en39 We work continuously to develop our various hance the Club sales channels and offer customers a flexible and Clas loyalty club inspiring shopping experience. The sales channels • Take the next step are fully coordinated, known in the industry as in our communication strategy and omni-channel. Our aim is to manage all sales optimise the media channels as one whole and minimise differences mix between physical and digital stores. To an ever increasing extent, we are also meeting our cusmillion customers PRIORITIES FOR 2017/18 tomers via social media. The number of visitors to our stores • Strengthen our amounted to 75 million during the year. excellent customer The conversion rate increased and the The stores are the most important sales chanmeeting number of customers totalled 39 million. nel in our omni-channel strategy and our store • Evaluate and further develop new concept is continually changing and evolving, store formats with new solutions and ideas. It should be easy • Develop and enNumber of visitors in stores, millions for customers to find their way around, and we hance the Club place a major emphasis on product display and Clas loyalty club 75 • Take the next step navigation to save time for both customers and in terms of cus76 76 employees. Clas Ohlson also has different store 71 73 tomer communicaformats, in which the size and product offering tion on our range of is adapted according to the location and level of more sustainable products local competition to better serve customers and drive sales. 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 47 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION The store formats are of varying sizes and higher sales in our stores. Both trafand the depth of the range is different in fic and conversions in our online store different stores. Products not included increase sharply. in the stores’ ranges can be ordered for home delivery or to be collected in-store. Clas Ohlson is currently investing in a new business system that will enable us Our online store is a key channel in our to take the next step in the development customer interaction, particularly in of our omni-channel offering. We will markets where there is less awareness of be able to raise service levels for our Clas Ohlson. Many consumers search customers further by offering relevant for information online, and visits to the products in the right sales channel at the website also contribute to more visits right time, in an even more efficient way. Club Clas FOR LOYAL CUSTOMERS Club Clas is our loyalty club for everyone who appreciates useful and practical solutions to everyday problems. Membership includes discounts, special offers and invitations to various store events. Purchase histories are saved and customers appreciate receiving more accurate offerings. Stores with many club members have a higher average purchase rate and a higher conversion rate. Club Clas is currently available in Sweden and Finland, but we are planning to launch it in other markets. Clas Ohlson COMPACT STORE The Clas Ohlson Compact Store was opened in Hornstull in Stockholm, Sweden, in the autumn of 2016. It may be a small store, but it is full of smart products and practical solutions. It is possible to place an order from our online store and hire the tools required for a DIY project. We are supplementing our larger stores with smaller formats as part of our expansion strategy. We want to be where our customers are as they go about their day. 48 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION Satisfied and LOYAL CUSTOMERS Clas Ohlson conducts surveys continuously to capture customers’ views on how well we meet their expectations. The latest results showed a customer satisfaction index of 85 per cent. Our customers appreciate our staff most of all, and they say that they would be delighted to recommend us to friends and acquaintances. We are extremely pleased by this level of trust. We are continuousBEST CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE ly striving to develop our and best customer service online service, our offering and our Clas Ohlson won “Online Customer Experience of the Year” sales channels in order to and “Online Customer Service of the Year” awards at the 2016 remain the natural choice Nordic eCommerce Summit. The assessment was based upon for our customers. customers’ experiences. An extract from the jury’s citation: “Clas Ohlson’s customer service team is prepared to go the extra mile The customer satisfaction to leave the customer satisfied and make their interaction with surveys are conducted Clas Ohlson a positive experience.” every other year, most recently in 2015. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 49 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION 34%have LED lighting Sustainable stores We strive to improve sustainability in the stores themselves. We are reducing our stores’ environmental impact through energy efficiency measures, and we are switching to more cost and square metre. At the end of the financial year, 34 per cent of our stores had been converted and new stores are fitted exclusively with LED lighting. We are also working to incorporate At the end of the financial year, energy efficient LED lighting. Electricity greater possibilities for collecting end34 per cent of our stores had installed consumption in converted stores is fallof-life products in our stores. energy-saving LED lighting. ing by 38 per cent on average, while the energy saving amounts to 35 KWh per We want to inspire a more SUSTAINABLE LIFESTYLE Many products have their greatest environmental impact during the use phase. For this reason, it is vital that we make it easier for customers to select products with a strong environmental performance. We use green speech bubbles in the stores and on the website to highlight our products for a more sustainable lifestyle. Among the products available are all our indoor lights, solar power lighting and LED lighting, eco-labelled cleaning products, indoor paint and batteries – and of course our popular spare part range. Energy use and related CO2 emissions Sales, store/m2, SEK 000s Sales per average from indirect and direct energy consumption employee, MSEK CO2-emissions, tonnes GWh 5,000 50 31 2.8 4,000 40 3,000 30 31 30 30 30 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 2,000 20 1,000 10 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 Emissions Energy consumption Stores account for 84% of total energy consumption and 96% of CO2 emissions. 50 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 Online store ALWAYS OPEN Our largest and most popular store is online. We want to offer customers an equally inspiring shopping experience online to that offered in our physical stores. Clas Ohlson’s online store is open round the clock and is interactive, easily navigated and works equally well on computers, smartphones and tablets. Our entire product offering can be found here, but also thousands of spare parts, purchasing guides and inspirational films. Customers are able to ask questions and receive responses, upload shopping lists, view expanded product information and fill their baskets with products that are delivered directly home to the door. During the 2016/17 financial year, traffic to our online store increased by 20 per cent. More and more people are making their way to our convenient online store. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 51 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION We already have a loyal customer base in Hamburg that appreciates our wide range. 52 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | CUSTOMER INTERACTION Employee INTERVIEW Hello! Positive feedback from customers in Hamburg store in the Store Manager, Jungfernstieg Hamburg. final of STORE OF PEGGY FLEISCHER THE YEAR Peggy is the Store Manager of our first store in the German market – located on the famous Jungfernstieg Our new store on Jungfernstieg in shopping street in central Hamburg. Hamburg is one of the best new stores in Germany in its category. This was the conclusion of industry experts from the German Retail Federation, Handelsverband What has been the greatest challenge? we offer. The customers also appreciate “The fact that we are a relatively unknown being able to shop for the type of products Deutschland. Clas Ohlson was one brand in Germany. We need to continue we offer in the city centre where they pass of the three finalists in the “Store of building up confidence among customers through every day. We already have a loyal the Year” competition in the “Lifeand establishing our brand and concept. We customer base recommending Clas Ohlson style” category. Important aspects are also working continuously to optimise to family and friends.” our stores and ensure that we have the right included the store’s rate of innoproducts on the shelves to attract German Which aspect do the customers apprecivation, customer value, potential consumers.” ate most of all? and experience. Other contributing “I actually feel that our employees and our atfactors were the size and design How has the offering been received? titude towards service represent our greatest “We are extremely proud of all of the positive competitive advantage. The customers feel of the store along with the compefeedback we are getting from our customers welcome and we do our very best to respond tence of the staff. regarding our stores, concept and the service to their questions and solve their problems.” CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 53 We adopt a long-term approach when developing our network of skilled suppliers. 54 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Strict requirements for suppliers STRATEGIC FOCUS LONG-TERM CLAS OHLSON DOES NOT OWN ANY MANUFACTURING PLANTS. Products that carry AMBITIONS our proprietary brands, or which are unbranded, are bought directly from the manufacturing For us, a close relaplants or through agents in Europe and Asia. Clas Ohlson and its customers place strict tionship with our supdemands on function and quality as well as price and respect for people and the environment pliers is vital in terms of ensuring excellent throughout the supply chain. working conditions along the supply chain and quality in our offering. 41% Clas Ohlson purchases products from more than 700 suppliers in Europe and 750 manuPRIORITIES FOR facturers in Asia. The proportion of direct pur2016/17 • Work in a more chases totalled 41 per cent, which was the same integrated way as the previous financial year. with prioritised suppliers Close to 70 per cent of all our products are manu• Develop new factured in Asia, and principally in China, which direct purchases purchasing markets is our largest purchasing market, where we also We purchase 41 per cent of our PRIORITIES FOR have in-house purchasers in place. products directly from the manufacturers. 2017/18 • Strengthen collaboration with prioritised suppliers Regions of origin Regions of purchase • Develop new purchasing markets Others, 2% • Increase transparOthers, 1% Sweden, 7% Sweden, 49% ency and efficiency Rest of Europe, 8% in our supplier Asia, 71% Rest of Europe, 20% programme by collaboration with other companies within the Sedex framework Asia, 43% CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 55 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING New procedures and targets for HANDLING CHEMICALS During the financial year, we defined a process for how we annually update our requirements regarding chemicals contained in products, clarified the procedures for spot checks of finished products and specified responsibilities and authorisations for whenever we find deviations during our product checks. Examples of areas that were updated during the year include Close cooperation with Before we enter into a collaboration, we requirements regarding soft plastic suppliers undertake a technical review of the supsurfaces that come into contact We invest in close, long-term relationplier’s conditions and ability to deliver in with the skin during application and ships with our suppliers and have built line with our quality requirements at the requirements regarding printing ink a strong supplier network over time. factory. We are also on site before each and silicon that come into contact This enables us to reduce our purchasing delivery to undertake quality checks in with foodstuffs. Together with other costs and allows us to exert more influline with an established procedure. companies, Clas Ohlson also drew ence over product design, quality and up an agreement to share test price, but also leads to greater reliability Long-term relations with prioritised results on a voluntary basis and and speed in terms of deliveries. All suppliers are crucial, as we get to know inform both suppliers and the other suppliers must adhere to our Code of them and they get to know us and our companies who sell the products Conduct. standards. should any deviations be identified. We also defined comprehensive targets concerning chemicals: WE KNOW what customers want We shall enhance our requirements A product purchase begins with an idea about what our customers are going to regarding chemicals by implementdemand. This idea could come from our customers, a technological change in the ing new scientific findings into our market, major market trends or the development of a product already included in the annual update of Clas Ohlson’s range. Our purchasing organisation has its ear to the ground in order to react quickly chemical requirements. to any identified or future customer needs. 56 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Employee INTERVIEW A careful Hello! process to identify the best solution. Category Manager for Multimedia PETER OLSSON Peter has long-standing experience of product purchasing from Europe and Asia and has been working as a manager for our Multimedia product category for three years. How do we manage purchasing in Insjön? markets depending on the relevant need – for “The purchasing process itself actually begins example, it may be that we prefer to work with with comprehensive monitoring of the market. a European manufacturer if the time factor is We need to understand today what will be in crucial. We also collaborate with a number of demand tomorrow, which is why we obviously agents in cases where we do not have our own attend every major trade fair, read up on relevant contacts with manufacturers. Once we have new items, assess the trends appearing in the found the right supplier for the job, we begin our industry and take on board questions posed by process of collecting documentation and making our customers. We also have a close dialogue visits to the sites to ensure that the supplier with our colleagues in China, who take note of meets our requirements in terms of quality, delivmany interesting new items from both existing ery reliability, working conditions, etc.” and potential suppliers. Once we have identified a need, we make it tangible by producing a There are major distances between Insjön product description in which we define specin Sweden and many of the suppliers. What ifications such as design, price and when we challenges does this pose? need to bring the product to market.” “If we take China, for example, which is a major purchasing market, there are obviously major What happens next? cultural differences, and for those who are not “The next step is to find a manufacturer who can used to them it can be a challenge to learn how help us produce the product we have defined to communicate in the right way and construct a in the product description. We adopt a broad strong network of suppliers. This is why we, like approach to identify the best solution. Our many other major players, see a major advanoffices in China then proceed with the idea using tage in having our own organisation in China.“ their contacts in Asia, but we also assess other The purchasing process actually begins with comprehensive monitoring of the market. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 57 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING PARTNER ORGANISATIONS We have entered into a collaboration with Sedex, the world’s largest partnership aiming for greater transparency in responsible purchasing. This collaboration helps reinforce our ambitions, gives us greater efficiency in our auditing work and enables us to focus our resources on strategic initiatives that contribute to enduring change among our suppliers. Clas Ohlson takes financial year, we trained our internal supply-chain responsibility auditors in the new auditing standards Before we do business with a new suppliand introduced a risk-based model for er, we undertake a review to check that assessing which suppliers should be the supplier lives up to our Code of Conaudited and when. duct in terms of working conditions, human rights and the environment. In early 2017, we decided to sign up to Sedex, the world’s largest collaborative We have internal auditors in China platform for sharing supplier data relatwho undertake comprehensive reviews ing to working conditions, human rights to ensure that requirements are being and the environment, and during the observed. During the financial year, we next financial year we will start to get also performed a detailed analysis of our our suppliers involved in Sedex. European partners and their suppliers to enhance our knowledge and assessment By building up strong relationships of conditions at the factories. with strategic suppliers, by way of various training courses for example, we We see positive effects from the audit improve Clas Ohlson’s opportunities for work and the follow-ups that we carry long-term profitability while contribout. Our focus remains on transparency uting to positive change and improved and efficiency in the development of working conditions in the supply chain. our supplier programme. During the 98% fulfil THE Deviations from the Code of Conduct when audited, % REQUIREMENTS in the Code of Conduct Discrimination During the financial year, we conChild labour ducted 346 audits, both announced Forced labour and unannounced. Of these audits, Freedom of association 95 were of new suppliers and 231 Compensation were follow-up audits. Over the past Audit access denied 24-month period, 100 per cent of Authorized minors Laws and regulations our suppliers in high-risk countries Environment were audited against the Code of Working hours Conduct requirements, and more Social insurance than 98 per cent live up to the Health and safety requirements without any serious deviations. The aim is to maintain 2016/17 this level until 2020. 58 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | PURCHASING Employee INTERVIEW Hello! A close dialogue with Sourcing Manager our suppliers. TERRY GAO Terry Gao works as Sourcing Manager at our office in Shanghai. He has a particular focus on the purchasing markets of China and Vietnam. How do we manage purchasing in China? How large is the team in China? “I often say that we are Clas Ohlson’s eyes “We have two offices in China that handle and ears in China. We do a lot of work monpurchasing: one in Shanghai, where I work, itoring developments in the market, both by and one in Shenzhen. We are organised visiting trade fairs and other kinds of research, according to the same principle as the head and by developing our relationships with supoffice, where we have dedicated teams that pliers through a close dialogue and visits to work on the categories Home, Electrical, the factories. The purchasing organisation in Leisure, Hardware and Multimedia respectiveInsjön also sends requests to us concerning ly. There are around 60 of us in total working new products they believe should be included on purchasing, quality controls and CSR in in Clas Ohlson’s range. When attempting to China.” produce the requested product to the right quality, in the right timeframe and at the right How important is it to have your own price, our wide network proves highly useful relationship with the suppliers? to us.” “Extremely important. By taking a long-term approach, we can obtain better prices on the products we purchase, we can reach the market with new products faster and we create long-term understanding of each other’s situation and challenges.” TRAINING INITIATIVES among suppliers in China Together with QuizRR, Clas Ohlson has developed a digital tool During the 2016/17 financial year, Clas Ohlson rolled out Quizto train strategic suppliers in China in health, safety and workers’ RR at some 25 factories in China. rights. The new tool makes the training courses more effective, fun and, above all, measurable. “By introducing measurability and transparency to the supply chain, we are able to educate our employees and managers at “Clas Ohlson is one of our most important partners, contributing all levels about their rights and duties. This way we can create both its knowledge and commitment to improving QuizRR,” says the conditions for long-term profitability while also contributing Sofie Nordström, one of its founders. Together with Clas Ohlson to a positive change and improved conditions in our supply and its suppliers in China, we have tested early prototypes and chain,” says Åsa Portnoff Sundström, Head of Sustainability at pilot tools.” Clas Ohlson. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 59 Our distribution centre in Insjön provides the conditions for efficient logistics. 60 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION An efficient and sustainable flow of goods STRATEGIC FOCUS LONG-TERM ALL OF OUR PRODUCTS PASS THROUGH THE DISTRIBUTION CENTRE in Insjön to AMBITIONS be repackaged and distributed to stores or directly to customers. We maintain an excellent A well-developed and level of service and availability on the shelves, while reducing our CO2 emissions in relation to sustainable distribution system with short our sales through selection of transport, increased freight consolidation and a higher fill rate. lead times and a high level of service is important in terms of satisfying the needs of customers. 97% The products from suppliers in about 30 counPRIORITIES FOR tries and close to 60 countries of origin pass 2016/17 through our major distribution centre in Insjön, • Increase productivity at the Insjön Sweden, where products are repackaged and distribution centre dispatched to our more than 200 stores in six • Increase efficiency countries or directly to customers. Logistics are at the heart of Clas Ohlson and an efficient and lvel of service across transportation • Reduced CO2 CO2-minimising flow of goods one of our most Orders from stores are processed emissions/tonne important factors for success. automatically and products reach the kms stores in one to three days. Level of service PRIORITIES FOR 2017/18 Our distribution centre in Insjön is the hub that • Increase productiprovides the conditions for efficient distribution Stock turnover rate vity at the distribuand logistics. Our focus is on supplying stores tion centre and online customers with the products they 6.5 • Consolidate transportation in China need, in the right quantities and at the right 6.9 6.9 7.0 6.5 • Increase the fill rate time. Our level of service in stores is 97 per cent. in containers Orders from stores are processed automatically • Reduce CO2 emiswhen an article reaches its re-order point, and sions relative to our sales products reach the stores in one to three days. Each working day, an average of approximately 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 61 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION 1,000 pallets are delivered to stores and more environmentally friendly modes approximately 1,000 deliveries are made of transport. We are continuing to work directly to customers. on the reduction of our transportation’s environmental impact and have set chalDuring the financial year, we continlenging environmental targets to reduce ued to develop our distribution centre CO2 emissions relative to our sales over to meet the capacity requirements of time. some 250 stores, we streamlined goods receiving and online shopping and We have also set new targets for sea implemented Lean, a more resource-eftransportation, which means that the fill ficient method of working, into parts of rate in our goods containers from Asia is our operations. We have also continued to increase from 80 per cent today to 85 to streamline our store logistics, for per cent by 2020. example, we have improved transport packaging to better suit both goods Shifting to ships and trains delivery and the stores, and further Almost all goods arriving from Asia centralised inventory control. to Gothenburg, Sweden, come by sea and are transported from there by rail We are also working on the stock to Insjön. The target is to have at least turnover rate at our distribution centre. 50 per cent of our overland freight Following a certain level of stock shipments carried by rail by 2020 at build-up and changes to the purchasing the latest. During the financial year, the and product mix, we have marginally proportion of overland freight by rail improved these key indicators. totalled 44 per cent. Efficient transportation The majority of goods arriving from We are making changes to our transEurope are consolidated and transportportation to ensure higher security ed by rail from Helsingborg to Insjön. of delivery, lower costs and a reduced Since March 2016 we have also been environmental impact. We have already transporting approximately 80 per cent achieved our overall environmental of our Norwegian flow from Insjön to target, which is to reduce relative emisOslo by rail. sions of CO2 by 50 per cent during the period 2007-2020. The basic reference New pallets and packaging point was 32 grams per tonne kilometre. We have upgraded our stackable plastic During the financial year, emissions pallets in our outbound delivery flow to fell from 18 to 14 grams per tonne improve their service life and to reduce kilometre through increased freight costs and environmental impact. consolidation, an improved fill rate and CO2 emissions, grams/tonne kms Percentage of total overland freight carried by rail, % 50% LESS 44 CO2 per tonne kms More than 70 per cent of the CO2 23 14 22 22 44 emissions we are most able to 40 41 influence are linked to the trans18 33 portation of our goods. During the year we reduced our CO2 emissions from 18 grams to 14 grams 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 per tonne kilometre of goods. Target 16 grams Target 2020 50% Basline 2007 32 grams Baseline 2007 25% 62 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | DISTRIBUTION Employee INTERVIEW Hello! We help the stores Head of become more distribution centre in Insjön efficient. PER-OVE SILVERSTAM For almost five years now, Per-Ove Silverstam has been Head of Clas Ohlson’s distribution centre, responsible for everything relating to product handling within the walls of the 77,000 square metre building in Insjön. What steps do you take at the distribution centre to enhance efficiency? “One major task for us is to make it easier for those who come after us in the supply chain, or the stores in other words. Our task, aside from the obvious – delivering products – is to help them become more efficient during the product refill process each morning to ensure they have more time left for customers. This means that we remove as much packing as possible so that picking the item in the store is as easy as possible. We are also continuing to invest in the operations. In 2017/18 we will install driverless trucks, which is really exciting and will also help increase efficiency.” How are sustainability initiatives evident as part of operations at the distribution centre? “We handle large quantities of packaging material, around 1,000 tonnes of corrugated paper per year, along with a large amount of plastic. We recycle everything and ensure that the materials go back into production and become new corrugated paper and plastic. Another aspect we work on is optimising our pallets for the stores. Once the fill rate increases, less transportation will be needed.” How is the distribution centre equipped for further expansion? “We are ready for an expansion of up to around 250 stores DISTRIBUTION CENTRE in Insjön using the picking structure we have today. By changing the • 77,000 square metres of floor space picking structure, we have the opportunity to pick significantly larger volumes and to bring them to more stores. • 3,700 containers unloaded per year • 280,000 pallets delivered to stores each year We are also expanding a lot in the area of online shopping. This area may well see new technical solutions in the future • 330,000 mail dispatches per year for handling further volume increases. The solutions we are re• Capacity to supply up to 250 stores viewing include simplifying the entire “pick and pack” process to increase efficiency and reduce lead times to customers.” • 400,000 pallet and storage spaces CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 63 OPERATIONS | EXPANSION Growth in existing and new markets CLAS OHLSON IS CONTINUOUSLY EXPANDING with new stores, new channels and new offerings. We currently have a high store density in the Nordic region, which means that STRATEGIC FOCUS new markets and customer segments are important in terms of our continued growth. LONG-TERM AMBITIONS Sales increased by 5 per cent during the 2016/17 store is attractive and popular, and the addition We will develop our financial year and growth in comparable units of one of our stores often significantly increases sales channels in amounted to 1 per cent. We are opening more floor traffic in a shopping centre. existing markets and establish Clas Ohlson stores in both new and existing markets, and in more countries. expanded our store network during the financial The next step in our international year by a net of 11 new stores. We are also growexpansion PRIORITIES FOR ing by strengthening our digital sales channels, We took our first step into the German market 2016/17 • Strengthen the and traffic in our online shopping channels during the financial year, establishing online store network increased by around 20 per cent. Our Club shopping and three stores in prime locations in the Nordic region Clas loyalty club now has more than 2.5 million in Hamburg. We will focus on building up the • Optimise the store members in the Swedish and Finnish markets. brand in this region and will open one additional network in the UK and expand store in Hamburg in 2017/18. in London Location is critical • Position Clas Our stores are attractively located in city centres During 2016/17 we also undertook a restrucOhlson and open or popular shopping centres. As new stores are turing of the UK store network. We closed sex more stores and expand online opened in prime locations in both established stores at various location across the UK and are shopping in and new markets, the existing store network is investing in developing our stores in the London Germany continuously being updated to always offer cusregion. We also expanded our franchise operatomers an inspiring experience. A Clas Ohlson tions by adding one additional store in Dubai. PRIORITIES FOR 2017/18 • Strengthen Clas Ohlson’s position in the German market • Expand presence PROFITABLE INVESTMENTS in new stores in the London Clas Ohlson leases store premises on fixed-term contracts. A new store in an existing market region entails an initial financial commitment of 7-13 MSEK, comprising 1-3 MSEK in start-up costs, • Strengthen store 3-5 MSEK for investments in store fittings and computer systems and 3-5 MSEK for inventories. network in the New stores in the Nordic region turn profitable in their first year. Initial start-up costs and investNordic region ments are higher in new markets, and reaching profitability takes longer. 64 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | EXPANSION Employee INTERVIEW Hello! New services offer greater customer Customer Service Workshops value. PER DAHLER Per is Manager Customer Service Workshops and, together with his team, works to repair products and respond to more complicated questions from customers. As of last autumn, Clas Ohlson’s customers in seven stores in Sweden and Norway can hire tools and other products for do-it-yourselfers. Many people see this as a more sustainable alternative to owning all of the tools themselves. Previously people would buy spare parts for financial reasons, whereas it has now become more of a lifestyle choice. “We always want to simplify our customers’ everyday lives and an expanded service officering forms part of that,” explains Per Dahler, Manager Customer Service Workshops at Clas Ohlson. A broader service that simplifies and improves everyday life adds value to our customer offering. And more new services are on the way. “The robotic lawnmower has become popular and we now also offer an installation service as a first step in selected regions. Many customers want a comprehensive solution and the installation service has proven to be very popular,” says Per Dahler. Soon, Clas Ohlson’s customers will also be able to have their knives sharpened in every Swedish store. This sharpening will be carried out to the highest quality at a very competitive price. Wear but not waste! 10-15 NEW STORES in the next financial year During the 2017/18 financial year, Clas Ohlson aims to establish a net of 10-15 new stores. Growth will occur in accordance with the Group’s long-term financial targets. Read the entire list of contracted store opening on our website about.clasohlson.com. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 65 OPERATIONS | MARKETS Our market segments Finland, 11% Sweden, 45% NORDIC REGION Percentage of total sales Norway, 40% SWEDEN NORWAY FINLAND Start year: 1918 Start year: 1985 Start year: 2002 87 stores 80 stores 37 stores 2 new stores in 2016/17 8 new stores in 2016/17 3 new stores in 2016/17 Market trends Market trends Market trends Low inflation and sustained low interThe Norwegian economy experienced The Finnish economy remained est rates contributed to the retail seca turbulent year. The major crisis in the weak during the year and retail sales tor’s strong performance in 2016/17. oil industry has created unemployment increased by 0.6 per cent at current Retail sales increased by 2.5 per cent and led to a slowdown in the econoprices in 2016. The Finnish online at current prices and the year ended my. Retail increased by 3 per cent at stores are not as evolved as in the rest again with record-breaking Christmas current prices. Norwegian Christmas of the Nordic region and, in the Nordic shopping. Online sales for Swedish shopping increased by 3.4 per cent region, Finns spend least online both retail increased by 16 per cent in 2016 compared with the preceding year. Onper capita and in terms of the total and accounted for 7.7 per cent of total line sales for Norwegian retail increased amount. A Finnish citizen spend an avretail sales. by 13 per cent and now account for erage of 1,347 SEK online, compared almost 4 per cent of total retail sales. with 1,514 SEK per capita in Sweden. Retail index Retail index Retail index 105 105 105 100 100 100 95 95 95 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Market players Market players Market players Elgiganten, IKEA, Netonnet and Jula. Elkjøp, Coop, Rusta, Jernia and Expert. Prisma, Motonet, Tokmanni, Gigantti. Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position In Sweden, Clas Ohlson is a wellThe Clas Ohlson brand enjoys a high We are strengthening our position in known and established brand. Here, level of recognition in the Norwegian Finland, and greater consumer confiwe focus on further strengthening the market, and the interest in our offering dence is leading to growth. We have loyalty that our broad customer base is extremely strong. Our new stores higher annual growth than the market, has shown us by developing our excelwere positively received and the sales which is a result of a strong focus on lent customer service and enhancing trend is positive. We will continue to customer care and seasonal offerings. the relevance of our offering. Clas develop our sales channels in Norway We have also opened new stores and Ohlson has a positive sales trend in in the 2017/18 financial year. rebuilt older stores. During 2017/18 Sweden and we will continue to develwe will continue to grow in the Finnish op the store network in 2017/18. market by opening more stores. Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK Sales, MSEK 3,588 3,190 913 3,295 3,483 2,934 2,928 819 3,028 3,167 2,665 2,697 747 658 563 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 66 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 OPERATIONS | MARKETS Outside Nordic countries 4% OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Percentage of total sales UK GERMANY DUBAI Start year: 2008 Start year: 2016 Start year: 2014 7 stores 3 stores 2 stores No new stores in 2016/17 3 new stores in 2016/17 1 new store in 2016/17 Market trends Market trends Clas Ohlson has a franchise The British economy slowed someGermany is one of Europe’s largest agreement in the GCC region (Gulf what during 2016, although unemployretail markets. Unemployment has Cooperation Council) with SYH ment continued to fall. The consumer been around 3.9 per cent for the past Retail, which belongs to the Al price index has increased steadily six months, which is the lowest level Homaizi Group of Companies and and is now at 102.9, compared with since 1980. Inflation has increased and has established two stores in Dubai 100.2 the preceding year. Consumer is expected to reach 1.5 per cent in under their management. The store confidence is at negative levels while 2017. Retail sales increased by 1.4 per in Mirdif City opened in April 2014 retail sales increased steadily throughcent compared with the preceding fiand the store in Mercato Shopping out 2016. Online shopping increased nancial year and consumer confidence Mall in November 2016. by 16 per cent and now accounts for is at 10. Online shopping increased by 12 per cent of UK retail sales, a trend 12 per cent, representing 8 per cent of that is largely driven by increased retail sales. More and more people are shopping via mobile devices, which making purchases via their mobile telenow accounts for 54 per cent of online phone, with the figure set to increase shopping. by 15 per cent in 2017. SUCCESS Market players Market players FACTORS for Amazon, John Lewis and Currys. Bauhaus, Obi, Saturn Mediamarkt, international expansion Ikea and Amazon. Clas Ohlson offers a unique concept with a broad product range Clas Ohlson’s position Clas Ohlson’s position During the 2016/17 financial year, we Three stores were opened during the at a competitive price as well as implemented a restructuring profinancial year, all concentrated in Hamcentrally located stores. A strong gramme in the UK that focused on burg, and launched an online store. position in domestic markets concentrating smaller format stores We have received positive feedback provides the requisite base for to the London region. As a result, we from our customers and can see a closed six stores during the year in positive trend in key indicators such as investment in international exthe UK market. We will continue to conversion and average ticket value. pansion. Clas Ohlson’s long-term increase brand awareness and conWe will continue to attract consumers owners provide the stability and centrate operations in the London in the Hamburg region during the endurance that is required. Comregion during the 2017/18 financial 2017/18 financial year by way of year. regular market activities and relevant petent and committed employees offerings, and we will open one addiare the key to continued successtional store in central Hamburg. ful growth and expansion. New markets in one segment Sales, MSEK Clas Ohlson reports the operations in the 299 UK, Germany and the franchise operations in Dubai in one segment that we 354 372 refer to as Outside Nordic countries. Sales 285 during the financial year were impacted 263 by the ongoing restructuring programme in the UK. *Affected by store optimisation in the UK. 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17* CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 67 Annual report 2016/17 68 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 Contents ANNUAL REPORT Director’s Report 70 Proposed allocation of earnings 75 Risks and uncertainties 76 Chairman’s letter 80 Corporate governance 81 Board of Directors 90 Senior management 92 Consolidated financial statements 94 Parent Company financial statements 97 Notes 100 Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies 100 Note 2 Financial risks 104 Note 3 Other operating income and op. expenses 105 Note 4 Depreciation 105 Note 5 Expenses by type of cost 105 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits 105 Note 7 Remuneration to auditors 109 Note 8 Financial income and expenses 109 Note 9 Income tax 109 Note 10 Earnings per share 110 Note 11 Dividend per share 110 Note 12 Non-current assets 110 Note 13 Inventories 111 Note 14 Accounts receivable 111 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 111 Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents 111 Note 17 Forward contracts 111 Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity 112 Note 19 Pension obligations 112 Note 20 Financial instruments 113 Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income 113 Note 22 Other provisions 113 Note 23 Inter-Group transactions 114 Note 24 Participations in Group companies 114 Note 25 Appropriations 115 Note 26 Cash and bank balances 115 Note 27 Untaxed reserves 115 Note 28 Pledged assets 115 Note 29 Contingent liabilities and commitments 115 Note 30 Related-party transactions 116 Note 31 Average number of employees 116 Note 32 Segment reporting 116 Note 33 Events after the end of the year 117 Certification of the Annual Report 118 Auditor´s report 119 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 69 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Director’s report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Clas Ohlson AB (publ), with registered office and head office in Insjön, in the Municipality of Leksand, Sweden, hereby present the annual accounts for the financial year 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2017. Unless otherwise stated, the figures relate to the Group. Figures in parenthesis pertain to the preceding year. All figures are stated in millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) unless otherwise stated. Operations The programme will last for five years, from the 2013/14 finanClas Ohlson is an international home and hardware retail cial year until 2018/19, in a controlled roll-out with an annual company with the business concept of selling a broad range investment level of approximately 70 MSEK over the five-year of products at great value that make it easy for people to solve period. Furthermore, an upgrade of the IT environment is beeveryday practical problems. The concept is unique and is ing carried out connected to the inventory and logistics system, highly attractive in established markets and has the potential for customer data and online shopping with an annual investment expansion into new markets and new customer segments. rate of 75 MSEK over a two-year period. Clas Ohlson sells products in the categories of Hardware, Clas Ohlson focus on strengthening its presence in the London Electrical, Multimedia, Home and Leisure. Activities are conregion with smaller format stores. As part of the optimisation ducted in Sweden, Norway, Finland, UK and Germany via stoof the existing store network, Clas Ohlson closed six stores in res and online shopping as well as through franchise in Dubai. the UK during the 2016/17 financial year. One additional store (Croydon) will be closed (date to be confirmed). The product range includes approximately 15,000 articles that are purchased from a large number of suppliers in some 30 Total annual cost savings related to the closure of all seven stocountries. The products are delivered to the distribution centre res are an estimated 70 MSEK when the restructuring has been in Insjön, Sweden, and from there distributed via stores, or fully realised during the 2017/18 financial year. While the store via mail order/Internet directly to the customers. The number in Croydon remains open, the total cost savings are estimated at of stores at the end of the year was 216, of which 87 were in 60 MSEK on an annual basis. Sweden, 80 in Norway, 37 in Finland, seven in the UK, three in Germany and two franchise stores in Dubai. It was announced in the 2014/15 Annual Report that a tax audit concerning transfer pricing had been conducted in NorSignificant events during the financial year way. A decision was then received from the Norwegian tax auDuring the financial year, 17 new stores (10) were opened, two thority under which additional tax of 49 MNOK was charged in Sweden, eight in Norway, three in Finland, three in Germafor the years 2008 to 2010. In January 2017, the Norwegian ny and one franchise store in Dubai. During the financial year tax authority announced its final ruling and quashed its presix stores were also closed in the UK. During preceding year vious decision. Accordingly, the tax due in this period was set two stores were closed in the Norway and one in the UK. at the level specified in declarations submitted previously. This did not have any impact on the company’s tax expense since the Clas Ohlson is implementing a new IT platform, sCORE, Sysadditional tax had not previously been recognised. tems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency, which will change our way of working with, for example, purchasing, supply chain, During the financial year, the company’s former President and sales, finance and HR. Overall, sCORE will enhance the CEO, Klas Balkow chose to resign as of 31 December 2017. efficiency of the supply chain, increase the level of service, betLotta Lyrå has been appointed President and CEO and will ter meet customer demand and changed purchasing patterns, take office from 1 August 2017. From 1 January 2017 until 31 and support our international expansion by making it easier July 2017, the company’s deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby has been to open new stores in more countries and to work with new appointed as acting President and CEO. customer segments. The sCORE programme is a strategically important initiative that will further strengthen Clas Ohlson. 70 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIIRECTOR’S REPORT Sales and profit The sales increase of 5 per cent from stores was distributed as Sales increased to 7,990 MSEK, up 5 per cent compared with follows: 7,602 MSEK in the year-earlier period. Measured in local currencies, sales increased by 4 per cent. Distribution of sales increase Sales were distributed as follows: Comparable units in local currency 1 per cent New stores 3 per cent Sales area, MSEK Exchange-rate effects 1 per cent Total 5 per cent PercentPercentage age change, local Countries 2016/17 2015/16 change curr. The gross margin was 41.2 per cent, down 1.2 percentage Sweden 3,588 3,483 3 3 points year-on-year (42.4). The lower gross margin was attribuNorway 3,190 2,928 9 5 table to negative currency hedging effects (NOK), comprising Finland 913 819 11 9 both currency forwards and exchange-rate effects related to deOutside Nordic countries 299 372 -19 -12 lays in inventory. The decrease was somewhat offset by a strong sales currency (NOK). Total 7,990 7,602 5 4 *Effected by store optimization in the UK The share of selling expenses decreased by 0.6 percentage points to 31.1 per cent (31.7). The share decreased primarily as a result of reduced costs in the UK which were somewhat offset by costs for establishment in the German market. Distribution of sales, % Gross margin, % Share of selling expenses, % Operating profit, MSEK Outside Nordic countries, 4% 31.1 Sweden, 45% 41.2 610 Finland, 11% 32.3 32.1 32.2 31.7 41.6 42.6 42.9 42.4 596 531 506* 431 Norway, 40% 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 *Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 71 DIRECTOR’S REPORT Operating profit amounted to 610 MSEK (506 MSEK, 613 online shopping in the German market in October 2016. A MSEK excluding non-recurring items**). The total cost saving new store contract was signed for Spitalerstraße in central related to the closure of the 6 stores in the UK amounts to 35 Hamburg, and the store is scheduled to open in winter 2017. MSEK during the financial year. This fourth store will complement the existing store network and is part of the first phase of establishment in the German The operating margin was 7.6 per cent (6.7 per cent, 8.1 per market. cent excluding non-recurring items**). Profit after financial items amounted to 609 MSEK (508 MSEK, 615 MSEK excluFinancing and liquidity ding non-recurring items**). Depreciation for the financial year During the financial year, cash flow from operating activities amounted to 230 MSEK (235). totalled 699 MSEK (705). Cash flow for the financial year, after investing and financing activities, was 17 MSEK (95). The cash Spot exchange rates for key currencies averaged 1.05 for NOK dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s shareholders in September 2016 and 8.74 for USD, compared with 1.01 and 8.40, respectively, totalled 362 MSEK (331). in the year-earlier period. Currency hedging was undertaken in USD and NOK. The company policy is to hedge 50 per cent The average 12-month value of inventories was 1,739 MSEK of the expected flow in each currency every month, with six (1,619). Over a rolling 12-month period, the stock turnover months maturities. rate at the distribution centre was 6.6 times (6.5). Prospects for the next financial year At the end of the financial year, the value of inventories was Clas Ohlson’s long-term financial targets consist of a sales target 1,631 MSEK (1,639). Compared with the preceding year, 11 and a profitability target. The sales target is an annual sales stores, net, were added (of which one was a franchise store). growth of at least 2 per cent in local currency and comparable units. In addition, annual targets are set for store expansion. During the financial year, buy-backs of the company’s own During the 2017/18 financial year Clas Ohlson plans to estashares to secure LTI 2016 (Long Term Incentive Plan 2016) blish 10-15 new stores net. The profitability target is an annual amounted to 76 MSEK (48). operating margin of at least 10 per cent. Growth will occur in accordance with the Group’s long-term financial targets. At the end of the financial year, the Group’s net cash holdings, meaning cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing liabiliThe continued development of Clas Ohlson’s product range, ties, amounted to 625 MSEK (604). The equity/assets ratio was sales channels and new customer segments provides additional 58 per cent (55). growth opportunities, in both established and new markets. Investments Clas Ohlson established its first store in the German market During the financial year, investments totalled 264 MSEK in central Hamburg in May 2016, followed by further stores (274). Of this amount, investments in new or renovated stores in Altona in September and Alstertal in November, as well as accounted for 128 MSEK (90). Other investments were primarily IT and replacement investments. During the financial year, investments in IT systems amounted to 106 MSEK (133). **Non-recurring expense of 107 MSEK related to optimisation of the UK store network during the fourth quarter of the preceding financial year. Sales, MSEK Cash flow from operating activities, Operating margin, % MSEK 7,990 699 7.6 7,330 7,602 705 6,808 689 6,519 647 7.8 8,1 518 6.6 6.7 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16* 16/17 *Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 72 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIIRECTOR’S REPORT The share and share capital which Clas Ohlson has a store. The company does not otherClas Ohlson B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm. The wise have any operations for which there is a duty of notificashare capital totals 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A tion or for which it is mandatory to obtain a permit under the shares and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient Environmental Code. With regard to electrical and electronic value of 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each waste, the company cooperates with the Elkretsen organisation series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to in Sweden, which is the joint company owned by the electripayment of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request cal industry for waste disposal. The company is affiliated to that their A shares be converted to series B shares. The share the recycling organisation REPA. In Norway, the company is capital is unchanged compared with the preceding year. affiliated to the recycling organisations Elretur AS and Grøn Punkt Norway. In Finland, there is equivalent cooperation with On 30 April 2017, the company had a total of 33,316 shareSerty, in the UK with Valpak and in Germany with Der Grüne holders, according to the register of shareholders maintained by Punkt. Euroclear Sweden, compared with 27,106 on 30 April 2016. The ten largest shareholders at that time held 57 per cent of the Environmental impact related to transportation of products is capital and 76 per cent of the votes. For the summary, see page one of Clas Ohlson’s most important environmental aspects. 125 of the Annual Report. For this reason, enhanced transportation efficiency is a focus area throughout the Group. During the financial year, both The Articles of Association contains no post-sale purchase rights relative and absolute CO2 emissions declined year on year. Enclause or other restrictions for the transferability of series B vironmental impact from the store network and own operations shares. Apart from authorisation pertaining to the repurchase of is significantly lower than from the transportation of products. shares stated on page 116, there are no other circumstances of Another activity to reduce environmental impact is the compathe kinds the company is obligated to disclose under the proviny following an energy efficiency program that aims to convert sions of Chapter 6, Section 2a (4-11) of the Annual Accounts existing lighting to more energy effective LED lighting. Act. The number of registered shares is 65,600,000 unchanged compared with the preceding year. On 30 April 2017, the Environmental work is undertaken continuously in the Group. company held 2,516,562 shares (2,223,580), corresponding This work is mainly described on pages 22-25. to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares (3 per cent). The number of shares outstanding, net after repurchase, Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives was 63,083,438 (63,376,420) at the end of the financial year. The following principles were adopted at the most recent AnnuTo secure the company’s commitment regarding conditional al General Meeting (”AGM”) and are proposed to remain unmatching shares and employee stock options in connection changed until the next AGM. The general principles of remunewith LTI 2016, Clas Ohlson bought back shares during the first ration for senior executives are to be based on the position held, quarter of 2016/17 for a total of 76 MSEK (48). individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the remuneration being competitive in the country of employment. Employees The combined remuneration of senior executives is to consist of The number of employees in the Group converted to full time basic salary, variable salary in the form of a short-term incentive employees averaged 2,835 (2,787). Further information about based on annual performance objectives, long-term incentives employees is found in Notes 6 and 31 in the Annual Report. based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject Social responsibility to terms and conditions. Continuous work is conducted at Clas Ohlson with respect to sustainability including follow-up activities relating to our Code Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remuneraof Conduct. This work is mainly described on pages 29-30. tion, focusing on payments based on performance. This means that variable remuneration may comprise a significant portion Environmental impact of the total remuneration. The aim is for basic remuneration The company has a duty of notification with respect to the to be in line with the median of the comparable market, while activity relating to the temporary storage of electronic waste. total remuneration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its This duty of notification applies to any Swedish municipality in objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 73 DIRECTORS REPORT’S Basic salary Pension The fixed salary shall constitute the basis for total remuneration. Pension agreements will, if possible, be defined-contribution The salary is to be related to the relevant market and reflect the and formulated in accordance with levels and practices applicaextent of the responsibilities included in the position. The deble in the country in which the senior executive is employed. velopment of basic salary is to depend on how well work is performed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to Other benefits assume future work assignments involving greater responsibility. Other benefits may occur in accordance with the terms appliThe basic salary is to be reviewed annually to ensure that it is cable in the country in which the senior executive is employed. market-based and competitive. However, such benefits may not constitute a major portion of the combined remuneration. Variable salary (Short Term Incentive, STI) In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for Period of notice and severance pay STI for performance that exceeds one or several predetermined Senior executives will be offered terms in accordance with the performance levels during a financial year, designed to promote legislation and practices applicable to the country in which the the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined perperson concerned is employed. A senior executive will be preformance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by vented from working in a competing business during the period individuals elected by the Board. The performance targets may of notice. In certain cases, prohibition of competition in return be connected to operational, financial or personal results. for continued remuneration may be applied for a maximum period of 24 months following expiry of the period of notice. Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration Authorisation for the Board to depart from the guidelines levels from the beginning. Insofar as performance does not The Board will be able to depart from these guidelines if there match the lowest performance level, no STI will be paid. STI are special reasons for doing so. In the event of a major deviawill depend on the position held and may not exceed 50 per tion, the shareholders will be informed of the reasons for this at cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the the next AGM. For more information about remuneration see maximum outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditioNote 6. nal upon the performance on which earnings are based being sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to reclaim Parent Company such remuneration that was paid due to information that later Parent Company sales amounted to 6,384 MSEK (6,074) and turned out to be obviously erroneous. profit after financial items totalled 604 MSEK (456) during the financial year. During the financial year, investments totalled Long-term incentive, LTI 169 MSEK (207). The Parent Company’s contingent liabilities The objective of LTI programs is to generate conditions for reamounted to 252 MSEK (238). taining and recruiting competent employees to the Group. The programs were designed to encourage participants to become Events after the end of the year shareholders in the company, which is expected to have a posiThe qualification and performance periods for LTI 2014 were tive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting from 1 May 2014 until 30 April 2017. After the end of the participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value devereporting period, a total of 24,115 shares were alloted on 2 May lopment will continue to promote company loyalty and thus in accordence with AGM’s resolution regarding share matchsustainable value growth in the company. ing of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire share are subject to AGM approval. The qualification period Following the end of the qualification period, the Board of for LTI 2014, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 were in effect during Directors resolved to award 10.9 options per share purchased the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2014 was (5-15 options in cases of target fulfilment), based on established concluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2017 criteria for sales and profit growth. A total of 262,842 options was launched. All incentive programs are share matching and were awarded. The employee stock options are exercisable as of profit-based employee stock option plans. 15 June 2017 but not later than 23 April 2021, and entitle participants to purchase Clas Ohlson shares at the price of 153.60 SEK per share. 74 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIIRECTOR’S REPORT In May 2017, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2017 was introProposed allocation of earnings duced according to the same structure as LTI 2016. The exercise The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the price for the conditional employee stock options has been set at Annual General Meeting: 148.30 SEK per share, with exercise possible following the thProfit brought forward 365,448* ree-year qualification period between June 2020 and April 2024. Profit for the year 436,272* The AGM of Clas Ohlson AB on 10 September 2016 authorised Total 801,720* the Board of Directors to acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period up until the next AGM in order to secure the The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: company’s undertakings in conjuction with the introduction of share-based incentive plan, LTI 2017. The total number of shaDividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 res required to secure the undertaking for LTI 2017 is estimated Carried forward to new account 391,720* at 670,000. Part of the LTI 2017 undertaking can be secured by Total 801,720* using shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI plans 1 Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date. where the need has been recalculated (510,000). In addition, further reconciliation will be made in connection with the buyThe record date for payment of the dividend is proposed as back if additional shares can be transferred to LTI 2017. 12 September 2017. It is anticipated that the dividend decided upon by the AGM will be despatched on 15 September 2017. The Board of Directors has decided to use the authorisation of the AGM to buy back the remaining maximum of 160,000 With reference to the information presented above and what LTI 2017 undertaking. Acquisitions will be conducted via has otherwise come to the knowledge of the Board, the view Nasdaq Stockholm during the period up until the 2017 AGM, of the Board is as follows: A comprehensive assessment of the at a price within the quoted price span at any given time. As of financial position of the Parent Company and Group indicates 30 April 2017, the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson shares that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands was 2,516,562 shares, corresponding to 4 per cent of the total made by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the number of registered shares. equity and liquidity of the Parent Company and Group. The Group’s equity/assets ratio is 58 per cent before payment of Dividend dividend and 53 per cent after payment of dividend. This is Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is to comprijudged to be an adequate equity/assets ratio, even when the se at least 50 per cent of earnings per share after tax, taking into future expansion has been taken into account. account the company’s financial position. Regarding the company’s earnings and position in other The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 SEK respects, reference should be made to the following income per share (5.75) be paid for financial year 2016/17. The propostatements and balance sheets and the accompanying notes to sed dividend totals 410 MSEK (377), which represents 86 per the accounts. cent (100) of the financial year’s profit. Dividend per share, SEK 6.25* 5.75 4.75 5.25 4.25 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 *Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 75 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risks and uncertainties Clas Ohlson’s operations entail risks that could have varying degrees of negative impact on the Group. These can be divided into operational risks and financial risks. Operational and financial risks can have both a short and longnal control. The Group’s Risk Committee performs the work term impact on the ability to achieve set objectives in accorinvolved in compiling, monitoring and developing the risk dance with the company’s business plan. By being aware of the management process. These efforts will remain a high priority risks in the business, the risks can be controlled, limited and as the company continues to grow and develop. managed. Furthermore, when handled correctly, risks may lead to opportunities and add value to the business. Risk map (example) Clas Ohlson works continuously to update the Group’s risk situation by conducting a documented, systematic process in Extremely high which risks are identified, measured, monitored and reported. Priority is assigned to risks considered most negative in terms Very high of probability and their conceivable impacts on the operations. Classification is also made on the basis of how well the impleIMPACT High mented countermeasures correspond with the desired level, using green, yellow and red. This work is performed in each function based on the composition of senior management. ReMedium porting of the implementation of activities and changes in risk assessments is done internally twice per year and when necessaLow ry, on a continuous basis. Very unlikely Unlikely Possible Likely Very likely The risks are compiled in risk maps to provide a compilation of Countermeasures implemented PROBABILITY the overall exposure and where measures are to be prioritized. Countermeasures partly implemented Maps are compiled at Group level and are a key component Countermeasures required of the senior management and Board’s strategic and operatioRISK MANAGEMENT THE BOARD The Risk Committee compiles, coordinates and develops the Group’s risk management, SENIOR MANAGEMENT and submits a report to Group Management and the Board. RISK COMMITTEE Reporting Governance Marketing Communications Business development Finance & Administration Assortment & Purchasing Retail expansion Information & IR Store operations Each function monitors and Supply chain manages existing risks, identifies any new risks and submits a report to the Risk Committee. HR Sustainability 76 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Operational and financial risks Operational risks primarily comprise establishments in new Sensitivity analysis markets, purchasing in Asia, IT systems, competition, logistics, Currancy effects excluding hedging strikes, key employees, social responsibility, product range and Impact on profit shrinkage. Financial risks mainly comprise economic condiCurrency Change, % before tax, MSEK tions, wage inflation, raw-material prices, transport costs and NOK +/5 +/86 exchange-rate exposure. USD +/5 -/+ 72 HKD +/5 -/+ 7 Currencies EUR +/5 +/4 The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to sales GBP +/5 +/3 in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About 50 per cent of the company’s purchases are made in currencies other than SEK. Monthly average, SEK/USD 10.00 The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). Movement 9.00 of the SEK against the Norwegian krona (NOK) is also impor8.00 2016/17 2015/16 tant for the Group, since Norway accounts for approximately 40 per cent of sales. Net exposure to EUR is low, since the 7.00 company is increasing its sales in EUR through its expansion in 6.00 M J J A S O N D J F M A the Finnish and German markets. The Group is also exposure to the pound sterling (GBP) via sales in the UK. The table to USD is our most important purchasing currency. At the beginning of the the right shows how profit is affected by changes in principal financial year, on 2 May 2016, the exchange rate for USD was 8.02. Overall, the exchange rate was stable, peaking in November and December. currencies, excluding currency hedging. It was noted at 8.84 SEK on 28 April 2017, up 10 per cent. The highest exchange rate was 9.39 SEK noted in December 2016, while the lowest exchange rate was 7.92 SEK noted in May 2016. Currency hedging Futures hedging is performed monthly in USD and NOK, with a maturity of six months, against half of the expected Monthly average, SEK/NOK flow in each currency. In this way, the company is guaranteed 1.13 1.11 the forward rate on a major proportion of its changes, but also 1.09 acquires the possiblity/risk of handling the remaining changes 1.07 2016/17 1.05 at the current rate. 1.03 2015/16 1.01 0.99 Currency movements 0.97 0.95 During the financial year, the NOK strengthened against the M J J A S O N D J F M A SEK. The average rate for the NOK was 1.05, up 4 per cent compared with the 2015/16 financial year when the rate was The graph shows the trend for the SEK/NOK currency pair. At the beginning of the financial year, on 2 May 2016, the exchange rate for NOK 1.01. About 40 per cent of sales are conducted in NOK, and acwas 0.99 versus SEK. The NOK has increased during the financial year versus the swedish krona. It was noted at 1.03 SEK on 28 April 2017, up cordingly translated to SEK at the corresponding exchange rate. 4 per cent. The highest exchange rate was SEK 1.10 noted in November 2016, while the lowest exchange rate was 0.99 SEK noted in May 2016. The USD strengthened against the SEK during the past finanSource: Riksbanken cial year. The average exchange rate during the financial year was 4 per cent higher than in the preceding year (8.74 compared with 8.40). The average exchange rate for the HKD during the financial year was 1.13 SEK, or 4 per cent higher compared with the 2015/16 financial year, when it was 1.09 SEK. The EUR strengthened against the SEK during the past financial year. The average exchange rate during the 2016/17 financial year was 9.58 compared with 9.33, up 3 per cent. The average exchange rate for the GBP was 11 per cent lower in the financial year than in the preceding year (11.33 compared with 12.66). CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 77 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Operational risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT EXPANSION Clas Ohlson is expanding its operations and brand across several Clas Ohlson conducts detailed market assessments in each indivicountries. The risk is that the brand will not have the expected dual case of establishment and capitalises on the experiences from impact outside the Nordic region and investments will not generate previous establishments. the intended results. Franchise partners subscribe to Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct Expansion through the franchise concept generates risks that are and commit themselves to conducting business in a business primarily connected to the Clas Ohlson brand and concept. ethical manner with respect for human rights, working conditions, and taking into account the environment. Clas Ohlson checks compliance with regular audits. PURCHASING Clas Ohlson currently purchases about 40 per cent of the company’s Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct and Ethical guidelines applies to products in Asia, mostly from China. The proportion of purchasing all our suppliers and contracts. Through its own audit team in from Asia will increase further through the Clas Ohlson’s own purchaChina, we follow up to the requirements of our Code of Conduct. sing company. This will boost the company’s competitiveness in the From 2017 Clas Ohlson participate with SEDEX to further increase ongoing expansion process. There is a risk of bribery and corruption transparency on responsible purchasing. Clas Ohlson is contiin the procurement process, and suppliers in low-wage countries nuously working to find new markets for purchases, both in Europe increase the risk of deficiencies in working conditions and respect for and Asia. human rights. Increased single-country exposure entails greater risks (political risk, transport risk, currency risk and so forth). IT-SYSTEMS Clas Ohlson’s operations are highly dependent on IT support. As Implementation of a new IT system is ongoing. Clas Ohlson has a result, it is essential that IT systems provide effective support for chosen Microsoft Dynamics AX to satisfy future business support the company’s day-to-day operations and maintain a high level of software needs. reliability. It is also important to ensure efficiency and provide support in decision-making processes. Clas Ohlson has a policy for IT security. There are standardised processes for the implementation of new systems, changing existing systems and daily operations. COMPETITION A clear trend in the European retail market is that major nationwide Clas Ohlson works continuously to develop its offering, increase chains are growing, usually at the expense of smaller, individual accessibility and strengthen the customer experience. Furtherspecialist retailers. The major chains and retailers are establishmore, the Group works continuously to develop its concept, store ing operations in several countries through proprietary stores and format and omni-channel. acquisitions. As a result, market players have become fewer and larger. During recent years, competition intensified due to more stores and shopping centres as well as more players in the e-commerce, particularly in the Nordic region. LOGISTICS Clas Ohlson’s distribution centre in Insjön, Sweden, is the hub of Clas Ohlson works continuously with maintenance and inspection the Group’s entire logistics chain. From here, goods are distributed of systems, fire protection and security systems, etc. to all stores and to mail order/Internet customers. In recent years, investments have been made in the distribution centre to further opThe Group also works continuously with inspection of the distributimise the company’s logistics. Collecting the logistics in one location tion chain to ensure efficiency. carries certain risks, for example, communication and infrastructure disruptions, fire or strikes. EMPLOYEES Clas Ohlson needs motivated and skilled employees in order to New employees take part in our introductory program to ensure achieve objectives and strategies. The geographic location of the understanding of Clas Ohlson’s values. Salaries and other conoperation at Insjön could result in difficulties in recruiting employees ditions are adapted to the market. Clas Ohlson also has variable with the right expertise. Our expansion also places great demands on remuneration based on performance. The Group strives for good our recruitment, training and internal mobility. relationships with employees as well as trade unions. The Group applies flexible working conditions and internal career paths to attract and retain key personnel. Employee surveys are conducted every second year and are actively followed up. We actively strive for greater diversity in our recruitment process. SUSTAINThe company’s stakeholders are placing increasingly higher Based on our essentiality analysis, Clas Ohlson has integrated ABILITY demands on the company’s social responsibility. Clas Ohlson 8 priority sustainability areas linked to the company’s strategies, RISKS works actively on sustainability issues that are integrated into processes and governance. Based on a value chain perspective, the operation and have high priority. Should the company fall we can understand our negative and positive impact and manage short in its sustainability work, there is a risk of negative impact them effectively. on sales and market shares. Clas Ohlson has signed the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles on anti-corruption, working conditions, human rights and environment. The company’s policies reflect these commitments. 78 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT PRODUCT The company’s most important task is to offer customers a broad The Group’s product range committee has overall responsibility RANGE AND and attractive product range at great value. If Clas Ohlson were to for the design of the product range. In addition, Clas Ohlson COMMUNImisjudge new trends in both products and communication, this works on detailed market and competitor assessments in order CATION could entail lower growth and profitability. to have an attractive product range. Clas Ohlson continuously work to ensure a strong and inspiring store and onlineconcept, right pricing and excellent service. The Group has a commercial committee that handles Clas Ohlson’s marketing strategies. SHRINKAGE Clas Ohlson is exposed to shrinkage on a daily basis, including for The Group implements long-term preventive measures to reduce example shoplifting. shrinkage, through such activities as training programs and technical equipment. In addition, continuous follow-ups, evaluation and adaptation of the security efforts are performed. Financial risks RISK DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT ECONOMIC The retail market in general is adversely affected by a weak ecoOur broad and affordable product range is less sensitive to CLIMATE nomy and although Clas Ohlson sells products for everyday use, cyclical fluctuations than that of many other competitors. More a weak retail market will have a negative impact on sales. than 80 per cent of our products are priced at less than 300 SEK. Clas Ohlson’s broad product range, with five different product categories, also entails lower risk since demand in one product category could increase while demand in another category falls. WAGE Clas Ohlson is affected by wage-level changes in countries Clas Ohlson works continuously to find new purchasing markets INFLATION where the company’s products are manufactured. This can vary in Europe and Asia. between products depending on how much labour is involved in the manufacturing process. RAW Purchase prices for the company’s products are largely determiClas Ohlson has a broad portfolio of products and is therefore MATERIAL ned by the price of individual raw materials in global markets. This less impacted by changes to a specific raw material. PRICES applies particularly to electronics (copper), batteries (zinc), lighting (aluminum) and plastic products (oil). Hedging against raw mateSome of Clas Ohlson’s suppliers purchase raw materials/materials rial prices is not carried out directly by the company. This entails at fixed contract prices, which means some indirect hedging. a risk since the purchase price of the items concerned is affected by the price development of raw materials. TRANSPORT Freight shipping prices can vary considerably depending on the Clas Ohlson handles changes in freight shipping prices by actively COSTS global market price, and currency fluctuations. monitor and assess the market. CURRENCIES The company’s currency exposure is high, primarily due to Futures hedging is performed monthly in USD and NOK, with a sales in Norway and the Group’s purchasing. About half of the maturity of six months, against half of the expected flow in each company’s purchases are made in currencies other than Swedish currency. In this way, the company is guaranteed the forward rate kronor. The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar on a major proportion of its purchases, but also acquires the risk (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). Movement of of paying for the remaining purchases at the current rate. the SEK against the Norwegian Krona (NOK) is also important for the Group, since Norway accounts for approximately 40 per cent of sales. Net exposure to EUR is low, since the company is increasing its sales in EUR through its expansion in the Finnish market and the German market. The Group is also exposure to the pound sterling (GBP) via sales in the UK. The table on page 77 shows how profit is affected by changes in principal currencies, excluding hedging. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 79 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Chairman of the Board KENNETH BENGTSSON Stable grounds for future development I am proud to serve as the Chairman of the Board for a ny’s expansion in the German market and regular monitoring company with so many skilled and committed employees who of our Group-wide targets and strategic priorities. We also every day strive to go the extra mile that creates value for our worked on finding a new leader for Clas Ohlson and are very customers. Customer interaction is central to everyone who pleased to welcome Lotta Lyrå to the company and the role of works at Clas Ohlson and over the past year we have met more President and CEO. customers in both existing and new markets than ever before. The Board is a close-kit and committed team that constructiThe company’s focus on sustainability issues is pivotal also for vely supports and challenges the company management. In my Clas Ohlson’s future development. Social and environmental opinion, the Board and management have an open and producaspects are integrated into our strategy and the company’s protive dialogue that successfully moves the operations forward. cesses, and form key elements of the value-creation model. The I have been the Chairman of the Clas Ohlson Board for three long-term ambition is to contribute to a more resource-efficient years and I am delighted to say that in essence our performance value chain. has been very favourable. Clas Ohlson enjoys a strong financial position and has a stable platform for continued growth. With a Fundamental to achieving this goal is healthy and deep-rooted good cash flow and healthy capital structure, we have excellent values. I believe that such values will be increasingly important conditions for making continued investments and generating as the company grows. Our values unite all of us who work high returns for shareholders. for the company, yet are also central to our relationships with customers, suppliers, shareholders and society in general. On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my thanks for the commitment shown throughout the organisation. Clas OhlWe make use of procedures and processes that allow us to son is now in its 99th year of operation, and we will soon be continuously monitor our targets and risks in order to ensure a celebrating our 100th anniversary. The company has a wonderhigh level of corporate governance. We set strategies and plans ful history and is strongly positioned to meet future challenges with the aim of minimising operational, financial and legal and opportunities. risks, while capitalising on and developing opportunities. Kenneth Bengtsson Our corporate governance is based on international standards Chairman of the Board of business practice. We support the UN Global Compact’s ten Insjön, Sweden, June 2017 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our policies, guidelines and ways of building relationships with our stakeholders reflect our commitment. The Board conducts its work through both regular Board meetings and in various committees. During the past year, the Board concentrated its efforts on matters including the compa80 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance Good corporate governance is a prerequisite for maintaining confidence among shareholders, customers and other external stakeholders and is built on the company’s strategies, targets and values permeating the entire organisation. The governance of Clas Ohlson is based upon Swedish legislaAnnual General Meeting tion, primarily the Companies Act, the listing agreement with Shareholders exercise their influence through participation in Nasdaq Stockholm and the Swedish Corporate Governance the company’s Annual General Meeting (the ordinary annual Code (the Code). In addition, governance follows the Articles general meeting). The AGM is the ultimate decision-making of Association, internal instructions and policies and recombody and since the initial public offering in 1999, has always mendations issued by relevant organisations. The corporate been held in Insjön, Sweden, on a Saturday in early September. governance report has been prepared in accordance with the The Notification, which is normally prepared about four weeks Code. prior to the AGM, is published in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar, as well as on the company’s website. All shareholders who The Swedish Corporate Governance Code are registered in the share register on the fifth day prior to the The Swedish Corporate Governance Code is applicable to all AGM and registered in time are entitled to participate. Regiscompanies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The aim is to improve tration can be made by telephone, e-mail or letter. corporate governance in listed companies and foster trust in companies among the general public and in the capital market. Each year, the AGM appoints the Board, the Chairman of the The Code is based on the “comply or explain” principle, which Board and the auditors for Clas Ohlson. In addition, the AGM means that it is possible to deviate from the Code if an explanadecides how profits are to be allocated. Other issues that arise tion is provided as to why the deviation has been made. During are mandatory items under the Companies Act and Clas Ohlthe financial year it has not been any deviations versus the code son’s Articles of Association (available at about.clasohlson.com). within Clas Ohlson. Clas Ohlson’s AGM is very well attended, the latest with about 1,400 participants, making it one of the largest in Sweden. Compliance with applicable regulations for stock exchange trading On 30 April 2017, the company’s largest shareholders, each Neither the Swedish Securities Council nor the Stockholm representing at least 10 per cent of the votes, were Helena Ek Stock Exchange’s Disciplinary Committee reported infringeTidstrand (16.9 per cent), Björn Haid (12.6 per cent), Johan ments of good stock exchange practices or of the application Tidstrand (12.4 per cent), Peter Haid (11.8 per cent) and of stock exchange regulations. Claus-Toni Haid (11.5 per cent). CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 81 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee fulfills the guidelines pertaining to The Nomination Committee’s task is to submit proposals for independence as stated in the Code. The Nomination CommitBoard members and auditors, as well as fees to Board members tee represents broad experience of work in boards of directors (including committee work) and to auditors, to the next AGM and nominating procedures. at which the Board and auditors are due to be elected. The Nomination Committee also proposes the Chairman of the AGM. Nomination Committee prior to the 2017 AGM Prior to the AGM held on 9 September 2017, a Nomination At Clas Ohlson, a nomination process is applied for electing the Committee was elected comprising Jonas Bergh, Chairman of Nomination Committee. The Chairman of the Board is a memthe Nomination Committee representing the owner-family ber of the Nomination Committee, along with representatives Haid, Göran Sundström representing the owner-family Tidfor the four largest registered shareholders or otherwise known strand, Ricard Wennerklint representing If Skadeförsäkring shareholders (record date 30 September). If a shareholder does AB, Erik Durhan representing Nordea Investment Funds and not elect a member, the next largest shareholder will be asked. Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman of the Board of Clas Ohlson. The Nomination Committee elects a Chairman from within the Committee, which, according to the Code, shall not be the The composition of the Nomination Committee is based on Chairman of the Board or another Board member. the owner relationship at 30 September 2016. The Nomination Committee represents slightly more than 70 per cent of the During the year, an internal evaluation of the Board’s work total number of company shares (votes). The above Nominaand Board composition was carried out. The evaluation was tion Committee will serve until a new Nomination Committee performed as an internal written evaluation. The results of the has been elected. evaluation were presented verbally and in writing by the Board Chairman Kenneth Bengtsson. The assessment is that the Board The basis of the Nomination Committee’s work is that the Boworked well during the year. Reporting took place in order to ard is to have the expertise, experience and background required enable the Nomination Committee to make as thorough an by the assignment. The degree of diversity in the Board was assessment as possible of the Board’s combined expertise and also taken into account and efforts are made to achieve an even experience. gender balance. Factors including the company’s diversity policy were considered by the Nomination Committee in its work. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN CLAS OHLSON Nomination Committee ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members and Chairman elected at the AGM Auditors Two members and two deputies appointed by unions Remuneration Strategies Audit Committee Committee Targets Reports Members from the Board Members from the Board President and CEO Senior Management Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Clas Targets, Forecasts, Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson Ohlson activities AB AS Oy Ltd Ltd (Shanghai) GmbH reports Internal control instruments External control instruments 82 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Particular emphasis was placed on the company’s strategies and Board of Directors targets, as well as on the demands that the company’s future Clas Ohlson’s shareholders elect the Board of Directors annually focus will place on the Board. The Nomination Committee also at the AGM. The Board comprises seven members, including discussed the Board’s long-term composition on the basis of the CEO, who are elected by the AGM. In addition to these future competency requirements, diversity and succession. members, the Board includes two representatives and one deputy for the trade-union organisations in the company. These The committee worked on the nominating procedure for Clas individuals are elected by their own organisations. Ohlson’s AGM and held four meetings that were recorded, where the Board’s composition was evaluated, considered and The Board fulfils the independence requirement of the Code. discussed. All members, with the exception of Mathias Haid and Göran Sundström, are deemed independent in relation to the comThe Nomination Committee’s work during the mandate period pany, executive management and major shareholders. Clas included the following: Ohlson strives towards diversity, compricing to over time have • Report on the Board’s work from the Chairman of the Board an equal distribution of men and women in the Board. Gender • Evaluation of the Board’s work distribution in the Board among the members elected by the • Nomination of the Chairman of the Board and Board AGM in the past financial year was four men (57.1 per cent) members and three women (42.9 per cent). In the preceding year, the • Position concerning the independence of Board members corresponding distribution was five men (62.5 per cent) and and candidates three women (37.5 per cent). Ros-Marie Grusén was elected to • Preparation of proposals for fees to the Board and committees the Board of Directors at the 2016 AGM. • Preparation of proposals for the Chairman of the AGM • Nomination of auditors Board meetings Immediately following the AGM, the statutory Board meeting The Nomination Committee’s complete proposals are presented is held, at which the rules of procedure for the Board and at the latest in connection with the publication of the Notificainstructions to the company’s CEO are approved. The members tion of the AGM. of the Board’s Audit and Remuneration Committees and authorised signatories for the company are also appointed at this Auditors meeting. In addition to this meeting, the Board holds at least The AGM appoints auditors for the Parent Company each year. seven further meetings during the financial year. These are held The AGM held on 10 September 2016 appointed Deloitte the quarterly in conjunction with the publication of the compaauditors of the company, with Kent Åkerlund as Auditor in ny’s financial reports and once in June prior to concluding the Charge. Kent Åkerlund is an Authorised Public Accountant at Annual Report, once in connection with the AGM and once Deloitte. Deloitte was elected up to the 2017 AGM. during the autumn for strategic discussions. The strategy meeting usually takes place over two days, while other meetings are Payment for audit engagements in the Group in the past three held on one day. The strategy meeting mainly discusses issues years totalled 2.1 MSEK, 2.1 MSEK and 2.1 MSEK, respectirelating to the Group’s targets and strategies, product range, vely. Remuneration for other assignments in the past three years store establishment strategy, major investments and so forth. totalled 0.4 MSEK, 0.2 MSEK and 0.1 MSEK, respectively. Other meetings primarily deal with the usual Board issues, the Work in addition to auditing relates primarily to issues pertaicompany’s reports and reporting by the Board committees. ning to consultation on tax issues and IFRS accounting rules. During the year’s board meetings, the question of a new CEO has also been handled. The independent position of the auditors is ensured firstly by the internal policies of the auditing firm and secondly by the The company’s auditors attend two of the Board meetings to Board’s guidelines indicating what engagements the auditing report on what has emerged during the audit. The Board meets firm may undertake in addition to auditing. the auditors once annually without the presence of senior management. The Board held eleven Board meetings during the financial year, of which one was a strategy meeting. The Board assesses its work annually. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 83 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How the Board works Audit Committee The rules of procedure for the Board of Directors stipulate At its first meeting following the AGM, the Board established which items on the agenda are to be fixed and which may vary. an Audit Committee comprising Cecilia Marlow, Chairman Each Board meeting is normally to be devoted to a specific and Göran Sundström. The Board has issued instructions for topic so that the Board can gain more in-depth knowledge the committee work. and understanding of the various parts of the company’s operations. There are also presentations on these topics by employees The Audit Committee is responsible for the quality assurance of the company. of financial reporting. In addition, the Audit Committee is responsible for supervising the effectiveness of risk management The issues that the Board dealt with during the year included and internal control of the financial reporting. strategic direction, monitoring of the business plan, a review of risk management, significant business processes, development The members of the Audit Committee met the auditors on of current markets and expansion. two occasions during the financial year to be informed about the focus of the audit and discuss views on the risks faced by The work of the Board’s committees is an important element of the company. In addition, the auditors attended several of the the Board’s work. The Board has prepared instructions for the committee’s other meetings. Important tasks for the Audit committees’ work. The Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee are to serve as a communication link, between the Committee discuss issues that fall within the committees’ remit. Board and the company’s auditors and to establish what services Issues that have been addressed in the committee meetings are over and beyond auditing can be procured from the company’s minuted and notified to the other Board members at the Board auditors. The auditing effort is evaluated annually, after which meetings. information is passed to the Nomination Committee on the outcome. The rules of procedure also state that the Board must meet with the company’s auditors at least twice per year. In addition, the The Audit Committee held seven meetings during the finanrules of procedure also regulate certain formal matters, such as cial year. Attendance is shown in the table on page 85. The rules for the notification of meetings and secrecy. meetings are minuted and reported at the next Board meeting. Representatives of the company’s management attended the committee’s meetings as co-opted members. The meetings THE BOARD’S WORKING SCHEDULE May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mars April Annual report AGM Monthly updates of the business operations, results, KPIs, etc. Operations planning • Dividend proposal • Strategy meeting • Interim report, Q2 • Interim report, Q3 • Year-end report • Financial reporting • Financial reporting • Interim report, Q1 • Financial reporting • Monitoring of the • Monitoring of the • Financial reporting business plan/forecast business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the business plan/forecast • Monitoring of the • Risk reporting • Forecast for future • Annual Report for the business plan/forecast • Meeting with auditors financial years preceding financial year • Annual General Meeting • Decision on business plan • Risk reporting • Statutory Board meeting • Decision pertaining to • Meeting with auditors remuneration issues 84 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE addressed issues aimed at quality assuring risk management and Distribution of work between the Board and CEO internal control of the financial reporting. Moreover, the Audit The Board appoints the CEO of the company. The distribution Committee dealt with issues regarding the company’s interim of work between the Board and CEO is indicated in the Board’s reports, annual report, accounting, liquidity and other issues. rules of procedure and in the instructions to the CEO. These state that the Board is responsible for the governance, superviRemuneration Committee sion, organisation, strategies, internal control, forecasts and poIn accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the licies of the company. In addition, the Board decides on major AGM of a limited liability company whose shares are listed for investments and matters of principle relating to the governance trading on a regulated marketplace is to decide on guidelines of subsidiaries, as well as the election of Board members and for remuneration of senior executives. The Code also stipulates the CEO. The Board is also responsible for the quality of the that the Board is to establish a Remuneration Committee. financial reporting. The Clas Ohlson Board decided in September that the RemuThe CEO in turn is responsible for ensuring that the company neration Committee was to comprise Kenneth Bengtsson is managed in accordance with Board’s guidelines and instruc(Chairman) and three other members: Göran Näsholm, Mations. In addition, the CEO is responsible for forecasting and thias Haid och Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae. The Board has issued planning the company’s operations so that specified targets are instructions for the committee work. attained. The CEO ensures that the control environment is favourable and that the Group’s risk-taking at any time is comThe Remuneration Committee submits proposals for guidelines patible with the Board’s guidelines. Any deviations have to be pertaining to basic salary and variable remuneration for senior reported to the Board. The Board also receives regular informamanagement. The process regarding variable remuneration tion from the CEO through a monthly report. for all staff works in a similar way. The Committee met five times during the financial year. Attendance is shown in the CEO and Senior Management table below. The meetings are minuted and reported at the Clas Ohlson’s CEO leads the senior management’s work and next Board meeting. The Remuneration Committee addressed makes decisions pertaining to the operations in consultation such issues as fixed and variable remuneration and prepared the with others in the senior management. At the end of the financisuggestions to long-term incentive program (LTI). al year, senior management comprised five individuals and meetings were held monthly and as otherwise necessary. The meetComposition of the Board and attendance during the financial year 1 4 Member 2, 3 Elected Independent Independent 5 Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee10 6 6 Kenneth Bengtsson 2013 Yes Yes 11/11 5/5 4/4 7 8 Klas Balkow 2007 No Yes 6/6 8 Ros-Marie Grusén 2016 Yes Yes 5/5 Mathias Haid 2015 Yes No 9 11/11 5/5 6 Cecilia Marlow 2007 Yes Yes 11/11 7/7 8 8 Göran Näsholm 2015 Yes Yes 11/11 4/4 3/3 8 8 Katarina Sjögren Petrini 2013 Yes Yes 6/6 4/4 9 8 8 Göran Sundström 2014 Yes No 10/11 3/3 2/2 4/4 Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae 2010 Yes Yes 11/11 5/5 1 The trade-union organisations have had two representatives on the Board. For further information on Board members, see pages 90-91. The work of the Board and its committees is described on pages 83-86. 2 For information on date of birth, work experience, assignments and shareholdings, see pages 90-91. 3 Remuneration of Board members is stated in Note 6, see page 106. 4 Independent in relation to the company and executive management according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 5 Independent in relation to major shareholders of the company according to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. 6 Chairman. 7 President and CEO up until 2016-12-31. 8 At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Ros-Marie Grusén was elected to the Board as Board member. Klas Balkow and Katarina Sjögren Petrini declined re-election. The composition of the committees were changed in connection with the 2016 annual general meeting. 9 Are, or represent, major shareholders. Refer to page 125 for information about major shareholders. 10 For the Nomination Committee, only those members who are also Board members are presented. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 85 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ings focus primarily on strategic and operative monitoring and development, as well as results follow-up. In addition to these meetings, there is close daily cooperation within management. Governance of subsidiaries The five wholly owned subsidiaries Clas Ohlson AS in Norway, Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK, Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany and Clas Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai) in China are governed by their own boards in the country concerned, principally consisting of representatives of Clas Ohlson AB in Sweden. The Board in Sweden receives continuous information about the subsidiaries through the CEO’s monthly reports on the subsidiaries. These reports also include the results of operations and financial position of the company concerned. External and internal control instruments Clas Ohlson’s governance occurs within the framework for external control instruments, such as Nasdaq Stockholm’s rules and regulations, the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Furthermore, there are internal control instruments consisting of the Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of procedure, the long-term incentive programs (LTI 2014, LTI 2015 and instructions for the CEO, policies, guidelines, as well as Clas LTI 2016) was calculated at 0.2 MSEK for the acting CEO. Ohlson’s values and corporate culture. Remuneration to the other six senior executives totalled 13.6 MSEK, of which 2.5 MSEK was in the form of variable remuClas Ohlson’s corporate culture neration. Variable remuneration pertaining to the expensed The core of Clas Ohlson’s corporate culture is salesmanship. but not definite portion of the long-term incentive programs The company’s corporate culture is based on drive, warmth, was calculated at 1.9 MSEK. All seven of senior management innovation and commitment. These common values permeate receive the additional benefit of a company car. The 2016 AGM the daily work. decided on guidelines for remuneration to senior management pertaining to the 2016/17 financial year. Remuneration Fees paid to the Board during the financial year totalled 3.1 Severance pay MSEK, in accordance with the resolution by the AGM. Of Under the contract of employment with the acting CEO, the the fees paid, 0.5 MSEK pertained to remuneration for work mutual period of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is on the Board’s Remuneration and Audit Committees. Of the payable in the event of termination by the company. ApplicaBoard’s total fee, 0.8 MSEK was paid to the Chairman of the ble basic salary, variable remuneration and benefits are payable Board. No fee is paid to Board members who are employees during the period of notice. of the company. No remuneration is paid to members of the Nomination Committee. Pension The members of the Board do not receive any pension benefits The company’s former CEO Klas Balkow received pay totalfor their Board engagements. The retirement age for the CEO ling 8.1 MSEK (CEO until 31 December 2016), of which 1.3 and for other senior management is 65. The CEO has a defiMSEK was in the form of variable remuneration (STI refer to ned-contribution pension into which 2.1 MSEK (Klas Balkow) Note 6). Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting and 0.2 MSEK (Peter Jelkeby) was paid during the financial President and CEO between January and April 2017. Remuyear. Other members of senior management receive pension enneration as acting CEO amounted to 1.7 MSEK, of which 0.3 titlements based on their applicable ITP plan, which also covers MSEK amounted to variable remuneration. Variable remuneother salaried staff in Sweden. ration pertaining to the expensed but not definite portion of 86 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration principles shift the risk to another party (insurance). The risks are entered The general principles of remuneration for senior executives are in risk maps in order to clarify the overall risk exposure. to be based on the position held, individual performance, the Mapping is done at the Group level and represents a tool for Group’s financial results and the remuneration being competitioperational and strategic governance by the Board and the ve in the country of employment. The combined remuneration company’s senior management. By means of risk mapping, the of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary in focus can be aimed at reducing the company’s risk exposure the form of a short-term incentive based on annual performanand reducing the consequences of any risks emerging. The Risk ce objectives, long-term incentives based on multi-year perforCommittee pursues the work involved in compiling, monitomance, pension and other benefits. The principles also regulate ring and developing the risk management process. Reporting the terms and conditions for termination of employment and of the Group’s overall risk status is made internally to the Audit for severance pay. Committee and the Board twice annually. Clas Ohlson strives to offer a competitive total level of remuSustainability neration, focusing on payments based on performance. This For Clas Ohlson, it is important to protect and assume responmeans that variable remuneration may comprise a significant sibility for people and the environment impacted by our opeportion of the total remuneration. The aim is for basic remuneration. Our sustainability agenda is an integrated part of Clas ration to be in line with the median of the comparable market, Ohlson’s operation that must permeate the entire organisation. while total remuneration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds Until December 2016, Clas Ohlson had a sustainability forum its objectives, is to be in the upper quartile of the market. that defined the company’s strategic orientation, set targets and monitored progress. The sustainability function is now part of Risk management Group Management and the Board receives regular updates. The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk effort. The risk situation in Clas Ohlson is updated and analysed reIn sustainability work, the Code of Conduct is the basis of the gularly. This is done by means of a systematic process in which work to monitor and develop the supply chain. Clas Ohlson’s risks are identified, valued and assessed, managed, monitored Code of Conduct contains the requirements we place on ourseland reported. Using an overall assessment, priority is given ves, our manufacturers, suppliers and partners with respect to to those risks whose impact and probability are deemed to the work environment, working conditions, environmental represent the most negative effect. A key aspect in this work is impact and anti-corruption. the measures undertaken to avoid (control activities), reduce or RISK MANAGEMENT Decision on overall policies The Board Monitoring Audit Committee Reporting Governance Implement, delegate Senior Management Establish guidelines and instructions, educate, compile Risk Committee reports Monitor existing risks, identify new risks, Head of function report CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 87 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control of the financial reporting All activity is undertaken in accordance with the ethical guideliThe Board has overall responsibility for the company’s systems nes drawn up in the Group’s Code of Conduct. pertaining to internal control. The responsibility is regulated by the Swedish Companies Act, which also states that the Audit Risk assessment and control activities Committee has a specific responsibility for monitoring quaA model has been devised in the company to assess the risk of lity assurance in risk management and internal control of the errors in financial reporting. The purpose of the model is to financial reporting. identify a number of items in the income statement and balance sheet and processes for preparation of financial information The company’s work on internal control follows the framework where the risk of errors is judged to be elevated. developed by The Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The framework consists of The Group’s income consists of sales in stores and online five individual areas: control environment, risk assessment, conshopping where payment is principally made by credit card trol activities, information and communication and follow-up. or in cash. This income is documented in its entirety in bank accounts which are reconciled daily. The risk of errors in the Control environment reporting of income is limited. Group expenses primarily The control environment comprises the organisational struccomprise goods-related expenses, freights, salaries and social ture and the values, guidelines, policies, instructions and so security contributions, rental expenses and marketing. Income on, according to which the organisation works. Effective Board and expenses are forecasted for each store and department. The work forms the basis of good internal control and the Board outcome is checked monthly against both the forecast and the of Clas Ohlson has established rules of procedure and clear preceding year. instructions for its work. This also includes the Board’s Remuneration and Audit Committees. About 78 per cent of Clas Ohlson’s assets consist of inventories and non-current assets. Accordingly, particular emphasis has Part of the Board’s work involves drawing up and approving been placed on preventing and detecting deficiencies in these the policies that govern the Group’s work on internal control. areas when designing internal controls. Another part involves creating the necessary conditions for an organisational structure with clear roles and responsibilities, The processes and the control structure are documented in a leading to effective management of the risks in the operation. separate financial manual, which is updated regularly. Work is continuously in progress to evaluate the most essential processes The Group has regulations governing decision-making and in the Group. The greatest risks in each process are documented. authorisation levels that parallel the Group’s organisational structure. The focus is on clarifying who has a mandate to An assessment is then made of whether the controls that take decide on investments, activities, signing of agreements and so place are adequate. If there is a need, further compensatory forth in each function and the limits in terms of the amounts controls are introduced to reduce the risk to an acceptable level. involved. In the event that the amount exceeds the function’s The subsidiaries have accounting managers and controllers who mandate, the decision is assigned to the next level in the orgaensure that financial reporting is correct and complete. In addinisation. This is done in order to maintain a good corporate gotion, they ensure that legislation is observed and that financial vernance and awareness at the various levels in the organisation. reporting is completed within the time frames to senior manaThe regulations governing decision-making and authorisation gement and to the Group accounting function. Moreover, there constitute the basis for decision-making at Clas Ohlson. are controllers at major Group functions and on the Group finance function with equivalent working tasks. The senior management is responsible for implementing guidelines for the maintenance of good internal control. An The Group finance function has a close and well-functioning ongoing work is being done in developing and improving cooperation with subsidiaries as regards reporting and closing internal control. The senior management and the Audit Comaccounts. Each month, all subsidiaries report complete closing mittee report continuously to the Board according to approved accounts, which constitute the basis for the Group’s consolidaprocedures. ted financial reporting. 88 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Information and communication Audit Committee also plays a key role in monitoring to ensure Major policies, guidelines, instructions and manuals that are that there are sufficient control activities for the most essential of significance to internal control are regularly updated and areas of risk pertaining to the financial reporting and commucommunicated to employees concerned. General guidelines and nicating material issues to the senior management, Board and instructions are also available on the company’s intranet. auditors. An important aspect is to ensure that any viewpoints from the auditors are rectified. There are both formal and informal information channels to the senior management and the Board for information from Twice a year, the entire Board meets the company’s auditors to staff. The Board receives regular feedback from the operations be informed of the external audit and discuss relevant issues. on questions that relate to internal control through the Audit On the basis of the auditors’ reporting, the Board forms a Committee. For external communication, there are guidelines picture of the internal control and the correctness of the finanthat support the requirement to provide the equities market cial information. The CEO does not take part in any issues that with correct information. relate to company management. Follow-up of internal control Internal audit Senior management and the Audit Committee regularly report Following evaluations in the financial year and preceding years, to the Board on the basis of established procedures. The Board the Board has not found it necessary to date to establish an inreceives regular information from the CEO every month ternal audit function. The company’s Group-wide controller through a monthly report for the Group. This monthly report function has instead been adapted to also deal with work realso contains information on the results and financial positions garding internal control. The question of whether to establish of the subsidiaries. a separate internal audit function is re-examined annually. Furthermore, the company has a Risk Committee that continuousEach interim report is analysed by the Audit Committee with ly evaluates material risks and control activities. regard to the correctness of the financial information. The CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 89 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors Kenneth Bengtsson Ros-Marie Grusén Mathias Haid Born 1961. Born 1971. Born in 1970. Chairman of the Board since 2014, Bord member since 2016. Member of the Board since 2015. Member of the Board since 2013. B.Sc. Social Science/Behavioural Science. Professional experience: Pilot at Lufthansa Professional experience: CEO and various exeProfessional experience: CEO of Norsk Cargo AG, training officer at Lufthansa’s cutive positions in ICA for more than 30 years. Medisinaldepot AS and Region Manager for the airline operations and several senior positions Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Scandinavian area Celesio AG, CEO of Admenta in Lufthansa’s airline operations in 1998-2015. Board in Ahlsell AB, Ersta diakoni, Eurocommerce, Sweden AB/LloydsApotek, CEO of Plantagen AB Member of the Board of Clas Ohlson AS and Systembolaget and World Childhood Foundation. and senior positions at IKEA. Clas Ohlson Oy 2002-2005. Bord Member of Synsam and Herenco. Other significant directorship: Board member of Besqab AB and Granngården AB. Dependent in relation to major shareholders Independent in relation to the company, executive according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Independent in relation to the company, executive management and major shareholders according to Governance. Independent in relation to the management and major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. company and executive management. the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Shareholding*: 8,000 series B share own holding Shareholding*: 2,140 series B Shareholding:*: 0 and 17,000 series B via a legal entity Cecilia Marlow Göran Näsholm Born in 1960. Born in 1955. Member of the Board since 2007. Member of the Board since 2015. Master of Business Administration, Stockholm School of EcoMechanical engineer and Master of Business Administration. nomics. Professional experience: CEO of Ahlsell AB 1999-2015. Professional experience: CEO of Kronans Droghandel, CEO Executive Vice President of Ahlsell AB, Division Manager of Ahlsell of JC and CEO of Polarn O. Pyret. AB, President of Jirva AB, Purchasing Director of Calor Celsius Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of AB and various purchasing-related positions in Alfa Laval. Kivra. Board member of Midsona, Platzer Fastigheter, Fazer Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of Group, MatHem, Nordea Fonder and Internationella Engelska Fresks Holding AB and LW AB. Board member of Martin & Skolan. Servera AB. Independent in relation to the company, executive management Independent in relation to the company, executive management and major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of and major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of CorCorporate Governance. porate Governance. Shareholding*: 1,500 series B via a legal entity Shareholding*: 18,642 series B 90 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | BOARD OF DIRECTORS Göran Sundström Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae Born in 1962. Born in 1966. Member of the Board since 2014. Member of the Board since 2010. Master of Business Administration, Lund University. Master of Business Administration, Lund University. Professional experience: Founder and CEO of SundProfessional experience: CEO of ReckittBenckiser Nordic, Marström & Partners, various senior positions in Corporate Fiketing and Business Development Director of Synoptik, European nance at Alfred Berg Fondkommission AB, Aros Securities Marketing Manager and other executive positions of Procter & AB and Nordea Securities. Gamble Nordic, Germany and Europe. Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board Other significant directorships: Chairman of the Board of Altia of Logitall AB and Board member of Parks & Resorts Oy, Babysam AS, Sunset Boulevard AS, Footway AB, VPG AS and Scandinavia AB and Sundström & Partners AB. TCM AS. Board member of Boconcept AS, Paulig Oy, SAS AB, Upplands Motor AB, Broman Group Oy and NSP AB. Dependent in relation to major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Independent Independent in relation to the company, executive management and in relation to the company and executive management. major shareholders according to the Swedish Code of Corporate Shareholding*: 600 series B share own holding and 600 Governance. series B via a legal entity Shareholding*: 0 Henrik Andersson Robert Flahiff Lars Zwetsloot Born in 1971. Born in 1967. Born in 1976. Member of the Board since 2012. Member of the Board since 2015. Deputy Member of the Board since 2012. Employee representative (Unionen). Employee representative (Handels). Employee representative (Handels). Shareholding*: 0 Shareholding*: 0 Shareholding*: 100 series B * Own and related parties’ shares as of 31 May 2017. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 91 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | SENIOR MANAGEMENT Senior management Peter Jelkeby Tony Dahlström Magnus Höjman Acting President and CEO Director of Purchasing Director of Supply Chain Employed in 2008 Employed 1982 to 2007, and 2009 Employed in 2011 Born in 1963 Born in 1964 Born in 1967 Master of Business Administration, School of Professional experience: Category MaMaster of Business Administration, Lund Business, Economics and Law at the University nager at Clas Ohlson, CEO of OS TechnoUniversity and University of California of Gothenburg logy Nordic, Product Manager and various Professional experience: Consultant at Professional experience: Deputy Head and positions in stores, at distribution centre and Accenture, Venture Manager at Real Venture senior positions in sales and marketing at IKEA customer service at Clas Ohlson. Group and various positions in sales and main the UK and senior positions in purchasing at Shareholding*: 13,663 series B shares nagement at Procter & Gamble Scandinavia. IKEA in the Russian and Asian markets. Shareholding*: 5,911 series B shares Shareholding*: 8,147 series B shares Sara Kraft Westrell Göran Melin Director of Information and IR CFO Employed in 2013 Employed in 2010 Born in 1974 Born in 1962 Master of Business Administration, Lund UniMaster of Business Administration, School of versity and National University of Singapore Business, Economics and Law at Professional experience: Director of Inforthe University of Gothenburg mation at Hexagon AB, Director of Market Professional experience: Authorized Public and Communication at JB Education and Accountant and Partner at PwC. Communications Advisor at Kreab. Shareholding*: 9,941 series B shares Shareholding:*: 3,392 series B shares * Own and related parties’ shares as of 31 May 2017 92 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 DIRECTOR’S REPORT | SENIOR MANAGEMENT INTERVIEW Hello! Appointed CEO Lotta Lyrå Appointed President and CEO LOTTA LYRÅ Employed in 2017 Born in 1975 Master of Business Administration, Stockholm School of Economics Professional experience: Lotta Lyrå most recently worked as Head of Development & Expansion at IKEA Group. Prior to that, she held several senior positions at IKEA Group, for example, as CEO assistant and in strategy development and digital transformation. Shareholding*: 4,352 B-aktier “I feel extremely privileged to have the opportunity to lead a company with such a strong corporate culture and sound core values as Clas Ohlson. The retail sector is in an exciting phase with new players, new technology and new expectations from consumers, and I look forward to driving these developments together with all of the employees,” says Lotta Lyrå. Lotta Lyrå will take office as the new President and CEO on 1 August 2017. * Own and related parties’ shares as of 31 May 2017 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 93 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Income statement Cash-flow statement 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 MSEK –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 7,990.1 7,601.6 Operating profit 609.9 506.4 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -4,698.6 -4,376.3 Gross profit 3,291.5 3, 225.3 Adjustment for non-cash items – depreciation 230.0 235.4 Selling expenses 4, 5, 6 -2,485.2 -2,408.5 – loss from sale/disposal of Administrative expenses 4, 5, 6, 7 -193.1 -190.6 non-current assets 37.3 10.8 Other operating income 3 24.5 24.2 – other non-cash items -54.8 121.9 Other operating expenses 3 -27.9 -144.0 Interest received 0.7 1.9 Operating profit 609.9 506.4 Interest paid -1.6 -0.8 Financial items Tax paid -160.8 -133.0 Financial income 8 0.7 1.9 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 660.6 742.6 Financial expense 8 -1.6 -0.7 Profit before tax 608.9 507.6 Cash flow from changes in working capital – accounts receivable 0.0 -5.1 Income tax 9 -130.2 -128.8 – inventories 32.8 -116.5 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 – other receivables 45.4 -30.0 Number of shares at the end of the – accounts payable -54.5 101.3 period, millions 63.1 63.4 – other current interest-free Earnings per share operating liabilities 14.8 12.3 before dilution, SEK 10 7.59 6.00 Cash flow from operating activities 698.9 704.6 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 10 7.57 5.97 Investing activities Proposed dividend per share, SEK Investments in intangible assets -105.9 -133.4 11 6.25 5.75 Investments in tangible assets -157.6 -141.0 Sale of equipment 0.1 0.3 Cash flow from investing activities -263.5 -274.1 Statement of consolidated comprehensive income Financing activities Repurchase of own shares -75.7 -47.9 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 MSEK –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 Sales of own shares 19.7 43.3 Dividend to shareholders -362.0 -331.3 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 Cash flow from financing activities -418.0 -335.9 Other comprehensive income, net after tax: Cash flow for the year 17.5 94.6 Items that can later be reversed in the Cash and cash equivalents consolidated income statement: at the start of the year 604.3 517.4 Exchange-rate differences 22.9 -62.8 Exchange-rate differences Cash-flow hedging 21.6 4.3 in cash and cash equivalents 3.3 -7.7 Items that cannot later be reversed in Cash and cash equivalents the consolidated income statement: at the end of the year 625.1 604.3 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income, net after tax 44.5 -58.5 Comprehensive income for the year 523.2 320.3 (all of the above profits were attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders during the year) 94 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Capital and reserves attributable to Parent Company shareholders IT and software costs 340.2 270.6 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares Total intangible assets 340.2 270.6 with a quotient value of 1.25 SEK 82.0 82.0 Tangible assets Other contributed capital 90.4 90.4 Land and buildings 414.4 444.4 Other reserves -89.9 -132.9 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 649.9 682.8 Profit brought forward including profit for the year 2,168.2 2,099.3 Total tangible assets 1,064.3 1 127.2 Total equity 2,250.7 2,138.8 Non-current receivables Non-current liabilities Deferred tax assets 9 17.0 16.9 Deferred tax liabilities 9 195.8 190.2 Other non-current receivables 19 1.6 1.2 Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Total non-current receivables 18.5 18.1 Other non-current provisions 22 25.9 0.0 Current assets Total non-current liabilities 226.8 195.1 Inventories 13 1,630.7 1,639.2 Current liabilities Accounts receivable 14 31.0 30.5 Accounts payable 20 635.2 685.7 Tax assets 23.2 69.5 Tax liability 39.4 111.6 Other receivables 8.1 23.3 Other current liabilities 20 169.2 95.7 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 15,17 158.2 140.1 Accrued expenses and deferred Cash and cash equivalents 16 625.1 604.3 income 17, 21 500.2 528.9 Total current assets 2,476.4 2,506.9 Other provisions 22 78.0 166.9 Total current liabilities 1,421.9 1,588.9 Total assets 3,899.4 3,922.8 Total equity and liabilities 3,899.4 3,922.8 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 95 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity (Note 18) Attributable to Parent Companys shareholders Other Share contributed Translation Hedging Profit brought MSEK capital capital difference reserve forward Total Opening balance at 1 May 2015 82.0 90.4 -55.1 -20.8 2,047.9 2,144.5 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 378.8 378.8 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after taxl – – – 4.3 – 4.3 Exchange-rate differences – – -62.8 – – -62.8 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations – – – – 0.0 0.0 Total other comprehensive income – – -62.8 4.3 0.0 -58.5 Total comprehensive income – – -62.8 4.3 378.8 320.3 Transactions with shareholders Repurchase of own share – – – – -47.9 -47.9 Sales of own share – – – – 43.3 43.3 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – – 9.9 9.9 Dividend – – – – -331.3 -331.3 Total transactions with shareholders – – – – -326.0 -326.0 Closing balance at 30 April 2016 82.0 90.4 -117.9 -16.5 2,100.7 2,138.8 Opening balance at 1 May 2016 82.0 90.4 -117.9 -16.5 2,100.7 2,138.8 Comprehensive income Profit for the year – – – – 478.7 478.7 Other comprehensive income Cash-flow hedging after tax – – – 21.6 – 21.6 Exchange-rate differences – – 22.9 – – 22.9 Remeasurement of defined-benefit pension obligations – – – – 0.0 0.0 Total other comprehensive income – – 22.9 21,6 0.0 44.5 Total comprehensive income – – 22.9 21.6 478.7 523.2 Transactions with shareholders Repurchase of own share – – – – -75.7 -75.7 Sales of own share – – – – 19.7 19.7 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – – 6.7 6.7 Dividend – – – – -362.0 -362.0 Total transactions with shareholders – – – – -411.2 -411.3 Closing balance at 30 April 2017 82.0 90.4 -95.0 5.1 2,168.2 2,250.7 96 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Income statement Cash-flow statement 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 MSEK Note –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 MSEK –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 1, 2 Operating activities Sales 23 6,384.2 6,073.8 Operating profit 502.7 357.7 Cost of goods sold 4,5,6 -4,579.7 -4,311.0 Adjustment for non-cash item Gross profit 1,804.5 1,762.8 – depreciation 157.5 157.6 – loss from sale/disposal of Selling expenses 4,5,6 -1,150.9 -1,145.9 non-current assets 3.6 1.0 Administrative expenses 4,5,6,7 -149.1 -145.0 – other non-cash items 5.1 16.4 Other operating income 3 24.3 24.2 Interest received 0.4 1.8 Other operating expenses 3 -26.1 -138.4 Interest paid -2.2 -3.0 Operating profit 502.7 357.7 Tax paid -105.5 -89.7 Financial items Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 561.6 441.8 Dividend from subsidiaries 103.2 99.1 Interest income 8 0.4 1.8 Cash flow from changes in working capital Interest expense 8 -2.2 -3.0 – accounts receivable -0.3 -0.6 Profit after financial items 604.1 455.6 – inventories 42.7 -37.3 – other receivables 211.5 -18.8 Appropriations 25 -76.2 37.2 – accounts payable -23.1 75.7 Profit before tax 527.9 492.7 – other current interest-free operating liabilities -278.7 32.9 Income tax 9 -91.7 -82.3 Cash flow from operating activities 513.7 493.7 Profit for the year 436.3 410.4 Investing activities Investments in intangible assets -105.9 -133.4 Proposed dividend per share, SEK 11 6.25 5.75 Investments in tangible assets -62.9 -73.5 Sale of equipment 0.1 0.3 Shareholder contribution in subsidiaries 0.0 -7.5 Comprehensive income, Parent Company Cash flow from investing activities -168.7 -214.1 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 Financing activities MSEK –30 Apr 2017 –30 Apr 2016 Repurchase of own shares -75.7 -47.9 Sales of own shares 19.7 43.3 Profit for the year 436.3 410.4 Repayments/Lending from subsidiaries -4.7 30.1 Other comprehensive income, Dividend from subsidiaries 103.2 99.1 net after tax: Dividend to shareholders -362.0 -331.3 Items that can later be reversed in the consolidated income stateCash flow from financing activities -319.4 -206.7 ment: Cash flow for the year 25.5 72.9 Profit/loss from hedging of net investments in foreign operations 2.4 -10.7 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 515.4 442.5 Cash and cash equivalents Comprehensive income for the year 438.7 399.7 at the end of the year 540.9 515.4 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 97 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Balance sheet Balance sheet MSEK Note 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 MSEK Note 30 Apr 2017 30 Apr 2016 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 12 Equity 18 Intangible assets Restricted equity IT and software costs 340.2 270.6 Share capital, 65,600,000 shares Total intangible assets 340.2 270.6 with a quotient value of 1.25 82.0 82.0 Statutory reserve 106.8 106.8 Tangible assets Development fond 7.9 0.0 Land and buildings 413.7 443.6 Total restricted equity 196.8 188.8 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 361.9 393.8 Non-restricted equity Total tangible assets 775.6 837.4 Fair value fund -28.8 -31.2 Financial non-current assets Profit brought forward 394.3 403.0 Deferred tax assets 3.1 3.7 Profit for the year 436.3 410.4 Receivables, Group companies 153.9 146.8 Total non-restricted equity 801.7 782.2 Participations in Group companies 24 29.3 29.3 Total equity 998.5 971.0 Total financial non-current assets 186.3 179.8 Total non-current assets 1,302.1 1,287.8 Untaxed reserves 27 1,048.5 972.3 Current assets Inventories Provisions Merchandise 13 1,062.0 1,104.7 Other provisions 22 46.0 47.6 Total inventories 1,062.0 1,104.7 Total provisions 46.0 47.6 Current receivables Non-current liabilities Accounts receivable 14 19.7 19.5 Other non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Tax assets 23.0 20.7 Total non-current liabilities 5.0 5.0 Receivables from Group companies 72.9 293.2 Other receivables 2.6 1.8 Current liabilities Prepaid expenses and accrued Accounts payable 20 578.2 601.3 income 15 86.9 81.3 Liabilities to Group companies 86.0 355.1 Total current receivables 205.2 416.5 Other current liabilities 41.9 47.5 Accrued expenses and deferred Cash and bank balances 26 540.9 515.4 income 21 305.9 325.4 Total current assets 1,808.1 2,036.5 Total current liabilities 1,012.2 1,328.4 Total equity and liabilities 3,110.2 3,324.4 Total assets 3,110.2 3,324.4 98 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Change in Parent Company equity Total nonStatutory Development restricted MSEK Share capital reserve fund equity Total equity Opening balance at 1 May 2015 82.0 106.8 – 708.5 897.3 Dividend – – – -331.3 -331.3 Repurchase own shares – – – -47.9 -47.9 Sales of own shares – – – 43.3 43,3 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – 9.9 9.9 Other comprehensive income – – – 399.7 399.7 Closing balance at 30 April 2016 82.0 106.8 – 782.2 971.0 Opening balance at 1 May 2016 82.0 106.8 – 782.2 971.0 Dividend – – – -362.0 -362.0 Repurchase own shares – – – -75.7 -75.7 Sales of own shares – – – 19.7 19.7 Employee stock options plan: value of employees’ service – – – 6.7 6.7 Change of development fund – – 7.9 -7.9 0.0 Other comprehensive income – – – 438.7 438.7 Closing balance at 30 April 2017 82.0 106.8 7.9 7.9 801.7 998.5 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 99 NOTES NOTES Accounting policies and Notes Amounts are in MSEK unless stated otherwise Note 1 Accounting and valuation policies Compliance with standards and legislation New and amended standards that have not yet come into effect The consolidated financial statements for Clas Ohlson have been prepared in The Group has not yet started to apply the new or amended standards and new accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, RFR 1 Supplementary Accounting interpretations that have been published, but that come into effect for financial Rules for Groups and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and years beginning on or after 1 May 2017. The standards and interpretations that are interpretations from IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRS IC) as approved by deemed to impact the financial statements for the period in which they are applied the EU. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the cost for the first time are described below. method, apart from financial assets and liabilities (including derivative instruments), measured at fair value. To be applied to financial years The accounting policies for the Group indicated below have been applied Standards beginning after: consistently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, unless otherwise stated. The Group’s accounting policies have been applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 or later consistently to the reporting and consolidation of the Parent Company and IFRS 15 Revenue from subsidiaries. contracts with customers 1 January 2018 or later Estimates and assumptions IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 or later Preparing the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that impact upon the application IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued on 24 July 2014 and will replace IAS of the accounting policies and the carrying amounts for assets, liabilities, income 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. The standard was and expenses. These are based on historical experience and a number of other published in phases, and the version issued in July 2014 replaces all preceding factors that appear reasonable under the prevailing conditions. The estimates and versions. assumptions are reviewed regularly and are not judged to entail any significant risk of material adjustment of carrying amounts for assets and liabilities during the IFRS 9 contains new principles for recognising and measuring financial assets. The next financial year. Any changes to estimates are recognised in the period in which measurement category to be assigned to a financial asset is determined by either the change is made if the change has only impacted upon this period, or in the the objective of the company holding the asset (the company’s “business model”) period in which the change is made and future periods if the change impacts upon or the financial asset’s contractual cash flows. both the current period and future periods. Further information on estimates and assumptions made is presented in Notes 9, 13 and 22. The new standard also contains new impairment rules for financial assets that entails that the former incurred loss method is replaced by a new expected loss For the Group, the estimates and assumptions made in conjunction with method. impairment testing of intangible assets not yet utilised were deemed of material significance. This means that if the estimates and assumptions made were to The purpose of the new hedge accounting rules is that the company’s risk significantly differ from the actual outcome, the effect on the financial statements management is to be reflected in the financial statements. The standard also could be considerable. In connection with the impairment testing of intangible expands the possibility of hedging risk components of non-financial items and assets, the carrying amount is to be compared with the recoverable amount, including several types of instruments in a hedge relationship. The quantitative which is the highest of the asset’s net selling price and value in use. After testing requirement for efficiency is no longer implemented. IFRS 9 applies to financial and assessing the value in use, it was deemed that there were no impairment years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Executive management has not yet requirements regarding the company’s investment in intangible assets not yet completed its evaluation of the potential impact on financial earnings or position. utilised. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was issued on 28 May 2014 and Restructuring costs include the necessary impairment of assets and other will replace IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts. IFRS 15 stipulates items that do not affect cash flow, as well as estimated costs for redundancies a model for recognising revenue for almost all revenue arising on the basis of and other direct expenses related to the discontinuation of operations. contracts with customers, except for leases, financial instruments and insurance Restructuring costs are classified as non-recurring items. Cost estimates are contracts. The core principle of revenue recognition under IFRS 15 is that an entity based on detailed action plans that are expected to improve the Group’s cost is to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to structure and productivity. Historical outcomes from similar events in previous customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects action plans are normally used as the basis for the calculations to minimise the to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recognised as uncertainty factor. Reserves for restructuring amounted to 40.5 MSEK (107.0 control of the goods or services is passed. IFRS 15 provides significantly more MSEK) at year-end of which 25.9 MSEK (0.0) was classified as long term. detailed guidance for specific areas and the disclosure requirements are extensive. IFRS 15 applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Executive The following new and amended IFRSs and interpretations came management’s current assessment is that the standard will not entail any major into effect and impacted the Group in the 2016/17 financial year. differences for the Group. New or amended standards and new interpretations did not have any material impact on the Group’s 2016/17 financial statements. IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and is to replace IAS 17 Leases. IFRS 16 introduces a right of use model and for lessees it means that essentially The following changes are not conditional on amendments to IFRS: all lease agreements are to be recognised in the balance sheet, and do not need to be classified into operating or financial leases. The exemption is leases with a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of a low value. Depreciation of the Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) asset and interest expense on the liability are recognised in profit or loss. The The Group has applies the European Securities and Markets Authority’s standard contains more extensive disclosure requirements compared with the (ESMA) new guidelines on alternative performance measures. In brief, current standard. For lessors, IFRS 16 does not essentially entail any differences APMs are financial measures of historical or future earnings trends, compared with IAS 17. IFRS 16 applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 financial position or cash flow that are not defined or specified in IFRS. January 2019, with earlier application permitted. The standard has not yet been The APMs presented in the annual report are reconciled with the closest adopted by the EU. Executive management believes that the standard will lead item in the income statements and balances sheets and are listed at the to recognition of significant assets and liabilities attributable to the Group’s lease end of the annual report. The APMs presented in this report may differ agreements for premises, but has not yet quantified the effects. from measurements of similar names used by other companies. 100 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Other new or amended standards and new interpretations, that have not yet come Non-current assets into effect, are not expected to have any material impact on the Group’s financial Non-current assets are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any statements on initial application. accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the purchase price and expenses directly attributable to the asset in order to bring it into the position and condition Consolidated financial statements necessary for it to be utilised in accordance with the purpose of the acquisition. The consolidated financial statements pertain to the Parent Company and all Depreciation is based on the cost and estimated useful life of the assets. Straightcompanies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has controlling line depreciation is used for all assets. Land is not depreciated. The Group applies influence. The Group controls a company when it is exposed to or is entitled to component depreciation, which means that depreciation is based upon the variable return from its holdings in the company and has the opportunity to impact estimated useful life of the components. The following depreciation periods are the return through its influence in the company. applied: The purchase method has been applied in preparing the consolidated financial Intangible assets 5-10 years statements. Inter-Group transactions, balance-sheet items, as well as unrealised Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 5-15 years gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Buildings 20-33 years Whenever appropriate, the accounting policies have been amended to guarantee Land improvements 20 years consistent application of the Group’s policies. Leashold improvements 10 years The consolidated financial statements include the wholly owned subsidiaries Clas New acquisitions and replacements are capitalised, while maintenance and repair Ohlson AS, Clas Ohlson Oy, Clas Ohlson Ltd (UK), Clas Ohlson GmbH and Clas costs are expensed. The assets’ residual value and useful life are tested at the Ohlson Ltd (Shanghai). end of each reporting period and adjusted as needed. An asset’s carrying amount is immediately impaired to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its assessed recoverable amount. As assets are sold or disposed of, the Segment accounting cost and appurtenant accumulated depreciation are written off. Any profit or loss is Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside recognised. All of Clas Ohlson’s properties are owner-occupied properties. Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Group-wide functions in Sweden that assist sales organisations with purchasing, distribution, marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the Intangible assets Group’s value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal Costs for the maintenance of software are expensed when they arise. pricing was adapted to these prerequisites. Development costs directly attributable to the development and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following criteria have been fulfilled: Translation of foreign currencies a) Functional currency and reporting currency • It is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used Items included in the financial statements for the various units in the Group • The company’s intention is to complete the software and use or sell it are measured in the currency used in the financial environment where each • The conditions for using the software exist company is most active (functional currency). The consolidated financial • How the software generates probable financial advantages can be proven statements use Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the reporting currency for • Adequate technological, financial and other resources for completing the the Group. All sums, unless otherwise stated, are rounded to the nearest development and for using or selling the software are available, and million Swedish kronor plus one decimal point. • The costs attributable to the software over the course of its development can be reliably calculated b) Transactions in foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency Directly attributable costs are capitalised as a portion of the software and include at the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date. Exchange-rate costs for employees and a reasonable share of indirect costs. gains and losses arising from the payment of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the Other development costs, which do not meet these criteria, are expensed when rate prevailing on the balance-sheet date are recognised in profit or loss. they arise. Development costs that were previously expenses are not recognised An exception is when transactions represent hedging that fulfils the as an asset in subsequent periods. conditions for hedge accounting of cash flows, in which case gains/losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. For derivatives, refer to the Development costs for software recognised as an asset are amortised of the section on financial instruments. software’s estimated useful life. c) Group companies Results and financial position for all Group companies, translated to the Impairment of non-financial assets Group’s reporting currency as follows: Intangible assets with an indeterminable useful life or intangible assets not ready a) assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets translated to the rate for use, are not impaired but are tested annually for any impairment requirements. on the balance-sheet date: Depreciable assets are assessed to determine any decrease in value resulting from b) income and expenses for each of the income statements translated to events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying amount might the average currency rate and not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised in the amount by which the c) all exchange-rate differences that arise are recognised in other carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable comprehensive income. amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset less selling expenses and value in use. In assessing impairment loss, assets are grouped at the lowest levels at which there are separate identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). For assets that have been previously impaired, testing is conducted on each balance-sheet date on whether reversal should be done. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 101 NOTES Financial instruments the amount received (net after transaction expenses) and the repayment amount Purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised on the trade date is recognised in profit or loss distributed over the borrowing period, applying the the date when the Group binds itself to purchase or sell the asset. Financial effective interest method. instruments are initially measured at fair value plus transaction expenses, which applies to all financial assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss. Charges paid for credit facilities are recognised as transaction expenses for borroIf the market for a financial asset is not active (and for unlisted securities), the wing insofar as it is probable that the credit will be utilised in full or in part. In such Group will establish the fair value by applying such valuation methods as the use cases, charges are recognised when the credit has been utilised. When there of information concerning recently completed transactions on an arms-length is no evidence that the credit will be utilised in full or in part, the charges will be basis, reference to the fair value of another instrument that is essentially equivalent, recognised as advance payment for financial services and distributed over the analyses of discounted cash flow and options valuation methods. In this term of current credit facilities. connection, market information is widely used while company-specific information is used as little as possible. Financial instruments are derecognised from the Borrowing is classified as current liabilities if the Group is not unconditionally balance sheet when the right to receive cash flows from the instrument has expired entitled to defer payment of the debt for at least 12 months after the balanceor been transferred and the Group has transferred virtually all the risks and benefits sheet date. associated with right of ownership. Loan expenses Cash-flow hedging General and specific loan expenses that are directly attributable to purchasing The effective portion of changes in the fair value for a derivative instrument or what is known as qualified assets, which are assets that necessarily take a identified as the cash-flow hedge portion and which meets the conditions for significant amount of time to complete for intended use or sale are recognised as hedge accounting is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss part of the cost of these assets. Capitalisation ceases when all activities required attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. to complete the asset for its intended use or sale have been completed. There are currently no qualified assets. Other loan expenses are charged to profit during the Hedging of net investments period they arise. The hedging of net investments in foreign operations is recognised in a similar manner as in the case of cash-flow hedging. Current and deferred income tax Tax expenses for the period include current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised The portion of gain or loss attributable to a hedging instrument viewed as an in the profit or loss except when the tax pertains to items recognised in other effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss comprehensive income or directly in equity. In such cases, the tax is also attributable to the ineffective portion is recognised in profit or loss. recognised in other comprehensive income and equity. Accumulated gains and losses in equity are recognised in profit or loss when nonThe current tax expense is calculated based on the tax regulations established Swedish operations are partly or totally divested. or established in practice on the balance-sheet date in the countries in which the Parent Company and its subsidiaries are active and generate taxable income. Inventories Management regularly evaluates the statements made in the income tax return Inventories have been valued at the lower of cost and net selling price on the pertaining to situations where applicable tax rules are subject to interpretation. balance-sheet date, applying the “first in, first out” principle. Net selling price is the When deemed suitable, management makes provisions for amounts that will estimated selling price in operating activities less selling expenses. Inter-company probably be paid to the tax authority. profits arising from delivery between companies forming part of the Group are deducted. Necessary provision for obsolescence has been made. Inventory Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences arising between the taxable expenses include transfers from other comprehensive income of any gains/losses value of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated from cash-flow hedging fulfilling the conditions for hedge accounting, attributable financial statements. to purchases of goods. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future taxable surplus will be available, against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Receivables Receivables with a due date more than 12 months after the balance-sheet date Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there are legal offsetting rights are recognised as non-current assets, while others as regarded as current assets. for the particular tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and Receivables are recognised at the amount expected to be paid after individual liabilities pertain to taxes by the same tax authority and pertain to the same tax testing. subject or different tax subjects and for which there is a plan to settle the balance through net payments. Accounts receivables are initially measured at fair value and then at amortised cost applying the effective interest rate method, less any provision for depreciation. A provision for depreciation is posted when there is objective evidence that the Employee benefits Group will not be able to receive all sums due according to the original terms of the Group companies have different plans for remuneration after retirement, including receivables. The amount of the provision is recognised in profit or loss. defined-benefit and defined-contribution pension plans. a) Pension obligations Cash and cash equivalents A defined-contribution pension plan is a pension plan according to which Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and immediately available balances at the Group pays set amounts to a separate legal entity. The Group has no banks and equivalent institutions, as well as short-term investments with a term of legal or informal obligations to pay additional amounts if this legal entity less than three months from the time of acquisition. does not have sufficient assets to pay all remuneration to employees corresponding to the employees’ service during the current or previous Accounts payable periods. A defined-benefit pension plan is a pension plan that is not a Accounts payable are the obligation to pay for products or services that were defined-contribution plan. acquired in the operating activities from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified A typical defined-benefit plan stipulates the amount of the pension benefit as current liabilities if they fall due within one year or earlier. If not, they are an employee will receive after retirement, usually based on one or more recognised as non-current liabilities. factors such as age, service period and salary. In the Parent Company, there are both defined-contribution and definedAccounts payable are initially measured at fair value and thereafter at amortised benefit pension plans. However, in accordance with statement UFR 10, the cost applying the effective interest method. defined-benefit ITP pension plan (Alecta) is treated as a defined-contribution pension plan. Defined-benefit pension plans are available in the Norwegian Borrowing subsidiary. Borrowing is initially measured at fair value, net after transaction expenses. Borrowing is thereafter recognised at amortised cost and any difference between 102 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Regarding defined-benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension benefit Provisions is determined based on actuarial calculations according to the so-called Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet among current and non-current Projected Unit Credit Method. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and liabilities when the Group has a legal or informal obligation resulting from an losses, effects of changes in the asset ceiling and the return on the plan event that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of resources will be assets (excluding the interest components that is recognised in profit required to discharge the commitment and a reliable estimate can be made of or loss) are recognised directly in the balance sheet with income or the amount.Provisions are made for open buy, unredeemed gift cards, estimated cost corresponding to the change for the period in the statement of future guarantee commitments, bonus points to club members as well as for other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. Revaluations restructuring of the store network in the UK, which is described in more detail in recognised in other comprehensive income affect profit brought forward recognition of income. For further information see note 22. and are not reclassified to the income statement. Service costs from prior periods are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the plan Income is changed. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the The Group’s income is generated through the sale of products to consumers start of the period to the defined-benefit net liability or asset. The definedin accordance with the terms of sale. Sale income is recognised net less VAT, benefit costs are divided into the following categories: returns, reservations for open buy and discounts. A combined experience is used to assess and reserve for returns and open purchase at the time of sale ncome is • service costs (including service costs for the current period, service costs recognised at the time of sales/delivery to the customer, when material risks and in prior periods and gains and losses pertaining to reductions and/or benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred to the regulations) purchaser. • net interest expense or net interest income • revaluations Clas Ohlson’s customers can choose to become a member of the Club Clas loyalty program. Sales are conducted in accordance with IFRIC 13 in order to take The first two categories are recognised in profit or loss as personnel into account club members’ earning of bonus points and the opportunity to utilise costs (service costs) and net financial items (net interest expense). Gains points saved in the form of bonus cheques as payment in the future. All issued and losses related to reductions and regulations are recognised as service bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the loyalty program is costs from prior periods. Revaluations are recognised in other comprereduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, hensive income. considering the current degree of redemption. Consideration is also taken to The defined-benefit pension obligation is recognised in the balance the member’s probable redemption of bonus cheques in the future. Earnings sheet corresponding to current surplus or deficit related to the Group’s are recognised through a reduction in sales during the earnings period with a defined-benefit obligations. Any surplus is recognised only to the extent that corresponding provision in the balance sheet. it corresponds to the present value of future repayments from the respective pension plan or future reductions in premium payments to the plan. Interest income pertains to interest on bank balances. Income is recognised in the period to which the interest pertains. b) Remuneration in the event of termination of employment Remuneration in the event of termination of employment is paid when an Leasing employee’s employment is terminated by the Group before the normal In the Group and in the Parent Company, lease contracts occur primarily in the pension date or when the employee accepts voluntary redundancy form of rental contracts for retail premises. All the stores, except the one in Insjön, in exchange for such remuneration. The Group recognises redundancy are leased. These contracts have been classified as operational leases as they do remuneration when the Group no longer has the opportunity to withdraw not signify that the economic benefits and risks associated with ownership have the offer of remuneration. In cases where the company has issued an offer been transferred to the tenant. to encourage voluntary redundancy, redundancy remuneration is calculated based on the number of employees expected to accept the offer. Benefits Operational leases, in which the Group is the lessee, are recognised in the that mature more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are consolidated income statement as an operating expense straight line over the discounted to the present value. leasing period. In cases in which the Group is the lessor, income is recognised as a sale in the period to which the leasing pertains. Depreciation is recognised in Share-based payments operating profit. The Group has a number of share-based remuneration plans that are settled with shares and whereby the company receives services from the employees in return Cash-flow statement for the Group’s equity instruments (matching shares and options). The fair value The cash-flow statement is prepared according to the indirect method. The of the service period that entitles employees to allocation of matching shares and recognised cash flow comprises only transactions that entail receipts or options is expensed. The total amount to be expensed is based on the fair value of disbursements. In addition to cash or bank balances, current financial investments the allocated matching shares and options: that are subject only to an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value and have a remaining term of less than three months from the time of acquisition are classified • including all market-related conditions (e.g. target share price) as cash and cash equivalents. • excluding e.g. profitability, target for sales increases and that the employee remains with the company for a stipulated period and, • including the impact of the conditions that do not constitute vesting Parent Company accounting policies conditions (e.g. requirement that employees must save or retain the shares The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the for a stipulated period). Swedish Annual Accounts Act and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities, of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. This means that the Parent At the end of each reporting period, the Group re-examines its assessments of the Company, in the annual accounts of the legal entity, has to apply all EU-approved number of shares that are expected to be vested based on the non-market-based IFRS standards and interpretations as far as possible under the terms of the vesting conditions and service conditions. Any possible deviation to the original Annual Accounts Act and taking into account the connection between accounting assessments resulting from the reappraisal will be recognised in profit or loss and and taxation. The recommendation specifies the exceptions from and additions the corresponding adjustments made in equity. to IFRS that are to be made. The regulations in IAS 39 pertaining to financial guarantee agreements are not applied with respect to guarantee agreements for The social security contributions arising from the allocation of options will be subsidiaries. In the Parent Company, loan expenses are charged against profits regarded as an integral part of the allocation and the expense will be treated as a for the period to which they refer. Shares in the subsidiaries are recognised at cost cash-regulated share-based remuneration. less deductions for any impairment. The financial reports are rounded to the nearest million Swedish kronor plus one decimal point. The accounting policies for the Parent Company have been consistently applied to all periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial statements. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 103 NOTES Amendments to accounting principles RFR 2 Currency effects excluding hedging: When expenses for internally generated development costs are capitalised, a Impact on limitation is introduced on the possibility of distributing equity, on the basis that an Currency Change, % profit before tax, MSEK amount equal to that being capitalised is reserved in a separate, restricted fund, NOK +/5 per cent +/86 known as the development fund. Other Amendments to RFR 2 did not have any USD +/5 per cent -/+ 72 material impact on the Parent Company’s financial statements for the financial year HKD +/5 per cent -/+ 7 2016/17. EUR +/5 per cent +/4 GBP +/5 per cent +/3 Amendments to RFR 2 that have not yet come into effect Senior management does not expect other amendments to RFR 2 that have not Cash and cash equivalents are also exposed to currency risk since a certain yet come into effect to have any material impact on the Parent Company’s financial proportion of the funds is invested in foreign currencies. statements on initial application. Refinancing and liquidity risks Classification and format Refinancing and liquidity risk pertain to the risk that Clas Ohlson is unable to The income statement and balance sheet follow the format of the Annual Accounts receive loans or meet payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity. Refinancing Act. This means certain differences compared with the consolidated financial requirements are regularly reviewed by Clas Ohlson’s central finance function, statements, for example, items in the balance sheet are more specified and subwhich is responsible for external borrowing. Refinancing requirements are primarily items have different names in equity. contingent on market trends and investment plans. See also Note 26. Tax Interest-rate risk The amounts reserved as untaxed reserves are taxable temporary differences. The interest-rate risk is low since the company’s interest expense is low in relation Due to the connection between recognition and taxation, the deferred tax liabilities to total earnings. attributable to the untaxed reserves are not recognised in legal entities. According to Swedish practice, the amendments in untaxed reserves are recognised in the income statement in individual companies under the heading “Appropriations.” In Price risk Price risk is regarded as low as the company buys from more than 600 suppliers. the balance sheet, the accumulated value of the reserves is recognised under the In accordance with its purchasing policy, the company also avoids entering heading “Untaxed reserves,” whereby 22 per cent can be regarded as deferred tax into long-term supply contracts, to retain flexibility with regard to suppliers and liability and 78 per cent as restricted equity. products. Other The financial reports are stated in MSEK with one decimal point, unless otherwise Credit risk Accounts receivable are characterised by a very low risk, as each sub-item is small stipulated. Rounding off can result in certain tables not adding up. and the Group’s credit policy is restrictive. Provisions for doubtful receivables are made following individual examination, but this has not been necessary in the past five financial years for either the Group or the Parent Company. Total credit risk Note 2 Financial risks is not deemed to exceed the carrying amounts of the Group’s financial instruments. The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks through its operations: market Cash and cash equivalents are invested in various bank accounts, mainly at risk (including currency risk, interest-rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity Nordea and its international branches in Norway, Finland and the UK. Credit risk and capital risk. The Group’s overall risk management policy focuses on risk is considered insignificant. The total liquidity risk comprises cash and cash the unpredictability of financial markets and endeavours to minimise potential equivalents and unutilised overdraft facilities. unfavourable effects on the Group’s financial results. The Group uses derivatives to hedge certain risk exposure. Capital risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s risk effort. The risk situation in Capital risk is regarded as low because the Group had a low portion of liabilities at the Clas Ohlson Group is updated and analysed regularly. This is done by means the end of the financial year and an equity/assets ratio of 58 per cent. of a systematic process in which risks are identified, valued, assessed, managed, monitored and reported. Using an overall assessment, priority is given to those The goal of the Group’s capital structure is to be able to continue to report a risks whose impact and probability are deemed to represent the most negative favourable return to shareholders, value for other stakeholders and to maintain an effect. For more information, refer to pages 76-79 of the Annual Report. optimal capital structure to ensure that capital costs are minimised. The capital structure can be adapted to meet the requirements that arise by altering the MARKET RISK dividend to shareholders, buying back shares, issuing new shares or disposing of assets in a bid to reduce liabilities. The assessment of capital requirements is conducted using relevant key ratios such as the relationship between net Currency risk indebtedness and equity. A significant portion of accounts payable comprises liabilities in foreign currencies and is therefore subject to currency risks. In the Group, the principal currencies used in purchases are hedged in order to reduce any currency risks, in accordance with the financial policy. About 50 per cent of the company’s purchases are made in currencies other than Swedish kronor (SEK). The principal currencies for purchasing are the US dollar (USD), Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and euro (EUR). In addition, movements of SEK against the Norwegian krona (NOK) are very significant to the Group, because about 40 per cent of sales take place in Norway. Net exposure to EUR is low, because the company has EUR-denominated sales due to its expansion on the Finnish and German market. The table below shows how profit is affected by changes in the principal currencies (excluding hedging). Hedging will take place on a monthly basis with maturities of six months for half of the expected flow in Norwegian kronor (NOK) and US dollars (USD). 104 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Note 3 Other operating income and operating expenses Note 5 Expenses by type of cost Group Parent Company The item “Cost of goods sold” includes all costs incurred in conveying the goods to the distribution centre and subsequently to the store shelf, such as product 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 costs, freight to the distribution centre and stores, customs duty, environmental Other operating income charges and handling costs at the distribution centre and stores. The item “Selling expenses” includes primarily stores costs as well as payroll costs, rents, marketing Rental income 24.2 23.9 24.2 23.9 and costs for the sales-related support function at the head office. The item “Administrative expenses” includes costs for other support functions at the head Profit on sale or disposal of office. tangible assets 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 Payroll expenses including social security expenses during the financial year Other operating income 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 totalled 1,743.4 MSEK (1,686.9) in the Group and 1,049.4 MSEK (1,041.9) in the Total 24.5 24.2 24.3 24.2 Parent Company. Other operating expenses Depreciation during the financial year totalled 230.0 MSEK (235.4) in the Group and 157.5 MSEK (157.6) in the Parent Company. Leasing expenses -22.5 -23.4 -22.5 -23.4 Loss on sale or disposal of tangible assets* -5.4 -3.1 -3.6 -1.3 Note 6 Expenses for employee benefits Non-recurring expenses* 0.0 -117.5 0.0 -113.7 2016/17 2015/16 Total -27.9 -144.0 -26.1 -138.4 Salaries and other remuneration *During the previous financial year, the earings where impacted by non-recurring expenses of 107.0 MSEK pertaining to the restructuring of the store network in Parent Company 751.2 749.7 the UK. During previous year, 10.5 MSEK wher also attributable to closure costs Subsidiaries 592.0 551.9 for one store in UK. Closure costs included disposals of 7.2 MSEK. Non-recurring expenses where specified as follows: leasing expenses of 61.0 MSEK, personnel Group total 1,343.2 1,301.6 cost of 6.6 MSEK, impairment of inventories of 14.9 MSEK, impairment of tangible assets of 17.2 MSEK and other items of 7.3 MSEK. 2016/17 2015/16 Note 4 Depreciation Social of which, Social of which, security pension security pension Group 2016/17 2015/16 expenses expenses expenses expenses Depreciation broken down by type of asset Social security expenses Intangible assets 1 34.7 33.8 Parent Company 298.2 54.9 292.2 53.4 Land and buildings 29.8 30.0 Subsidiaries 102.0 29.3 93.1 28.3 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 165.6 171.6 Group total 400.2 84.2 385.3 81.7 Total 230.0 235.4 Of the Parent Company’s pension expenses, 2.8 MSEK (3.0) pertained to the group consisting of the Board, CEO and Deputy CEO. Of the subsidiaries’ pension Depreciation broken down by function expenses, 0.8 MSEK (0.9) pertained to presidents of subsidiaries. Cost of goods sold 78.4 75.1 In the Group, expenses for defined-contribution pensions amounted to 72.5 MSEK Selling expenses 145.2 153.9 (70.9) and defined-benefit pensions to 0.0 MSEK (0.0). Administrative expenses 6.5 6.4 The Parent Company only has defined-contribution pension plans (including Total 230.0 235.4 Alecta) for which the year’s expenses was 43.2 MSEK (42.6). In the Parent Company, the year’s expenses for special employer’s contribution on Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 pension premiums was 11.7 MSEK (10.8). For more information on the definedDepreciation by type of asset benefit pension plans in the Group, refer to Note 19. Intangible assets1 34.7 33.8 Land and buildings 29.4 29.6 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 93.4 94.1 Total 157.5 157.6 Depreciation by function Cost of goods sold 78.4 75.1 Selling expenses 72.7 76.1 Administrative expenses 6.5 6.4 Total 157.5 157.6 1 Depreciation of intangible assets is recognised as selling expenses. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 105 NOTES Remuneration of Board members, presidents Remuneration of Senior Management and other senior managment Remuneration paid to the CEO and other members of senior management is made up of basic salary, variable remuneration and pension contributions. Five 2016/17 2015/16 individuals, together with the CEO and Deputy CEO, comprise senior management during the financial year. Parent Company Salaries and other remuneration 29.3 37.3 For the composition of senior management at 30 April 2017, see page 92. – of which, variable remuneration 6.2 10.0 2016/17 2015/16 Pension expenses 4.9 6.7 Basic Vari. remu. BeneBasic Vari. remu. BeneNumber of individuals in Group 1 14 17 salary STI LTI1 fits salary STI LTI1 fits Salaries paid to senior management 2016/17 2015/16 2 Klas Balkow, CEO 6.8 1.3 0.0 0.2 6.5 2.0 1.2 0.2 Group 3 Peter Jelkeby Acting CEO 1.4 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Salaries and other remuneration 37.3 46.7 3 Peter Jelkeby Deputy CEO 2.1 0.6 0.3 0.1 3.0 0.9 0.7 0.1 – of which, variable remuneration 8.2 12.8 Other senior management Pension expenses 5.7 7.9 (5 individuals, of whom 8 4 Number of individuals in Group 1 18 21 individuals in 2015/16) 9.0 1.9 1.6 0.4 13.6 3.1 2.3 0.7 1 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 10 members to 7 members in Management total 19.3 4.2 2.1 0.7 23.1 6.0 4.3 1.0 September 2017. 1 LTI (Long term incentive program) pertains to a reported cost for, LTI 2014, LTI 2015 och LTI 2016. See description below of STI (Short term incentive program) and LTI. Board remuneration 2 Klas Balkow was CEO until 2016-12-31. Fees are paid to the members of the Board according to AGM resolutions. Board 3 Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between January and April members who are employed in the company do not receive director fees. No 2017. pensions or other incentive programs are paid to the company’s Board. 4 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 10 members to 7 members in September 2017. No director fees were paid in the subsidiaries. 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 DefinedDefinedDefinedDefinedDirector CommitDirector Commitcontribution benefit contribution benefit fees tee fees fees tee fees Pension expenses for senior Board of Directors management Kenneth Bengtsson, Chairman 0.64 0.12 0.63 0.12 1 Klas Balkow, CEO 2.1 0.0 2.3 0.0 Mathias Haid, member 0.32 0.06 0.31 0.06 2 Peter Jelkeby Acting CEO 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cecilia Marlow, member 0.32 0.14 0.31 0.14 2 Peter Jelkeby Deputy CEO 0.5 0.0 0.7 0.0 Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae, member 0.32 0.06 0.31 0.06 Other senior management Klas Balkow, member and CEO 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 (5 individuals, of whom 8 3 individuals in 2015/16) 2.1 0.0 3.7 0.0 Göran Sundström, member 0.32 0.06 0.31 0.06 Management total 4.9 0.0 6.7 0.0 Ros-Marie Grusén, member 0.32 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 Klas Balkow was CEO until 2016-12-31. Katrina Sjögren Petrini, member 0.00 0.00 0.31 0.07 2 Deputy CEO Peter Jelkeby held the role of Acting President and CEO between January and April Göran Näsholm, member 0.32 0.06 0.31 0.07 2017. 3 The composition of the Senior Management changed from 10 members to 7 members in Board total 2.56 0.51 2.52 0.59 September 2017. Board member Klas Balkow received remuneration in his capacity of President Under the contract of employment with the acting CEO, the mutual period and CEO of the company. At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, Ros-Marie Grusén of notice is six months. Six months’ salary is payable should employment be was elected to the Board after Katarina Sjögren Petrini and Klas Balkow declined terminated by the company. Applicable salary and benefits are payable during the re-election. period of notice. The retirement age is 65. Gender distribution on the Board among the members elected by the AGM in Salary and other remuneration payable to the CEO are decided by the Board and the past financial year was four men and three women. In percentage terms, the discussed by a Remuneration Committee appointed within the Board. Salary is distribution is 57.1 per cent men and 42.9 per cent women. reviewed at the end of each financial year. Salaries and other remuneration for other Senior Management are decided by the CEO, supported by the Remuneration Committee within the framework decided by the Board. The principles for variable remuneration are resolved by the AGM. The performance targets are prepared by the Remuneration Committee and decided by the Board. During the year, two different types of variable remuneration, STI and LTI, were payable. Provisions for STI and LTI are posted continuously in the individual annual accounts. All members of Senior Management are entitled to annual pension contributions, primarily in accordance with the ITP plan. The retirement age is between 65 and 67. 106 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES The gender distribution during the financial year among Senior Management of the employed by the Group after the end of the qualitfication period, the company will Parent Company, and of the Group, is five men and two women. In percentage issue matching shares to the employee. terms, the distribution is thus 71.4 per cent male and 28.6 per cent female. The distribution in the preceding year was seven men and three women. The employee may also be allotted profit-based employee stock options, see the description below. Further information on decision-making processes in the Group is presented on pages 81-89. The programs from LTI 2015 have been changed by dividing the participants into two groups: Remuneration principles The general principles of remuneration for senior executives are to be based on 1. senior management comprising senior management including the CEO, Group the position held, individual performance, the Group’s financial results and the Management and country managers elected by the Board or corresponding posiremuneration being competitive in the country of employment. The combined tions, regarded as having considerable potential in their present position to influremuneration of senior executives is to consist of basic salary, variable salary in ence Clas Ohlson AB’s long-term development (Senior Management). the form of a short-term incentive based on annual performance objectives, longterm incentives based on multi-year performance, pension and other benefits. 2. other employees who could develop into members of Senior Management or In addition, notice of termination and severance pay are subject to terms and assume other key positions within the Group and thus influence Clas Ohlson AB’s conditions. long-term development (Key Individuals). Clas Ohlson aims to offer a competitive total level of remuneration, focusing on For senior management, the program is unchanged compared with earlier propayments based on performance. This means that variable remuneration may grams, see the description above. For Key Individuals, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 comprise a significant portion of total remuneration. The aim is for fixed remuneentails that participants receive an allocation of conditional performance-based ration to be in line with the median of the comparable market, while total remuneemployee stock options free of charge. The number of allocated employee stock ration, when Clas Ohlson meets or exceeds its objectives, is to be in the upper options is based on the calculated number of shares, which, at the prevailing marquartile of the market. ket price at the start of the program, corresponds to a value of a minimum of 5 per cent and a maximum of 10 per cent of the Key Individual’s annual basic salary. Basic salary The basic salary is to comprise the basis for total remuneration. The salary is to be Employee stock options are allocated free of charge and each stock option entitrelated to the relevant market and reflect the extent of the responsibilities included les the holder to acquire one series B Clas Ohlson share. Up to and including LTI in the position. The development of basic salary is to depend on how well work 2014, the price per share when the option was exercised was calculated at 110 is performed and how well the employee develops his/her expertise to assume per cent of the average of the volume-weighted average price paid for the series future work assignments involving greater responsibility. The basic salary is to be B Clas Ohlson share on the Nasdaq Stockholm established for each day during reviewed annually to ensure that it is market-based and competitive. a period of 10 trading days prior to the acquisition period. For subsequent LTI plans, the figure is 100 per cent. The exercise price for LTI 2014, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 has been set at 153.60 SEK, 144.80 SEK and 161.00 SEK, respectively. Variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive, STI) The options may be exercised not earlier than three years and not later than seven In addition to basic salary, senior executives are to qualify for STI for performance years from the date of allotment. For an option to be exercised, the holder must that exceeds one or several predetermined performance levels during a financial still be employed by the Clas Ohlson Group and have retained his/her personal year, designed to promote the company’s long-term value creation. Clearly defined investment for three years from the date of allotment. The option holdings do not performance targets are to be decided annually by the Board or by individuals provide entitlement to receive dividends on the underlying shares. elected by the Board. The performance targets may be connected to operational, financial or personal results. Remuneration from the STI plan is subject to a ceiling, The number of employee stock options that may be exercised by participants of which means that Clas Ohlson can calculate maximum remuneration levels from LTI programs up to and including LTI 2014 depends on the number of series the beginning. Insofar as performance does not match the lowest performance B shares that the employee has acquired within the framework of the plan, and level, no STI will be paid. STI will depend on the position held and may not exceed whether the company’s growth and profit growth during the first three financial 50 per cent of salary if the ceiling is achieved, which also represents the maximum years increase to the levels set by the Board. These established levels are: Entry, outcome of STI. STI remuneration is also conditional upon the performance on Target and Stretch, with a straight-line increase between each profit level. which earnings are based being sustainable over time, and that Clas Ohlson is able to reclaim such remuneration that was paid due to information that later For Key Individuals under LTI 2015 and LTI 2016, the number of employee stock turned out to be obviously erroneous. options that may be exercised depends on the number of shares as corresponded by the Key Individual’s salary at the start of the program (a minimum of 5 per cent Long-term incentive programs (Long Term Incentive, LTI) and a maximum of 10 per cent). The aim of LTI programs is to create the prerequisites for retaining and recruiting competent employees to the Group. The programs were designed to Entry is a minimum level that must be exceeded in order for an employee stock encourage participants to become shareholders in the company, which is expecoption to be exercised. The three levels correspond to the following number of ted to have a positive impact on their long-term work performance. Connecting employee stock options: participants’ rewards to the company’s profit and value development will continue to promote company loyalty and thus sustainable value growth in the company. • Entry: 5 options per acquired/calculated series B share • Target: 10 options per acquired/calculated series B share Long-term incentive programs that entitle employees to acquire shares are subject • Stretch: 15 options per acquired/calculated series B share to AGM approval. The qualification period for LTI 2014, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 were in effect during the financial year. The qualification period for LTI 2014 was In addition to the levels described above, there is a “Max” level. This level is conconcluded after the close of the financial year and LTI 2017 was launched. All longditional upon the existence of a specific situation and a single member of Senior term incentive programs are share matching and profit-based employee stock Management fulfilling the exceptional tasks resolved by the Board. The level correoption plans. sponds to a maximum of 25 options per acquired series B share. All ongoing long-term incentive programs have been approved by an Annual Accordingly, the total number of employee stock options that may be exercised by General Meeting. The current program covers up to 65 senior executives and each participant is limited to 15 options (25 options for exceptional tasks). other individuals deemed to be able to influence Clas Ohlson’s development in the long-term. It was not possible to exercise any of the options for LTI 2014, LTI 2015 or LTI 2016 on 30 April 2017. The number that may be exercised after three years is All participants up to and including LTI 2014 acquired series B shares in Clas based on the achievement of growth and profit targets in accordance with the Ohlson corresponding to a value of not less than 5 per cent and not more than above. The sum that is expensed is based on the level of 10,9 options per share 10 per cent of their annual basic salary. Participants acquired series B Clas Ohlson for LTI 2014, 10 options per share for LTI 2015 and 10 options per share for LTI shares, at market price, which the company will later match (1:1) free of charge 2016. through allotment of shares. If the employee holds the acquired shares and is still CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 107 NOTES In accordance with the above, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 will include the following 2015/16 number of series B shares and employee stock options for the various participant Share awards LTI 2015 LTI 2014 LTI 2013 LTI 2012 categories if the Target level is achieved (refer to the tables below). At 1 May 30,526 42,358 35,217 The total cost recognised in profit or loss for 2016/17 amounted to 10.0 MSEK (13.2), including social security contributions. Granted 16,256 Forfeited -1,789 1 Extent of LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 at target level Excercised -35,217 LTI 2015 At 30 April 16,256 30,526 40,569 0 Matching shares No. of series No. of employee Target value Number of options to excercise Participants B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 Number of options to CEO and President4 2,022 20,220 0.6 excercise Other members of Participants LTI 2013 LTI 2012 LTI 2011 Senior Management 4,037 40,370 1.3 Acting CEO and President 45,660 0 0 Other participants 5,880 222,700 5.0 Other members of Group Management 69,005 0 0 Total 11,939 283,290 6.9 Other participants 317,187 76,272 35,756 LTI 2016 Total 431,852 76,272 35,756 Matching shares No. of No. of employee Target value Participants series B-shares2 stock options2 MSEK3 LTI 2014 result The qualification and performance periods for LTI 2014 were valid from 1 May CEO and President4 1,863 18,630 0.7 2014 until 30 April 2017. A total of 24,115 shares were allotted on 2 May, after the Other members of end of the financial year, in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share Senior Management 3,802 38,020 1.4 matching of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. The set criteria pertaining to Other participants 5,166 220,200 5.7 the average sales and profit growth per share for the period 2014 to 2017 were Total 10,831 276,850 7.8 achieved, which resulted in participants being allotted 10.9 options per share. The excercise price of an option is 153.60 SEK. Participants of LTI 2013, LTI 2012 and 1 Initially, at the start of the program, the participants acquired 16,256 and 14,528 shares under LTI 2011 were already entitled to exercise 15, 9 and 7.6 options respectively, per the frameworks of the LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 respectively. purchased share at an exercise price of 94.30 SEK, 109.10 SEK and 108.10 SEK, 2 The number of shares and employee stock options may be recalculated due to decisions respectively. concerning a possible new share issue or split. 3 The target value of the plan is calculated based on the fair value on the date of allotment. The tabel below outlines the number of awarded matching share and options for The share value on the date of allotment was 126.75 SEK (LTI 2015)/ 142.76 SEK (LTI 2016) LTI 2014. and the fair value of the option was 19.13/22.51 SEK. To calculate the fair value of the options, the binominal model for option valuation was used. Valuation has been conducted using an Share awards LTI 2014 initial share price of 143.25/160.76 SEK, an exercise price of 144.80/161.00 SEK, an expected Matching dividend per share annually, an anticipated lifetime for the options of five years, an interest rate of Participants share Options 0.00 per cent /-0.07 per cent, a volatility of 24.79 per cent /25.38 per cent and annual withdrawals of 5 per cent. Volatility is measured as the standard deviation for the expected return Acting President and CEO 1,948 21,233 on the share price based on a statistical analysis of daily share prices during the past three years. Other members of Group Management 3,950 43,055 The values were adjusted for the discounted value of future dividends. 4 Refers to participation by Peter Jelkeby. Other participants 18,217 198,554 Total 24,115 262,842 Share awards The table below outlines the number of granted, forfeited and exercised share awards during this and previous financial year: Share repurchase for LTI programs During 2014, 2015 and 2016, Clas Ohlson repurchased series B Clas Ohlson 2016/17 shares to fulfil the company’s long-term obligations under the incentive programmes. Repurchased shares will be allotted, sold to participants or to Share awards LTI 2016 LTI 2015 LTI 2014 LTI 2013 correspond to social security expenses. At 1 May 16,256 30,526 40,569 Pensions and other benefits Granted 14,528 As a main rule, pension agreements are to be defined-contribution and designed Forfeited -3,697 -4,317 -6,411 in accordance with the levels and practices that apply in the country in which the senior executive is employed. Other benefits may occur in accordance with the Exercised -40,569 conditions that apply in the country in which the senior executive is employed. At 30 April 10,831 11,939 24,115 0 However, such benefits may not constitute a large portion of the total remuneration. 108 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Note 7 Remuneration to auditors Note 9 Income tax Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Deloitte AB 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Tax on profit for the year Remuneration for audit engagement 2.0 2.0 1.1 1.2 Income tax on profit for the year -130.5 -148.7 -91.1 -84.3 Remuneration for audit related services 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 -130.5 -148.7 -91.1 -84.3 Tax consultations 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.1 Deferred tax Other 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax pertaining to temporary differences 0.3 19.8 -0.5 2.0 Total 2.5 2.3 1.4 1.3 0.3 19.8 -0.5 2.0 Total recognised tax expense -130.2 -128.8 -91.7 -82.3 Note 8 Financial income and expenses Reconciliation of applicable tax Financial income is distributed as follows: rate and effective rate Recognised profit before tax 608.9 507.6 527.9 492.7 Group 2016/17 2015/16 Expected tax expense according to the swedish tax rate 22% -134.0 -111.7 -116.1 -108.4 Interest income 0.7 1.9 Group total 0.7 1.9 Tax effect of: Differences in foreign tax rates -1.6 -6.1 0.0 0.0 Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Non-deductible/non-recognised 4.6 -6.3 3.0 4.2 Adjustment earlier taxation 2.1 -4.2 -0.6 0.0 Interest income 0.4 1.8 Tax-free dividend subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 22.7 21.8 Interest income, subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 Other -1.3 -0.6 -0.6 0.1 Parent Company total 0.4 1.8 Recognised tax expense -130.2 -128.8 -91.7 -82.3 Financial expenses are distributed as follows: Effective tax rate, % 21.4 25.4 17.4 16.7 Group 2016/17 2015/16 Financial expenses -1,6 -0,7 Deferred tax items recognised directly in equity -6.1 1.2 0.0 0.0 Group total -1,6 -0,7 Deferred tax assets 17.0 16.9 3.1 3.7 Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Deferred tax liabilities -195.8 -190.2 0.0 0.0 Interest expense -1.6 -0.7 Interest expense, subsidiaries -0.6 -2.3 RecogReclassiRecognised in fication/ Amount Parent Company total -2.2 -3.0 Amount nised in compreexchange at the at start profit or hensive rate differend of Group 2016/17 of year loss income ences year Change in deferred tax in temporary differences during the year Inter-company profit in inventories 12.2 19.0 0.0 0.0 31.2 Accruals and deferrals 10.0 -1.2 0.0 0.0 8.8 Pensions 3.3 -1.2 0.0 0.2 2.3 Accelerated depreciation -71.1 -1.3 0.0 0.0 -72.4 Tax allocation reserves -132.9 -15.0 0.0 0.0 -147.8 Hedging reserves 4.7 0.0 -6.1 0.0 -1.4 Other 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.4 Total -173.3 0.4 -6.1 0.2 -178.9 The Group does not have any unrecognised deferred tax assets or tax liabilities on temporary differences. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 109 NOTES RecogReclassiNote 12 Non-current assets Recognised in fication/ Amount Amount nised in compreexchange at the Group Parent Company at start profit or hensive rate differend of 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Group 2015/16 of year loss income ences year Intangible assets Change in deferred tax in tempo-rary differences Capitalised IT and software during the year costs Inter-company profit in Opening cost 368.0 234.6 368.0 234.6 inventories 7.2 5.1 0.0 0.0 12.2 Acquisitions for the year 105.9 133.4 105.9 133.4 Accruals and deferrals 17.9 -7.8 0.0 0.0 10.0 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension 1.5 2.0 0.0 -0.2 3.3 Sales and disposals -1.7 0.0 -1.7 0.0 Accelerated depreciation -83.9 -12.8 0.0 0.0 -71.1 Closing accumulated cost 472.3 368.0 472.3 368.0 Tax allocation reserves -140.6 7.7 0.0 0.0 -132.9 Hedging reserves 0.0 0.0 -1.2 5.9 4.7 Opening depreciation 97.4 63.6 97.4 63.6 Other 0.4 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.4 Depreciation for the year 34.7 33.8 34.7 33.8 Total -197.6 19.8 -1.2 5.7 -173.3 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sales and disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated depreciation 132.1 97.4 132.1 97.4 Note 10 Earnings per share* Closing residual value according to plan 340.2 270.6 340.2 270.6 2016/17 2015/16 Earnings per share before dilution Group Parent Company Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Average number of shares before dilution 63.1 63.2 Tangible assets Earnings per share before dilution 7.59 6.00 Land and buildings Earnings per share after dilution Opening cost 758.2 757.6 755.8 755.7 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 Acquisitions for the year 0.6 0.6 0.3 0.1 Average number of shares before dilution 63.1 63.2 Reclassifications -3.9 0.0 -3.9 0.0 Adjusted for: Translation differences 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 share savings program 0.2 0.3 Closing accumulated cost 755.0 758.2 752.2 755.8 Average number of shares after dilution 63.3 63.5 Earnings per share after dilution 7.57 5.97 Opening depreciation 313.8 283.8 312.2 282.5 * number of shares are express in millions of share. Sales and disposals -3.1 0.0 -3.1 0.0 Earnings per share before and after dilution Depreciation for the year 29.8 30.0 29.4 29.6 The calculation of earnings per share has been based on profit for the year attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders, totalling 478.7 MSEK (378.8) and Translation differences 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 on a average number of shares outstanding before and after dilution during both Closing accumulated 2016/17 and 2015/16. depreciation 340.7 313.8 338.5 312.2 Options pertaining to LTI 2014, LTI 2015 and LTI 2016 are not included in the Closing residual value calculation of earnings per share after dilution as they did not generate any dilution according to plan 414.4 444.4 413.7 443.6 effect during the reported periods. Carrying amount, land 6.5 6.5 6.5 6.5 Note 11 Dividend per share The dividends paid in 2016/17 and 2015/16 totalled 362.0 MSEK (5.75 SEK per share) and 331.3 MSEK (5.25 SEK per share). A dividend pertaining to 2015/16 of 6.25 SEK per share, totalling 410.0 MSEK, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 September 2017. The proposed dividend has not been recognised as a liability in these financial statements. 110 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Group Parent Company Note 14 Accounts receivable 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Group Parent Company Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Opening cost 1,780.2 1,771.5 1,044.2 1,012.0 Accounts receivable 31.0 30.5 19.7 19.5 Acquisitions for the year 157.0 140.4 62.6 73.4 Total 31.0 30.5 19.7 19.5 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0,0 0.0 Fair value 31.0 30.5 19.7 19.5 Sales and disposals -163.8 -65.3 -54.8 -41.3 Translation differences 16.3 -66.3 0.0 0.0 Closing accumulated cost 1,789.8 1,780.2 1,052.0 1,044.2 Note 15 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent Company Opening depreciation 1,097.4 1,016.4 650.4 596.2 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Depreciation for the year 165.5 171.6 93.4 94.1 Prepaid rent 73.0 71.1 40.9 41.2 Reclassifications 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prepaid costs of materials 18.7 16.8 18.7 16.8 Sales and disposals -128.9 -54.3 -53.6 -39.9 Other prepaid expenses 66.4 52.2 27.3 23.3 Translation differences 5.9 -36.4 0.0 0.0 Total 158.2 140.1 86.9 81.3 Closing accumulated depreciation 1,139.8 1,097.4 690.2 650.4 Closing residual value Note 16 Cash and cash equivalents according to plan 649.9 682.8 361.9 393.8 Group 2016/17 2015/16 Cash and bank balances 625.1 604.3 Parent Company Group total 625.1 604.3 2016/17 2015/16 At the end of the year, utilised overdraft facilities in the Group, which are not Financial non-current assets included in cash and cash equivalents, totalled 0.0 MSEK (0.0), refer to Note 20. Opening cost 179.8 211.1 Unutilised overdraft facilities in the Group, which are not included in cash and cash Increase/decrease in equivalents, amounted to 400.0 MSEK (650.0). non-current receivables 6.5 -31.3 Closing accumulated cost 186.3 179.8 Note 17 Forward contracts Fair value 186.3 179.8 As per the balance-sheet date, outstanding cash-flow hedging existed according to the following table. Investment commitments Carrying amount Average remaining Contracted investments on the balance-sheet date not yet recognised in Currency and fair value Nominal amount term in months.1 the financial statements total the following amounts: Sell/buy 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Group Parent Company NOK/SEK 1.5 -1.6 72.0 100.9 2.5 2.4 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 NOK/USD 5.0 -19.6 430.6 366.5 3.2 3.1 Equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 39.6 85.9 3.0 32.5 SEK/USD 0.0 0.0 5.3 0.0 4.4 0.0 Total 6.5 -21.2 507.9 467.4 3.1 2.9 Note 13 Inventories 1 Maturity ranges from 3 May 19 Okt for NOK/USD, 10 May 12 Oct for NOK/ SEK and 12 Sept to 12 Sept for SEK/USD. In the preceding year, the maturity ranges were from 4 May 27 Oct for NOK/USD and 11 May 6 Oct for NOK/ Group Parent Company SEK. No hedging was required for SEK/USD. 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Forward contracts belong to the derivative category, which is used for hedging Merchandise 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,062.0 1,104.7 purposes. All derivatives are measured at fair value, established by using forward Total 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,062.0 1,104.7 contract prices on the balance-sheet date, meaning, level 2 in the fair value hierarchy according to IFRS 13. Cost of goods sold 4,698.6 4,376.3 4,579.7 4,311.0 Future hedging is performed monthly with a maturity of six months. Forward Of which, obsolescence -5.8 -0.9 -5.5 -0.7 contracts with negative market values totalled 0.8 MSEK (21.3), which was recognised in the item Accrued expenses and deferred income. Forward contracts with positive market values amounted to 7.2 MSEK (0.1), which was recognised in Obsolescence is calculated based on individual assessment on the basis of the item Prepaid expenses and accrued income. age analysis in stores and the distribution centre. A deferred tax asset of 1.4 MSEK (previous year a deferred tax liabilities of 4.7 MSEK) was taken into account and the reamaining fair value of 5.0 MSEK (16.5) was recognized in the hedging reserve within equity. The amount for forward contracts NOK/USD of 5.0 MSEK (-19.6) is allocated on the currency pair NOK/ SEK with 12.7 MSEK (-2.5) and on the currency pair SEK/USD with -7.7 MSEK (-17.1). CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 111 NOTES Note 18 Proposed allocation of earnings and Equity Note 19 Pension obligations The following earnings (SEK 000s) are at the disposal of the Annual General The Group has defined-benefit occupational pension plans for only a few formerly Meeting: employed salaried employees. The following tables provide an overview of the items included in the net expense for the remuneration recognised in the consoliProfit brought forward 365,448* dated income statement for the Group’s defined-benefit pension plans. The amounts for the pension plans are also recognised in the consolidated balance Profit for the year 436,272* sheet. For more information, refer to the pages 102-103. Total 801,720* Changes in the asset/liability recognised in the balance sheet are: The Board and Chief Executive Officer propose: 2016/17 2015/16 Dividend payable to shareholders 6.25 SEK per share 410,0001 At the start of the year 1.2 1.2 Carried forward to new account 391,720* Net Periodic Pension Cost 0.0 0.0 Employer contribution 0.3 0.2 Total 801,720* Exchange-rate differences 0.1 -0.2 1 Dividends are based on the number of shares outstanding on the record date. Recognised provision at end of the financial year: 1.6 1.2 The record date for payment of the dividend is proposed as 12 September 2017. Pension obligations: It is anticipated that the dividend decided upon by the Annual General Meeting will be despatched on 15 September 2017. 2016/17 2015/16 Present value of funded obligations 6.6 6.4 With reference to the information presented above and what has otherwise come to the knowledge of the Board, the view of the Board is as follows: A Fair value of plan assets 8.2 7.6 comprehensive assessment of the financial position of the Parent Company and Non-recognised actuarial gains/losses 0.0 0.0 Group indicates that the dividend is justifiable with reference to the demands made by the nature, size and risks of the operation on the equity and liquidity of the Asset in balance sheet 1.6 1.2 Parent Company and Group. The Group’s equity/assets ratio is 58 per cent before payment of dividend and 53 per cent after payment of dividend. This is judged Defined-contribution plans to be an adequate equity/assets ratio, even when the future expansion has been Defined-contribution plans exist in Sweden, Norway and Finland. Payments to taken into account. these plans are made continuously according to the rules of each plan. Regarding the Company´s earnings and position in other respects, reference 2016/17 2015/16 should be made to the following income statements and balance sheets and the accompanying notes to the accounts. Group 72.5 70.9 Parent Company 43.2 42.6 The total number of ordinary shares is 65,600,000 (2015/16: 65,600,000) with a quotient value of 1.25. The number of series A shares is 5,760,000, while the number of series B shares is 59,840,000. Each series A share carries ten votes, For salaried employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan’s defined-benefit pension while each series B share carries one vote. All issued shares are fully paid up. obligations retirement and family pensions are insured on the basis of insurance The company has outstanding stock option plans, whose outcome was hedged with Alecta. According to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting through the repurchase of 2,516,562 series B shares (2,223,580). The number Board, UFR 10 Classification of ITP plans financed by insurance in Alecta, this is of sharesoutstanding at the end of the year was 63,083,438 (63,376,420). The a multi-employer defined-benefit plan. For the current financial year, the company averagenumber of shares before and after dilution is reported in Note 10. did not have access to information to recognise its proportionate share of the plan’s obligations, plan assets and expenses, which entails that the plan cannot The Group’s reserves contain translation differences of -95.0 MSEK be recognised as a defined-benefit plan. The ITP 2 pension plan insured through (-117.9), and hedging reserve of 5.1 MSEK (-16.5). insurance with Alecta is therefore recognised as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and family pensions are individually calculated and depend on such factors as salary, previously earned pension and expected remaining service period. The expected contributions for the next reporting period for ITP 2 insurance policies taken out with Alecta amount to 12.0 MSEK (10.5). The collective funding ratio comprises the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance commitments calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial methods and assumptions, which do not comply with IAS 19. The collective funding ratio is normally permitted to vary between 125 and 155 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent, measures are to be taken to create the conditions for returning the collective funding ratio to the normal interval. In the event of a low collective funding ratio, a measure could be raising the contracted price for new policies and expanding existing benefits. In the event of a high collective funding ratio, a measure could be introducing premium reductions. At the end of 2016, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio was 149 per cent (153). 112 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Note 20 Financial instruments All bank loans and overdraft facilities are denominated in SEK. During the current financial year, the Parent Company did not have any bank loans. Financial instruments per category The overdraft facility in the cash pool carries floating interest rates. During the year, Loan the average interest rate was 0.12 per cent (0.19). The credit limit on the overdraft receivables in the cashpool facilities totalled 100 MSEK (350). The Parent Company also has and Derivatives for an overdraft facility of 300 MSEK available at DNB Bank ASA. Collateral for bank accounts hedging loans consisted of the reporting of financial covenants. The Group’s total overdraft Assets 30 April 2017 Level receivable purposes Total facilities amounted to 400 MSEK (650). Accounts receivable 2 31.0 0.0 31.0 The Parent Company’s credit is included in a cash pool for the Group in which Cash and cash equivalents 2 625.1 0.0 625.1 utilised credit totalled 0.0 MSEK (0.0). The fair value on borrowing corresponds to Total 656.1 0.0 656.1 its carrying amount, since the discounting effect is not significant. Note 21 Accrued expenses and deferred income Derivatives Other for hedging financial Group Parent Company Liabilities 30 April 2017 Level purposes liabilities Total 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Derivative instruments 2 0.8 0.0 0.8 Accrued payroll expenses 115.0 114.9 66.8 73.1 Accounts payable and other liabilities 2 0.0 772.0 772.0 Accrued holiday pay expenses 177.1 169.2 103.1 102.7 Total 0.8 772.0 772.8 Accrued social security contributions 107.4 109.7 85.4 89.3 Loan receivables Other items 100.8 135.1 50.6 59.4 and Derivatives for Total 500.2 528.9 305.9 324.5 accounts hedging Assets 30 April 2016 Level receivable purposes Total Accounts receivable 2 30.5 0.0 30.5 Note 22 Other provisions Cash and cash equivalents 2 604.3 0.0 604.3 Total 634.8 0.0 634.8 Refers to: a) Sales-related provisions Pertains to provisions for guarantee commitments, unredeemed gift cards, open Derivatives Other purchase and estimated bonus points to customer club members, which are all for hedging financial expected to be utilised during the subsequent financial year. The provision for estiLiabilities 30 April 2016 Level purposes liabilities Total mated future guarantee commitments is equivalent to the guarantee expenses for Derivative instruments 2 21.2 0.0 21.2 the year with respect to the length of the warranty period. Accounts payable Gift cards and other liabilities 2 0.0 766.1 766.1 When purchasing Clas Ohlson’s gift cards in stores or via online shopping, the Total 21.2 766.1 787.3 entire amount is recognised as a provision and recognised as income only when the gift card has been used in a store or has expired. Open purchase and complaints Fair value measured according to the three levels below: Clas Ohlson offers its customers open purchase for 90 days and the right to Level 1: Listed prices in an active marketplace. complain about unsatisfactory purchases for up to ten years after the purchase. Level 2: Valuation model mainly based on observable market data for Most of the returns occur during the week following the purchase. Every month, the asset or liability. sales and cost of goods sold are adjusted taking into account the estimated Level 3: Valuation model mainly based on own assumptions. proportion of returns. Club Clas Financial liabilities Members of the Clas Ohlson’s loyalty program, Club Clas, receive bonus cheques Group Parent Company in various amounts depending on the amount of purchases the customer made at Clas Ohlson. The cheques are distributed continuously and are valid for six 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 months. All issued bonus cheques are not redeemed which is why each sale in the Accounts payable 635.2 685.7 578.2 601.3 loyalty program is reduced by the fair amount with respect to future redemption of bonus cheques, considering the current degree of redemption. Other current liabilities 136.8 80.4 26.5 32.3 Total 772.0 766.1 604.7 633.6 b) Restructuring During the financial year 2015/16 a provisions for a non-recurring expense of 107.0 MSEK pertaining to the restructuring of the store network in the UK was Fair value 772.0 766.1 604.7 633.6 made. The average period of credit is 30 days. The average period of credit is 45 days (45) for accounts payable and for other current liabilities 20 days (18). All accounts payable expires due within 60 days. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 113 NOTES Note 23 Inter-Group transactions Group Parent Company Of the Parent Company’s invoiced sales, intra-Group sales accounted for 2,784.7 Guarantee commitments 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 MSEK (2,579.2). Of this sum, 2,173.4 MSEK (2,029.4) related to sales to Clas Opening provisions 10.0 9.0 5.7 5.3 Ohlson AS in Norway, 563.9 MSEK (504.9) to sales to Clas Ohlson Oy in Finland, 43.7 MSEK (44.4) to sales to Clas Ohlson Ltd in the UK and 3.7 MSEK (0.5) sales Utilised during the year -10.0 -9.0 -5.7 -5.3 to Clas Ohlson GmbH in Germany. No purchases were made from subsidiaries. Allocated during the year 10.2 10.0 5.8 5.7 Total 10.2 10.0 5.8 5.7 Note 24 Participations in Group companies Open purchase, unredeemed gift cards and bonus points 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Parent company 2016/17 2015/16 Opening provisions 54.2 48.4 41.9 35.8 Accumulated acquisitioin value Utilised during the year -54.2 -48.4 -41.9 -35.8 Opening value 29.3 21.8 Allocated during the year 53.2 54.2 40.2 41.9 Shareholder contribution 0.0 7.5 Total 53.2 54.2 40.2 41.9 Total 29.3 29.3 Restructuring 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 The table below shows Clas Ohlson AB’s holding of shares and participations in Opening provisions 102.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 subsidiaries according to the balance sheet 30/4. All companies are owned 100 percent. Utilised during the year -62.2 -4.3 0.0 0.0 Allocated during the year 0.0 107.0 0.0 0.0 Total 40.5 102.7 0.0 0.0 Of which long-term provision amounts to 25.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total provisions 103.9 166.9 46.0 47.6 Holding of shares and participations in subsidiaries for Clas Ohlson AB 2017/16 2016/15 Country Company Registred office Registration number Number of shares Value MSEK Number of shares Value MSEK Norway Clas Ohlson AS Oslo NO 937402198 10,000 0.1 10,000 0.1 Finland Clas Ohlson OY Helsinki FI 1765891-7 500,000 4.7 500,000 4.7 UK Clas Ohlson Ltd London 6298382 300,000 4.0 300,000 4.0 Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Hamburg HRB 130004 1 9.3 1 9.3 China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Shanghai 310000400574190 1,500,000 11.3 1,500,000 11.3 Total 29.3 29.3 114 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Note 25 Appropriations Note 28 Pledged assets Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Group Parent Company The difference between recognised depreciation 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 and depreciation according to plan: Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings -9.1 1.2 Total pledged assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 – land and buildings 1.0 1.0 Provision for tax allocation reserves The company has no collateral for own obligations pertaining to currency forward contracts. Regarding contracted overdraft facilities, the company’s reports finanProvisions for the year -68.0 35.0 cial covenants, for which the company met the terms and conditions by a healthy Parent Company total -76.2 37.2 margin. During the year, unutilised overdraft facilities amounted to 400.0 MSEK (650.0) in the Group and Parent Company. Note 26 Cash and bank balances Note 29 Contingent liabilities and commitments Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Contingent liabilities, Parent Company Cash and bank balances 540.9 515.4 Guarantee in favour of Group companies pertaining Parent Company total 540.9 515.4 to future rental commitments 251.7 237.5 Unutilised Group overdraft facilities, which are not included in cash and cash equivalents, totalled 400.0 MSEK (650.0). Parent Company commitments All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as operating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based Note 27 Untaxed reserves on store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2017 was four years. Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2017. Accumulated difference between recognised depreciation and depreciation according to plan: 2016/17 2015/16 – equipment, tools, fixtures and fittings 375.5 366.4 Rents and lease payments in financial year 281.1 275.1 – land and buildings 1.0 1.9 Provision for tax allocation reserve 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021Tax 2012 – 63.0 Contracted future Tax 2013:1 107.0 107.0 rents 276.7 265.8 236.7 167.9 332.6 Tax 2013:2 72.0 72.0 Tax 2014 101.0 101.0 Contingent liabilities, The Group The Group has no contingent liabilities. Tax 2015 138.0 138.0 Tax 2016 123.0 123.0 Group commitments All store premises, with the exception of Insjön, are leased and treated as operTax 2017 131.0 ating leases. The company’s policy is that rent should be fixed and not based on Parent Company total 1,048.5 972.3 store turnover. The average contract period at 30 April 2017 was five years. Contracted leases were calculated according to rent levels for 2017. Group 2016/17 2015/16 Rents and lease payments in financial year 738.9 738.6 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021Contracted future rents 732.8 680.1 589.4 472.6 1,019.6 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 115 NOTES Note 30 Related-party transactions Note 32 Segment reporting The number of shareholders in the company totalled 33,316. The major Clas Ohlson has the following segments: Sweden, Norway, Finland and Outside shareholders are Clas Ohlson’s descendants Helena Ek-Tidstrand, Björn Haid, Nordic countries as well as Group-wide. The Group-wide segment pertains to the Johan Tidstrand, Peter Haid and Claus-Toni Haid , who hold 38 per cent of the Group-wide functions that assist sales organisations with purchasing, distribution, capital and 65 per cent of the votes. No transactions with related parties took marketing, management and other support. A large portion of the Group’s place during the financial year or previous year. Remuneration of the Board and value is generated in the Group-wide segment. The Group’s internal pricing was senior management is presented in Note 6 to the Annual Report. For further adapted to these prerequisites. Transactions between Group-wide and the sales description, refer to the corporate governance report, pages 81-89. organisations consist primarily of deliveries and payment for goods, internal invoicing of services rendered and interest on Group-wide loans. The income measure recognised per segment consists of operating profit. Clas Ohlson has no customers that individually account for more than 10 per cent of the Group’s sales. Note 31 Average numbers of employees Group Parent Company 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Sales per segment Total Sweden 1,601 1,567 1,601 1,567 Sweden 3,587.8 3,483.0 – of whom, women (685) (668) (685) (668) Norway 3,190.1 2,928.1 Total Norway 734 723 Finland 912.9 818.8 – of whom, women (284) (280) Outside Nordic countries 299.3 371.7 Total Finland 306 279 Group-wide 2,784.7 2,579.2 – of whom, women (139) (133) Eliminations of sales to other segments -2,784.7 -2,579.2 Total UK 116 166 – of whom, women (59) (86) Total 7,990.1 7,601.6 Total China 50 50 Operating profit per segment – of whom, women (25) (25) Sweden 147.3 142.3 Total Germany 28 2 Norway 134.4 122.9 – of whow women (14) (1) Finland 28.9 26.1 Total 2,835 2,787 1,601 1,567 Outside Nordic countries 10.7 12.7 – of whom, women 1,206 1,193 685 668 Group-wide 288.6 202.4 The average number of employees is based on the total number of hours worked Total 609.9 506.4 in relation to total annual working time. Assets per segment Sweden 800.8 772.4 Norway 582.2 567.2 Finland 168.0 175.7 Outside Nordic countries 124.8 176.6 Group-wide 1,598.5 1,626.5 Total 3,274.3 3,318.5 Cash and cash equivalents are not included in the tables above. Investment and depreciation per segment Investments Depreciation 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Sweden 39.3 40.0 37.9 38.1 Norway 63.8 33.0 48.1 44.5 Finland 10.4 10.6 14.0 13.5 Outside Nordic countries 20.3 15.5 14.8 24.3 Group-wide 1 129.8 175.3 115.2 115.0 Total 263.6 274.4 230.0 235.4 1 Investments in intangible assets amounted to 105.9 MSEK (133.4). Depreciation attributable to intangible assets amounted to 34.7 MSEK (33.8). 116 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 NOTES Note 33 Events after the end of the period Sales in May Sales in May increased with 5 per cent and amounted to 566 MSEK (540). In local currencies, sales increased 3 per cent. At the end of the month, the total number of stores was 217, representing a net increase of ten stores compared with the year-earlier period (9). Sales in May were distributed as follows: Percentage Percentage Change, Change, May 2017 May 2016 SEK local currency Sweden 270 264 2 2 Norway 213 189 12 9 Finland 64 56 14 9 Outside Nordic countries* 19 30 -35 -34 Total 566 540 5 3 *Effected by store optimization in the UK. The qualification and performance periods for the long-term incentive program LTI 2014 were valid from 1 May 2014 until 30 April 2017. After the end of the reporting period, a total of 24,115 shares were allotted on 2 May, in accordance with the AGM’s resolution regarding share matching of one share per share purchased to those participants who remained employed after the three-year qualification period. Following the end of the qualification period, the Board of Directors resolved to award 10.9 options per purchased share (5-15 options in cases of target fulfilment), based on established criteria for sales and profit growth. A total of 262,842 optionswere awarded. The employee stock options are exercisable as of 15 June 2017 but not later than 23 April 2021, and entitle participants to purchase Clas Ohlson shares at the price of 153.60 SEK per share. In May 2017, the long-term incentive plan LTI 2017 was introduced following the same structure as LTI 2016. The exercise price for the conditional employee stock options has been set at 148.30 SEK per share, with exercise possible, following the three-year qualification period, between June 2020 and April 2024. The Annual General Meeting of Clas Ohlson AB on 10 September 2016 authorised the Board of Directors to acquire a maximum of 860,000 shares during the period up until the next Annual General Meeting in order to secure the company’s under-takings in conjunction with the introduction of a share-related incentive program, LTI 2017. The total number of shares required to secure the undertaking for LTI 2017 is estimated at 670,000 shares. Part of the undertaking for the LTI 2017 can be secured through the use of shares that were bought back to secure previous LTI-programs where the need has been recalculated (510,000). Besides this, further balances will be performed in connection with the repurchases being carried out if additional shares can be transferred to LTI 2017. The Board of Directors has decided to use the authorisation received from the AGM to buy back the remaining maximum 160,000 shares required to secure the company’s obligation in respect of the LTI 2017. Acquisition will be conducted via Nasdaq Stockholm during the period up until the 2017 AGM, at a price within the quoted price span. As per 30 April 2017 the company’s holding of Clas Ohlson shares amounted to 2,516,562 shares, corresponding to 4 per cent of the total number of registered shares. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 117 CERTIFICATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Certification of the Annual Report The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the IFRS standards as adopted by the EU and provide a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position and results of operations. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position and results of operations. The Directors’ Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair overview of the development of the Group’s and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and earnings, and also describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Parent Company and companies included in the Group. Insjön 2017-06-29 Kenneth Bengtsson Mathias Haid Cecilia Marlow Chairman of the Board Göran Näsholm Sanna Suvanto-Harsaae Göran Sundström Ros-Marie Grusén Peter Jelkeby Acting President and Chief Executive Officer Henrik Andersson Robert Flahiff Employee representative (Unionen) Employee representative (Handels) Our audit report was submitted on 30 June 2017 Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant The balance sheets and income statements are to be adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 9 September 2017. 118 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) corporate identity number 556035-8672 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions is subject to significant judgment and estimates, mainly related to obsolescence, We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Clas Ohlson calculation of costs included in the inventory value and supplier bonuses. In adAB (publ) for the financial year 2016-05-01 2017-04-30 except for the corporate dition, we have considered the large transaction volumes and the complexity due governance report on pages 81-92. The annual accounts and consolidated to the number of warehouse locations. For further information, please refer to the accounts of the company are included on pages 68-118 in this document. Risk assessment and control activities on page 88, Estimates and assumptions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the on page 100, group accounting principles for inventory on page 102 and note 13. Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of April 30, 2017 and its financial performance and Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual • Auditing Clas Ohlson´s procedures for inventory management and evaluation Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of of identified key controls. the group as of April 30, 2017 and their financial performance and cash flow for • Auditing of Clas Ohlson´s applied calculations of costs included in the the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Staninventory value. dards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions • Auditing of the inventory valuation according to the ”first in, first out” do not cover the corporate governance report on pages 81-92. The statutory principle and applied model for obsolescence. administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and • Completeness testing with data analytics covering all inand outgoing consolidated accounts. deliveries from the warehouses. • Participating in stock taking for selected stores and Clas Ohlson´s We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the distribution central in Insjön. income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. • Evaluating the adequacy of applied accounting principles and relevant disclosures. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Revenue recognition (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities The group´s sales as of April 30, 2017 amounts to SEK 7 990.1 million. The under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities company recognizes revenue at the time of sales/delivery to the customer when section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance material risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods have been with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled transferred. Revenue recognition has been identified as a key audit matter since our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. sales comprise a significant financial statement line item and consists of a large number of small transactions, in all material aspects to consumers through own We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate stores with upfront payment. For further information refer to Risk assessment and to provide a basis for our opinions. control activities on page 88 and note 32 segment reporting. Key Audit Matters Our audit included but was not limited to the following audit procedures: Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judg• Auditing of Clas Ohlson´s process for revenue recognition, handling of cash ment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consoand evaluation of identified key controls, for example matching of sales lidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the against obtained payment. context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts • Analytical audit procedures of recorded revenue and reconciliation of total and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion sales on receipt level traced against the corresponding movement in on these matters. inventory facilitated by data analytics tools. • Auditing of Clas Ohlson´s analysis and evaluation of fluctuations in the gross Valuation of inventories margin. Clas Ohlson report inventories of SEK 1 630.7 million as of April 30, 2017. Inven• Auditing of the process of handling cash in a selection of stores. tories comprise a substantial part of the group´s assets and consists of a large number of articles assorted over 216 stores and a central warehouse. Inventory is accounted for at the lower of cost and net sales value. Inventory accounting CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 119 AUDITOR’S REPORT Other information than the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Report on other legal and regulatory requirements This document also contains other information than the annual accounts and Opinions consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-67 and 122-136. The Board of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for this other information. have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of Clas Ohlson AB (publ) for the financial year 2016-05-01 2017-04-30 Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does not cover and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. this other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit to be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory administration report In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director be our responsibility is to read the information identified above and consider whether discharged from liability for the financial year. the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwiBasis for Opinions se obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing stanbe materially misstated. dards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. these requirements. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparato provide a basis for our opinions. tion of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assessinternal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual ment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements which the accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, company’s and the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of whether due to fraud or error. the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the assessment of the comThe Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization and the adpany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as ministration of the company’s affairs. This includes among other things continuous applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of assessment of the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the that the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management Board of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to of assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reascease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. suring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsiaccording to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among other bilities and tasks in general, among other things oversee the company’s financial matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting reporting process. in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Auditor’s responsibility Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual Auditor’s responsibility accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from material misstateOur objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasoour opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a gunable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the arantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted Managing Director in any material respect: auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, rise to liability to the company, or individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these annual accounts and Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. consolidated accounts. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of the compaA further description of our responsibility for auditing the annual report and ny’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable the consolidated accounts is available on the Auditors Inspectorate’s website: degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies www.far.se/globalassets/verktyg/exempel/responsibilities-of-the-statutory-audiAct. tor-for-the-statutory-audit-in-a-limited-liability-company.pdf. This description is part of the audit report. 120 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 AUDITOR’S REPORT Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for auditing the annual report and the consolidated accounts is available on the Auditors Inspectorate’s website: www.far.se/globalassets/verktyg/exempel/responsibilities-of-the-statutory-auditor-for-the-statutory-audit-in-a-limited-liability-company.pdf. This description is part of the audit report. The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance report The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance report on pages 81-92 has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance report is conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The auditor´s examination of the corporate governance report. This means that our examination of the corporate governance report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. A corporate governance report has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Insjön June 30 2017 Deloitte AB Kent Åkerlund Authorized Public Accountant For signature please see Swedish version of Auditor’s report CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 121 THE SHARE The Clas Ohlson share Clas Ohlson’s series B share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 1999. The share is included in the Consumer Services sector index. The share reported a 9 per cent decline during the financial year. Clas Ohlson’s total market capitalization amounted to 9.6 billion SEK (10.6) calculated on the most recent share price of 147 SEK paid for the share on 30 April 2017. Share trend Share capital The Clas Ohlson share decreased by 9 per cent to 147.00 SEK The share capital of Clas Ohlson at the end of the financial (162.00) compared with the year-earlier period, while the SIX year totalled 82 MSEK, comprising 5,760,000 series A shares General Index increased by 21 per cent. The total return for the and 59,840,000 series B shares, each with a quotient value of share, including reinvested dividends, was minus 6 per cent. 1.25. Each series A share carries ten votes, while each series B share carries one vote. All shares carry equal rights to payment The highest price paid was 174.00 SEK, recorded in May 2016, of dividends. Holders of series A shares can request that their while the lowest price paid was 121.25 SEK, recorded in A shares be converted to series B shares. November 2016. Treasury shares Share turnover The number of registered shares amounted to 65,600,000, of During the financial year 2016/17, 26,109,704 Clas Ohlson shawhich 2,516,562 shares (2,223,580) were held by the comres were traded, representing a turnover rate of 40 per cent. pany at the end of the financial year. At the end of the period, the number of shares outstanding, net after buy-back, was 63,083,438 (63,376,420). The 2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Clas Ohlson In line with tradition, the 2016 Annual General Meeting of Clas Ohlson was held at the distribution centre in Insjön, Sweden. With 1,400 registered attendants, the AGM is one of Sweden’s largest. Our shareholders learnt about our new products, which were demonstrated at the exhibition. 122 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 THE SHARE To safeguard the company’s commitment regarding conditioDividend policy and dividend nal matching shares and employee stock options in connection Clas Ohlson’s dividend policy is that the dividend is with LTI 2016, Clas Ohlson bought back 530,000 shares to comprise at least 50 per cent of earnings per share during the first quarter 2016/17 for a total of 76 MSEK at after tax, with consideration for the company’s finanan average price of approximately 143 SEK per share. cial position. Shareholding structure The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of 6.25 On 30 April 2017, the company had a total of 33,316 SEK (5.75) per share be paid for financial year2016/17. The shareholders (27,106). Non-Swedish owners accounted proposed dividend totals 410 MSEK (377), which represents for 33 per cent (35) of the capital and 34 per cent (35) 86 per cent (100) of the financial year’s net profit. of the votes. The Swedish ownership is dominated by private individuals and companies, owning 41 per cent (40) of the capital, while institutions own 26 per cent (27). Share data Shareholder categories, % Listing: Nasdaq Mid Cap Non-swedish Swedish private shareholders, 33% shareholders, 41% Ticker: Clas B Industry: Consumer Services ISIN code: SE0000584948 Swedish institutions, 26% Number of shareholders Earnings per share, SEK Average daily trading, Dividend per share, SEK thousands 33,316 7.59 103 6.25* 7.27 104 27,933 6.42 94 26,449 27,106 6.00* 5.75 24,975 5.23 72 4.75 5.25 65 4.25 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 12/13 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 * * Including a non-recurring cost of 107.0 MSEK. Proposed dividend CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 123 Number of shares THE SHARE trades (000s) Clas Ohlson B SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI 200 2,000 The Clas Ohlson-share price and turnover trend 2016/17 190 1,800 Number of shares Clas Ohlson B SIX Generalindex OMX Stockholm Retail_PI trades (000s) 180 1,600 200 2,000 170 1,400 190 1,800 160 180 1,200 1,600 170 1,400 150 1,000 160 1,200 140 800 150 1,000 130 140 600 800 120 130 600 400 120 400 110 200 Clas Ohlson B (Total 110 return) Number of shares 200 100 0 SIX Return Index100 OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) 0 400 MAY JUN JUL MAY AUG JUN SEPJUL OCT AUG NOV SEP OCTDEC NOV JAN DEC FEB JAN MAR MAR APR FEB APR 6,000 2016 2016 2017 2017 Source: Source: 350 Clas Ohlson B (Total return) Number of shares 5,000 SIX Return Index OMX Stockholm Retail_GI trades (000s) 400 6,000 300 4,000 350 5,000 250 300 3,000 4,000 200 250 3,000 2,000 150 200 2,000 150 1,000 100 1,000 100 50 0 50 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source Source Data per share1 2 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 2012/13 Average number of shares before dillution, million 63.1 63.2 63.1 63.1 63.3 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 5.23 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 6.78 Cash flow per share, SEK 3 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 8.17 Equity per share, SEK 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 29.02 Share price at 30 April, SEK 147 162 143 143 87 4 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 4.25 P/E-ratio, multiple 19 27 20 22 17 Dividend yield, % 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 4.9 Payout ratio, % 82 96 72 74 81 Total return, % -6 17 3 69 -8 1 See key ratio definitions on page 127. 2 Including a non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK. 3 From the operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 124 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 THE SHARE Trend in share capital Additional Accumulated Total Year Transaction shares number of shares share capital 1994 48,000 4,800,000 1999 Split 10:1 432,000 480,000 4,800,000 1999 Bonus issue 6,720,000 7,200,000 72,000,000 1999 New share issue 1,000,000 8,200,000 82,000,000 2001 Split 4:1 24,600,000 32,800,000 82,000,000 2004 Split 2:1 32,800,000 65,600,000 82,000,000 1 Major shareholders Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Helena Ek Tidstrand 1,368,060 6,179,828 11.5 16.9 Björn Haid 1,007,960 4,732,834 8.8 12.6 Johan Tidstrand 1,368,060 900,000 3.5 12.4 Peter Haid 1,007,960 3,785,243 7.3 11.8 Claus-Toni Haid 1,007,960 3,465,916 6.8 11.5 Nordea 3,772,292 5.8 3.2 If Skadeförsäkring AB 3,114,337 4.7 2.7 Afa Försäkring 2,870,803 4.4 2.4 Odin Sverige 1,612,392 2.5 1.4 Swedbank Robur fonder 1,335,043 2.0 1.1 Other shareholders 28,071,312 42.8 23.9 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholder categories Number of Number of Percentage Percentage Shareholder series A shares series B shares of capital of votes Swedish private individuals 3,744,080 22,803,247 40.5 51.3 Swedish institutions 17,218,777 26.3 14.7 Non-Swedish owners 2,015,920 19,817,976 33.3 34.0 Total 5,760,000 59,840,000 100.0 100.0 1 Shareholding structure Number of Size interval Number of shares Percentage shareholders 1–500 3,464,816 5.3 27,273 501–1,000 3,007,645 4.6 3,700 1,001–5,000 4,085,839 6.2 1,929 5,001–10,000 1,422,548 2.2 194 10,001–15,000 686,052 1.1 56 15,001–200,000 648,031 1.0 37 200,001– 52,285,069 79.7 127 Total 65,600,000 100.0 33,316 1 at 30 April 2017 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 125 QUARTERLY RESULTS Quarterly results MSEK 2016/17 2015/16 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4* 1 May 2016 1 Aug 2016 1 Nov 2016 1 Feb 2017 1 May 2015 1 Aug 2015 1 Nov 2015 1 Feb 2016 –31 Jul 2016 –31 Oct 2016 –31 Jan 2017 –30 Apr 2017 –31 Jul 2015 –31 Oct 2015 –31 Jan 2016 –30 Apr 2016 Sales 1,763.5 1,956.6 2,695.2 1,574.8 1,769.8 1,846.5 2,481.5 1,503.9 Cost of goods sold -1,074.5 -1,144.1 -1,567.3 -912.7 -1,054.0 -1,035.4 -1,396.1 -890.8 Gross profit 689.0 812.5 1,127.9 662.2 715.8 811.1 1,085.4 613.1 Selling expenses -563.0 -634.4 -684.7 -603.2 -549.0 -617.4 -651.8 -590.3 Administrative expenses -49.4 -49.4 -51.3 -43.0 -49.2 -49.2 -49.0 -43.2 Other operating income/expenses -1.2 -1.8 -1.9 1.5 -11.8 0.0 -2.2 -105.8 Operating profit/loss 75.4 127.0 390.0 17.5 105.8 144.5 382.3 -126.2 Financial income 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.4 Financial expense -0.1 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5 -6.1 -0.3 -0.2 -0.1 Profit before tax 75.5 126.5 389.5 17.4 106.1 144.8 382.7 -126.0 Income tax -17.6 -30.2 -84.6 2.2 -25.5 -33.7 -88.3 18.6 Profit/loss for the period 57.9 96.4 305.0 19.5 80.6 111.1 294.4 -107.4 KEY RATIOS FOR THE PERIOD Gross margin, % 39.1 41.5 41.8 42.0 40.4 43.9 43.7 40.8 Operating margin, % 4.3 6.5 14.5 1.1 6.0 7.8 15.4 -8.4 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 0.91 1.53 4.84 0.31 1.27 1.76 4.66 -1.70 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 0.91 1.53 4.83 0.31 1.27 1.75 4.65 -1.69 *Including a non-recurring cost of 107.0 MSEK Comments to the quarterly results Seasonal fluctuations Four new stores (1) were opened during the first quarter Clas Ohlson’s market and operations have seasonal fluctuations 2016/17 and two were closed (0). Three new stores (4) were where the third quarter (November–January) is generally the opened during the second quarter and two stores were closed strongest quarter of the financial year, followed by the second (1). In the third quarter, five new stores (4) were opened and and first and finally the fourth quarter, which is weakest in zero stores were closed (1). Five new stores (1) were opened terms of sales and profits. See the above table with sales and during the fourth quarter and two stores were closed (1). earnings per quarter. 126 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 KEY RATIO DEFINITIONS AND GLOSSARY Key ratio definitions Clas Ohlson uses certain financial measures in this annual report that are not Gross margin defined in accordance with IFRS. Clas Ohlson believes that these key ratios Gross profit divided by sales for the period. are relevant to users of the financial report as a supplement for assessing Clas Ohlson’s performance. These financial measures are not always comparable with Gross profit the measures used by other companies since not all companies calculate such Gross profit is calculated as the total of sales less cost of goods sold. financial measures in the same way. Accordingly, these financial measures are not to be regarded as a replacement for measures defined according to IFRS. The Operating margin measures not defined according to IFRS are presented below, unless otherwise Operating profit divided by sales for the period. stated. Operating profit Average inventory value Operating profit comprises profit before financial items and tax. Average inventory value is calculated as the total inventories for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Payout ratio Dividend divided by earnings per share before dilution. Capital employed Balance-sheet total (total assets) less current and long-term non-interest-bearing P/E ratio liabilities. Share price at year-end divided by earnings per share before dilution. Cash flow from operating activities Return on capital employed Operating profit adjusted for items not included in cash flow, interest, paid tax and Operating profit plus financial income expressed as a percentage of average change in working capital. capital employed. Average capital employed is calculated as the total capital employed for the most recent 12 months divided by 12. Cash flow from operating activities per share Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number of shares Return on equity before dilution. Net profit for the period expressed as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is calculated as the total equity for the most recent 12 months divided by Comprehensive income per share 12. Comprehensive income divided by average number of shares before dilution. Sales growth Dividend yield Sales in relation to sales during the year-earlier period. Dividend per share divided by the year-end share price. Total return Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Increase or decrease in share price between the end of the year and the beginProfit for the period divided by the number of shares (before and after dilution). ning of the year plus re-invested dividend as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the year. Equity per share Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. Working capital The total of assets, minus cash and cash equivalents (inventories and current Equity/assets ratio receivables), less current non-interest-bearing liabilities. Equity at the end of the period divided by the balance-sheet total (total assets). *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Glossary Average ticket value GRI Average amount per purchase. Global Reporting Initiative, a global standard for sustainability reporting. Clas Office LEAN Our concept that facilitates purchases for our corporate customers. Philosophy on how to achieve a resource-efficient working method. Club Clas Level of service Our loyalty program, our customer club. Percentage of product range that is available “on the shelf” in our sales channels. Code of Conduct Nasdaq Stockholm The standards we set for ourselves, and the suppliers of our products and Marketplace for trading with securities, where Clas Ohlson’s B share is listed. services, regarding working conditions, workplace health and safety and the environment. Omni-channel A shopping experience where customers perceive a seamless interaction between Comparable units physical stores, the online store and telephone sales. Units that have been in operation during the current period and the entire year-earlier period. Products for a more sustainable lifestyle Products with a positive, or significantly lower, environmental impact throughout Conversion rate their life cycle than a standard product. The percentage of visitors who make a purchase. Sales per squar metre EU Ecolabel Store sales in relation to the effective retail space. For new stores, a conversion Joint ecolabelling system applied throughout the EU and EEA. The label can be has been made in relation to how long the store has been open. compared with the Swedish Swan ecolabel. sCORE Franchise Systems for Clas Ohlson Retail Efficiency, our project for the introduction of a new Concept whereby we “rent” our brand to an external player, who operates a business system. store under our name. Store traffic UN Global Compact Number of visitors. UN international principles regarding human rights, labour standards, the environment and corruption, designed for companies. The Swan The Swan is the official Nordic ecolabel. Development of the Swan is conducted by SIS Miljömärkning AB on behalf of the Swedish Government and the Riksdag. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 127 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Alternative Performance Measures This section contains a reconciliation of certain alternative performance measures (APMs) with the closest reconcilable items in the financial statements. As analysis tools, APMs are limited, and must be considered in their context and not as a replacement of financial measures prepared in accordance with IFRS. APMs are presented to improve an investor’s evaluation of the operations, as an aid in forecasts of forthcoming periods, and to simplify meaningful comparisons of earnings between periods. Management uses these APMs, for example, to evaluate the operating activities compared with previous results, for internal planning and forecasts and to calculate certain performance-related remuneration. For definitions, refer to page 127. The APMs recognised in this annual report may differ from similarly named measures used by other companies. Average inventory value Earnings per share (before and after dilution)* Group Group 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Average inventory value 1,739.2 1,618.7 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 Number of shares before dilution 63.053 63.168 Number of shares after dilution 63.255 63.462 Capital employed Number of shares before dilution 7.59 6.00 Group Number of shares after dilution 7.57 5.97 2016/17 2015/16 *Defined in accordance with IFRS. Total assets 3,899.4 3,922.8 Long-term non-interest-bearing liabilities -226.8 -195.1 Equity per share Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,421.9 -1,588.9 Group Capital epmployed 2,250.7 2,138.8 2016/17 2015/16 Total equity 2,250.7 2,138.8 Reason for use: Capital employed measures the company’s ability, in addition to cash balances and cash and cash equivalents, to meet the needs of the Number of shares at end of period 63.083 63.376 operations. Equity per share 35.68 33.75 Cash flow from operating activities per share Reason for use: Equity per share measures the company’s net value per share and determines whether a company increases its shareholders’ capital over time. Group 2016/17 2015/16 Equity/assets ratio Cash flow from operating activities 698.9 704.6 Group Number of shares before the dilution 63.053 63.168 2016/17 2015/16 Cash flow from operating activities per share 11.08 11.15 Total equity 2,250.7 2,138.8 Reason for use: Cash flow from operating activities per share measures the cash Total assets 3,899.4 3,922.8 flow that the company generates per share before capital investments and cash Equity/assets ratio 57.7% 54.5% flows attributable to the company’s financing. Reason for use: A high equity/assets ratio provides the financial scope and Comprehensive income per share independence required for conducting the operations and managing variations in the need for working capital and for capitalising on business opportunities. Group 2016/17 2015/16 Gross margin Comprehensive income 523.3 320.3 Group Average number of shares before dilution 63.053 63.168 2016/17 2015/16 Comprehensive income per share 8.30 5.07 Gross profit 3,291.5 3,225.3 Sales 7,990.1 7,601.6 Dividend Yield Gross margin 41.2% 42.4% Group Reason for use: Gross margin shows the difference between net sales and the 2016/17 2015/16 cost of goods sold expressed as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is affecDividend per share 6.25 5.75 ted by several factors, for example, product mix, price trend and cost reductions. Share price 30 April 147.00 162.00 Dividend Yield 4.3% 3.5% 128 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Gross Profit Return on equity Group Group 2016/17 2015/16 2016/17 2015/16 Sales 7,990.1 7,601.6 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 Cost of goods sold 4,698.6 -4,376.3 Average equity 2,136.8 2,154.4 Gross profit 3,291.5 3,225.3 Return on equity 22.4% 17.6% Reason for use: Return on equity is a measure of profitability in relation to the Operating margin carrying amount of equity. Return on equity is also a measure of how investments are used to generate increased income. Group 2016/17 2015/16 Operating profit 609.9 506.4 Sales growth Sales 7,990.1 7,601.6 Group Operating margin 7.6% 6.7% 2016/17 2015/16 Reason for use: The operating margin shows operating profit as a percentage of Sales actual year 7,990.1 7,601.6 net sales and shows operational profitability. Sales previous year 7,601.6 7,329.8 Sales growth 5.1% 3.7% Payout ratio Reason for use The change in sales reflects the company’s realised sales growth over time. Group 2016/17 2015/16 Total return Dividend 6.25 5.75 Group Earnings per share before dilution 7.59 6.00 2016/17 2015/16 Payout ratio 82.3% 95.9% Share price at the beginning of the year 162.00 143.00 Share price at the end of the year 147.00 162.00 Return on capital employed Re-invested dividend 5.75 5.25 Group Total -9.25 24.25 2016/17 2015/16 Total return -5.71% 16.96% Operating profit 609.9 506.4 Interest income 0.7 1.9 Working capital Average capital employed 2,146.8 2,154.4 Group Return on caital employed 28.4% 23.6% 2016/17 2015/16 Reason for use: Return on capital employed is a measure of profitability after taTotal current assets 2,476.4 2,506.9 king into account the amount of capital used. A higher return on capital employed indicates that capital is used more efficiently. Cash and cash equivalents -625.1 -604.3 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities -1,421.9 -1,588.9 Working capital 429.3 313.7 Reason for use: Working capital is used to measure the company’s ability to meet short-term capital requirements. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 129 Ten-year summary MSEK 2016/2017 2015/20161 2014/2015 2013/2014 2012/2013 2011/2012 INCOME STATEMENT Sales 7,990.1 7,601.6 7,329.8 6,807.7 6,518.9 6,260.0 Operating profit 609.9 506.4 596.0 530.5 430.6 560.6 Profit before tax 608.9 507.6 597.2 530.2 419.9 551.0 Income tax -130.2 -128.8 -138.3 -124.8 -88.4 -150.5 Profit for the year 478.7 378.8 458.9 405.4 331.5 400.5 BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets 1,404.5 1,397.8 1,399.9 1,424.2 1,461.6 1,515.0 Non-current receivables 18.5 18.1 11.6 8.1 3.2 3.5 Inventories 1,630.7 1,639.2 1,569.3 1,348.2 1,303.9 1,228.7 Current receivables 220.6 263.4 242.5 229.5 214.9 197.5 Cash and cash equivalents 625.1 604.3 517.4 358.3 124.6 111.8 Total assets 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 3,056.5 Equity 2,250.7 2,138.8 2,144.5 1,964.9 1,836.5 1,843.8 Non-current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 226.8 195.2 213.3 206.5 185.7 195.7 Current liabilities, interest-bearing 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 30.0 Current liabilities, non-interest-bearing 1,421.9 1,588.8 1,382.9 1,196.9 1,086.0 987.0 Total equity and liabilities 3,899.4 3,922.8 3,740.7 3,368.3 3,108.2 3,056.5 CASH FLOW Cash flow from operating activities 698.9 704.6 647.3 689.1 517.8 964.9 Investments -263.5 -274.1 -192.3 -171.8 -166.5 -206.1 Cash flow after investments 435.4 430.5 455.0 517.3 351.3 758.8 Financing activities -418.0 -335.9 -298.9 -283.6 -334.4 -781.5 Cash flow for the year 17.5 94.6 156.1 233.7 16.9 –22.7 KEY RATIOS 2 Growth in sales, % 5.1 3.7 7.7 4.4 4.1 7.4 Gross margin, % 41.2 42.4 42.9 42.6 41.6 42.1 Operating margin, % 7.6 6.7 8.1 7.8 6.6 9.0 Return on capital employed, % 28.4 23.6 29.3 28.0 23.2 27.9 Return on equity, % 22.4 17.6 22.5 21.7 18.3 23.1 Equity/assets ratio, % 57.7 54.5 57.3 58.3 59.1 60.3 Sales per square metre in store, SEK 000s 31 30 30 30 31 34 Number of stores at year-end 216 205 198 185 174 157 Number of full-time equivalent employees 2,835 2,787 2,736 2,629 2,524 2,370 DATA PER SHARE Average number of shares before dilution 63,052,803 63,167,924 63,121,729 63,137,148 63,349,241 63,635,998 Average number of shares after dilution 63,254,614 63,461,923 63,400,934 63,243,692 63,421,154 63,702,052 Number of shares at period end 63,083,438 63,376,420 63,216,061 63,140,994 63,287,808 63,615,000 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 7.59 6.00 7.27 6.42 5.23 6.29 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 7.57 5.97 7.24 6.41 5.23 6.29 Comprehensive income per share, SEK 8.30 5.07 7.41 6.41 4.68 6.75 Cash flow per share, SEK3 11.08 11.15 10.25 10.91 8.17 15.16 Equity per share, SEK 35.68 33.75 33.92 31.12 29.02 28.98 Share price 30 April, SEK 147 162 143 143 87 99 4 Dividend per share, SEK 6.25 5.75 5.25 4.75 4.25 4.25 P/E ratio 19 27 20 22 17 16 Dividend Yield, % 4.3 3.5 3.7 3.3 4.9 4.3 1 During previous year a non-recurring cost of 107.0 MSEK related to the restructuring of the store network in the UK affected the result. During previous year’s first quarter 10.5 MSEK was also attributable to costs for closing one store in the UK. In addition, there was a tax effect on non-deductible expenses estimated at 7.1 MSEK. 2 See key ratio definitions on page 127. 3 From operating activities. 4 Proposed dividend. 130 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 TEN-YEAR SUMMARY 2010/2011 2009/2010 2008/2009 2007/2008 Comments* 5,828.0 5,555.8 4,930.2 4,661.6 Sales 507.1 590.5 502.8 577.5 Sales increased to 7,990 MSEK, up 5 per cent compared with 499.0 588.2 503.8 587.8 7,602 MSEK in the preceding year. In local currencies, sales -134.6 -155.4 -138.3 -166.0 increased by 4 per cent. 364.4 432.8 365.5 421.8 Number of stores 1,469.5 1,365.5 1,195.5 848.7 During the financial year, 17 new stores (10) opened; 2 in 10.9 1.0 2.0 3.3 Sweden, 8 in Norway, 3 in Finland, 3 in Germany and 1 in 1,429.2 1,204.1 1,117.2 952.6 franchise store in Dubai. During the financial year 6 stores were 176.7 173.4 164.5 107.1 closed in the UK. During previous year 2 stores were closed in 132.6 98.8 92.0 280.3 Norway and 1 in the UK. The number of stores at the end of 3,218.9 2,842.8 2,571.2 2,192.0 the period was 216, of which 87 were in Sweden, 80 in Nor1,656.8 1,646.1 1,493.1 1,499.5 way, 37 in Finland, 7 in the UK, 3 in Germany and 2 franchise 300.0 100.0 65.0 – stores in Dubai. 165.9 90.3 86.4 26.9 261.7 171.4 208.6 – Operating profit 834.5 835.0 718.1 665.6 Operating profit amounted to 610 MSEK (506 MSEK, 613 3,218.9 2,842.8 2,571.2 2,192.0 MSEK excluding non-recurring items**). 350.3 602.8 339.7 480.0 Gross margin -295.3 -315.8 -433.1 -250.6 The gross margin was 41.2 per cent, down 1.2 percentage 55.0 287.0 -93.4 229.4 points year-on-year (42.4). The lower gross margin was attributable to negative currency hedging effects (NOK), comprising -6.0 -267.9 -109.2 -295.2 both currency forwards and exchange-rate effects related to de49.0 19.1 -202.6 -65.8 lays in inventory. The decrease was somewhat offset by a strong sales currency (NOK). 4.9 12.7 5.8 13.7 41.6 40.8 40.8 40.2 Operating margin 8.7 10.6 10.2 12.4 The operating margin was 7.6 per cent (6.7 per cent, 8.1 per 24.6 32.6 32.6 41.8 cent excluding non-recurring items**). 22.5 28.0 24.4 29.4 51.5 57.9 58.1 68.4 Cash flow 34 38 38 44 During the financial year, cash flow from operating activities 139 120 106 86 totalled 699 MSEK (705). Cash flow for the financial year, after 2,219 2,048 1,927 1,801 investing and financing activities, was 17 MSEK (95). The cash dividend paid to Clas Ohlson’s shareholders in September 2016 63,802,230 64,383,906 65,065,008 65,600,000 totalled 362 MSEK (331). 63,870,584 64,432,321 65,075,701 65,600,000 63,710,000 64,280,000 64,955,000 65,600,000 Return 5.71 6.72 5.62 6.43 The return on capital employed amounted to 28.4 per cent 5.71 6.72 5.62 6.43 (23.6) and the return on equity was 22.4 per cent (17.6). 4.79 6.43 5.76 6.51 Previous year was affected by a a non-recurring expense of 107 5.49 9.36 5.22 7.31 MSEK. 26.01 25.61 22.99 22.86 98 128 94 98 * Refers to the financial year 2016/17. 3.75 3.75 3.00 5.00 **Non-recurring cost of 107 MSEK related to optimisation of the UK 17 19 17 15 store network during the fourth quarter of the preceding financial year. 3.8 2.9 3.2 5.1 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 131 HISTORY Smart solutions are our passion – in the past and in the future CLAS OHLSON, AN ENTREPRENEUR WITH A PASSION for technology and innovation, founded a mail order company in 1918 in Insjön, Sweden. The company’s head office and distribution centre are still located here. Today, Clas Ohlson is an international retail company. We offer smart and affordable solutions to everyday practical problems. 1925 1995 1967 1989 1999 1918 1944 1972 1961 1991 The first store outside At the age of just 22, Clas Ohlson reThe new office Sweden is inauguratClas Ohlson and his moved an “s” from and store building ed in Oslo, Norway. brother Emil founded his last name beon Highway 70 in Clas Ohlson is a a mail order copany, cause he thought Insjön is completed. well-known name in Clas Ohlsson & Co. it graphically Clas Ohlson The number of emNorway, since the first The company is relooked better. is listed on ployees is 75. The mail order catalogue gistered as a bicycle the Stockcatalogue has about was published there repair shop and prinholm Stock 8,000 products. in 1985. ter, but mail order Exchange. 250,000 copies of the operations are soon catalogue are printed, started. including about 7,000 products. The company Clas Ohlson opened has about 600 suppliers. its first store outside Construction of the new head ofInsjön in central fice is completed. The business The first stage 146,477 packages are sent Stockholm. is on the lower floors, while Clas of the Central from Insjön during the year. Warehouse in and his family live at the top in The average value of a packInsjön is ready the attic. The company operates age is 56 SEK, or about 480 for use. from here until 1972. SEK today. 132 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 HISTORY MATHIAS HAID GreatPilot, shareholder, Board member and great-grandson of Clas grandson of Ohlson remembers his grandmother’s father Clas Ohlson. Clas Ohlson What do you remember about your ment. And I’ve accompanied my father Björn on great-grandfather Clas Ohlson? countless trips all over the world. As a teenager, I “We all called him granddad. He gave us a helped buy computer products.” nice big hug when we went up to his office. ‘Granddad’ would then open his drawer of his What has the company Clas Ohlson meant desk that is now in a museum, where he kept to you? his sweets or an apple. Sometimes we met him “Entering the store was like walking into a treasure down in the store, and then we would get a toy chamber. I looked forward to the new catalogue car. He was very generous. Driving in his old, every year. When I got it I read it from cover to green Volkswagen was also an experience. cover at our summer home, looking at all the new products. Even though Clas Ohlson is now Have you worked at Clas Ohlson? a publicly listed company it still feels like a family “Yes I have! I’ve had summer jobs at the warebusiness. Our employees are very important to house in Insjön, in the store and at the IT departme, it’s like one big family.” 2016 2008 2010 2011 2014 2009 2002 2015 2017 2000 2012 Clas Ohlson’s first Sales exceed franchise store is 8 billion SEK Clas Ohlson opened in Dubai. The for the first time. The first store in opens its 150th Clas Office corporate Clas Ohlson opens Finland is opened store in Lahti in concept is launched its 100th store in in Helsinki. Finland. in Sweden and NorMotala in Sweden. way. The Club Clas The Club Clas customer club loyalty programme is welcomes its two millionth Sales exceed The distribution centre grows introduced in Finland. member. Clas Ohlson’s first 1 billion SEK and now has a total capacity for the first time. store in Germany is opened in of 120,000 pallet spaces. The central Hamburg. The company store in Insjön is expanded and has 4,700 employees in six becomes the Group’s largest. countries. The Central Warehouse, now named A new online shopping platform is launched, Clas Ohlson opens the Distribution centre, is expanded with extended availability, service and inspiration. its 200th store in and the Clas Ohlson Museum opens A mobile version is also launched at the end of the Karlstad in Sweden. in Insjön. The expansion in the UK is year. The Club Clas loyalty programme is launched There are 87 stores started, and the first store opens in in Sweden. In December, monthly sales exceed in Sweden. Croydon in southwest London. 1 billion SEK for the very first time. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 133 STORE OVERVIEW Our stores* SWEDEN NORWAY Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date A Alingsås 27 Mar 2014 Stockholm, Barkarby Gate 27 Nov 2014 A Alta 17 Nov 2011 B Borlänge 26 Sep 2013 Stockholm, Bromma 23 Sep 2010 Arendal 28 Nov 2007 Borås 24 Oct 2002 Stockholm, Drottninggatan 21 Oct 2010 Asker 16 Oct 2008 E Eskilstuna 30 May 2002 Stockholm, Farsta 18 Nov 1999 B Bergen, Lagunen 6 Mar 2003 F Falun 5 Feb 2009 Stockholm, Gallerian 30 Jun 1989 Bergen, Sartor 16 Feb 2006 G Gävle 27 Nov 2003 Stockholm, Haninge 10 Dec 2004 Bergen, Sentrum 22 Apr 1999 Gothenburg, Bäckebol 10 Apr 2003 Stockholm, Hornstull 27 Oct 2016 Bergen, Vestkanten Kjøpesenter 22 Nov 2012 Gothenburg, Nordstan 1 Jun 1992 Stockholm, Kista 5 Dec 2002 Bergen, Åsane 30 Sep 2004 Gothenburg, Partille 9 Apr 2006 Stockholm, Kungens Kurva 24 Apr 2014 Bodø 7 Jun 2011 Gothenburg, Sisjön 19 Apr 2012 Stockholm, Liljeholmen 15 Oct 2010 Bryne 5 Nov 2009 Gothenburg, Västra Frölunda 23 Oct 2009 Stockholm, Nacka 29 Mar 2007 D Drammen, Buskerud 8 Sep 2011 H Halmstad, Flygstaden 16 Jun 2011 Stockholm, Sickla 6 Dec 2007 Drammen, Gulskogen 18 Sep 2008 Halmstad, Gallerian 8 Mar 2001 Stockholm, Skärholmen 7 Dec 2000 E Elverum 22 Mar 2012 Helsingborg, Kullagatan 4 Jun 2009 Stockholm, Sollentuna 31 May 2007 F Finnsnes 9 Jun 2016 Helsingborg, Väla centrum 12 Jun 2003 Stockholm, Solna 7 Apr 2005 Fredrikstad, Dikeveien 25 Nov 2010 Hudiksvall 23 Apr 2009 Stockholm, Solna, Mall of Fredrikstad, Torvbyen 1 Dec 2005 I Insjön 27 Jun 1918 Scandinavia 12 Nov 2015 Førde 22 Nov 2012 J Jönköping, A6 22 May 2003 Stockholm, Täby 25 Oct 2001 G Gjøvik 10 Mar 2006 Jönköping, City 9 Dec 2010 Stockholm, Vällingby 15 Nov 2007 H Halden 12 Mar 2015 K Kalmar, Baronen 24 Nov 2005 Stockholm, Värmdö 17 Jun 2015 Hamar 11 Nov 2014 Kalmar, Hansa City 14 Mar 2013 Stockholm, Väsby 27 Apr 2007 Harstad, Sjøkanten Senter 24 Feb 2011 Karlskrona 27 Nov 2014 Strömstad 29 May 2009 Harstad, Amfi Kanebogen 6 Apr 2017 Karlstad, Mitt i City-gallerian 21 Sep 2006 Sundsvall, Birsta 30 Apr 2008 Haugesund 3 Oct 2002 Karlstad, Bergvik 20 Aug 2015 Sundsvall, In: gallerian 10 Jun 1999 Horten 9 Jun 2011 Kiruna 11 Nov 2010 Södertälje 29 Apr 2010 Hønefoss 19 Feb 2009 Kristianstad 18 Apr 2007 T Trelleborg 25 Apr 2007 J Jessheim 5 Nov 2008 Kungsbacka 13 Mar 2008 Trollhättan 28 Jun 2012 K Kongsberg 3 Jun 2010 L Lidköping 25 Apr 2012 U Uddevalla 19 Oct 2006 Kongsvinger 24 May 2012 Linköping 10 Jun 2004 Umeå, Avion 17 Mar 2016 Kristiansand, Sandens 6 Nov 2008 Luleå, Smedjan 21 Mar 2002 Umeå, MVG 13 Apr 2000 Kristiansand, Sørlandssenteret 19 Nov 1998 Luleå, Storheden 16 Feb 2012 Uppsala, Gränby 25 Aug 2011 Kristiansund 24 Mar 2011 Lund 7 Nov 2013 Uppsala, S:t Per Gallerian 16 Nov 2000 L Larvik 23 Apr 2009 Löddeköpinge 26 Nov 2015 V Valbo 23 Feb 2012 Levanger 5 Jun 2014 M Malmö, Burlöv 25 Mar 2010 Visby 17 Apr 2008 Lillehammer 18 Nov 2010 Malmö, Emporia 25 Oct 2012 Västervik 6 Dec 2012 Lillestrøm 23 Mar 2017 Malmö, Mobilia 26 Sep 2013 Västerås, Erikslund 22 Sep 2011 Lørenskog 30 Nov 2006 Malmö, Triangeln 3 Dec 1993 Västerås, Igor 22 Nov 2001 M Mandal 20 Nov 2014 Motala 29 Jan 2009 Växjö 6 May 2004 Mo i Rana 7 Jun 2012 N Norrköping, Domino 2 May 1996 Ä Ängelholm 23 Mar 2017 Molde 22 Oct 2009 Norrköping, Mirum Galleria 10 Dec 2009 Ö Örebro, Krämaren 27 Nov 1997 Moss 12 Oct 2006 Norrtälje 14 Jun 2012 Örebro, Marieberg 26 Mar 2009 N Narvik 4 Dec 2008 Nyköping 5 Oct 2006 Örnsköldsvik 12 Apr 2007 P Piteå 20 Sep 2007 Östersund 28 Apr 2005 S Skellefteå 17 Mar 2005 Skövde 27 Nov 2008 134 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 STORE OVERVIEW FINLAND OUTSIDE NORDIC COUNTRIES Store Opening date Store Opening date Store Opening date O Orkdal 30 Oct 2014 E Espoo, Ainoa 16 Mar 2017 UK Oslo, Alna Senter 27 Sep 2006 Espoo, Entresse 25 Nov 2008 L Liverpool 29 Apr 2010 Oslo, Bogstadsveien 27 Oct 2011 Espoo, Iso Omena 14 Oct 2015 London, Croydon 27 Nov 2008 Oslo, Bryn Senter 26 Aug 2010 Espoo, Lippulaiva 8 Nov 2012 London, Ealing 3 Dec 2015 Oslo, CC-Vest 11 Sep 2014 Espoo, Sello 14 Sep 2005 London, Kingston 3 Dec 2009 Oslo, Lambertseter Senter 12 Oct 2010 H Helsinki, Columbus 18 May 2017 M Manchester 30 Apr 2009 Oslo, Oslo City 11 Nov 2005 Helsinki, Itis 6 Nov 2003 R Reading 19 Nov 2009 Oslo, Storo Storsenter 19 Jun 2008 Helsinki, Kaivotalo 3 Nov 2016 S St Albans 1 Oct 2015 Oslo, Stovner 6 Oct 2016 Helsinki, Kampen 2 Mar 2006 Oslo, Torggata 26 Aug 1991 Helsinki, Kannelmäki 17 Oct 2013 GERMANY P Porsgrunn 27 Apr 2006 Helsinki, Mannerheimintie 14 Nov 2002 H Hamburg, Altona 15 Sep 2016 S Sandefjord 10 Sep 2015 Hyvinkää 18 Oct 2012 Hamburg, Alstertal 24 Nov 2016 Sandnes, Kvadrat 23 Sep 1998 Hämeenlinna 30 Oct 2014 Hamburg, Jungfernstieg 19 May 2016 Sandnes, Maxi 26 May 2016 J Joensuu 6 Nov 2008 Sandvika 10 Jan 2002 Jyväskylä, Kauppakatu 10 Nov 2016 DUBAI Sarpsborg 8 Jun 2006 Jyväskylä, Palokka 8 Sep 2011 D Dubai, City Centre Mirdif** 30 Apr 2014 Ski 16 Oct 2003 K Kokkola 27 Sep 2007 Dubai, Mercato Shopping Mall** 15 Nov 2016 Skien 18 Oct 2007 Kotka 23 May 2013 Slependen 18 Sep 2014 Kouvola 13 Sep 2012 Sogndal 6 Jun 2013 Kuopio, Haapaniemenkatu 24 Feb 2005 Stavanger, Kilden 25 Oct 2007 Kuopio, Matkus 1 Nov 2012 Stavanger, Madla 8 Nov 2007 L Lahti, Karisma 3 Nov 2011 Stavanger, Mediegården 11 Nov 2010 Lahti, Syke 31 May 2012 Steinkjer 15 Oct 2009 Lappeenranta 1 Nov 2007 Stord 20 Jun 2013 Lempäälä 29 Nov 2007 Strømmen 21 Oct 1999 M Mariehamn 16 May 2013 Svolvær 8 Dec 2016 Mikkeli 16 Jun 2011 T Tromsø 12 Jun 2008 P Pori 30 Oct 2014 Trondheim, City Syd 8 May 2003 R Rovaniemi 23 Oct 2008 Trondheim, Lade 14 Feb 2008 S Seinäjoki 11 Sep 2008 Trondheim, Solsiden 19 Oct 2000 T Tampere 18 Mar 2004 Trondheim, Trondheim Torg 17 Feb 2011 Turku, Forum 3 Mar 2005 Tønsberg 21 Sep 2001 Turku, Raisio 4 Nov 2015 * Store portfolio at 31 May 2017 V Vestby 14 Mar 2013 ** Franchise store Turku, Skanssi 25 Oct 2012 Vinstra 16 Feb 2017 U Oulu 25 Nov 2010 Visit about.clasohlson.com/about-us/our-stores/ Vinterbro 26 Mar 2015 V Vaasa 14 Oct 2004 to receive continuously updated information about Voss 16 Jun 2016 Vantaa, Jumbo 27 Oct 2005 the store portfolio. Å Ålesund 22 Jan 2004 Vantaa, Myyrmanni 29 Nov 2011 Clas Ohlson’s broad and affordable product range Ø Ørsta 4 Oct 2012 is also available online in the Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish, UK and German markets. www.clasohlson.se www.clasohlson.no www.clasohlson.fi www.clasohlson.uk www.clasohlson.de CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 135 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AND CALENDAR Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Notification of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of shareholders of Clas Notification of the AGM takes place through an announceOhlson AB will be held on Saturday, 9 September 2017 at ment in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar and the notice being made 11:00 a.m. at the distribution centre in Insjön, Sweden. available on the company’s website. Documents to be presented Registration will commence at 9:45 a.m. at the Meeting are available from the company’s website about four weeks before the meeting. Participation Shareholders who intend to participate in the AGM must have Distribution policy notified the company by not later than Monday, 4 September The Annual Report is distributed only to those shareholders 2017, at the following address: Clas Ohlson AB, SE-793 85 who request it. Distribution takes place about 6 weeks prior to Insjön, Sweden. Notification may take place by telephone, the AGM. e-mail or via the company’s website: about.clasohlson.com. The Clas Ohlson Annual Report and other financial informaShareholders entitled to participate at the AGM are those who tion are available at about.clasohlson.com are listed on Euroclear Sweden AB’s printed shareholder register on Monday, 4 September 2017, and who have notified their Dividend proposal intention to participate by not later than Monday, 4 September The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of 6.25 SEK per 2017. Shareholders who have trustee-registered shares must share (5.75) for the 2016/17 financial year. temporarily re-register the shares in their own names with • The final trading trade for Clas Ohlson shares, including Euroclear Sweden AB. Shareholders must inform the trustee rights to dividends, is 9 September 2017. in good time prior to Monday, 4 September 2017. • Record date for payment of dividend is 12 September 2017. • The payment date is 15 September 2017. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Contact details Clas Ohlson provides financial information for the 2017/18 financial year as follows: Clas Ohlson AB • Interim report May-July, 6 September 2017 SE-793 85 Insjön, Sweden • Interim report August-October, 6 December 2017 Tel: +46 247 444 00 • Interim report November-January, 14 March 2018 ir@clasohlson.se • Interim report February-April, 8 June 2018 about.clasohlson.com 136 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 Sweden Clas Ohlson AB SE-793 85 Insjön Tel: +46 247 444 00 www.clasohlson.se Norway Clas Ohlson AS Torggata 2–6 N-0105 Oslo Tel: +47 23 21 40 05 www.clasohlson.no Finland Clas Ohlson Oy Kaivokatu 10 B 00100 Helsinki Tel: +358 201 112 222 www.clasohlson.fi UK Clas Ohlson Ltd 10-13 Market Place Kingston upon Thames Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +44 845 671 8215 www.clasohlson.uk Germany Clas Ohlson GmbH Jungfernstieg 38 DE-203 54 Hamburg Tel: +49 40 2999 78111 www.clasohlson.de Dubai Clas Ohlson Level 1, Mirdif City Centre Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: +971 4 285 8596 www.clasohlson.ae China Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, Kirin Plaza, Changning Distict, Shanghai Tel: +86 21 3387 0055 For more information about Clas Ohlson, visit about.clasohlson.com ÖMÄRK ILJ T M Clas Ohlson AB, 793 85 Insjön, Sweden Produced by Clas Ohlson AB in cooperation with Tel: +46 247 444 00, e-mail ir@clasohlson.se Fotografisk Form & Kommunikation. Registered office: Insjön Print: Henningsons Tryckeri AB. Corporate Identity Number: 556035-8672 Photo: Clas Ohlson, Gustav Kaiser, Catharina Johnson, Getty Images and Shutterstock. CLAS OHLSON 2016/17 137 Smart solutions We offer a wide range of affordable products that make it easy for people to solve everyday practical from Clas Ohlson projects and small problems. www.clasohlson.com 138 CLAS OHLSON 2016/17
