GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the Message from Michael Roth, Chairman and CEO most senior decision-maker of the of Interpublic organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Read Detailed Response organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder Note this response will be cross-referenced for groups engaged by the G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26 organization. Read Detailed Response G4-25 Report the basis for identification Note this response will be cross-referenced for and selection of stakeholders G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26. with whom to engage. Read Detailed Response G4-26 Report the organization’s Note this response will be cross-referenced for approach to stakeholder G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26. engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Read Detailed Response stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns Sustainability is a key priority for IPG as it is for that have been raised through our stakeholders, including employees, clients stakeholder engagement, and and shareholders. how the organization has responded to those key topics Read Detailed Response and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. organization G4-4 Report the primary brands, IPG operates in all major world markets – our products and services companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Read Detailed Response G4-5 Report the location of the 909 Third Avenue New York, New York 10022 organization's headquarters 1 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-6 Report the number of countries IPG is a global company with offices in over 100 where the organization operates, countries. and names of countries where either the organization has Read Detailed Response significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership IPG is a publicly traded company. and legal form Read Detailed Response G4-8 Report the markets served We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Read Detailed Response G4-9 Report the scale of the IPG is a global company with employees organization, including: total and operations in more than 100 countries. number of employees, total number of operations, net sales Read Detailed Response or net revenues, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, employees by employment G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. contract and gender. Read Detailed Response b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender STRONGER d. Report the total workforce by IPG’s Women’s Leadership Network Appoints Darla region and gender. Price as National Chair 10/05/2016 e. Report whether a substantial IPG Sponsors the 3% Conference 11/03/2016 portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are Profiles in Diversity Journal Recognizes IPG IDEAL legally recognized as selfProgram 10/21/2016 employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total The percentage of IPG employees covered by employees covered by collective collective bargaining is zero – 0 percent. bargaining agreements. Read Detailed Response 2 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-12 Describe the organization’s Understanding and Monitoring the Conduct and supply chain. Impact of our Supply Chain Read Detailed Response G4-13 a. Report any significant changes There have been no significant changes during during the reporting period the reporting period in IPG's size, structure, regarding the organization’s size, ownership, or supply chain. structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Read Detailed Response • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination G4-14 Report whether and how the The precautionary approach generally applies to precautionary approach or manufacturing, rather than service companies. principle is addressed by the Since IPG is a provider of marketing services, we organization. do not consider the precautionary approach. G4-15 List externally developed IPG is committed to good corporate citizenship. economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other Read Detailed Response initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations IPG takes its role as a corporate citizen seriously. and national or international advocacy organizations to which Read Detailed Response the organization holds a position on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, views membership as strategic Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure Our Proxy Statement provides of the organization, including detailed information on our governance structure. committees of the highest governance body. Identify any Read Detailed Response committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Ethics & Integrity 3 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-56 Describe the organization's Interpublic’s Code of Conduct forms the Principle 10: Antivalues, principles, standards and foundation of how we interact with one another, Corruption norms of behavior such as codes with our vendors and with our clients. It helps of conduct and codes of ethics ensure that we operate ethically and transparently as we perform our jobs. Read Detailed Response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal We are reporting on a calendar year cycle. or calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous IPG published its last sustainability report in May report. of 2016. We update our sustainability site, STRONGER, on a weekly basis. G4-30 Reporting cycle. IPG reports annually. G4-31 Provide the contact point for Jemma Gould, Senior Director, Corporate questions regarding the report or Responsibility and Communications its contents 212-704-1327, Jemma.Gould@Interpublic.com G4-32 Report the in accordance option The GRI G4 Guidelines served as a guide for our the organization has chosen. reporting and our report includes a GRI content Report the GRI Content Index for index, but we do not declare in accordance with the chosen option. Report the either core or comprehensive levels. reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be in accordance with the Guidelines. G4-33 Report the organization's policy This report has not been externally assured. and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report. Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries 4 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-17 a. List all entities included in the List all entities included in the organization's organization’s consolidated consolidated financial statements or equivalent financial statements or documents. Report whether any entity included in equivalent documents. the organization's consolidated financial b. Report whether any entity statements or equivalent documents is not included in the organization’s covered by the report consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not a. List all entities included in the organization’s covered by the report. consolidated financial statements or equivalent The organization can report on documents. this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in b. Report whether any entity included in the publicly available consolidated organization’s consolidated financial statements financial statements or or equivalent documents is not covered by the equivalent documents. report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Read Detailed Response G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining Interpublic completed a comprehensive the report content and the Aspect materiality process. Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization Read Detailed Response has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the Material Aspects Click below for a list of material GRI G4 identified in the process for aspects that were identified in the process for defining report content defining report content which included a comprehensive stakeholder-driven materiality assessment detailed in this report. Read Detailed Response G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Unless otherwise noted, the boundary for the the Aspect Boundary within the disclosures in our report represent the entire organization as follows: report Interpublic entity as described in our 10K annual whether the Aspect is material report. within the organization; if the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization, select one of the following two approaches and report either (the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material, or the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material); report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 5 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Unless otherwise noted, the boundary for the the Aspect Boundary outside the disclosures in our report represent the entire organization, as follows: report Interpublic entity as described in our 10K annual whether the Aspect is material report. outside the organization; if the Aspect is material outside of the organization identify the entities, groups or entities or elements for which the aspect is material and describe the geographic area where the Aspect is material for the entities identified; report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 a. Report the effect of any There are no restatements of information restatements of information provided in previous reports. provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 a. Report significant changes This year Interpublic has continued our journey of from previous reporting periods calculating GHG emissions by expanding our in the Scope and Aspect initial boundary to include offices in the United Boundaries. Kingdom. This is in addition to our original boundary which included our largest offices in North America. In North America we included all offices which are over 100,000 square feet and in the UK we included 90% of our leased facilities and 100% of our owned facilities. Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated See detail at link below. and distributed Read Detailed Response G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's Please see link below for more information defined benefit plan obligations on IPG's defined benefit plans. Read Detailed Response 6 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic Sustainability in all its forms -impacts, including the extent of environmental responsibility, good corporate impacts citizenship, ensuring socially-responsible business practices --is important and integral to the way we do business around the world Read Detailed Response STRONGER Mullen Lowe Lintas Creates New Work for Lifebuoy’s “Help a Child Reach 5” 12/31/2015 The Martin Agency Supports Rowing and Fresh Water Around the World 08/11/2016 MullenLowe Singapore Creates New Campaign to Raise Awareness of Singapore Red Cross 10/13/2016 IPG Continues Support of SDG #6 – Look for Stories on STRONGER 10/05/2016 McCann Launches Campaign Encouraging Urban Sanitation in India 09/15/2016 Environment G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: organization EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19 Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN5 Energy intensity Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Read Detailed Response G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response STRONGER Tierney Proves that Anybody Can Save Energy with PECO 12/06/2016 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy To streamline our operations and Principle 8: requirements of products and reduce unnecessary usage of energy, water, and Environment services natural resources, IPG focuses on our people. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response STRONGER IPG Puts Sustainability into Action 06/28/2012 IPG is Making Sustainability a Priority 10/26/2015 IPG's Travel Is Getting Greener 09/12/2014 7 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: emissions (Scope 1) EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN3, G4-EN5 G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Smart travel policies – traveling less Principle 7: (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) where possible, traveling lighter and traveling Environment • Report gross other indirect smarter – is a shared goal that we have Principle 8: (Scope 3) GHG emissions in committed to. Environment metric tons of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from Read Detailed Response the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. • Report gases included in the calculation, if available. • Report biogenic CO2 emissions STRONGER in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other IPG is Making Sustainability a Priority 10/26/2015 indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. • Report other indirect (Scope 3) Campbell Ewald Takes to Two Wheels 10/28/2014 emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. • Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: intensity EN3, G4-EN5 G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Read Detailed Response G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: (GHG) emissions EN3, G4-EN5 G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response STRONGER McCann Global Health Wins Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves 08/08/2016 Virgo Health And RB Tackle Effects of Air Pollution on Children 07/11/2016 8 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-EN30 Significant environmental IPG's primary asset is our people. As a client Principle 7: impacts of transporting products services company with clients around the world, Environment and other goods and materials for our employees travel frequently for business. We Principle 8: the organization's operations, are working to mitgate the impact of this travel. Environment and transporting members of the workforce Read Detailed Response G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for Principle 8: were screened using G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. Environment environmental criteria Read Detailed Response Labor Practices & Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, Principle 6: Labour employee hires and employee G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. turnover by age group, gender and region Read Detailed Response STRONGER IPG Receives Perfect Score on HRC Corporate Equality Index for LGBT Workplace Equality 12/05/2016 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, employees that are not provided G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Read Detailed Response locations of operation G4-LA10 Programs for skills management Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, and lifelong learning that support G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. the continued employability of employees and assist them in Read Detailed Response managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, Principle 6: receiving regular performance G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11 Labour and career development reviews, by gender and by employee Read Detailed Response category G4-LA12 Composition of governance Diversity and Inclusion have been priorities for Principle 6: Labour bodies and breakdown of IPG for more than a decade. employees per employee category according to gender, Read Detailed Response age group, minority group membership, and other indicators STRONGER of diversity Profiles in Diversity Journal Recognizes IPG IDEAL Program 10/21/2016 IPG Receives Perfect Score on HRC Corporate Equality Index for LGBT Workplace Equality 12/05/2016 IPG Sponsors the 3% Conference 11/03/2016 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for were screened using labor G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10 practices criteria Read Detailed Response 9 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-LA16 Number of grievances about We provide our employees with a number of labor practices filed, addressed, different approaches to express concerns about and resolved through formal their work environments. grievance mechanisms Read Detailed Response Human Rights G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training IPG understands the importance of training, Principle 1: on human rights policies or particularly as it relates to ensuring a workplace Human Rights procedures concerning aspects of that operates ethically and transparently and is human rights that are relevant to also free from any type of harassment. operations, including the percentage of employees trained Read Detailed Response G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for Principle 2: were screened using human G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. Human Rights rights criteria Read Detailed Response Society G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Interpublic assesses 100% of our operations for Principle 10: Antioperations asessed for risks risks related to corruption. Corruption related to corruption and the significant risks identified Read Detailed Response G4-SO4 Communication and training on IPG regularly communicates its anti-corruption anti-corruption policies and policies and procedures by a variety of methods. procedures Read Detailed Response G4-SO6 Total value of political Although personal political activity is welcome, contributions by country and as employees we may not make recipient/beneficiary political contributions by or in the name of IPG or any of its subsidiaries. Read Detailed Response G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for were screened using criteria for G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. impacts on society Read Detailed Response 10
