UN Global Compact Communicating on Progress Communicating : UN Global Compact www.dwf.law Introduction The way we do business is based on our values and reflects the behaviours we want to be known for. DWF is proud to support the UN Global Compact and in this, our first Communication on Progress, I am delighted to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We remain determined to make the Global Compact and its principles part of our values, strategy, culture and day to day business operations.” Andrew Leaitherland, Managing Partner & CEO These principles guide our work and identify where we focus Disrupt To Progress our efforts in order to do the most good. • Champion new ideas As this report demonstrates, it is our ambition to better use • Embrace and promote change our expertise and motivation to further embed the UN Global • Seek opportunities for improvement and growth Compact and its business principles to contribute fully to • Have an opinion and get involved sustainable development based on respect for human rights, • Pause. Think differently! while continuing to profit as a values led business. Our values provide a sense of common direction for our people, Keep All Promises guiding their day to day behaviour. Consistency of language • Listen carefully, promise accordingly enables our people to understand, embrace and act on those • Take ownership values. They are a key part of our performance, informing who • Be transparent and genuine we are and what we do, reflecting a common belief across the firm about the way we deliver our business goals. • Do what you say you will • Have a “Can Do” attitude Our Values & Behaviours: Attend to Details Always Aim Higher • Communicate effectively and professionally • Strive to beat expectations • Deliver on your objectives and targets • Deliver service excellence • Give and encourage constructive feedback • Immerse yourself in your field • Understand your impact on your commercial and financial achievement • Be a role model for best practice • Drive development in yourself and others Why they matter: • Our values bring us together under a common framework Be Better Together which we believe is helping to build one of the most highly • Connect across the business regarded law firms in the UK and internationally • Recognise, respect and value each other • Our values reinforce a culture of trust and integrity which in • Be visible and accessible turn influences our business conduct and decision making • Promote knowledge sharing • A strong set of values helps to unite our people in achieving • Encourage, enable and empower others a common purpose, whilst promoting a sense of belonging • Our values are important because they consciously and sometimes unconsciously influence our actions and behaviours • Our values remind everyone that DWF has a purpose beyond These behaviours outline how we live making a profit our values the things we do every day! • Ultimately, our values represent a promise to our people, our clients and wider society. Communicating : UN Global Compact 2 Human Rights Principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining DWF supports the principles of Human Rights set out in the Our Published Slavery & Human Trafficking Statement: Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Slavery, forced labour and human trafficking have no place Labour Organisation (ILO) core labour standards and became a in a modern society. Being alert to the risks is a responsibility signatory of the United Nations Global Compact in April 2016. that DWF takes seriously and this statement constitutes DWF’s We publicly informed our stakeholders through our Annual compliance pursuant to section 54(1) of the Modern Slavery Review 2015/16. As a business with operations based in a Act 2015. number of developed countries, as a minimum we observe the Human Rights laws and regulations in all of these territories, We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery not just in the letter but also the spirit. or human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part of our business. Our Anti-Slavery Policy reflects our commitment In conducting our business activities, DWF respects these to being a responsible business which operates ethically and rights and seeks to uphold and promote them as part of the with integrity across all aspects of our operations, including way we do business, working and collaborating with our our supplier relationships and we also have an established people, communities, non-governmental organisations and Whistleblowing Policy which is published on our Intranet. other appropriate stakeholders. We run our business with integrity and want our culture and Supplier Due Diligence values to be at the heart of everything we do, recognising that our people not only want a great place to work, but take pride • All DWF suppliers are expected to implement a zero in being part of a principled business. tolerance approach to slavery, forced labour and human trafficking and comply will all local and national laws and The following Statement of Principles reflects the way regulations. Our procedures are designed to identify and we do business: assess areas of potential risk • Our procurement process includes details of every new DWF respects and values the dignity, wellbeing and rights supplier’s compliance assessed through DWF’s Supplier/ of our people and the wider community, taking action to: Contractor Request for Proposal (RFP) document • The RFP stipulates that DWF reserve a right of audit with • Support and promote the protection of internationally any supplier proclaimed human rights • Ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses • Existing suppliers are required to sign a statement of through our business relationships and supply chain compliance, undertaking that they have reviewed their management business operations and their supply chains for evidence of any instances of slavery, forced labour or human • Eliminate all forms of discrimination and promote a trafficking diverse and inclusive workplace • Recognise the freedom of association and right to • A risk assessment model for suppliers exists to take collective bargaining account of various factors with weighted scoring applied which could result in a range of investigative and • Provide a safe and healthy workplace remediation steps being undertaken. • Adopt a zero tolerance to slavery, forced labour and human trafficking • Minimise our environmental footprint resulting from our business operations and promoting greater environmental responsibility • Maintain our position as a Living Wage employer • Embed anti-corruption and ethical standards in our business practices Communicating : UN Global Compact 3 Human Rights Anti-Slavery Policy: DWF is clear that it will not engage with any business Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of fundamental knowingly involved in any aspect of modern slavery. This aligns human rights. It is a term used to encompass slavery, forced to DWF’s responsible business framework designed to: and compulsory labour and human trafficking. DWF is committed to ensuring a zero tolerance approach to modern • Support and strengthen society, taking action to engage slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain or in any part locally where we have a presence of our business. • Demonstrate visible commitment at the highest level • Embed sustainable business principles within our business As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we make a as part of the DWF Way public commitment to responsible business practices which • Ensure that our business is a force for good encourage transparency and will report on progress against • Make DWF is a great place to work and do business. measurable outcomes, consistent with our disclosure obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. In 2016, we reviewed the composition of our CSR Leadership Our supply chain management procedures are designed to Group, chaired by our Managing Partner & CEO to better reflect engage with our suppliers to communicate our Anti-Slavery the risks, opportunities and responsibilities as a signatory of approach and to gain an understanding of the measures taken the Global Compact. by them to ensure modern slavery is not occurring in their businesses through the identification and assessment of areas of potential risk within their own supply chains. Commitments in 2017 The Director of Risk Management & Excellence has overall 1. We will review and develop our Human Rights Impact responsibility for the effective operation of this policy which Assessment process and publish our Human Rights applies to all of our partners and employees in the DWF Group Policy which comprises a number of subsidiaries (where DWF LLP is 2. We will continue to engage our suppliers and review the parent company) and a number of separately constituted the effectiveness of our supplier questionnaire and regulated legal entities providing legal services in different jurisdictions. It also applies to people working with us through 3. We will report on progress against measurable an agency, consultants and contractors. outcomes, consistent with our disclosure obligations under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. Communicating : UN Global Compact 4 Labour Principle 1: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment DWF’s approach to labour rights continues to be driven by the The Chair of the Diversity Steering Group provides progress Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code, the UNGC principles updates to the Board, works closely with our communications and our continued commitment to sustainable business team to maintain our diversity related content on our website, practices. We meet the requirements of the ETI Base Code with includes our Diversity & Inclusion activity within Annual no breaches in Labour Standards as defined in the Code or any Reviews and internally uses a range of media channels to convictions or investigations in relation to Human Rights. engage our own people. The practice of agile/flexible working is fast becoming embedded within our culture and levels of inclusion are monitored through our people engagement The ETI Base Code states that: survey. We publish our diversity profile on our website and update at least annually. 1. Employment is freely chosen 2. Freedom of Association and the right to collective bargaining are respected In 2016, we focused on the following areas to accelerate progress: 3. Working conditions are safe and hygienic • Ensuring key activity is data driven (recruitment, progression, 4. Child labour shall not be used attrition) 5. Living Wages are paid • Engaging men – exploring why gender diversity matters to 6. Working hours are not excessive them 7. No discrimination is practiced • Consciously building diversity capability and confidence in 8. Regular employment is provided leaders & line managers 9. No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed. • Targeting key influencers who are active sponsors of Diversity & Inclusion • Focusing on a diverse talent pipeline to address the commercial realities of a global business DWF was awarded the Living Wage Employers Accreditation in 2014. • Introducing bias programmes which focus on practising techniques to counter natural bias in people processes and start rewarding inclusive behaviours • Evolving our diversity strategy to engage everyone so not In February 2017, we launched Total Reward Statements into seen as a minority issue. Diversity strands to include mental our business, to better reflect the range of ways we value and health, parents, carers and strong allies remunerate our people, recognising their contribution and demonstrating how packages can be flexed to meet the needs • Through client relevant engagement aligning diversity of our people at different stages in their career and their lives. directly to business effectiveness and sector leadership As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, DWF has reaffirmed • Using data meaningfully to engage hearts and minds as a its approach to inclusion and through its Diversity Steering catalyst for further change. Group and in 2016, also became a signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Communicating : UN Global Compact 5 Labour A snapshot of some of the key Diversity & Inclusion Proud of our achievements: initiatives currently underway and championed through our We are a Top 100 Employer (ranked 36th) in Stonewall Diversity Steering Group: Workplace Equality Index 2017 (11th in the Legal Sector) • Firm wide Equal Pay Audit with plans to disclose ahead of 2018 deadline We are the only law firm to be ranked as a Top 10 Employer on • Embedding flexible/agile working as the norm Working Families (2nd year running) • D&I collaboration with clients A Gold Standard performance in The Law Society’s Diversity & • Women returner experience making it easier for women to Inclusion report, as a signatory of their D&I Charter resume their career after time out of the business • Piloting ClearTalents at Work – we were the first law firm Retained Silver Standard on gender and Improved to Silver in the UK to adopt ClearTalents in Recruitment (early Standard (from Bronze) on Race – Business in the Community identification of reasonable adjustments) and now enhancing benchmarking support for existing colleagues. We are also working towards achieving Disability Confident – Leadership status Increased female representation on our strategic Board from • Championing Future Proof, a UK Business in the Community 10% to 30% in 2016 campaign to break down recruitment barriers and create quality accessible jobs for all young people 1st law firm in the UK to achieve and retain ClearAssured status for identifying and removing barriers to disabled talent • International Women’s Day celebrated with a week of activities, events, blogs and poster campaign 1st law firm to adopt Clear Talents in recruitment and at work #beboldforchange to support the early identification of reasonable adjustments • DWF Diversity Week – 3rd annual event which will run between 9th to 13th October 2017. Disability Confident Employer Status DWF accredited in 2016 Company of the Year Finalist in the 2016 European Diversity The following interactive training modules have also been Awards introduced to challenge our perceptions and encourage our people to identify the factors that may be preventing Recognised as one of the most innovative law firms on people from fulfilling their career potential: diversity – FT Innovative Lawyers Report • Equality in the Workplace DWF named a diversity pioneer in The Lawyer’s inaugural • Dignity at Work diversity audit • Mental Health Awareness Finalist in Best Large Private Sector Employer and Best for • Learning Disability Awareness Innovation in Family Friendly and Flexible Working in Working • A Guide to Reasonable Adjustments Families Awards 2017 Our Diversity & Inclusion Policies include: Commitments in 2017 Diversity & Inclusion 1. We will review the supply chain management across Dignity at Work our International jurisdictions CSR Policy Anti-Slavery 2. We will maintain our Living Wage accreditation and Maternity/Paternity/Family Friendly participation in external diversity benchmarking Disciplinary & Grievance 3. We will publicly report progress in support of the UN Harassment Women’s Empowerment Principles within our next Annual Review 2016/17 Communicating : UN Global Compact 6 Environment Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies DWF aims to deliver a distinct and measured approach to Overall CO2 emissions for our UK offices: our corporate responsibility which puts delivery not just 2014 – 6768 tonnes commitment at the heart of everything we do. This ensures 2015 – 6210 tonnes we visibly improve our environmental performance whilst 2016 – 5320 tonnes complying with applicable legal and other requirements for the usage of energy. 2016 saw a significant reduction in travel emissions, down to 833 tonnes from 1014 tonnes in 2015. How we go further for our environment Shredding: • We actively manage our carbon emissions 2014 – 2358 trees saved (138 tonnes of shredding) • We take action to ensure efficient use of resources 2015 – 1650 trees saved (97 tonnes of shredding) • We invest in technology to help drive our sustainability 2016 – 2652 trees saved (156 tonnes of shredding) agenda • We externally audit our sustainability performance Our firm wide environmental KPIs demonstrate our • We collaborate to develop, apply and promote environmental willingness to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and best practice general waste, which we are successfully achieving year on Our environmental management system and policy which year. These include: is accredited in the UK to ISO14001, is firmly established to • Maintaining a target of under 3 tonnes per person per help create, monitor, maintain and develop a sustainable and year CO2 eco-friendly environment. We are also a member of the Legal • Travel Miles Reduction of 5% per annum Sustainability Alliance. • Maintain a target of recycling at 80% Our carbon footprint is independently verified and we have • Paper Usage Reduction of 10% per annum a suite of environmental KPIs and a robust Environment Management System to support our continuing ISO 14001 • CFS sourced or recycled Paper 100% certification. In January 2018, we shall be independently As part of our Environmental Strategy, we are committed to audited for re-certification to the ISO 14001 Standard at which responsible Energy Management and will practice energy time, our targets will be reviewed to ensure we are continually efficiency throughout all of its operational location, plant and improving and evolving our management system. equipment, wherever it is cost-effective to do so. We maintain a Legal Compliance “Aspects and Impacts” Register. This is reviewed every 6 months and was last reviewed on 1st March 2017. It covers: • Air pollution • Waste Management • Energy Management, Construction and Buildings • Water • Nuisance • Hazardous materials Communicating : UN Global Compact 7 Environment We have a long-standing agile working vision that states We continue to actively engage our people to support our ‘Through thoughtful and inventive approaches to the way environmental objectives and targets and in 2016 launched people work at DWF, we make a sizeable contribution to an environmental network called Footprint, to encourage improving their wellbeing and enhancing the economic success ideas and personal ownership of the agenda. We continue of our business’, and was one of the first UK law firms to to raise awareness and understanding through: champion the benefits of flexible workstyles. • Dedicated pages on our intranet and yammer (our internal networking platform) Environmental & Financial Benefits: There are clear • Noticeboards & emails on key issues economic advantages of an agile workforce. Not only is • Tool box talks on a variety of environmental and sustainability there a lower cost to occupying less space, a significant issues at home and in the office undertaking for a traditionally paper-heavy profession, there are significant environmental benefits: encouraging individuals to go ‘paper-lite’ or paper-free; reducing commutingAs part of the embedding process, not only have we integrated related cost and pollution; making strategic investments in environmental sustainability as part of our induction process, technology for collaboration and communication rather than we also launched an Expectations Framework, to provide a requiring extensive employee travel across the firm’s 22 holistic assessment of the contribution of each employee to office locations. the firm’s objectives and values. • So far, we have successfully transitioned circa 400 people to an agile workstyle Culture: A key objective of our Agile London project was to redefine the firm’s workstyle culture from the ground up • We continue to make a significant investment in technology and create a mind-set shift that turns ‘work’ from a place capability, ensuring that agile workers receive hardware like into an activity. The move to a fully agile office reinforces our a Microsoft Surface Pro 4 with a built-in telephone, docking meritocratic culture and allows us to truly ‘walk the walk’ station, headset and portable conference phones to ensure when it comes to valuing a results-driven culture not defined that employees working from home or from a hot desk can by ‘presenteeism’. still operate as effectively as before. Agile workers have also been given a number of software upgrades and applications such as Microsoft OneNote, Mitel MiCollab and Tiny Scanner Work-life balance: It has been proven that flexible working • Our London office has won a Clean City Award in relation to improves productivity and motivation and allows our our environmental practices every year since 2015, achieving people to create a work-life balance that suits their Gold in 2015 and 2017, and Platinum in 2016 individual needs. • We achieved Bronze Standard in Business in the Community’s Environment Index in 2016 • Eco Excellence Gold Standard – Preston office Future Proofing: As an occupier of one of London’s most high-profile buildings (Excellent BREEAM rating and occupied • Silver Standard – Manchester Environmental Business on a green lease), it was important that we designed the office Pledge to support growth without needing to move to new premises or splitting staff between locations. Communicating : UN Global Compact 8 Environment Proud of our sustainability credentials: In conjunction with colleagues in the Insurance market we worked with the Arctic Council Governments (USA, Canada, Russia, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland, and Finland) to propose the establishment of the Arctic Marine Shipping Best Practices Information Forum, in response to the newly adopted International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters (Polar Code) by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). This is an important initiative for the protection of seafarers, the Arctic marine environment and the Indigenous population. Commitments in 2017 1. Review how DWF can best use new tools, technology and modern facilities designed to sustainably support and accommodate a fast-growing employee base across 22 locations 2. Continue to engage our people to support our sustainability agenda 3. Ensure our Environmental Management System remains fit for purpose and enables a successful ISO 14001 re-certification in January 2018 Communicating : UN Global Compact 9 Anti-corruption Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and briber Over the last few years we have made good We continue to take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery. Our progress embedding responsible and ethical principles into Anti-Bribery Policy includes gifts and hospitality and helps us the way we do business. We find ourselves still operating to protect the integrity, independence and objectivity of our against a global backdrop of tough economic times and business and to clarify the position of Partners and employees in giving or receiving such gifts, invitations or hospitality to transformational change for our business and to this end, ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the Solicitors we must all commit to play our part in managing the risks Regulation Authority Code of Conduct. that will impact the delivery of our business strategy and safeguard the integrity of our values and culture. DWF also has Whistleblowing, Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing procedures in place, and procedures We have all worked incredibly hard to build our reputation to follow for reporting suspicions. We participated in the as a responsible business and I am personally committed consultation to inform the Money Laundering Regulations 2017 to do everything I can to protect this position.” and transposition of the Fourth Money Laundering Directive. Andrew Leaitherland, Managing Partner & CEO We provide guidance and training on an on-going basis to provide mandatory ways of working, underpinned by our values which provide a sense of common direction for our people, guiding their day to day behaviours. Good corporate governance enables us to create sustainable value for the benefit of our clients, our people and the DWF Whistleblowing Principles: communities in which we live and work. We expect all of our people to report the following: Our Compliance and Risk Management Committee advises the Board on the identification, co-ordination and prioritisation of • criminal activity including fraud or theft; risk management issues. A Risk Register, a traffic light based • a failure to comply with a legal obligation or regulatory monitoring system, is continually updated so we are fully aware requirement; of our business risk status. Over the last 12 months we also • a miscarriage of justice; established an Audit Committee to provide oversight of our • bribery or corruption (e.g. accepting incentives in return for financial reporting, the audit process and our system of internal giving business, or receiving benefit); controls to ensure compliance with the necessary laws and regulations. • the endangering of an individual’s health and safety; • damage to the environment; Our risk management and governance strategy enables us to anticipate and identify regulatory outcomes and ensure • deliberate concealment of information relating to any of the compliance. Business improvement to achieve business above. excellence is central to our approach. We are ISO 9001:2015 accredited and currently working Commitments in 2017: towards being recognised as an Excellence organisation under EFQM. In February 2017, we launched “Excellence 1. We will continue with our business excellence agenda to Week” across the business, to showcase our progress and drive business improvement and increase our network to encourage more people to join our growing network of of Excellence Champions Excellence Champions. 2. We will continue to review and develop anti bribery processes and procedures as our international footprint increases 3. We will continue to ensure guidance and training is available for our key stakeholders. Communicating : UN Global Compact 10 About DWF DWF is an award-winning legal business with a strong reputation for excellent client service and effective operational management. DWF operates across 22 key commercial centres in the UK, Ireland, Germany, France, Brussels and Dubai. Led by Managing Partner & CEO, Andrew Leaitherland, Our strategy between 2007 and 2016 we merged with and acquired nine Our firm-wide strategy is defined by three strands, with our other legal businesses with the specific areas of expertise, goal to change the business of law by making legal services a integrating their skills and experiences and widening our more powerful enabler of client success. We apply commercial geographic reach. We have 2,670 people within the DWF and sector insight and making better use of technology to add group, based across 22 locations. value to the legal advice we give. Recognised by the Financial Times as one of Europe’s most 22 locations innovative law firms, our focus is on doing things differently; to change clients’ views of how astute legal services can benefit their business and ultimately improve their bottom line. +2,670 people Values Our five values are at the heart of everything we do and are used as a benchmark for many of our strategic decisions, particularly when growing and developing our business. The values we uphold define and reinforce our culture and bring us together under a common framework, helping to build our reputation as a highly regarded legal business. Our commitment to these values also enables us to recruit, retain and develop the highest quality people who are experts in their fields. Our sectors and services We have eight core sectors which underpin our go-to-market strategy: Central & Local Government, Energy & Industrials Financial Services, Insurance, Real Estate, Retail, Food and Hospitality, Technology, Transport & Logistics. Our sector groups are served by six core practice groups which make up our Insurance Services Division and Commercial Services Division. Our Insurance Services Division comprises of: Catastrophic Personal Injury & Occupational Health, Motor, Fraud & Claimant Professional Indemnity& Commercial practice groups. Our Commercial Services Division comprises of Corporate Services, Litigation and Real Estate practice groups. Communicating : UN Global Compact 11 Go further DWF is the legal business where expertise, industry knowledge and leading edge technology converge to deliver solutions that enable our clients to excel. Embracing our diverse skills, we gain a unique and more valuable legal perspective that can empower our clients, giving them a competitive advantage or simply delivering new solutions to old problems. With over 2,600 people across the business, we make sure that wherever you are, wherever you aim to be, we will go further to help you get there. © DWF LLP 20176. DWF LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (registered number OC328794). DWF LLP is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. DWF LLP is also recognised as an incorporated practice with the Law Society of Scotland www.dwf.law (registered number 43186). DWF in Ireland is a partnership regulated by the Law Society of Ireland. DWF makes no representations or warranties of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability or suitability of the information contained herein. Ref: 4073 280916.
