Sustainable Momentum 2015 Sustainability Report Table of Contents About Sustainalytics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 About This Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 The Year In Review: A Message From Michael Jantzi, CEO . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sustainability Context – Our Place In The World . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Our Reporting Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Our Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Materiality Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Material Issues: What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Product and Service Quality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Client Satisfaction and Retention . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 Product and Service Innovation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Impact on Clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Conflicts of Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Material Issues: How We Do Things . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Human Capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Professional Growth Opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Work-Life Integration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Equity and Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Energy Use and GHG Emissions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Sustainable Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Photo credits Cover: Joshua Zakkai, Bruce Peninsula National Park, Ontario, Canada What’s Next? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Page 6: Catalina Secreteanu, Russel Falls, Tasmania, Australia Appendix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Page 10: Michelle McCulloch, Feversham Gorge, Ontario, Canada GRI G4 Index For “In Accordance” Core . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Page 12: Kathryn Morrison, Flower Pot Island Georgian Bay, Ontario, Canada Page 18: Charlotte Peyraud, Manahttan Bridge, New York, USA Endnotes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Page 28: Nina van Ewijk, Byron Bay, Australia Page 38: Melissa Menzies, Banff National Park, Alberta, Canada Page 40: Monica Seras, Blue Lake, Baia Sprie, Romania Page 44: Annalisa Werner, Ilmenau, Germany Page 48: Jeremy Hammond, Muskoka, Ontario, Canada 3 About Sustainalytics Our Vision Company Structure Sustainalytics believes that it is imperative for the global economy to become Sustainalytics is structured as an array of 100%-owned operating subsidiaries, each of more just and sustainable. which is owned – directly or indirectly – by parent company Sustainalytics Holding B.V., a private limited liability company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands. In Our Mission 2015, Sustainalytics began the process of opening a new office in Sydney, Australia, Sustainalytics’ mission is to provide the insights required for investors and companies to while also initiating the closing of our operations in Colombia.1 make more informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy. Shareholders Our Values ABN AMRO MeesPierson, Michael Jantzi and senior staff, Mooncrest Holdings Limited, • We have a positive impact on our world. PGGM, Renewal Partners Company, Silver Box Holdings Limited and Triodos Bank. • We embrace diverse perspectives. • We foster excellence through continuous collaboration. Board of Directors • We are adaptable and entrepreneurial. Seven board directors, including the Chief Executive Officer. Separate Chairman • We treat others as we like to be treated. governance structure with two subcommittees of the Board – the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration and Employment Committee.2 Who We Are Sustainalytics is an independent environmental, social and governance (ESG) and corporate Offices Amsterdam (Headquarters), Boston, Bucharest, Frankfurt, London, New York City, governance research and analysis firm supporting investors around the world with the Paris, Singapore, Timisoara and Toronto; and representative offices in Brussels development and implementation of responsible investment strategies. Established in 1992, and Washington D.C. Sustainalytics has been a trusted partner of responsible investors for almost 25 years. As of December 31, 2015, Sustainalytics had 240 employees, including more than 120 analysts with multidisciplinary expertise across more than 40 industry sectors. Employees 2403 What We Do Sustainalytics partners with institutions within the capital markets, helping them turn vast Clients 450 clients4 worldwide including investment managers, mutual funds, pension funds, quantities of environmental, social and governance information into insightful, value-added NGOs, corporate issuers, international organisations, and academic networks. analysis to enable more informed investment decisions. Sustainalytics serves approximately 450 clients, across 24 countries, providing them with comprehensive ESG and corporate Figure 1: Sustainalytics’ Client Base Growth governance research, ratings and analysis on more than 10,000 companies worldwide. (includes recurring and one-off contracts) 448 450 400 367 350 308 300 2013 2014 2015 5 About This Report This is Sustainalytics’ third sustainability report, and the second circulated to external Sustainability stakeholders.5 This report aims to provide an update of our performance throughout 2015 Working Group8 across a range of ESG considerations that were deemed material via our materiality assessment • Rachel Birenbaum conducted in 2014.6 The report highlights our successes and challenges in managing these • Michael Jantzi issues in 2015, compares and contrasts our performance with 2014 data and highlights ways in • Alexander Rengers which we aim to improve our performance going forward. • Nina van Ewijk Sustainability Reporting As a mission-based company focused on the pursuit of a more just and sustainable global Advisory Committee economy, Sustainalytics is committed to setting a high bar for operating, measuring and • Kathryn Morrison reporting its own sustainability practices. As this is our second report prepared in accordance • Marion Oliver with the GRI G4 reporting guidelines at the “core” level, it has enabled us to clearly see where we have reached that bar, and where work remains. This document represents much more than a simple reporting exercise. Sustainability is a critical element for Sustainalytics and embedding it into our decision-making is integral to our long-term success. Sustainability informs what Sustainalytics delivers to the market, the partnerships we About enter into, and the manner in which we produce and deliver our products and services. This Report We prepare this report primarily for an internal audience (shareholders, the Board of Directors and employees), seeking to provide a holistic appraisal of how we are allocating resources to ensure our long-term relevance and evaluate whether or not we are living up to our mission and vision. We trust this report serves to inspire and inform – and to highlight Sustainalytics’ collective commitment “to provide the insights required for investors and companies to make more informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy.” Sustainalytics has an annual reporting cycle and the information provided in this report is based on our progress and performance over the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015, unless otherwise stated. As we continue to strengthen our data collection and monitoring processes, management will consider engaging an external assurance provider. To aid in navigating GRI disclosures, we provide a GRI Content Index at the back of this report. Additionally, there are no changes to reporting periods from previous sustainability reports, but there are restatements from the 2014 sustainability report in the Environment section, found in the endnotes of this report. On a final note, this report contains images of ocean, rivers, waterfalls and lakes, all of which were taken by Sustainalytics’ employees in the countries where we operate. We hope that you enjoy reading this report and look forward to receiving your feedback.7 7 The Year In Review: A Message From Michael Jantzi, CEO The predominant theme of 2015 was transformation, as sustainability Driven in part by this broader systemic and industry momentum, 2015 was also a transformative and ESG moved from the periphery to the centre of mainstream year for Sustainalytics. We made significant investments as the company embarked on a new conversations about investment risks and the resiliency of the financial Five-Year Plan, including the successful launch of an enhanced Corporate Governance offering, system itself. solidifying Sustainalytics as a “one-stop shop” for E, S and G insights. We intensified an already ambitious innovation agenda as well, focusing on a variety of product and research process Days after the adoption the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, projects. And finally, Sustainalytics continued to extend our global reach in 2015, laying the which included a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), climate foundation for our new office in Australia. change took centre stage. On September 29, Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England and Chairman of the G20’s Financial Stability Board (FSB), delivered his speech All in all, Sustainalytics had a successful 2015, underpinned by a focus on the company’s key entitled “Breaking the tragedy of the horizon – climate change and financial stability” in performance drivers – recurring sales growth and high client retention rates. We believe London. Highlighting the growing consensus that climate change is unequivocal, Carney Sustainalytics remains an industry leader in both of these categories, and when combined with stated that “the catastrophic impacts of climate change will be felt beyond the traditional our continued practice of carefully managing costs, these results strengthened our ability to horizons of most actors – imposing a cost on future generations that the current generation execute on our mission of providing “the insights required for investors and companies to make has no direct incentive to fix.” Shortly afterwards, the FSB launched its Task Force on Climate9 more informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy.” related Financial Disclosures. Finally, as the largest pure-play ESG research and analysis firm in the world, Sustainalytics These events ignited conversations among (and between) the ranks of senior political, business, recognises the responsibility we have to apply this same rigorous analysis to ourselves. With the investment and civil society leaders, resulting in tremendous momentum going into the COP21 launch of our third sustainability report, we continue the process of focusing inward. in December. The landmark agreement reached in Paris resulted in 195 countries agreeing, by Nevertheless, we humbly acknowledge that Sustainalytics has a long way to go in meeting our consensus, to reduce their carbon output “as soon as possible” and to do their best to keep goal of becoming an SME leader with respect to integrating sustainability considerations into global warming “to well below 2 degrees.” Although executed by countries, the agreement was business strategy, business management systems, goal setting and incentive structures, and aided by the active involvement of non-state actors, including capital market participants. The management reporting. Our heartfelt gratitude for your continuing support in this endeavour. event galvanized the global RI community, highlighting the investment industry’s role in minimizing climate risks at the portfolio level, but also the opportunity afforded to them to allocate the capital required for energy transition. The unrelenting pace of ESG mainstreaming continued unabated as well, aided by a variety of public policy shifts. For example, the US Department of Labor released guidance in October Michael C. Jantzi impacting retirement plans covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), Chief Executive Officer acknowledging that “ESG factors may have a direct relationship to the economic and financial Sustainalytics value of an investment… [and] are proper components of the fiduciary’s analysis of the economic and financial merits of competing investment choices.”10 9 Sustainability Context – Our Place In The World Sustainalytics’ mission – to “provide the insights required for investors and companies to make more informed decisions that lead to a more just and sustainable global economy” – means that through our core work, we strive to improve economic, environmental and social conditions at a global level. Clearly, given our relatively small size and operational footprint, this objective is well beyond the capability of Sustainalytics to achieve alone. Even so, we acknowledge that Sustainalytics’ success is dependent on How Well We Do Things, and sustainability is a key component within that scope. As highlighted in last year’s report, management believes it is critical to embed sustainability parameters into our decision-making and reporting because it improves our understanding of the business and helps us to achieve attractive financial performance. It is through our relationship with hundreds of clients, who manage trillions in assets, that Sustainalytics has a more significant opportunity to have an impact. While Sustainalytics’ financial success depends on the company’s ability to deliver high quality ESG and corporate governance insights and tools to our clients, they are also critical in supporting the allocation of capital in a manner that leads to sustainable Sustainability outcomes over the long-term. Accordingly, the risk and opportunities associated with sustainability remain central to our thinking across all aspects of the business, including product development, Context delivery, support and service. In other words, sustainability is at the core of What We Do. As highlighted in previous reports, Sustainalytics’ objective has been to develop a way to measure how clients use our work to support the transition to a more just and sustainable global economy. This year’s report highlights a change in focus, as we’ve decided to leverage the United Nations’ 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (or more specifically, the new SDGs) as a framework to evaluate the impact of our contributions. As highlighted in the Impact on Clients section, a selection of these 17 themes provides Sustainalytics with the ability to measure impact at the product/project level – at least initially – more effectively than in the past. Sustainalytics understands that the need to consider systemic impact is undeniable. Recently, some leading-edge asset owners have publicly articulated that they have a fiduciary duty not only to focus on financial security for members or safeguarding the pension promise, but also to ensure that they work to secure a world into which their plan members wish to retire. As Peter Borgdorff, Managing Director of Pensionenfonds Zorg en Welzijn (PFZW), has noted: “A good pension is worth nothing in a polluted and unsafe world.” Moving forward, Sustainalytics will focus increasingly on contributing to a collective dialogue about how best to address systemic risks that threaten the resiliency of systems upon which we all depend. And finally, experience shows that publishing a report such as this ensures that we track and manage sustainability issues appropriately. The discipline of highlighting both our successes and challenges helps to keep us humble and accountable to our most important stakeholders as well. 11 Our Reporting Approach Sustainalytics’ reporting process is designed to identify, track and manage material sustainability issues appropriately. Our reporting framework is based on the GRI’s Principles for Defining Reporting Content (sustainability context, stakeholder inclusiveness, materiality, completeness) as well as information and input from various stakeholders. This comprehensive process ensures we are continually measuring and monitoring key sustainability performance metrics. Our Stakeholders As part of Sustainalytics’ commitment to integrating sustainability into decision making, management interacts with our staff and other stakeholders in a variety of ways, doing our best to incorporate feedback and address challenges as they arise. Below is a sampling of how Sustainalytics engaged with some of our stakeholders in 2015. Figure 2: Sustainalytics’ Stakeholders Our Sustainalytics Reporting Shareholders Board Approach Senior Management Employees Core Stakeholders Industry Organisations Companies We Research Clients / Prospects Economy Government and Regulators Financial Service Sector Competitors Environment & Civil Society Physical Environment Environmental NGOs Trade Organisations Social NGOs 13 Figure 3: Examples of Stakeholder Engagement in 2015 Materiality Assessment Sustainalytics’ starting point for analysing materiality was based on the methodology outlined in Stakeholder Method of Frequency Main Concerns Our Response Engagement Raised in 2015 the GRI’s G4 Guidelines. We leveraged GRI’s four-step process – identify, prioritise, validate and review – to arrive at our list of ten highly material issues. Subsequently, we ranked these issues in Shareholders Annual General Annually and None cited Meeting and as required terms of significance to the organisation and stakeholders from Tier 1 to Tier 3, with Tier 1 being CEO contact the most significant material issues and Tier 3 being the least. Board Board meetings Quarterly None cited Employees CEO & COO At least Skills training Reallocated training budget company updates annually (Human Capital: towards identified areas: Figure 4: Materiality Process based on GRI G4 Guidelines Professional English language and Other management Growth Microsoft Excel skills and Human Opportunities) Resource communication channels Review Clients Solicit feedback As required The breadth, Client feedback informed our Feedback on the 2014 sustainability report on existing and relevance and innovation agenda in 2015. was collected from stakeholders and processes proposed products timeliness of We expanded our coverage Senior management reviewed the materiality and services our research universe to address client matrix through a 2015 lens through regular (Products: Product needs and invested client contact, and Service Quality) in IT solutions to improve targeted surveys the timeliness of our research Validate and other feedback and analysis. We are in the 1. Product & service quality mechanisms process of implementing 2. client satisfaction & retention new procedures to make The Reporting Advisory 3. Prouct & service innocation Identify our research processes Committee examined 4. Impact on clients A list of 24 more efficient. the 13 issues according 5. Conflicts of interest potentially to their business impact Companies Solicit feedback Annually Limitations in Added indicators and adjusted 6. Professional growth opportunities material issues and plotted each we research on company profiles adapting ESG our processes to help ensure were identified issue on a materiality 7. Work-life integration as part of our research to that company-specific matrix; 10 highly An internal data 8. Energy use & GHG emissions research process company-specific circumstances are better material issues were availability check 9. Equity & diversity circumstances reflected in our research. identified was performed (Products: Product These changes were also driven 10. Sustainable procurement and Service Quality) by broader market challenges. Senior management then grouped these issues according Industry Memberships, organisations position on Monthly None cited to a strategic Prioritise governance body sustainability Employees, select board members and or committee, framework shareholders were asked to select the top event participation 5 most material issues; 13 material issues and collaboration were identified 15 Figure 5: Sustainalytics’ 2015 Materiality Matrix Senior management then grouped these issues according to a strategic sustainability 50 framework, broken down into three areas – Products (What We Do), and Human Capital and Operations (How We Do Things). The key performance indicators (KPIs) used to measure our Product & Service Quality progress with respect to these areas were indicated through a traffic light system: • Significance to the Stakeholders (based on stakeholder survey) Green to indicate that we were on target 40 Tier 1 Client Satisfaction & Retention • Amber to indicate that we fell just short of our target Product & Service Innovation • Red to indicate that we failed to meet our target by a more significant margin • 30 In cases where a target was not set, we left the traffic light blank Impact on Clients 20 Conflicts of Interest What We Do How We Do Things Professional Growth Opportunities Work-Life Integration Tier 2 Energy Use & GHG Emissions Products Human Capital Equity & Diversity Product and Service Quality Professional Growth Opportunities 10 Sustainable Procurement Client Satisfaction and Retention Work-Life Integration Product and Service Innovation Equity and Diversity Impact on Clients Operations Conflicts of Interest Tier 3 Energy Use and GHG Emissions 0 1 (Low) 2 (Med) 3 (High) Sustainable Procurement Significance to the Organisation (based on internal management assessment) Sustainalytics is committed to performing a full materiality assessment on a biennial basis. Accordingly, the executive team re-examined the 2014 materiality matrix and evaluated the ten highly material issues through a 2015 lens. The only change was a shift of “Conflicts of Interest” to Tier 1. 17 Material Issues: What We Do Products The first set of performance metrics encompasses the material indicators that inform Sustainalytics’ decisions with respect to what we deliver to the market (What We Do). We reported on these issues through a products and services lens, focusing on five sustainability themes identified through the materiality assessment process: Product and Service Quality; Client Satisfaction and Retention; Product and Service Innovation; Impact on Clients; and Conflicts of Interest. What We Do Products Material Product and Service Quality Client Satisfaction and Retention Issues: Product and Service Innovation Impact on Clients What Conflicts of Interest We Do Product and Service Quality Without quality products and services, any firm, including Sustainalytics, would struggle to remain relevant. Providing products that deliver meaningful ESG insights underpins our growth as a firm and ensures we stay true to our vision and mission. In 2015, Sustainalytics met its revenue and profitability targets, while just missing its new sales and cash creation objectives. Material Issue: Product and Service Quality 2014 2015 2016 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Revenues Put in place robust QMS Continue to support framework by end of 2015 improvements to the New Sales that could be subject to QMS process Profitability external certification Achieve internal KPIs Core Cash Creation Achieve internal KPIs 19 Sophisticated and new competitors entering the market and a growing client base mean that Client Satisfaction and Retention Sustainalytics’ product suite has become more diverse, and research quality becomes Our ability to retain clients is imperative for Sustainalytics to continue to be a successful business, increasingly important.11 Sustainalytics recognises that, in part, delivering quality insights to our growing at a rate we believe to be about two times the industry average. In 2015, Sustainalytics’ clients depends on following a disciplined methodology and research process. As such, the client retention rate improved over the prior year, moving back in line with our 95% target. Quality Management Team (QMT) doubled in size to four members to help ensure that our “products and quality processes are monitored continuously to ensure deliverables are completed on time and with excellence.”12 A selection of improvements include: Material Issue: Client Satisfaction and Retention • Client Concerns: Formalised a system to collect, handle and report on actionable client 2014 2015 2016 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals concerns applicable to Sustainalytics’ ESG Company Reports. Processing these client Client Retention Rate Enhance client feedback Achieve a client retention concerns led to a review of select business processes and to the improvement of the mechanisms we have in rate of at least 95% quality of individual ESG Company Reports. place to include a broader set of KPIs Leverage the enhanced feedback mechanisms • ESG Ratings: Redesigned and mapped existing research processes for our ESG Ratings, Leverage the integrated in 2015 functionalities of the CRM to execute targeted including quality control mechanisms. The QMT guided the design of new business processes to improve response time, client outreach to strengthen the quality, consistency and timeliness of our research and the quality of our analysis and resolution of client feedback and install Solicit specific feedback ESG Company Reports based on a core set of quantitative performance indicators. on the new products global tracking launched in 2015, namely; Improve the process in Global Access, Corporate • Incidents and Events: Enhanced the business process for identifying, analysing and which client satisfaction is Governance Research and finalising incidents that feed into the events analysis of our ESG Company Reports. These reviewed and analysed at Ratings suite and the structured intervals of each Carbon Solutions Suite improvements have led to more efficient and timely incidents capture and processing. client relationship to increase client satisfaction • Data Processes: Reviewed and improved efficiency, reliability and accurate documentation Achieve client retention of the large sets of corporate and financial data that are processed on a daily basis, as well rate of 95% as the related business processes. Sustainalytics worked in 2015 to enhance our client feedback mechanisms, formalising a client • Internal Research Software: Ensured that quality control mechanisms were integrated survey process. The initial results highlighted that more than 80% of respondents were likely/ into a new internal research software, which will allow all of Sustainalytics’ corporate and very likely to recommend Sustainalytics to a colleague. We also track client usage rates and country ESG research to be conducted in one integrated and modular system. proactively manage client relationships, alongside efforts to continue to improve response times. For example, Sustainalytics restructured the client services team to create the capacity Looking to service quality, Sustainalytics formed a Portfolio Analysis Team to centralise the for senior staff to spend more time working with key clients, starting with the initial onboarding preparation of all client deliverables globally (with the objective of ensuring high quality experience, through to ESG integration and other support. deliverables). Additionally, an Events Oversight Committee (EOC) was created as part of the Sustainalytics’ controversy ratings review board, which reviews significant controversy rating Acknowledging that our clients have a variety of needs, and are motivated in a myriad of ways, changes, thereby helping to ensure rating integrity and quality. Sustainalytics remains committed to co-creating bespoke solutions, honouring our belief that a “one size fits all” solution is neither preferred by clients, nor in the best interest of a dynamic The 2015 Extel and SRI-Connect Independent Research in Responsible Investment survey ranked and constantly evolving market. These efforts are underpinned by an expanding client services Sustainalytics as the number two independent socially responsible research firm (number one team, increasingly staffed by individuals with relevant capital market experience. in 2014), and we were ranked among the three best independent corporate governance research firms (same in 2014). Moreover, a variety of Sustainalytics’ analysts earned top rankings in the “Best Analyst for SRI Research” and “Best Client Service/Sales Representative” in both the corporate governance and SRI categories. Finally, Sustainalytics was recognised in the 2015 Global Capital Bond Awards as the “Best SRI or Green Bond Research or Rating Firm.” 21 Product and Service Innovation Finally, it is important to highlight that Sustainalytics’ innovation initiatives are also focused on As a mission-based organisation, Sustainalytics attempts to monitor the impact our products information extraction and analytics. In other words, we embarked on a project to more and services have on clients, in the hope that they inform capital allocation decisions that lead effectively collect and analyse increasing amounts of data globally, and efficiently turn that into to a more just and sustainable global economy. In the past, our objective has been to develop a meaningful insights for our clients. To keep up with this ambitious agenda, Sustainalytics framework that measures the impact of our products and services. Moving forward, it is likely almost doubled the size of its ICT Development team to 44 people. We achieved this, in part, that Sustainalytics’ efforts will be focused on contributing to a collective dialogue about how to through the acquisition of ESG Analytics, as several of its team members had extensive best address systemic risks that threaten the resiliency of systems upon which we all depend. technical and product development expertise. Sustainalytics’ ability to deliver across the innovation agenda—from concept, through Material Issue: Product and Service Innovation development and delivery—with an in-house and dedicated team of professionals, provides us 2014 2015 2016 with a significant competitive advantage over smaller and under-capitalised competitors. KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Product Innovation Launch Global Access in Deliver improvements Impact on Clients Q2 of 2015, with improved to Global Access As a mission-based organisation Sustainalytics attempts to monitor the impact our products Process Innovation navigation tools and enhanced analyst views Launch new data and services have on clients, in the hope that they inform capital allocation decisions that lead on each company’s services offering to a more just and sustainable global economy. In the past, our objective has been to develop management of key ESG issues Launch enhanced a framework that measures the impact of our products and services. Moving forward it’s likely Climate Solution suite Sustainalytics’ efforts will be focused on contributing to a collective dialogue about how to best Roll out Corporate Governance Research Integrate state-of-the-art address systemic risks that threaten the resiliency of systems upon which we all depend.13 technologies to improve and Ratings Products, research processes and other product and process innovations Material Issue: Impact on Clients The results of Sustainalytics’ ambitious innovation agenda started to become evident in 2015, 2014 2015 2016 as we released a variety of product enhancements and new tools into the market. KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Impact Framework Scope the development of Broaden impact-oriented Development an impact framework product suite Sustainalytics launched Global Access, the gateway through which our clients now access all of Contribute to emerging Sustainalytics’ research. Informed by extensive market outreach, Sustainalytics also unveiled discussion about systemic our Corporate Governance Research and Ratings product suite, which provides asset owners risks and opportunities and managers with the governance insights they require to support investment decisionmaking, portfolio analysis, policy formulation, engagement and proxy voting. A critical way for Sustainalytics to have a significant impact is to gain access to segments of the market for which ESG historically hasn’t been on the agenda. Sustainalytics made significant As climate change emerged as a top priority on political and regulatory agendas in 2015, strides in this regard, as we entered into a strategic partnership with Morningstar, Inc. to provide Sustainalytics released a Carbon Solutions suite, designed to help our clients understand the first-ever ESG scores for global mutual and exchange-traded funds. By collaborating with and address their portfolio exposure to carbon risks and implement low carbon mandates. It Morningstar, a leading provider of investment research globally, Sustainalytics is beginning to includes Carbon Intensity Data, Carbon Portfolio Analytics, Stranded Carbon Assets Research, reach those capital markets players that traditionally have not had access to ESG information and High-Impact Fossil Fuel Research. and/or have deliberately positioned themselves “outside of the tent.” Other initiatives included the development of the Conflict Radar product, which we introduced More broadly, Sustainalytics believes that our greatest influence is via our clients, as they leverage as the UN Arms Trade Treaty came into force at the beginning of 2015. It provides clients with our products and services to inform their decision-making. In our effort to better evaluate the research on companies that are providing arms to sanctioned countries or those considered to impact of our products and services, Sustainalytics has leveraged the SDGs.14 Below, we pair be at high risk of violence against civilians. Sustainalytics also released an enhanced version of some of our deliverables with a subset of the 17 SDGs. They illustrate how Sustainalytics’ our Country Risk Monitor, which rates countries on their ESG performance and allows for a research, analysis, insights and tools contribute to the critical role our clients can play in more sophisticated evaluation of countries based on international norms. sustainable development. 23 2 ZERO HUNGER Access to Nutrition and Access to Seeds Indexes Sustainalytics developed the methodology, provided 9 industry, Infrastructure innovation & Ranking Digital Rights Corporate Accountability Index Internet and telecommunications companies, software data and scoring, and drafted the reports for the 2016 producers, and device and networking equipment Access to Nutrition Index, released in January 2016 and manufacturers exert growing influence over the political the inaugural Access to Seeds Index, released in February and civil lives of people all over the world. These companies 2016. The Access to Nutrition Index aims to stimulate share a responsibility to respect human rights. In 2015, large food and beverage companies globally to enhance Sustainalytics played a key role in launching the Ranking access to nutrition in developing countries. The Access to Digital Rights Corporate Accountability Index. The index Seeds Index facilitates the discussion on how the seed evaluates 16 of the world’s most powerful Internet and End hunger, achieve food security Build resilient infrastructure, industry can step up its efforts to address hunger in the telecommunications companies on their public and improved nutrition and promote inclusive and least developed areas of the world. commitments and disclosed policies affecting users’ promote sustainable agriculture. sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. freedom of expression and privacy. Sustainalytics was involved in developing the methodology, conducting the 8 decent work & Economic Growth Sustainability Bonds Services | Employment Social Bond Sustainalytics helped numerous issuers develop research, evaluating the companies and writing a report summarising the key findings. frameworks aligned with the Green Bond Principles and provided assurance that the bond proceeds are allocated, managed and reported in a transparent manner. For example, The Instituto de Crédito Oficial (“ICO”), a 11 Sustainable Communities Cities & Sustainability Bonds Services | Sustainable Municipality Bond Sustainalytics provided assurance for BNG Bank’s second Sustainable Municipalities Bond. BNG Bank, a Dutch public Madrid-based Spanish state-owned bank, issued a social sector agency that provides financial services to local bond aimed at small, medium and micro enterprises with authorities and public sector institutions, used a an emphasis on employment creation or employment Promote sustained, inclusive and methodology developed by the Tilburg Sustainability retention in specific economically underperforming sustainable economic growth, full Center of Tilburg University (TSC-Telos) for ranking regions of Spain. Sustainalytics assessed whether and productive employment and municipalities based on their sustainability performance. decent work for all. providing SME loans at favourable terms to promote or Sustainalytics conducted a detailed review of the TSC-Telos retain employment in these regions is likely to support Make cities and human methodology and concluded that the bond proceeds would employment creation or retention, and concluded that it settlements inclusive, safe, be loaned to best-in-class sustainable municipalities in the is highly likely that affordable financing will have a positive resilient and sustainable. Netherlands. We further determined this would encourage impact on SMEs’ operations, and employment creation. other Dutch municipalities to improve their overall sustainability performance. KnowTheChain Benchmark The International Labour Organization estimates that 21 million people around the world are victims of forced labour. In fact, forced labour in the private economy generates USD 150 billion in illegal profits annually. In 13 Climate Action Carbon Solutions Suite Sustainalytics developed a Carbon Solutions suite designed to help clients understand and address their 2015, Sustainalytics played a key role in developing a new portfolio exposure to carbon risks and implement low initiative that focuses on this issue, the KnowTheChain carbon strategies. (KTC) benchmark. Funded by Humanity United, KTC is an online resource to promote greater transparency and Furthermore, the Climate Bond Standards Board made dialogue around the issue of human trafficking and forced Sustainalytics an approved verifier, which authorises labour in supply chains. The pilot project examined the Sustainalytics to assess whether a bond’s assets transparency and disclosure statements of 20 companies meet the Climate Bond Standard’s environmental and Take urgent action to combat across three sectors with regard to forced labour and financial guidelines. climate change and its impacts. human trafficking in their supply chains. Sustainalytics played a lead role in developing the methodology, conducting the research, evaluating the companies and writing a report summarising the key findings. 25 Conflicts of Interest 16 peace, justice & Strong Institutions Global Compact Compliance Service Sustainalytics contributes to the promotion of peaceful Sustainalytics avoids entering into commercial relationships that might jeopardise the company’s integrity and research independence. and inclusive societies for sustainable development through our Global Compact Compliance Service. This service enables investors to identify companies implicated Sustainalytics introduced a global Code of Conduct in 2015. This Code replaced existing in severe, structural breaches of the United Nations Global regional codes and aggregated a variety of policies and procedures. Compact Principles, which are based on international norms. Sustainalytics takes a rights-first approach, which looks at fundamental human rights (as defined by core Promote peaceful and inclusive human rights charters) at risk. Material Issue: Conflicts of Interest societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, 2014 2015 2016 accountable and inclusive KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals institutions at all levels. Code of Conduct Complete Code of Conduct Implement processes Implementation implementation across to ensure 100% of 17 partnerships global operations employees read and ESG and Corporate Governance Research and Analysis sign upon hiring and for the goals During the past 20 years, Sustainalytics has worked with annually thereafter global investors to provide them with ESG research and analysis, enabling them to make more informed and sustainable investment decisions. Over that time, we have seen an increase in transparency among companies in Memberships both developed and emerging markets, improved sustainability performance among many of the companies we track, and an increase in the awareness of the Strengthen the means of importance of sustainability among investors, companies, implementation and revitalize Global charters and principles to which Sustainalytics subscribes: NGOs and civil society. the global partnership for sustainable development. • United Nations backed Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) • Climate Bonds Standards Board—Verified organisation • Green Bonds Principles As a final note, Sustainalytics’ Thematic Research Team produced more than 20 investororiented thematic and sector reports, which highlighted material ESG risks and opportunities alongside broader systemic sustainability challenges, emphasising the need for creative reform. Global initiatives in which Sustainalytics participates: Sustainalytics distributes these reports beyond our normal constituencies, in part to ensure • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) these important issues get in front of decision-makers and market influencers. Finally, Sustainalytics strengthened our relationships throughout the academic community, including a partnership with the UK-based Cass Business School.15 Industry associations and organisations in which Sustainalytics holds a position on the governance body or participates in projects or committees: • The Forum for Sustainable and Responsible Investment in the United States (USSIF): Board member and conference planning committee member • Canadian Responsible Investment Association (RIA): Board member • Network for Business Sustainability (NBS): Board member • Canadian Business for Social Responsibility (CBSR): Board member • Sustainability Network Canada: Board member • Building a Sustainably Investing Community (BASIC): Chair of membership • Council of Institutional Investors (CII): Capital Markets committee member 27 Material Issues: How We Do Things The second area of discussion encompasses those material indicators that inform Sustainalytics’ decisions with respect to managing the company (How We Do Things). As highlighted previously, we firmly believe that it is critical to integrate sustainability parameters into our management decision-making and reporting because it improves our understanding of our business, in addition to being the right thing to do. We have reported on these issues through a Human Capital and Operations framework, focusing on five sustainability themes identified through the materiality assessment process – three under Human Capital (Professional Growth Opportunities, Work-Life Integration, and Equity and Diversity) and two in the Operations category (Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas [GHG] Emissions, and Sustainable Procurement). Material How We Do Things Issues: How We Human Capital Professional Growth Opportunities Do Things Work-Life Integration Equity and Diversity Operations Energy Use and GHG Emissions Sustainable Procurement Human Capital Our ability to attract talented staff, nurture their career development, and provide them with a safe and progressive working environment is a competitive advantage. This is increasingly important as a mainstreaming market needs ESG providers that can provide high quality research, insightful analysis, and timely and meaningful client service. These are the primary reasons that Sustainalytics continues to build its own team of experts globally, as opposed to producing research through a network of partnerships or leveraging outsourcing firms, enabling us to have full control over quality and service. Finally, managing our human capital efficiently is a critical ingredient in the long-term success of Sustainalytics, given that personnel costs represent approximately 79% of our annual cost base. On that front, Sustainalytics had a very successful year, managing expenditures to budget. 29 At year-end Sustainalytics employed 240 people, representing a 20% year-over-year increase. Sustainalytics offers a minimum of two paid study leave days to every employee. The company The vast majority of our staff are permanent, full-time employees, with 5% of employees on pays for CFA accreditation and other industry programmes such as the Claritas Investment fixed-term contracts and 6% working part-time. Certificate and PRI Academy. In 2015, Sustainalytics also offered English language courses, and a coaching and mentoring course for new managers. The Sustainalytics team spanned nine countries – the largest offices being Timisoara, Romania (30% of staff); Toronto, Canada (19%); and our headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (19%).16 Figure 7: Professional Development at Sustainalytics Number of Employees That: Figure 6: Sustainalytics’ Employee Growth Received the Claritas Completed the Passed a Sustainalytics Employees Investment Certificate PRI Academy CFA exam 2 44 7 300 200 100 Employees 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 Work-Life Integration Sustainalytics aims to provide employees with the ability to efficiently manage the ever-shifting boundaries between work and life. Ultimately, a happy, healthy and engaged workforce Professional Growth Opportunities supports employee retention, and leads to greater company performance overall,17 thereby Sustainalytics successfully managed all existing professional development programmes. strengthening our ability to have the greatest impact as a company. Examples of some of our work-life integration practices beyond the standard benefit suite Material Issue: Professional Growth Opportunities offered by a company of our size include: 2014 2015 2016 • Flexible return-to-work practices for employees returning from maternity and parental leaves; KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Training budget as a Maintain existing suite of Maintain existing suite of • Support for employee-initiated transfers to another global office for personal or professional percent of personnel professional development professional development growth opportunities; and costs programmes programmes Education credit • The opportunity for employees working abroad to spend two weeks per year working from Complete annual Complete annual usage performance and career performance and career their home country. Annual performance development reviews for at development reviews for and career least 90% of eligible at least 90% of eligible development reviews employees on time employees on time Work-life integration also means tapping into employees’ motivations for working with a company like Sustainalytics, driven by a desire to have a positive impact through the work they do. To that end, employees were given the opportunity to participate in programmes such as: our annual Sustainalytics’ global appraisal and career progression frameworks support equitable professional Global Volunteer Day;18 Global Clothing Drive; Get Your Green On (discussed in the Operations growth. We firmly believe that transparency is key to retaining, developing and promoting our section); employee exchanges (discussed in the Equity and Diversity section below) and various talented employees over time. In 2015, 94% of eligible employees received an end-of-year social events. Sustainalytics also allocates each employee 2.5 days per year to pursue volunteering performance and career development review (98% in 2014), in line with our goal of 90%. activities. These initiatives aim to connect employees with their passion for sustainability, entrepreneurialism, and desire to be a part of something more than just a workplace. Most employees have 10% of their work plans allocated to learning and development, and are entitled to a €750 training credit per year. In 2015, employees spent on average more than 46 hours on professional development initiatives and used (on average) about 75% of their training credit. More than half of our full-time employees undertook 16 hours or more of training outside of work, an increase of 10% over 2014. 31 Figure 8: Sustainalytics’ Employees by Level and Gender Material Issue: Work-Life Integration Woman Man 2014 2015 2016 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals 2014 Employee Turnover Achieve employee Achieve employee turnover of 10% or less turnover of 10% or less Deliver the company’s first global HR 2015 engagement survey Entry MidAssociate Manager Senior Director Executive Analyse turnover data Level Level Level Manager/ Associate and deliver initiatives Director aimed at reduction within the scope of its influence Material Issue: Equity and Diversity Furthermore, work-life integration means creating an environment where employees feel they can perform consistently at their best, and rewarding them based on the value they provide. 2014 2015 2016 Here too, the successful implementation of our appraisal framework, remuneration structure, KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals and career progression framework is of central importance to employee retention. Employee Exchanges Maintain existing employee Maintain existing exchange programme employee exchange Representation of programme Another key measure of Sustainalytics’ success is employee turnover. Unfortunately, in each of women at senior Introduce new hiring levels of the company processes for senior Introduce procedures for the last two years Sustainalytics’ turnover rate has been above our target. Entry-level positions positions analysing salary increases experienced higher levels of voluntary turnover compared to other roles. One-third of voluntary and promotions by Introduce procedures for gender departures can be attributed to employees making a career change. Moreover, due to the analysing salary increases international character of Sustainalytics, employees working abroad sometimes decide to and promotions by gender Formally launch the women’s professional relocate or move home. Turnover at senior levels was higher in 2015, but remains rare. Formally launch the development programme women’s professional development programme Execute diversity training Whatever the reasons, employee turnover is an area of focus for improvement. Accordingly, for the Human Resources Execute diversity training team Sustainalytics embarked on a comprehensive review of our human resources strategy, for the Human Resources policies, programmes and initiatives—the results of which will inform management team decision-making going forward. Another key measure of diversity and equity is pay ratio by gender. Accordingly, Sustainalytics Equity and Diversity analysed the ratio of the salary of women to men for each employee category by significant It is widely accepted that diversity across a workforce makes for a more successful and locations of operation.20 Due to the limited sample size, we cannot report the results by employee sustainable company.19 Accordingly, Sustainalytics’ focus is on leveraging our cultural and category and location without compromising employee confidentiality, but in aggregate: geographic diversity, and attracting, retaining and advancing the best talent from the largest pool of high-quality candidates as possible. • The ratio of basic salary of women to men at entrythrough manager-level positions was 1:1 (0.99:1 in 2014) 43 Nationalities 36 Languages • The ratio of basic salary of women to men at senior management positions was 0.84:1 (0.81:1) Sustainalytics is a diverse family. In 2015, we represented 43 nationalities and spoke 36 The initial findings of this study reminded us that societal patterns of inequality have the potential languages. At year-end 58% of staff were women, including 40% of senior management (16/37 to perpetuate themselves within our company in the absence of deliberate efforts to mitigate senior positions) and 25% of the executive team (2/8). More specifically, Sustainalytics was close them. In that light, Sustainalytics implemented a number of measures and corresponding goals to achieving its targets for representation of women at senior levels. Approximately 48% of targeted at ensuring gender equity in our hiring and promotion processes. These include: Associate Directors were female (50% target), while 38% of Directors were women (40% target). 33 • Increased scrutiny of hiring processes for senior positions: Sustainalytics reviewed its hiring Figure 9: Total Savings Through Get Your Green On Actions (in USD) processes for senior positions with the goal of increasing the representation of women at 2014 these levels. Following this review, the Human Resources team introduced a new procedure 2015 – with each hire, three members of the executive team are required to sign off that a set of gender considerations were taken at various steps in the recruitment and hiring process. $4,834 / 241,716 lbs • Procedures for analysing salary increases and promotions by gender: We began systematically EMISSIONS $10,762 / 538,110 lbs collecting this data in 2015; and its analysis will be an area of focus in 2016. • Diversity training for the Human Resources team: The first sessions were held in 2015 and more sessions are planned for 2016. $18,990 / 184,347 kWh • Formally launch the women’s professional development programme: The programme’s ENERGY $17,012 / 165,169 kWh official launch was postponed to 2016. Finally, one of the ways in which Sustainalytics actively manages our culturally and geographically $438 / 43,869 gal diverse workforce is through our employee exchange programme. Every year for the last five WATER $2,200 / 220,046 gal years, Sustainalytics has given a select group of employees the opportunity to work in one of our global offices for a period of 3-6 months. In addition to strengthening our global teams and accelerating employee development, the exchanges have fostered rich cross-cultural $13,127 / 3,978 gal experiences from which all participants and host offices have benefited. Furthermore, Sustainalytics transferred five employees within the company to different countries in cases FUEL $58,069 / 17,597 gal where business needs aligned with personal circumstances. Operations $271 / 12,361 lbs Mitigating our environmental footprint through embedding sustainability considerations into WASTE $334 / 15,190 lbs our operations is both strategic and an integral part of who we are. Throughout 2015, Sustainalytics closely monitored the policies and programmes introduced in 2014 to see where adjustments and improvements needed to me made. $37,663 Sustainalytics entered the second year of its Get Your Green On (GYGO) programme, which TOTAL ($) $88,379 leverages an online engagement tool, created by Wespire Inc., that enables our employees to connect through the mission of Sustainalytics on a day-to-day basis. The tool allows Sustainalytics to measure in real-time employees’ impact across a range of issues, including Energy Use and GHG Emissions CO2, water use and paper. Additionally, it created a powerful social platform, connected our Sustainalytics measured and offset Scope 3 GHG emissions related to business and commuter global family in new and dynamic ways, sparked challenging dialogue, and allowed employees travel in 2015.21 These emissions increased by approximately 21% compared to the year before, to learn sustainability habits from one another. in line with employee growth (20%). Managing our carbon footprint going forward will continue to be challenging for Sustainalytics, as we continue to expand globally and experience significant growth in our global client base. Nevertheless, we will review the Sustainable Travel policy to improve communication and data collection, as part of our effort to find creative solutions to minimize our collective impact. 35 To help us calculate, and subsequently offset our emissions associated with business and Material Issue: Energy Use and GHG Emissions commuter travel, Sustainalytics partners with the Swiss-based foundation myclimate. 2014 2015 2016 myclimate worked alongside our internal carbon experts to determine where the company’s KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals climate protection and carbon compensation investment will have the greatest impact. GHG emissions offset Create a structured data Review Sustainable Travel Sustainalytics chose to support CEDESOL, a programme that reduces carbon emissions, collection system to Policy to improve process improves health and reduces stress placed on forestry resources in Bolivia and Paraguay measure energy and guidelines consumption per office by through the replacement of inefficient wood burning stoves with high efficiency rocket stoves end of 2016 Create a system to or solar cookers. measure energy consumption in a pilot office and roll it out globally in 2017 Sustainable Procurement The environmental and social impacts of Sustainalytics’ supply chain are not considered to be As part of the 2014 goal setting process, Sustainalytics set a target of creating a structured data significant; nevertheless, we make efforts to source responsibly. Our Sustainable Procurement collection system to measure energy consumption per office by end of 2016. To ensure that the policy applies to office supplies and services, and food and drink associated with staff functions. data collection system is accurate and robust, Sustainalytics will start to build a system to It has been implemented successfully in all of our offices globally. measure Scope 2 Emissions (water, gas, electricity) using a single office as a pilot and will roll it out globally in 2017.22 Material Issue: Sustainable Procurement Figure 10: GHG Emissions in 2015 (All Offset) 2014 2015 2016 KPI Assessment Goals Assessment Goals Percentage of Maintain policy as Introduce a process eligible purchases implemented and for measuring the % Total: made in accordance expand scope of policy of purchases made in 402.1 with policy in 2016 to cover 100% accordance with the of company purchases policy in a pilot office tonnes of CO2 Maintain policy as implemented and expand offset in 2015 scope of policy in 2016 to cover 100% of company purchases Figure 11: Sustainalytics’ Supply Chain Personnel Non-Personnel 2.0 293.9 33.3 72.9 Payroll administrators Real estate rented for offices Recruitment and professional development services Office maintenance, security and cleaning services tonnes of CO2 tonnes of CO2 tonnes of CO2 tonnes of CO2 Social securities and benefit providers Banking financial services Train Flights Car Public Pension providers Transport Marketing services Business Travel Commuting Office furniture, food and supplies providers Insurance providers Research license providers Research partners IT services Travel service providers Legal services 37 What’s Next? In addition to measuring the key indicators highlighted in this report, Sustainalytics will continue to focus on embedding sustainability metrics more effectively into our strategic decision-making and management reporting systems. Sustainalytics will build on its commitment not only to measure and manage these issues, but also to report more effectively to our stakeholders. Material Issues 2016 Goals Metrics What We Do: Products 1. Product and Service Quality Continue to support improvements to the Revenues QMS process New Sales Achieve internal KPIs Profitability Core Cash Creation 2. Client Satisfaction and Introduce Client Retention Rate Retention 3. Product and Service Innovation Introduce Product Innovation Process Innovation 4. Impact on Clients Introduce Impact framework development 5. Conflicts of Interest Introduce Code of Conduct implementation What’s How We Do Things: Human Capital 6. Professional Growth Maintain existing suite of professional Training budget as a percent of Next? Opportunities development programmes personnel costs Complete annual performance and career Education credit usage development reviews for at least 90% of Annual performance and career eligible employees on time development reviews 7. Work-Life Integration Achieve employee turnover of 10% or less Employee Turnover Deliver the company’s first global HR engagement survey Analyse turnover data and deliver initiatives aimed at reduction within the scope of its influence 8. Equity and Diversity Maintain existing employee exchange Employee Exchanges programme Representation of women at Introduce procedures for analysing salary senior levels of the company increases and promotions by gender Formally launch the women’s professional development programme Execute diversity training for the Human Resources team How We Do Things: Operations 9. Energy Use and GHG Emissions Review Sustainable Travel Policy to GHG emissions offset improve process and guidelines Create a system to measure energy consumption in a pilot office and roll it out globally in 2017 10. Sustainable Procurement Introduce and process for measuring the Percentage of eligible purchases % of purchases made in accordance with made in accordance with policy the policy in a pilot office Maintain policy as implemented and expand scope of policy in 2016 to cover 100% of company purchases 39 Appendix The table below lists all of our material issues and the corresponding GRI material aspect. Each material aspect is relevant to all entities included in our consolidated financial statements. While defining the content for this report we did not recognise regional differences. Material Issues Why Is It Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Material? Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Aspect Indicator Key Interested Stakeholders Product and Providing products None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Service Quality that deliver None identified Clients informative ESG insights underpins Prospects our growth as a firm and allows us to push towards our vision and mission. Client Satisfaction Our ability to retain None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL and Retention clients is imperative & INTERNAL None identified for Sustainalytics to Employees continue to be a successful business, Shareholders serving the Clients Appendix responsible Prospects investment industry. Product and Service Sustainalytics’ None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL Innovation long-term success None identified Clients depends, in part, on our ability to Prospects innovate and deliver more sophisticated products to our clients to meet their needs. Impact on Clients Enhancing and None identified G4-DMA EXTERNAL gaining a better None identified Clients understanding of our impact is a long-term Prospects objective. Financial services sector 41 Material Issues Why Is It Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Material Issues Why Is It Corresponding Corresponding Issue Boundary Material? Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Material? Material GRI Material GRI Of Impact & Aspect Indicator Key Interested Aspect Indicator Key Interested Stakeholders Stakeholders Conflicts of Interest Sustainalytics has Governance G4-DMA INTERNAL Equity and Diversity Diversity across a Equal Remuneration G4-DMA INTERNAL built strong workforce makes for for Men & Women G4-56 Employees G4-LA13 Employees relationships with a more successful our stakeholders by Senior management and sustainable Senior management providing Board company. outstanding Accordingly, it is products and Shareholders critical that service, and doing Sustainalytics has business according access to a large to the highest ethical pool of high quality standards, wherever candidates so that it we operate and can attract and whatever the retain the best situation. Our talent. commitment to Energy Use and Our commitment to Emissions G4-DMA EXTERNAL principles such as & INTERNAL GHG Emissions sustainable business of fairness, honesty, G4-EN15 practices allows us The environment independence, to manage our integrity, and Employees reputational risk, it transparency differentiates us Senior management underpin our from some of our decisions and competitors, it actions. enhances our brand Professional Growth As a knowledgeTraining & Education G4-DMA INTERNAL reputation globally Opportunities based organisation, across a range of G4-LA9 Employees nurturing stakeholder groups, professional growth Senior management and it assists in the and keeping our recruitment and employees retention of talented challenged and staff. motivated is Sustainable Our commitment to Procurement G4-DMA EXTERNAL paramount to our & INTERNAL Procurement sustainable business Practices success as an None identified practices allows us The environment organisation. to manage our Work-Life Work-life integration Employment G4-DMA INTERNAL reputational risk, it Employees Integration means creating an differentiates us Senior management G4-LA1 Employees environment where from some of our employees feel they Senior management competitors, it can perform enhances our brand consistently at their reputation globally best. This, together across a range of with nurturing stakeholder groups, professional growth, and it assists in the is key to recruiting recruitment and and retaining top retention of talented talent. staff. 43 GRI G4 Index for “In Accordance” Core General Standard Disclosures General Description Page Omissions Standard Number/Location Disclosures Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decisionPg. 8 maker of the organisation Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the organisation Report Cover G4-4 Primary brands products and services sustainalytics.com/solutions G4-5 Location of company’s headquarters Pg. 5 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation Pg. 5 operates, and names of countries where GRI G4 either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Index for “In G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Pg. 5 G4-8 Markets served Pg. 5 Accordance G4-9 Scale of the organisation Pg. 5 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment Pg. 30 & 33 type, employment contract, and region, sustainalytics.com/team Core” broken down by gender G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by Pg. 50 (Endnotes) collective bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Pg. 37 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting Pg. 5 period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary Pg. 27 approach or principle is addressed by the organisation G4-15 Externally developed economic, Pg. 27 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as Pg. 27 industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organisation’s Pg. 49 (Endnotes) consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents including indication which of these are not covered by the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Pg. 13 the Aspect Boundaries 45 General Description Page Omissions Standard Number/Location Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosures Material Aspects & Boundaries Material Issue GRI Material Aspect Performance Indicator Omissions G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for Pg. 15 defining report content Products G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organisation for Pg. 41 Product and None identified Revenues each material aspect Service Quality New Sales G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organisation for Pg. 41 Profitability each material aspect Core Cash Creation G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Pg. 51 (Endnotes) Pg. 19 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements Client Satisfaction None identified Client Retention Rate and Retention G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting No changes Pg. 21 periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Product and None identified Product Innovation Stakeholder Engagement Service Innovation Process Innovation G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged Pg. 13 Pg. 22 by the organisation Impact on Clients None identified Impact framework G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Pg. 13 stakeholders with whom to engage Pg. 23 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Pg. 14 Conflicts of Interest Ethics & Integrity Code of Conduct implementation including frequency of engagement by type G4-56: Organisation’s values, principles, and by stakeholder group, and an indication standards and norms of behavior such as of whether any of the engagement was codes of conduct and codes of ethics undertaken specifically as part of the report Pg. 27 preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Pg. 14 Human Capital through stakeholder engagement, and how Professional Training & Education Training budget as a percent of personnel costs the organisation has responded to those key Growth Education credit usage topics and concerns, including through Opportunities its reporting Annual performance and career development reviews Report Profile G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar Pg. 7 employee by gender, and by employee year) for information provided category G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Pg. 7 Pg. 30 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Pg. 7 Work-Life Employment Employee Turnover G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the Pg. 49 (Endnotes) Integration G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new report or its contents employee hires and employee turnover by age G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen for the report Pg. 7 group, gender and region G4-33 Organisation’s policy and current practice Pg. 7 Pg. 32 with regard to seeking external assurance for Equity & Diversity Scale of the organisation Representation of women at senior levels of the report the company Governance Employee Exchanges G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation, Pg. 5 & 49 (Endnotes) G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and including committees of the highest remuneration of women to men by employee governance body. Identify any committees category, by significant locations of operation responsible for decision-making on economic, Pg. 33 environmental and social impacts Operations Ethics & Integrity Energy Use and Emissions GHG emissions offset G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards Pg. 4 & 27 GHG Emissions and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) conduct and codes of ethics emissions (Scope 3) Pg. 35 Sustainable None identified Percentage of eligible purchases made in Procurement accordance with policy Pg. 37 47 Endnotes 1 All entities are covered in this report. 2 For more information refer to http://www.sustainalytics.com/team or http://www.sustainalytics.com/about-us 3 Excluded from this total and other metrics are 14 FTE interns who were employed at Sustainalytics in 2015. 4 Includes recurring and one-off clients 5 Sustainalytics issued an internal Sustainability report based on our performance over the year ending December 31, 2013. This report was made available only to employees, board members and shareholders. The internal report was not prepared in accordance with GRI G4 reporting guidelines. 6 Sustainalytics is committed to performing a full materiality assessment on a biennial basis. 7 For questions regarding this report or its contents, please contact: Arushi Acharya, Endnotes arushi.acharya@sustainalytics.com 8 The Sustainability Working Group, a cross-functional committee that includes Sustainalytics’ CEO, is responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts. 9 A full transcript of the speech is available at http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/publications/Pages/speeches/2015/844.aspx 10 The Employee Retirement Income Security Act, also known as ERISA, was enacted in 1974 and sets the minimum standards for private pension plans. More information about the guidance is available at https://www.dol.gov/opa/media/press/ebsa/EBSA20152045.htm 11 A description of Sustainalytics’ products and services is available at http://www.sustainalytics.com/solutions 12 See Sustainalytics’ Quality Management Policy 49 13 S ustainalytics collaborates with other stakeholders to support broad-based industry 18 For more information, see http://www.sustainalytics.com/global-volunteer-day initiatives in support of our mission. We are a member of a variety of global and regionallyfocused industry organisations to help advance ESG and sustainability agendas. 19 See, for example: Credit Suisse, The CS Gender 3000: Women in Senior Management; Sustainalytics does not provide any form of funding to any of these organisations Forbes, Fostering Innovation Through a Diverse Workforce; J. M. Hoobler, C. R. Masterson, beyond routine membership fees S. N. Nkomo, E. J. Michel, The Business Case for Women Leaders: Meta-Analysis, Research Critique, and Path Forward; Samantha C. Paustian-Underdahl, Lisa Slattery Walker, and 14 In 2015, the 193 countries of the UN General Assembly adopted the 2030 Development David J.Woehr, Gender and perceptions of leadership effectiveness: A meta-analysis of Agenda, which includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They are contextual moderators; and Orlando C. Richard, Racial Diversity, Business Strategy, and Goal 1: End poverty in all its forms everywhere Goal 11: Make cities and human settlements Firm Performance: A Resource-Based View. McKinsey, A CEO’s guide to Gender Equality; inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable McKinsey, Why Diversity Matters Goal 2: End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote Goal 12: Ensure sustainable consumption sustainable agriculture and production patterns 20 Includes: Amsterdam, Boston, Bucharest, Frankfurt, Paris, Timisoara, and Toronto. Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote Goal 13: Take urgent action to combat Employee groups were excluded due to their small size, incomparable remuneration well-being for all at all ages climate change and its impacts* frameworks, and/or absence of either women or men from the group. The resulting Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use sample group represents 69% of employees. education and promote lifelong learning the oceans, seas and marine resources opportunities for all for sustainable development 21 Sustainalytics reported that in 2014, emissions from commuter travel in 2014 were offset. Goal 5: Achieve gender equality and empower Goal 15: Protect, restore and promote Due to a gap in the methodology, emission from commuter travel were not offset in their all women and girls sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat entirety. The methodology was revised and all emissions from commuter travel were offset Goal 6: Ensure availability and sustainable desertification, and halt and reverse land for 2015. Each year, Sustainalytics offsets an additional percentage to account for error in management of water and sanitation for all degradation and halt biodiversity loss data collection. Goal 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, Goal 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive sustainable and modern energy for all societies for sustainable development, 22 In the 2014 Sustainability report, Sustainalytics stated that it would expand its Scope 3 Goal 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive Emissions data collection system to include transport, purchased materials, product sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all institutions at all levels use and waste management. After consulting internal experts, it was decided that these Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote Goal 17: Strengthen the means of aspects of scope 3 emissions are not highly material to an office-based organisation inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and implementation and revitalise the global like Sustainalytics. foster innovation partnership for sustainable development Goal 10: Reduce inequality within and among countries 15 http://www.sustainalytics.com/sustainalytics-academic-programme 16 E mployees in Romania and France (43%) are represented by collective bargaining agreements. 17 S ee, for example: Gallup Inc., The State of the American Workplace: Employee Engagement Insights for U.S. Business Leaders, Financial Times, Happy workplaces help companies perform better; Association of Accounting Technicians (AAT), Britain’s workers value companionship and recognition over a big salary, a recent report revealed; Harvard Business Review, Proof That Positive Work Cultures Are More Productive 51
