2016 GLOBAL CITIZENSHIP REPORT INTRODUCTION  2 INTRODUCTION This report covers Citi’s corporate citizenship activities and performance for the calendar year 2016. The report provides progress updates for key areas of our citizenship efforts across our business units and operations and focuses on issues we determined to be of greatest importance through a materiality assessment process conducted in 2015 (see page 8). This report was prepared in accordance with the G4 Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, we used the United Nations (UN) Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frameworks to guide our reporting. Index tables indicating where we have addressed components for each of these three frameworks can be found at the end of this report (see pages 85–99). This report supplements information published in our 2016 Annual Report. Additional information about Citi can be found on our website. All reporting and performance data are limited to information for the owned and operated facilities of Citigroup Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless stated otherwise. For more information on Citi’s citizenship initiatives and how Citi is responding to challenges around the world, please visit citi.com/citizenship or contact: GLOBAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS CITIGROUP INC. 388 GREENWICH STREET NEW YORK, NY 10013 CITIZENSHIP@CITI.COM INTRODUCTION  3 INTRODUCTION 4 CEO LETTER  5 OUR MISSION AND VALUE PROPOSITION  6 CITI AT A GLANCE  7 CITIZENSHIP APPROACH  HOW WE DO BUSINESS 17 CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE  23 CONSUMER AND CLIENT PROTECTION  27 TALENT AND DIVERSITY  34 CONTENTS HUMAN RIGHTS  40 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT  49 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN  SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT 62 ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE  69 INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES  78 FINANCIAL RESILIENCE  INDEXES AND ASSURANCE 85 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX 93 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 95 UNITED NATIONS GUIDING PRINCIPLES REPORTING FRAMEWORK INDEX 100 ASSURANCE INTRODUCTION  4 CEO LETTER For many reasons, 2016 was a year that few of us are likely to forget anytime soon. Uncertainty, change and anger were all defining characteristics of 2016, but if I had to summarize the year in a word, it would be AGAINST. Against the status quo, against long-serving leaders, and against any perceived threats to what people in many places had long considered a predictable and secure future. While the sources and multiple manifestations of this mood are being analyzed by many, at Citi we think the more important area of focus is: What do we, and should we, stand FOR ? As a company with clients in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions and with more than 200 million customer accounts worldwide, what we stand for is informed by many things. First and foremost, we’re guided by our mission to responsibly provide financial services that enable growth and progress. As part of that mission, we ask ourselves how our own actions and behaviors exemplify what we stand for. Do we hold ourselves to the highest ethical and business standards? What do we do on a daily basis to meet and live up to those standards? And, importantly, what do we do when we fall short? Those are the big questions that the first section of this report, HOW WE DO BUSINESS , addresses. It makes clear that Citi stands for diversity in the workplace, requiring our colleagues to adhere to the highest ethical standards, running our operations in an environmentally friendly manner and safeguarding our clients’ privacy. In pursuit of our mission, we also ask ourselves how the work we do with our clients and in our communities around the world demonstrates what we stand for. The efforts detailed in the SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT section are indicative of the many ways we can and do have a positive financial and social impact in the communities we serve. They demonstrate that Citi stands for building inclusive cities, working with governments on critical infrastructure projects and financing solutions that protect against climate change. When I think about the sense of uncertainty that permeates the world today, I grow only more committed to identifying and taking action on issues where Citi can use our global scale and expertise to make meaningful contributions. And while we don’t have all the answers and can’t solve every problem, we can and do stand FOR progress and will continue to do our part to conceive of and contribute to solutions that address some of society’s most daunting challenges. MICHAEL L. CORBAT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CITIGROUP INC. INTRODUCTION  5 OUR MISSION AND VALUE PROPOSITION: ENABLING GROWTH AND PROGRESS Citi’s Mission and Value Citi’s mission is to serve as a trusted These capabilities create an obligation partner to our clients by responsibly to act responsibly, do everything Proposition defines who we are providing financial services that enable possible to create the best outcomes as a company and guides every growth and economic progress. Our and prudently manage risk. If we fall decision across our business. core activities are safeguarding assets, short, we will take decisive action The mission is not unique lending money, making payments and and learn from our experience. accessing the capital markets on behalf to our citizenship activities. of our clients. We have 200 years of We strive to earn and maintain the Rather, it applies to our entire experience helping our clients meet public’s trust by constantly adhering to business, and everyone — from the world’s toughest challenges and the highest ethical standards. We ask our our Board of Directors to embrace its greatest opportunities. We colleagues to ensure that their decisions are Citi, the global bank — an institution pass three tests: they are in our clients’ each of our nearly 220,000 connecting millions of people across interests, create economic value and employees around the world — hundreds of countries and cities. are always systemically responsible. is responsible for executing it When we do these things well, we make on a daily basis. What You Can Expect From Us a positive financial and social impact in and What We Expect From Ourselves the communities we serve and show We protect people’s savings and help what a global bank can do. In this report, we intend to them make the purchases — from illustrate how our core activities everyday transactions to buying a help solve the world’s toughest home — that improve the quality of challenges and embrace its their lives. We advise people on how to invest for future needs, such as greatest opportunities — a key their children’s education and their tenet of the mission. And where own retirement, and help them buy we fall short, we will learn securities such as stocks and bonds. and plan a stronger and more We work with companies to optimize effective course for the future their daily operations, whether they as we continue to revise and need working capital, to make payroll strengthen our approach to or export their goods overseas. By corporate citizenship across lending to companies large and small, we help them grow, creating jobs and the company. real economic value at home and in communities around the world. We provide financing and support to governments at all levels, so they can build sustainable infrastructure, such as housing, transportation, schools and other vital public works. INTRODUCTION  6 CITI AT A GLANCE We are the global bank — an institution connecting millions of people through our core businesses Approximately Conduct Nearly Approximately 14,000 business in more than 220,000 EMPLOYEES 200 MILLION INSTITUTIONAL 160 COUNTRIES customer accounts globally client relationships and jurisdictions Core Businesses GLOBAL CONSUMER BANK INSTITUTIONAL CLIENTS GROUP Traditional banking services for Banking products and services for consumers and small businesses as corporate, institutional, public-sector and well as Citi-branded credit cards high-net-worth clients around the world Approach RESPONSIBLY PROVIDE SERVE AS A CREATE FINANCIAL SERVICES TRUSTED PARTNER ECONOMIC VALUE Impact DRIVING STRENGTHENING EMPLOYMENT SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION COMMERCE COMMUNITIES SOLUTIONS INTRODUCTION   7 CITIZENSHIP APPROACH Our approach to citizenship at Citi continues to evolve as we work to further embed it across the breadth and depth of our core businesses, rather than treat it as a separate silo within the company. We continue to take key steps toward this more thorough, integrated and effective approach. INTRODUCTION  8 CITI IN A GLOBAL CONTEXT: This approach to citizenship issues — PURPOSEFUL SOLUTIONS FOR thinking about Citi’s impact on clients SOCIETAL PROGRESS and customers and society — allows Our citizenship efforts and priorities us to embrace the complexity and across the company are continuously interconnectedness of our most informed by the wider societal context material issues. We don’t have all the around us. In 2015, we conducted a answers, but we continue to evolve materiality assessment, which provided our approach to citizenship and us with detailed data and stakeholder set ambitious goals that our global feedback on our key issues (see reach can allow us to influence. materiality matrix below). This informed and reinforced our priorities, ensuring GRI indicators: we continue to focus on the most G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 relevant issues for Citi’s stakeholders For more detailed information on and our firm. In particular, this analysis our materiality assessment and helped us to identify which issues are matrix of material issues, please most important to our business and see www.citigroup.com/citi/about/ operations, which are of most relevance citizenship/strategy.html to our customers and clients and which broader societal trends matter most to us and our stakeholders. Our Material Issues PRIORITY AREAS Financial Inclusion & Access Ethical Conduct Risk Behavior & Culture Systemic Risk Transparency & Accountability IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Impact of Operations Climate Change Data Security & Privacy on Communities Consumer Protection Diversity & Equal Opportunity Human Rights Environmental & Social Risks Regulatory Reform Environmental Finance Products Taxes Social Finance Products Energy & Emissions Board Structure Client Satisfaction & Resource Use & Waste Employee Engagement Quality of Advice Responsible Sourcing Employee Health & Wellness Talent Attraction Strategic Philanthropy Executive Compensation Talent Development & Retention Volunteerism Political Involvement INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS INTRODUCTION  9 Citi and the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the 193 Member Proposition, are aligned with these To highlight specific ways Citi States of the United Nations adopted goals. Access to financing will be key, can contribute to achieving the the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable and Citi, as a global institution that SDGs, throughout this report we Development, including the Sustainable connects governments, businesses explore in greater detail several Development Goals (SDGs). This set of and civil society with capital markets, examples in which our activities 17 universal goals calls on all nations recognizes that we have an important are directly contributing to to end poverty, protect the planet and role to play in financing the SDGs. specific SDGs, including: ensure prosperity for all. These goals build upon the Millennium Development The United Nations estimates that Goals but go further in scope, addressing developing countries will face an the full range of society’s economic, annual investment gap of $2.5 trillion social and environmental needs. over the lifetime of the SDGs. Citi’s 200 years of experience meeting the The corporate sector will play a world’s toughest challenges through PAGE 63 PAGE 84 critical role in achieving the SDGs. innovative financing solutions becomes Citi’s business efforts and values, as even more relevant in closing this gap. articulated in our Mission and Value PAGE 71 PAGE 74 PAGE 63 PAGE 79 INTRODUCTION  10 CITIZENSHIP GOVERNANCE AT CITI executives in our Institutional Clients Governance is an important overall Group (ICG) and includes executives principle at Citi, and it forms the from Banking, Risk, Public Affairs, basis of several key structures within Operations, Corporate Sustainability our organization. For information and Environmental and Social Risk on corporate governance at Citi, Management (ESRM). Council meetings please see the Conduct, Culture and are held approximately three times Governance section. On this page, annually. Citi also has a cross-functional we describe the governance structures Climate and Sustainability Council, guiding our Corporate Citizenship based in London, focused specifically and Sustainability functions. on our sustainability performance in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region. The Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Citi Citi’s Corporate Sustainability team Board of Directors oversees Citizenship works in partnership with our businesses The Lowline Lab, on the Lower East Side of New York City, activities. Committee responsibilities to lead and implement our our served as a testing ground for technology to grow and sustain include reviewing our policies and Sustainable Progress Strategy globally. plants underground, mimicking the conditions of a historic programs for sustainability, climate Citi’s ESRM Policy is managed by the trolley terminal that the Lowline hopes to transform into an change, human rights and other ESRM team, which works closely with underground park. Citi was a founding sponsor of the Lab. material issues, as well as advising ESRM specialists in our Commercial on engagement with major external Bank and regional ESRM Champions. stakeholders. For more information Our Corporate Realty Services group on the roles and responsibilities of also has a specialized sustainability Citi’s Nomination, Governance and team that manages our environmental Public Affairs Committee, download footprint and green building goals, our Nomination, Governance and and our Enterprise Supply Chain team Public Affairs Committee Charter. oversees supply chain sustainability. These specialized teams sit within At the senior executive level, Corporate their respective business units, Citizenship at Citi is led by the ensuring ownership of sustainability Director of Corporate Citizenship and goals throughout the company. President of the Citi Foundation. The Director provides progress reports REPORTING ON OUR MISSION to the Nomination, Governance and Citi is committed to continual Public Affairs Committee at least improvement in our transparency and annually on issues, trends and results disclosure. We use widely adopted pertaining to the company’s most reporting frameworks such as the GRI G4 material citizenship and sustainability Guidelines and the UN Global Compact issues. The Director collaborates with to guide our citizenship reporting, a range of senior leaders to enable and we monitor the development of the development and implementation new reporting trends and initiatives of goals and programs that generate to inform our reporting. For example, a positive impact on society. after following the development of the UN Guiding Principles on Business Sustainability Governance and Human Rights and the associated Citi has an Environmental and Social reporting framework, we have Advisory Council that provides guidance implemented that framework to improve on environmental and social issues our human rights transparency this year. related to global business activities, Two other major reporting initiatives including advising on our ambitious that we continue to follow closely are the Sustainable Progress Strategy. Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on The council is co-chaired by senior Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s Standards. The TCFD’s final recommendations are expected this summer, and we will consider how they could help guide our reporting on climate change risks in the future. INTRODUCTION  11 Citizenship Performance Highlights CONDUCT, CULTURE CONSUMER AND AND GOVERNANCE CLIENT PROTECTION TALENT AND DIVERSITY More than 20,000 employees More than 119,000 employees More than 54,000 employees completed in-person and virtual globally completed annual training participated in the pilot phase of the LEADERSHIP MATTERS: on TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE IT STARTS WITH US training training on unconscious bias EXPANDED BIOMETRIC Implemented our CONDUCT RISK AUTHENTICATION across various More than 17,000 employees PROGRAM across multiple Citi products, and implemented used formal FLEXIBLE WORK businesses in approximately voice biometric authentication ARRANGEMENTS 44 COUNTRIES in customer service centers in multiple countries The Diversity Index, which measures More than 197,000 FOUR KEY METRICS OF DIVERSITY employees have completed in the workplace as part of our ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, annual Voice of the Employee SANCTIONS AND ANTI-BRIBERY Survey, continues at AND CORRUPTION training 81% FAVORABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL AND HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN JOINED SHIFT’S BUSINESS REDUCED OUR CREDIT EXPOSURE Nearly 2,400 suppliers have LEARNING PROGRAM to coal through the first full year completed our CORPORATE Shift is the leading center of of implementation of our RESPONSIBILITY QUESTIONNAIRE expertise on the UN Guiding COAL MINING STANDARD since it was established in 2013 Principles on Business and Human Rights Addressed fire prevention REDUCED ABSOLUTE GHG EMISSIONS practices of PALM OIL CLIENTS BY 28% towards our 2020 goal SCORED 100% on the Human Rights to assess alignment with industry Campaign’s Corporate Equality best practice by updating our Index annually since 2004 DUE DILIGENCE QUESTIONNAIRES Expanded our LEED-CERTIFIED real estate portfolio to 20% Piloted an ESRM Watchlist process to provide an EARLY WARNING SYSTEM on clients and transactions that may pose heightened ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL OR REPUTATIONAL RISK INTRODUCTION  12 Citizenship Performance Highlights (cont.) ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES FINANCIAL RESILIENCE FINANCED & FACILITATED $26.3 B Launched the Launched CITIBANAMEX FINANCIAL as part of our $100 Billion CITI FOUNDATION COMMUNITY INCLUSION, a unit dedicated to Environmental Finance Goal PROGRESS MAKERS FUND, broadening access to affordable a two-year, $20 M initiative to and appropriate financial products support local organizations in Mexico, as part of our new Faciliated working to build more $1 B investment in Citibanamex $5.9 B IN GREEN BONDS sustainable cities in the U.S. for environmentally responsible projects Piloted the Citi ATM Community RANKED TOP U.S. AFFORDABLE Network, providing FREE USE OF HOUSING LENDER FOR THE 7TH YEAR CITI’S ATM NETWORK to over Financed FIRST-OF-ITS-KIND Financed $5.75 B of affordable 300,000 CLIENTS of participating PROJECTS like the Block Island housing, totaling nearly minority-owned banks and credit Wind Farm Project, the first 50,000 units unions in the U.S. OFFSHORE WIND FARM in the U.S. INCREASED SMALL BUSINESS LENDING Met our Citi Foundation Pathways in the U.S. to more than $11 B, to Progress goal to invest raising lending over the last $50 M AND REACH 100,000 YOUTH five years to nearly $50 billion with training, leadership and entrepreneurship opportunities INTRODUCTION  13 Asking, Listening, Sharing STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AT CITI Citi, along with industry leaders One of the most important ways we fulfill and regulators, participated in the our mission to be a trusted partner to Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s our clients is by constantly engaging with workshop focused on improving the a wide array of stakeholders to share culture and behavior of employees our expertise and perspectives and gain in the financial services industry. their input and insights. We also engage We also agreed to join six leading regularly with relevant media outlets financial institutions and a range of and through social media, in response stakeholders in a one-day symposium to direct queries or as a proactive effort — the start of an ongoing dialogue — to share announcements, updates and regarding the dynamics and impacts information about Citi activities. of culture at financial institutions. With some stakeholders, we actively GRI indicators: engage on a range of issues through G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 formal stakeholder dialogues at least once per year. For others, we engage in For more information on our recent a more targeted manner on a particular stakeholder engagement efforts, issue or as part of a specific initiative. please see the table on the next page. We have long-standing relationships with leaders on environmental and social issues from whom we seek feedback. Annually, we review our relationships to identify any gaps and consider potential new partners that would be valuable stakeholders for the company and inform our citizenship approach. We value the input our stakeholders provide and take action to address their concerns. A panel with representatives from other large companies sharing best practices on diversity in the workplace, including gender. INTRODUCTION  14 Stakeholder Engagement Efforts STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE EXAMPLES FROM 2016 Investors In-person meetings, conference calls, events Members of the Board, senior management and the Legal department engaged with Investor Relations website and email investors on a range of topics, including compensation and governance Annual Report, Proxy Statement, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings Met with socially responsible investors to discuss corporate governance, data privacy, ethics and conduct, climate change and environmental and social risks Citi senior executives presented at a number of industry conferences for investors and peers Government and Regulators Interact with elected officials, policymakers Participated on the Consumer Financial and regulators through in-person meetings, Protection Bureau’s Advisory Board conference calls, lobbying activities, industry associations, public policy forums, press Participated on the Economic Inclusion conferences, conferences and convenings Committee of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Senior Citi executives serve on government councils and committees Hosted forums with mayors around the world to discuss development, inclusion and climate change issues Citi’s CEO participated in 89 meetings with regulators, central bankers and government officials from the U.S. and other countries Board members and senior management engaged regularly with international, federal, state and local government and regulators Suppliers In-person meetings, calls, conferences Successfully rolled out the CRQ in additional and workshops countries across all our operational regions, bringing the total to nearly 100 countries Corporate Responsibility Questionnaire (CRQ) Hosted several supplier summits, during which we offered training on the CRQ to both new and established suppliers Community Leaders In-person meetings, conference calls, email, Served on the board of the UN Global Compact and Nongovernmental social media, events U.S. Network Organizations (NGOs) Citizenship, Community Development and Joined Shift’s Business Learning Program Citi Foundation websites to build capacity and receive guidance and expertise related to implementation of the Collaboration with NGOs on issues relevant UN Guiding Principles on Business and to their organizations and our business Human Rights Continued to serve as a founding member of the Asset Building Policy Network, a coalition of the leading civil rights and advocacy organizations in the U.S. committed to coordinating savings, asset-building policy and advocacy at a national level Engaged community leaders and NGOs at Citi Foundation events, including our Pathways to Progress, City Accelerator and Sustainable Cities Initiative gatherings INTRODUCTION  15 Stakeholder Engagement Efforts (cont.) STAKEHOLDER GROUP HOW WE ENGAGE EXAMPLES FROM 2016 Employees Communications via our company intranet, 88% of employees participated in our annual email, mail and in-person meetings Voice of the Employee Survey, and overall satisfaction levels remained steady at 76% Voice of the Employee Survey More than 90,000 employees and friends Trainings (in person and online) participated in 1,400+ events across 91 countries and territories and 500+ cities for Global Participation in Employee Networks, Community Day volunteer councils and Green Teams 15,000 employees participated in 140 Employee Performance reviews Networks, and 1,100 participated in 17 Green Teams globally Clients & Customers Meetings with key clients Citi FinTech engaged approximately 2,500 clients in testing and providing feedback on Social media, including Customer Service mobile app enhancements Twitter handles (@AskCiti) Citi’s CEO held an average of 39 client meetings Application of Equator Principles and our per month in cities around the world Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy to client transactions Used customer surveys to assess utility of newly introduced personalized videos outlining Customer satisfaction surveys value proposition and benefits for U.S. credit card customers Cooperative participation in sustainability organizations Other Financial In-person meetings, conference calls Member of the Green Bond Principles, Institutions including its Social Bond Working Group, Engagement through industry groups, and worked on the release of the Guidance roundtables, workshops and events for Issuers of Social Bonds document Member of the UN Environment Programme’s Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and partner with other members on Banking Committee projects. In 2016, jointly piloted UNEP FI’s Drought Stress Test tool with the National Capital Finance Alliance HOW WE DO BUSINESS  16 HOW WE DO BUSINESS Responsible business practices are not only the backbone of our company’s success, but imperative to protecting the broader financial system and the communities in which we live and work. It starts with a culture of ethics and integrity delivered by a diverse, skilled workforce committed to serving our clients. Whether we are protecting our customers’ privacy, respecting human rights, engaging with our suppliers or assessing and addressing the environmental and social risks of the projects we finance, our goal is always to earn our customers’ trust through responsible, ethical practices. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  17 CONDUCT, CULTURE AND GOVERNANCE In Citi’s Mission and Value Proposition, we state that we strive to earn and maintain public trust by constantly adhering to the highest ethical standards. We include this phrase because we acknowledge that there is work to be done, that 2016 HIGHLIGHTS our efforts need to be continuous and that even one mistake can undermine trust in our business and our industry overall. Earning trust is hard — rightly so. But we are committed — from our Board of Directors and senior management to each of our More than 20,000 employees around the world — to working at it each day. It’s what we need to do to be successful as a company, and it is at the center of all of our decisions and actions. ETHICS GOVERNANCE The Ethics and Culture Committee, a standing committee of the Citi Board of Directors employees completed in-person that was established in 2014, oversees Citi’s efforts to reinforce and enhance a culture and virtual LEADERSHIP MATTERS: of ethics throughout the firm. IT STARTS WITH US training Implemented our CONDUCT RISK PROGRAM across multiple businesses in approximately 44 COUNTRIES More than 197,000 employees have completed ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING, SANCTIONS AND ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION training HOW WE DO BUSINESS  18 INDUSTRY COLLABORATION Citi is also a member firm of the Improving bank culture is not an end Banking Standards Board (BSB) in the in itself. It is a means of ensuring that United Kingdom. Together with over 30 banks fulfill their public responsibility member firms, Citi supports the BSB’s to serve the broader economy. If banks independent role to help rebuild trust — and the people who work at banks — and confidence across the U.K. banking are not trusted, consumers, companies industry by promoting high ethical and and governments won’t want to do professional standards for behavior and business with us, which would prevent competence. We remain engaged with us from effectively performing our the BSB directly through Citi’s U.K. senior critical financial intermediation role. management. James Bardrick, Citi’s Chief Country Officer for the U.K., has been a Improving bank culture also impacts BSB Board member since its inception. the long-term viability of the industry because it directly affects the acquisition REINFORCING CONDUCT and retention of top talent. The best AND CULTURE AT CITI and brightest — future leaders — will Embedding values requires time, senior not want to work in an industry if it leaders who serve as role models is best known for its ethical failures CITI'S MISSION AND VALUE and advocates, clear and consistent rather than the value it provides to PROPOSITION VIDEO, communications, and forums that allow featuring Citi CEO Mike Corbat, the broader economy and society. for candid exchange, learning and is the most viewed video in development. To promote ethical conduct company history We recognize this, which is why we and enhance Citi’s culture, we focus have made a concerted effort to on both empowering individuals and partner with key stakeholders on creating firmwide policies and programs MORE THAN 20,000 EMPLOYEES ways that we can collectively improve that embed our values throughout completed in-person and virtual culture in the banking industry. the organization. Over the past year, Leadership Matters: It Starts we have focused on reaffirming our with Us training, which focuses For example, Citi, along with industry values and delving deeper into how on bringing an interactive, leaders and regulators, participated in to adhere to the high expectations case-based approach to our the Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s of stakeholders for ethical and Ethics and Leadership program workshop on culture and behavior professional behavior in our industry. to build manager capacity to in the financial services industry in We have also worked to help all of our exercise new leadership habits October 2016. The workshop focused employees understand what is required that transform Citi’s culture on the roles of supervisors, banks and to meet those expectations. Citi’s other industry groups, and institutional Leadership Standards outline behavioral investors in improving culture in the EMPLOYEES GLOBALLY expectations of employees that align banking industry. The conference continue to be trained with our Mission and Value Proposition. highlighted the important public on our Code of Conduct, purpose of banks and the need for available in 26 languages Conduct Risk Program restoring trust in the banking industry. Our global Conduct Risk Program is a key part of the effort to embed and embody We also agreed to join six leading Citi’s core values and high standards financial institutions to organize a of ethical behavior into our business one-day symposium to discuss the strategy. We continue to implement dynamics of culture at financial this global program across businesses institutions. This symposium brought and control functions to manage and together a range of stakeholders, mitigate instances of conduct risk, including senior leaders from across the including intentional or negligent actions industry, regulators and experts from of employees or agents that may lead to academia, to share their insights on negative outcomes for customers, clients financial industry culture. The symposium and markets. In 2016, Citi implemented focused on the industry’s shared goals the program across multiple businesses and unique responsibilities regarding in 44 countries, and many other culture and conduct. We expect this businesses and countries are scheduled dialogue to continue and are committed for program implementation in 2017. to being a constructive participant. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  19 Importance of Escalation Ethics Hotline Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program Throughout 2016, we emphasized Citi’s Ethics Office provides multiple Citi complies with all applicable antiwith all of our employees globally the channels for employees, customers, bribery and corruption laws and importance of escalating issues that suppliers and other third parties to regulations, including the U.S. Foreign may pose significant risk to Citi. These raise ethics concerns. Concerns may be Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery communications reinforce the principles submitted in multiple languages via a Act and the applicable local anti-bribery embedded in Citi’s global Escalation toll-free number available 24/7, email, and corruption laws of the countries in Policy, including employees’ obligation to fax, mail or website submission. All which Citi operates. Our Anti-Bribery escalate potentially significant risks, how concerns are treated as confidentially and Corruption Program expressly to identify these risks and what channels as possible, consistent with the prohibits bribery in any form for our are available for their escalation. need to investigate and address the employees as well as our suppliers. These channels include, among others, matter. Concerns may be raised either management, Human Resources or labor anonymously or with attribution, subject We have written policies, procedures relations representatives, internal legal to applicable laws and regulations. and internal controls reasonably counsel, a designated compliance officer Further, Citi prohibits any form of designed to comply with anti-bribery and the Ethics Hotline. Communications retaliation against anyone who raises a laws. We conduct an annual bribery and from senior managers both globally and concern or question in good faith, or who corruption risk assessment of all global at the individual business level have participates in an ethics investigation. business lines. It addresses many areas reinforced these principles. We also of risk, including gifts and entertainment, released a video to our global workforce MANAGING COMPLIANCE RISK hiring practices and third-party in December 2016 that highlights the The Compliance Risk Management relationships. We provide our staff with importance of escalating significant risks. organization is responsible for helping to anti-bribery and corruption training drive a culture of ethical conduct at Citi annually and supplement it with targeted Code of Conduct by establishing policies, programs and training and communications as needed. Citi’s Code of Conduct (Code), procedures that guide and support our We give staff multiple ways, including the updated in October 2015, outlines the employees in making ethical decisions Ethics Hotline, to escalate instances of standards of ethics and professional and adhering to the appropriate corruption and to prompt investigations behavior expected of employees and standards of conduct. Through an where necessary. Citi’s Anti-Bribery representatives of Citi when dealing integrated compliance risk management and Corruption Program is overseen with clients, business colleagues, framework, this group protects Citi by by our Chief Compliance Officer. shareholders, communities and each setting standards; providing guidance, other. Individuals performing services training and advice to our businesses for Citi may also be subject to the Code regarding compliance risk; and by contract or agreement. The Code is driving ownership and accountability publicly available in 26 languages and for managing compliance risk in reinforces the message that adherence accordance with Citi standards across to our core values and principles is every the firm. Managing compliance risk is employee’s responsibility. Biennially, the responsibility of all of our employees Citi employees are required to complete and requires not only adherence to Code of Conduct training intended applicable laws, regulations, policies to help them better understand their and relevant standards of conduct, but responsibility to make the right ethical also the promotion of business behavior choices, their obligation to promptly and activity that is consistent with report actual or suspected misconduct the values and conduct expectations and to know to whom concerns should outlined by our Mission and Value be reported. We offer separate training Proposition, Leadership Standards and for non-employee workers who have Code of Conduct. Citi’s global Compliance access to Citi systems. The Code is organization is headed by our Chief approved by the Ethics and Culture Compliance Officer, who reports Committee of Citi’s Board of Directors. directly to Citi’s Chief Executive Officer and provides regular reports on the performance of the compliance program to Citi’s Board of Directors, including the Audit and Ethics and Culture Committees. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  20 Sanctions Program Anti-Money Laundering Program Globally, we have more than 4,300 Citi conducts business and operations One of our most important obligations AML professionals, including over in compliance with applicable sanctions, is to protect the integrity of the global 400 designated AML officers covering laws and regulations, including those of financial system. Our Anti-Money every Citi business, function and the U.S. and other countries in which we Laundering (AML) Program helps geographic area. These specialists help operate. We maintain a robust, risk-based protect our clients, businesses and us effectively execute the program and Sanctions Compliance Program that the financial system from the risks meet our AML-related requirements. applies globally and is commensurate of money laundering and terrorist The global program is supported by with our global footprint. As a financial financing through a robust, globally the Compliance, Finance, Legal, Risk institution organized in the U.S., Citi consistent program. It is based on our and Internal Audit functions. In 2016, and its subsidiaries globally comply with Anti-Money Laundering Policy, which we centralized our AML efforts into a applicable U.S. sanctions requirements, provides globally consistent controls single, comprehensive function, including among other requirements. to identify and mitigate risks related both compliance and operations, to to money laundering and comply support the evolution of our AML Our enterprisewide Sanctions with relevant laws and regulations. Program with increased sophistication, Compliance Program promotes effectiveness and efficiency. compliance with increasingly dynamic The program centers on: sanctions requirements. The program includes policies and procedures, -Prevention: Citi’s Global Know Your Number of Employees Who enterprisewide screening, annual risk Customer Program is the cornerstone Completed Citi’s 2016 Anti-Money assessments and audits of sanctions of our AML Program, enabling us to Laundering, Sanctions and Anticontrol processes, employee training effectively evaluate the potential risks Bribery and Corruption Training, and a diverse team of Compliance associated with each client relationship by Region* professionals stationed around the and ensure that we adhere to globally world. Citi’s Sanctions Compliance consistent policies and standards, Program and the associated policy is customer risk scoring and onboarding. 61,924 owned by the Chief Sanctions Officer, ASIA PACIFIC and the policy is approved by the Audit -Detection: We monitor transactions Committee of the Board of Directors. to identify unusual or suspicious transactions, behaviors or patterns 25,445 of activity across our global footprint. EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA Our AML investigations unit reviews transactions of new and existing clients across businesses and regions. 48,672 LATIN AMERICA -Reporting: We create, track and file Suspicious Activity Reports, Suspicious Transaction Reports 61,493 and Currency Transaction Reports, NORTH AMERICA as required in many countries. -Governance: Our enterprisewide 197,534 controls govern the overall program, TOTAL including global AML policies, processes, testing and training. Citi’s * AML, Sanctions and Anti-Bribery and Corruption training is a combined online Global AML Program Head and Bank training. Numbers include all Citi staff who Secrecy Act Officer is responsible for completed the 2016 training as of January overseeing the program, including 24, 2017. Employees and non-employee workers have 30 days to complete it. apprising the Board of Directors and senior management of AML initiatives, any significant deficiencies and the reporting of suspicious activity. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  21 Taxation Policies Board of Directors and Standards and Committees Our commitment to our Mission and Our Board aims to have at least two-thirds Value Proposition extends to our tax of its membership as independent policies and approach to paying taxes. directors. Currently, 86 percent of the We operate in 97 countries and strictly board is independent. Additionally, the abide by all tax laws in the U.S. and Chairman of the Board is a nonexecutive throughout the world. We are a current independent director. As of January income tax payer, both within and outside 2017, the standing committees of our the U.S. Our tax profile is consistent with Board of Directors are: the locations of our business operations, and our review and escalation processes -Audit enable us to adhere to high standards -Ethics and Culture of compliance with applicable tax laws. -Executive -Nomination, Governance and Public We emphasize strong internal controls Affairs and transparency with global tax -Operations and Technology authorities and share information -Personnel and Compensation relevant to our tax profile. We -Risk Management supplement this transparency with additional country-by-country reporting, All Board committees play a role in which is required under the Organisation providing oversight of our efforts to for Economic Co-operation and ensure responsible business practices. Development (OECD) action plan to For example, the Personnel and address base erosion and profit shifting. Compensation Committee reviews all compensation programs, including Citi complies with reporting and incentive compensation, to ensure withholding requirements imposed that they do not, among other things, globally on financial institutions in encourage imprudent risk-taking. The connection with customer transactions Nomination, Governance and Public they intermediate. We have implemented Affairs Committee oversees Citi’s systems and processes to comply with global citizenship and sustainability the Foreign Account Tax Compliance activities and performance. Our Ethics Act and are phasing in compliance and Culture Committee reflects our with the Common Reporting Standard commitment to promote a strong as it becomes law in approximately culture of ethical conduct. This 90 countries. Citi has implemented committee is highly engaged and in the Common Reporting Standard in continuous dialogue with management. all applicable 2016 early-adopting To review the responsibilities of each countries where local implementing of the committees of our Board of guidance has been issued. Similarly, Directors, see our board charters. we have a firmwide policy applicable to customer transactions under which Citi will only engage in a transaction where there is a high degree of certainty that any tax aspects will be accepted by the respective taxing authorities. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our governance structures, policies and processes serve employee, client and community needs, promote a culture of accountability and ethical conduct across our firm, and are publicly available on our website. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  22 Executive Compensation PUBLIC POLICY WHAT’S AHEAD We compensate our executives fairly, We engage directly, and indirectly based on individual and company through trade associations, with performance, competitive benchmarking governments and elected officials Our employees need to have the skills and support of our Mission and Value around the world to advocate public and support to make sound decisions Proposition. Citi’s Proxy Statement policies that support the interests of and take actions that preserve our contains a scorecard with each our company, clients and employees culture of integrity, every day, across named executive officer’s financial in the countries and regions where we the globe. Our work in promoting an and nonfinancial performance goals, operate. In 2016, guided by our Political ethical culture is ongoing, as the which are approved by the Board’s Activities Statement, which ensures challenges our business faces grow Personnel and Compensation Committee. compliance with all applicable laws ever more complex. We incorporate shareholder and and regulations, we promoted policies At the same time, questions around stakeholder input on executive pay and positions on issues such as trade, the trustworthiness of banks remain, into our Compensation Philosophy. cyber security, data localization, tax and there is more to be done to and financial reforms. Government articulate how we, along with our peer Affairs team members complete annual institutions, place a premium on our compliance training, conducted by respective cultures and expectations outside experts, on campaign finance, for appropriate conduct. lobbying and gift/entertainment rules. This work will continue day in and day Under U.S. Federal Election Commission out, as we focus on working to earn, rules, Citi’s Political Action Committee maintain and safeguard the trust of pools the voluntary contributions of our shareholders, customers, clients employees to support U.S. political and the public at large. candidates and campaigns that support the financial industry and complementary pro-business policies. This support allows us to take an active role in our country’s political process, promote our business goals and strengthen relationships with policymakers. Annually, we disclose our U.S. political contributions online, and contributions are reviewed by the Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee of the Board. We also provide extensive disclosure about our practices pertaining to political contributions and lobbying activities, as well as a regularly updated list of our significant trade and business associations, on our Corporate Governance webpage. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  23 CONSUMER AND CLIENT PROTECTION Establishing Citi as a trusted partner to our clients is foundational to our ability to facilitate economic progress around the world and ensure that the banking system in which we operate remains robust and trustworthy. Citi works to earn and maintain that trust every day by safeguarding our customers’ assets and information and conducting business in a responsible, ethical way. INFORMATION SECURITY our data and systems, and have built a With ever-increasing threats from strong, well-trained team that includes 2016 HIGHLIGHTS a host of actors globally that use former law enforcement. Citi’s Global technology in an effort to stay ahead Information Security Program enabled us More than 119,000 of law enforcement, our customers to effectively detect and respond to any expect us to protect their assets and incidents targeting our systems in 2016, personal information from these risks but we remain vigilant as such threats every day without imposing burdensome persist. Our program is accredited by security measures on them. the British Standards Institution, and employees globally completed Citi is the first major financial institution annual training on As a result, data security and privacy to have its Global Information Security TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY are a top priority for Citi and for many Program ISO 27001 certified. Our Global of our key stakeholders and are among Information Security Program is also our most material issues. Citi’s Global regularly examined by regulators as EXPANDED Information Security Program employs an approach that couples information well as internal and external auditors. BIOMETRIC gathering and data analysis with forensics to inform strategic decisions. Our approach rests on having the right Citi also collaborates with external stakeholders to raise the security of the industry. We work with our AUTHENTICATION across various Citi products, and technology, systems, policies, processes clients, competitors, governments, law implemented voice biometric and talent in place to prevent, detect, enforcement and intelligence agencies authentication in customer service respond to and recover from cyber to share best practices and conduct joint centers in multiple countries threats quickly. We conduct regular cyber resilience exercises. Our security information security risk assessments teams also study information security and trainings and have internal controls challenges across industries to learn to prevent information security breaches. how to strengthen our internal practices We have developed stringent policies, and respond to problems quickly. employ robust technologies to protect HOW WE DO BUSINESS  24 Reinforcing our culture of ethics and CASE STUDY responsibility, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the development, implementation “ETHICAL HACKERS“ and maintenance of Citi’s Information PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS Security Program. The program is managed by the Chief Operations Some estimates indicate that data and Technology Officer and the Chief breaches could cost businesses Information Security Officer on a global, more than $2 trillion globally by enterprise basis, and the Chief Executives 2019, 1 and cyber criminals don’t of each business sector and region are limit their attacks to large responsible for implementation and institutions such as Citi — they can compliance with program procedures also target individuals. We work and requirements. Annually, we provide proactively behind the scenes to our employees with training on how to protect our clients from the everproperly handle personal information increasing and complex threat of and how to maintain the security and cyber crime. privacy of information when working with companies that provide services to us. Since 2001, we have had a small team of specialists testing Citi’s PRIVACY electronic safety and safeguards. The fair, ethical and lawful collection, use That team has now grown to 100 and processing of customers’ personal full-time “ethical hackers” who view information is essential to build trust, Citi’s offerings from the perspective provide best-in-class services and of cyber attackers, identify security achieve our corporate objectives. To holes that need to be plugged and help meet this goal, Citi has established stay current on the cutting edge a dedicated Chief Privacy Office team of technology. This team’s focus led by a Chief Privacy Officer. The Chief has evolved beyond protecting Privacy Office team leads the Citi Global against current attacks to also Privacy Program, which is overseen proactively guard against future by the Citi Global Privacy Committee. ones by evaluating new products The program provides a framework for and services to ensure that they effectively and efficiently overseeing and are as safe and secure as possible coordinating the management of privacy before being rolled out. and confidentiality risks. Our Privacy and Confidentiality Policy articulates the principles for the collection, use, sharing and disposal of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) and Customer Data in accordance with its disclosures and applicable laws and regulations. We provide transparency on our practices and also offer customers choices with respect to how their personal information may be shared. We ensure that customers participate in the management of their PII where legally required, such as confirming their preferred method of communication, reviewing and correcting information and opting out of marketing solicitations. For related information, download our Code of Conduct. 1 “Cyber Crime Costs Projected to Reach $2 Trillion by 2019,“ Forbes, January 2016. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  25 INNOVATING ACCESS consistent, timely and appropriate As the flow of information moves identification, analysis and escalation of increasingly to digital platforms, we are potential consumer fairness, reputational using sophisticated technology to provide and franchise risk issues. Global Consumer a streamlined, secure banking experience Bank employees are required to complete for our consumers even when they are an annual fairness training program to on the go and using mobile platforms. ensure they understand how to identify For example, in 2016 we expanded issues of fairness and how fairness biometric authentication across various influences real-world results. In 2016, Citi products, and implemented voice more than 119,000 Citi employees around biometric authentication in customer the world completed the course. service centers in Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and the U.S. This RESPONSIBLE MARKETING technology allows us to verify customers’ CITI’S FAIRNESS PRINCIPLES Ensuring that we provide clear marketing identities within 15 seconds or less as for our products and services and that they explain their reason for calling. our products responsibly meet the We are continuing to explore how a 1. WORKS AS DESCRIBED needs of our clients are priorities for range of biometric authentications, Customers can predict how the Citi as we work to effectively manage such as fingerprint, voice and facial product or service will work conduct risk throughout the company. recognition, can create a better, faster See Conduct, Culture and Governance and more personal experience for clients for more on conduct risk. For example, — giving our customers more secure 2. APPROPRIATE as part of our customer-centric approach options to access their accounts. Global Consumer Banking to communicating with customers in a provides products and services simple and easy-to-understand manner, In addition, we work to ensure that our that are appropriate for its our Global Consumer Bank’s U.S. Branded products and services are designed customers, and customers Cards business launched targeted video and accessible to our clients’ varied can rely on the bank to offer messages in 2016. These personalized needs and preferences. For people with products that match their needs communications have enabled us disabilities, Citi offers braille and talking to visually demonstrate features in ATMs, large print and braille statements a clear and compelling way that is and raised line checks. We also offer 3. VALUE customized to individual customers. TTY or Text Telephone for the hearing Customers receive value that This new content has been well received impaired. Recognizing that we serve is reasonably related to the by customers, who indicate through diverse populations, many of our services cost of the product or service customer surveys that it has led to are provided in multiple languages. increased comprehension of key topics. TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY For new U.S. credit card customers, we Citi’s U.S. and Global Consumer Fairness 4. EASE OF UNDERSTANDING introduced these personalized videos as Policies and Treating Customers Fairly Customers understand the terms part of the new cardmember welcome (TCF) Program demonstrate that our and conditions of the product kit for Citi Online and Citi Mobile. culture focuses on the fair treatment of or services (particularly any These videos provide straightforward customers and encourages employees limitations or exclusions) information to cardmembers about their to view fairness as a key element of new card’s value proposition and benefits delivering a remarkable experience. and how they can manage their account The aim of the TCF Program is delivering and make payments online. After watching products and services that provide value, the videos, 89 percent of customers who clarity and dependability, guided by responded to a survey said they better the Fairness Principles that define our understood their new card’s benefits. standards for our products and services. In addition, we launched yearly The TCF Program provides a globally personalized videos for existing consistent framework for analysis of cardmembers to re-educate them on consumer fairness concerns and a model their card’s value proposition and for managing emerging risks for our benefits. Of those customers who Consumer Bank. Citi’s Business Practices watched the videos and responded to teams have established formalized our survey, 83 percent said they better escalation processes to facilitate understood their card’s benefits. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  26 These initiatives are just some In addition to tracking customer examples of our firmwide commitment satisfaction through the activities just to ensuring that our activities are in mentioned, we use the Net Promoter the best interest of our clients. More Score (NPS) system, which measures broadly, new products are approved customers’ willingness to recommend by cross-functional committees that Citi to others. In recent years, we’ve include senior executives from Risk, revamped our approach for capturing Legal, Compliance and other relevant customer feedback through a new units, supported by specialists from survey platform and reporting tool, other Citi units, such as Fair Lending, through which we measure our NPS. as needed. Citi marketing materials are We use standard metrics and processes reviewed by our Compliance and Legal across our company to compare regional departments to ensure that products performance and surface best practices are clear, fair and comply with applicable and problem areas we can learn from. laws, regulations and Citi policies. We are continuing to build and roll out dashboards that enable us to review CUSTOMER FEEDBACK survey results and customer feedback in AND SATISFACTION near real time. The dashboards help us We invest in leading-edge tools and see and act upon customers’ feedback resources to systematically capture more quickly, and many managers use customer feedback and satisfaction them to closely monitor feedback in our and develop processes to quickly major markets and service channels. monitor, diagnose and act upon customer experience issues. WHAT’S AHEAD When customers indicate through surveys that they have unresolved service issues, our team uses a We are in a period of transformation closed-loop feedback process to in banking services. The speed to follow up and resolve the problems. market of various mobile solutions In addition to responding to specific is only increasing, as banks compete customer concerns, we’ve established with startups and disruptors. It’s a “listening command center” that those who are listening to their proactively identifies emerging issues customers to understand their that arise through multiple channels, needs, adapting products and including social media, phone, chat and services and continuing to push email. Using data analytics, we work innovative, secure solutions, that to understand the root causes of the will truly be successful. problems so we can take corrective We don’t expect threats from various actions to avoid them in the future. actors to dissipate. We know that we These corrective actions can range must continue to protect the privacy from policy changes to improvements and security of our customers’ in particular customer touch points, information. At the same time, we such as websites or call centers. continue to develop innovative digital solutions that make it easier for customers to have the services they demand, while maintaining the security they rely on. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  27 TALENT AND DIVERSITY At Citi, we value our employees, who span a wide range of 2016 HIGHLIGHTS backgrounds and perspectives from over 100 countries. We come to work every day to serve as a trusted partner to our clients by responsibly providing financial services that enable More than 54,000 growth and progress. Our success rests on our ability to create an environment that supports the personal and professional growth of our employees, one where they can be themselves. employees participated in the pilot phase of the BUILDING AN INCLUSIVE CULTURE We are a global company and welcome We also aim to ensure that our training on unconscious bias people of every cultural background, environment fosters opportunities gender, race/ethnicity, generation, for growth for our employees, through sexual orientation, and gender identity exposure to our global businesses and More than 17,000 or expression, as well as military veterans products and continually enhancing and people with disabilities. We strive the programs and resources available to treat all employees fairly and with to them to support their careers. respect and hold them accountable for maintaining our standards of excellence. By embracing a variety of views and employees used formal Our senior leaders are deeply invested enabling employees to develop their FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS in ensuring that employees experience skills, we drive growth and innovation a diverse and inclusive culture. Each for our clients and communities. of us has a responsibility to create an For Citi, diversity and developing The Diversity Index, which measures environment where all employees are our talent are business imperatives. FOUR KEY METRICS OF DIVERSITY comfortable to contribute, be themselves in the workplace as part of our at work and deliver their best for clients. annual Voice of the Employee Survey, continues at 81% FAVORABILITY HOW WE DO BUSINESS  28 A DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE We’ve created clear measures of Citi’s culture supports our mission accountability for leaders at all levels. “I was the first 'little person' to work of enabling growth and progress. This starts with the CEO’s leadership here in the Citi Center. Citibank Leadership matters — our culture team, who co-chair (along with other always made sure that I had adequate is not just who we are and what we senior leaders in the business, functions conditions in order to carry out believe; it's how we lead in everyday and regions) each of our Affinity activities as needed, and with the moments. Holding ourselves and each groups (Asian Heritage, Black Heritage, help of leadership, continue with other to the highest standard is part Citi Women, disAbility, Generations, the necessary actions for continued of our commitment to operating in Hispanic/Latino Heritage, Military growth in my career.” our clients’ best interests, driving Veterans, Multicultural, Parents, Pride). economic value and minimizing risk. ARIETE GEMELGO ANGOTTI, These Affinity groups are designed to Fund Accounting Specialist, MANAGING DIVERSITY AT CITI ensure that we understand, appreciate ICG Operations and Technology, Holding ourselves to the highest standards and leverage the uniqueness of our entire São Paulo means setting the tone from the top: our employee base. Under this new model, we most senior leaders view themselves launched Black Heritage, Citi Women and and others as accountable for enabling Pride in the beginning of 2017 and will an equitable and inclusive culture where continue to establish the rest throughout we proudly reach our fullest potential. the year. We are developing targeted strategies, tailored to the needs of each Affinity, based on a deep analysis of 2016 CONSOLIDATED U.S. EMPLOYER INFORMATION REPORT (EEO-1) * Native American Black or Hawaiian Indian or Hispanic African or Pacific Alaskan MultiJob Categories Gender or Latino White American Islander Asian Native racial Total Executive/ Male 4 37 1 0 6 0 0 63 Senior Managers Female 1 12 0 0 2 0 0 Male 776 4,455 266 14 1,283 9 28 First/Mid-Level Managers 11,559 Female 679 2,973 414 9 601 15 37 Male 1,643 8,489 847 23 3,781 41 117 Professionals 25,935 Female 1,478 6,061 1,086 14 2,222 26 107 Male 157 371 51 2 48 1 3 Technicians 1,696 Female 224 614 144 1 65 4 11 Male 682 1,725 224 8 443 10 31 Sales Workers 5,480 Female 628 964 253 18 468 7 19 Male 1,423 3,633 948 20 383 28 84 Administrative Support 24,716 Female 3,640 10,104 3,198 44 910 82 219 Male 2 2 9 0 2 0 0 Craft Workers 22 Female 2 3 2 0 0 0 0 Male 0 8 4 0 1 0 0 Operatives 18 Female 0 2 1 0 2 0 0 Male 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Laborers 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Male 7 34 1 0 5 0 0 Service 69 Female 3 15 1 1 2 0 0 Male 4,694 18,754 2,351 67 5,952 89 263 Total 69,558 Female 6,655 20,748 5,099 87 4,272 134 393 *As of July 1, 2016. Certain numbers have shifted from last year due to alignment of positions in job categories. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  29 our representation and engagement for evaluating candidates during the the process. For managing director data and qualitative input from our interview process. By integrating these and director level hires, we continue to 140 Employee Networks. To further enable standards into our everyday practices, leverage diverse slates, ensuring that our commitment, we’ve combined the we continue to foster a culture of women globally and/or racial and ethnic Talent and Diversity organizations to diverse and inclusive leadership. minorities in the U.S. are interviewed ensure that diversity is embedded — and for our open roles. In 2016, 71 percent measured — in all our talent processes of interview slates for managing REGION TOTAL CHAPTERS and initiatives and that our diversity and director and director roles included NAM 79 talent efforts are consistently linked at least one diverse candidate. Also, with our business strategy. Our Diversity LATAM 11 we launched diverse interview panels Operating Committee, made up of senior EMEA 34 in 2016 to ensure the diversity of our diversity human resource leaders, interviewers who represent Citi. In our APAC 16 ensures our programs and policies inaugural year, 74 percent of managing advance our culture and inclusion goals, director level hires were interviewed by and our Board of Directors reviews a panel with at least one diverse panel NETWORKS TOTAL CHAPTERS our progress and priorities annually. member. These practices are important BLACK HERITAGE 8 levers for us to ultimately achieve Research and experience both confirm ASIAN HERITAGE 5 our goal of increasing representation that when a company embraces diversity, of women and U.S. minorities. DISABILITY 9 the most talented people are not just attracted to joining the company, GENERATIONS 4 We are also utilizing technology but are also much more productive HISPANIC/LATINA to help us build a diverse and inclusive 7 and motivated to stay. Maintaining HERITAGE workforce. Our campus recruiting a truly diverse environment has been MILITARY VETERANS 16 team has deployed a comprehensive proven to be a leading indicator of the dashboard and is testing and validating MULTICULTURAL 5 quality of our culture in addition to predictive talent models, in order to being an effective way of connecting PARENTS 12 more effectively — and more rapidly — to an equally diverse client base. PRIDE 21 identify and recruit the right people. WOMEN 53 We believe that we are all accountable and responsible for promoting TOTAL 140 “Mentoring has helped me to be a inclusion and work to continually better manager. Mentoring programs *As of December 31, 2016 enhance our capabilities. like the one supported through Citi Women’s Network Hong Kong often Employee Networks Addressing Unconscious Bias focus on the impact on the mentee, Citi Employee Networks are groups Another critical aspect to building the and rightfully so, but the impact on initiated and led by our employees. right culture is addressing unconscious the mentor should not be overlooked. They offer professional development, bias in the workplace, which is an Along with the satisfaction of mentoring, networking and community area where we continue to invest and assisting a colleague in navigating engagement opportunities to members. focus. We developed and launched a the complicated process of career Consistent with our inclusive culture, training that enables participants to development within Citi and the groups are open to all Citi employees, understand the business case for an broader industry, the program gives whether or not they identify with a inclusive work environment, recognize mentors a fantastic opportunity to see particular community. We now have unconscious bias and take actions to a familiar industry and professional 140 networks in 63 locations across improve on-the-job decision making environment from a different point 36 countries, with 15,000 members to support Citi’s culture of leadership, of view. That renewed perspective aligned to our Affinity groups. ethics and inclusion. Over 54,000 is so valuable. To be good managers, employees participated in this Building it’s critical that we understand — and Diversity in Our Leadership Standards an Inclusive Culture training in its pilot appreciate — different generations, Our Leadership Standards set the phase in 2016, and the program will be career paths, business roles, expectations we have of all our leaders. made available to all employees in 2017. lifestyles and aspirations.” These standards are now linked to ADAM COWPERTHWAITE, our director and managing director Diversity in Our Hiring Practices Managing Director, Head promotion criteria, our performance While the training of our current of Equity Asia Pacific, Citi management process and our employees is important, we have also Private Bank, Hong Kong recruitment efforts. As an example, focused on our hiring practices to ensure we use these standards as a frame that diversity is embraced throughout HOW WE DO BUSINESS  30 Workforce Data EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE Employees 218,849 Non-Employees 13,688 Full Time 214,452 Total Workforce 232,537 Part-Time 4,397 EMPLOYEES BY REGION EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA (EMEA) NORTH AMERICA 27,921 (NAM) 76,086 ASIA PACIFIC (APAC) 59,660 LATIN AMERICA (LATAM) 55,182 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 218,849 GENDER REGION Total Citi Male Female APAC EMEA LATAM NAM # 43,761 21,013 22,748 10,808 4,434 11,568 16,951 New Employee Hires Rate 20.0% 19.40% 19.9% 17.9% 1.5% 60.5% 22.4% # 31,184 14,872 16,312 9,577 3,249 7,674 10,684 Employee Turnover (Voluntary) Rate 14.0% 13.8% 14.3% 15.8% 11.2% 13.3% 14.2% HOW WE DO BUSINESS  31 WORKFORCE WELL-BEING We rely on our global workforce to be We are continually evaluating the tools actively engaged in the communities in “ When I began my Diversity and resources available to support the which they live and work. In 2016, Citi Leadership Program (DLP) journey, well-being of our global workforce. We volunteers contributed close to 940,000 I knew I was going to be part of recently enhanced our Paid Pregnancy volunteer hours in communities around something special. The DLP alumni Leave Policy in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. the world. Citi’s Global Community testimonials were consistent-the As of January 1, 2017, Citi employees Day, our annual day of service for program was going to contribute to who have been with the company for employees, friends and family, is an fine-tuning executive presence, hone at least one year have access to 16 important way in which we enable in on strategic communication skills, weeks paid leave as the birth mother progress through service. Close to and provide access and visibility to (up from 13 weeks) and eight weeks Paid 90,000 volunteers participated in events some of the most senior leaders of Parental Leave for all other parents in held in more than 500 cities and 91 the firm. The most valuable lesson connection with the birth or adoption countries. Through Pathways to Progress, for me was better understanding my of a child (up from two weeks). our Citi Foundation commitment to leadership style and the importance supporting career readiness in young of how that style is perceived by Nearly one-third of Citi employees people, over 2,000 Citi employees others. This lesson was critical for leverage our formal or informal flexible play in an integral role in acting as me to make a successful transition work arrangements, contributing to volunteers, mentors and coaches. to director with increased responemployee satisfaction and retention, sibility within the TTS business. increased productivity, business DLP heightened my self-awareness DIVERSITY AT A GLANCE continuity and more efficient use of and helped me create a framework work space. Our formal flexible work 51% of our workforce is female of self-reflection that I continue to program, Citi Work Strategies, has utilize today.” more than 17,000 employees enrolled, 44% of our U.S. workforce are minorities allowing them increased opportunity CRISTAL CHUNG, 24% of our managing directors and North America Market to meet their personal and business directors globally are female Management Head for Financial needs, and includes options for Institutions, Treasury and Trade part-time work and job-sharing. We have 22 female country Solutions (TTS), New York officers, up from 19 in 2015 Our Live Well program helps employees and their families achieve 27% of our U.S. managing directors and directors are minorities their health goals and includes resources that are free, easy to use “Participation in Citi’s Pride Network and available for employees, whether may be a small act in the scheme of or not they are enrolled in a Citi things, but with the world as it currently health plan. Our Save Well plans guide is I believe it is more important than our employees in building financial ever for individuals to show their views stability and saving for retirement. through action. The confluence of some great Pride Week speakers and the emerging social rhetoric motivated SUMMARY OF TRAINING HOURS me to become more involved in our 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Pride Committee, at first attending as an ally and recently being elected to INSTRUCTOR-LED 5.2M 5.8M 5.6M 5.7M 5.0M the Steering Committee. It made me WEB-BASED 5.3M 5.1M 5.0M 4.8M 4.8M realize that if I want my workplace, OTHER 0.16M 0.23M 0.02M 0.05M 0.04M environment and country to evolve into the type of culture I believe in, then TOTAL 10.6M 11.2M 10.8M 10.5M 9.9M I need to be active in shaping that.” TRAINING HOURS/EMPLOYEE 40 44 45 46 45 SARAH DAVIES, Management Associate, Global Consumer Banking, Sydney HOW WE DO BUSINESS  32 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT In our global Risk group, we have We have continued to focus on enhancing a 12-month program designed to “My resume never matched a our learning experience for our global strengthen the pipeline of women for keyword search. As it turns out, employees by shifting to more flexible, leadership roles. Under the guidance I needed to meet someone in person cloud-based learning solutions. These of a sponsoring member of the Risk to show them my ability. Previously, platforms enable our employees to focus Management Executive Committee, I applied for postings at Citi, but on topics important to their growth, Women in Risk participants identify it wasn’t until I attended Citi and when and where it is most convenient career goals, implement a customized You, a new workshop focused on for them through mobile access. The career development plan and expand identifying and hiring individuals delivery of this digital content has been visibility through networking opportunities. looking to start a new career in greatly enhanced and offers a more Since inception, more than half of the financial services, that I found a engaging experience to connect with participants have taken on new or way into Citi. I am an attorney expert content through videos, tools, expanded roles within the firm. and teacher by trade, but I lacked checklists and assessments. One of previous banking experience. our partnerships in this space is with CLIENTS AND SUPPLIERS Through Citi and You, I met a Udemy, one of the largest producers The value of diversity to our business representative from Citi’s Legal of educational “how-to” videos. Udemy extends throughout the value chain, Department who encouraged me offers a range of business courses from our employees to our clients to consider roles outside of the developed by industry experts. In just and customers and our suppliers. Our traditional attorney career path. one year, Citi employees (part-time diverse workforce reflects the diverse It became clear to me that my and full-time) viewed nearly 50,000 clients and communities we serve. Our experience as an attorney and hours of Udemy training content. clients are deeply engaged in issues educator at both the secondary In 2016, 100 percent of Citi employees around diversity, and we invite them and college levels could be relevant received some form of training. to participate in activities around our to work at a financial institution. shared interest. One example is our It p re p are d me fo r my ro le We also have a range of internal annual celebration of International overseeing end-to-end contract programs focused on developing our Women’s Day (IWD). In 2016, we administration, and I joined Citi leaders at all levels. For example, in our hosted 244 IWD events in 130 cities as an ESC contract specialist in Institutional Clients Group, the Diversity across 82 countries, including 41 client September of 2016.” Leadership Program is a six-month events that attracted 1,800 clients. JENNIFER LYNCH, program for high-potential women Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) and minority vice presidents who have The Citi Supplier Diversity Program Contract Specialist, access to workshops and individualized was created to give maximum Enterprise Operations and coaching and sponsors to help build opportunity to diverse partners who Technology, Tampa their confidence, executive presence and satisfy our purchasing and contractual strategic skills. To date, 204 individuals standards. The program works to have participated in the program. create mutually beneficial business relationships with diverse suppliers There are also three High Potential that strengthen the communities Accelerator programs across our we serve and create value for our GLOBAL EMPLOYEE TRAINING BY Global Consumer Banking business shareholders. For more details on our REGION: HOURS PER EMPLOYEE focused on developing leaders who have supply chain, see Responsible Sourcing. ASIA PACIFIC 40 the potential to take on more complex leadership positions and critical roles FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND AFRICA 38 in the future. The three programs target Our global workforce is our greatest LATIN AMERICA 45 emerging leaders to executive-level asset, and we strive to maintain an NORTH AMERICA 51 leaders, each with a different focus, environment where opportunities to ranging from fostering greater crossdevelop are widely available, where business/functional mobility to people are hired and advanced on building innovation and customertheir merits and where our employees centricity skills, to providing individual treat each other with mutual executive assessment and coaching. respect. We are fully committed to Since inception in 2011, 215 employees equal employment opportunity and have participated in these programs. compliance with the letter and spirit of all laws regarding fair employment practices and nondiscrimination. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  33 VOICE OF THE EMPLOYEE SURVEY OVERALL EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION Our annual Voice of the Employee (VOE) Survey provides 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 critical input from our global workforce on trends in the workplace and management practices. We value our employees’ input and closely review this feedback. Our overall employee 73% 74% 73% 76% 76% SATISFIED satisfaction held steady in 2016 at 76 percent satisfied. The VOE Survey’s Diversity Index, which measures four items — senior manager support for diversity, equal opportunity for a successful career, manager support for work/life balance 16% 15% 16% 15% 15% NEUTRAL and whether employees feel they are treated with respect 11% 11% 11% 9% 9% DISSATISFIED and dignity — held steady this year at 81 percent favorability. 89% 88% 87% 87% 88% RESPONSE RATE Compensation WHAT’S AHEAD Citi takes pride in offering competitive salaries across the regions in which Each day, we strive to create an we operate. Citi conducts a robust inclusive workplace where our nearly annual review of compensation, which 220,000 employees can thrive. Our includes multiple layers of management senior leaders will be championing and Human Resources review of initiatives, policies and programs for compensation recommendations. our newly launched Affinity groups We design our compensation program that enable our talent to perform based on Citi’s Compensation at the highest level and ensure an Philosophy, which outlines the five inclusive workforce. A culture of primary objectives that our program inclusion is one of Citi’s strategic and structures aim to achieve. advantages and allows us to participate in an increasingly competitive Our approach to compensation also environment defined by innovation includes ensuring that employees who and growth. are paid hourly receive competitive wages within the industry. We also offer employees the opportunity to take advantage of formal or informal flexible work arrangements, including part-time work and job sharing. For more information on fair employment practices see the Human Rights section of this report as well as Citi’s Code of Conduct. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  34 2016 HIGHLIGHTS JOINED SHIFT’S BUSINESS LEARNING PROGRAM Shift is the leading center of expertise on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights HUMAN RIGHTS SCORED As a global bank that connects millions of people worldwide, it is imperative that we champion and strive to protect human rights wherever we do business. We employ hundreds 100 % on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index annually of thousands of people, purchase a significant amount of since 2004 goods and services around the world and provide financial services in more than 160 countries and jurisdictions. The potential for human rights abuses to be carried out by those with whom we do business places a serious responsibility on us and also creates an opportunity to put our values into action. Advancing respect for human rights involves complex decisions with uncertain outcomes, but it is a task we embrace and work toward implementing every day. GRI indicator: G4-27 With our global reach, we have the ability adverse human rights impacts, leading to influence decisions related to human to a range of outcomes. For example, rights issues across sectors and around our anti-money laundering efforts help the world. For that reason, our work to us to prevent criminally sourced funds, respect human rights touches all aspects including funds from activity associated of our company. We have specific policies with human rights abuses, from and codes of conduct in place, including passing through our bank. Our ability our Statement on Human Rights, that to disrupt the flow of money to those protect our employees, provide guidance perpetrating human rights abuses is an to our suppliers and inform our business effective way to thwart their efforts. decisions, including what we choose to In other situations, however, we have finance. We conduct risk analysis, due far less opportunity to exert a positive diligence and stakeholder engagement influence consistent with our values. activities to ensure human rights In those instances, our first approach is considerations are taken into account to engage as constructively as possible across our business. Human rights are to improve our clients’ awareness and a key component of our Environmental practices, but at times we also need to and Social Risk Management activities re-evaluate the client relationship. and an important consideration in our financing decisions. In some situations, For more about anti-money we are well positioned to try to exert a laundering, see the Conduct, positive influence on those involved in Culture and Governance section. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  35 OPERATING WITHIN THE GLOBAL update the policies and practices that rights risks are those that are related to CONTEXT OF HUMAN RIGHTS underpin our Statement on Human our financing of client activities. Most As we encounter and address human Rights to continuously strengthen of these risks we identified under our rights issues, we do so within a broader our human rights due diligence. ESRM Policy as “Areas of High Caution” global context. Citi engages human rights several years before the advent of the experts, clients and peers with the intent Beyond our policy update process, we UN Guiding Principles, although the to promote and help secure respect for regularly communicate our approach ESRM process substantially mirrors the human rights, in line with the United to human rights issues externally and analysis under the UN Guiding Principles Nations Guiding Principles on Business engage with stakeholders on issues of risk severity and salience. Our work and Human Rights — a global framework of concern. During 2016, we engaged to address these risks has included for preventing and addressing the risk nongovernmental organizations, establishing an internal ESRM team, of adverse impacts on human rights including the Rainforest Action developing our risk identification and linked to business activity. This report Network, BankTrack and Global Witness. mitigation policies and procedures and has been prepared in accordance with As part of these interactions, we helping to found and govern the Equator the UN Guiding Principles Reporting received feedback about our human Principles framework to enhance and Framework (see Index). The UN rights policies and discussed trends standardize risk management across Guiding Principles draw upon existing and concerns related to various the banking sector. international human rights instruments industries and about specific issues. whose principles we endorsed years The salient issues we have consistently ago, such as those in the UN Universal In addition, we pay close attention worked on related to financed activities Declaration of Human Rights and the to human rights issues raised by include: International Labour Organization’s stakeholders within specific industries, Core Conventions regarding child labor, such as fossil fuel extraction, forestry -Indigenous Peoples. Various concerns forced labor, freedom of association, and palm oil. In response to these can arise regarding consultation in the right to organize and bargain concerns, we actively engage with project development, contestation over collectively, as well as equal pay and those industries by participating in land rights and uses, as well as potential nondiscrimination in the workforce. groups such as the Roundtable on impacts on habitats, livelihoods and Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). We cultural heritage. IMPLEMENTING OUR RESPECT take very seriously the opinions and FOR HUMAN RIGHTS information that stakeholders provide -Labor. There are risks related to labor The UN Guiding Principles on Business us with regard to human rights. forces used in the construction of and Human Rights, which were endorsed projects or other operations, including by the UN’s Human Rights Council in Citi’s senior management is informed risks related to forced labor, child 2011, call upon companies to adopt about and discusses human rights labor and human trafficking by project policy statements on human rights issues. Salient issues are regularly operators and their subcontractors. that they operationalize and to make communicated to senior management those statements publicly available. and our Board of Directors. For more -Resettlement. Resettlement of local about governance of citizenship communities, including indigenous Policy Development issues, including human rights, see the peoples, can be necessary for project and Stakeholder Engagement Citizenship Governance at Citi section. implementation. When this occurs, it For years prior to the adoption of our should be conducted through carefully formal Statement on Human Rights in Our Salient Human Rights Issues planned resettlement action plans 2007, Citi’s Environmental and Social Human rights has in recent years that are reviewed by project lenders Risk Management Policy, which we emerged as one of our most material in advance of implementation. adopted in early 2003, guided our issues, a concern that was reinforced approach to environmental and social by the findings of our 2015 materiality -Security. Security concerns have issues related to our financing of our assessment. We recognize that our most been identified relating to how clients’ business activities. As a part of salient human rights issues, where risks project sponsors engage with developing our Statement on Human to people are greatest, could also pose public or private security forces Rights, which we last updated in 2014, material risks to the business as well. protecting project sites. In such we conducted broad-based internal and circumstances, if we decide to proceed external stakeholder engagement to help We have spent more than a decade with financing, we will advise project assess our human rights impacts and working on the most salient human sponsors on the implementation identified issues across our employee rights issues for our company. While we of international standards, such as population, supply chain, clients and evaluate human rights risks that could those in the Voluntary Principles the domestic and foreign communities arise in our own operations as well as on Security and Human Rights. where we do business. We regularly our supply chain, our most salient human HOW WE DO BUSINESS  36 If we do finance any project in which Freedom of association is another employees, suppliers are encouraged these issues may be identified, important human rights issue that to use Citi’s Ethics Hotline to raise we manage these risks based on affects our workforce. While the financial concerns. For more information our ESRM Policy, including, where services industry is not heavily unionized, on our supply chain work, see the applicable, the engagement of an we do have unions or work councils in Operations and Supply Chain section. independent consultant to review approximately 30 of the countries where the project sponsor’s mitigation we operate. More than 15 percent of approach and efforts. For such our employee population is covered by SUPPORTING THE BASIC NEEDS transactions, we typically monitor collective bargaining agreements. We OF REFUGEES the project sponsor’s implementation engage directly with our employees of risk mitigation plans through the and through these associations to construction and operation phases. discuss issues such as health and safety, As a U.S. company and the world’s remuneration, work hours, training, most global financial institution, We will continue to evaluate human career development, work time flexibility global issues and local policies rights risks in line with evolving and equal opportunity. Citi values and impact us as well as our clients. In international best practice. respects our employees, and strives 2016, the White House called on U.S. to provide fair compensation, benefits companies to aid refugees in the U.S. RESPECTING THE HUMAN and working conditions. We are proud and around the world with education, RIGHTS OF OUR EMPLOYEES to be considered an employer of choice, employment and enablement (i.e., Every Citi employee is expected to based on the external diversity and strengthening infrastructure and adhere to our Code of Conduct, which workplace awards and recognitions access to resources for refugees). includes a commitment to human that we have received around the We responded with a commitment to rights, and to participate in relevant world. For more information on our collaborate with clients and partners trainings. Our Code of Conduct prohibits diversity and workforce initiatives, on ideas that respond to the needs of unlawful discrimination, harassment see the Talent and Diversity section. refugees, including youth education and other behaviors that infringe on and employability efforts supported individual rights. This policy applies Our employees are encouraged to use by the Citi Foundation as well as to all employees as well as suppliers, Citi’s Ethics Hotline to raise and resolve financing solutions that address clients and community partners concerns, questions and grievances. The the needs of displaced persons. In globally. (Details about human rights hotline is open to external parties and addition, our CEO issued a message related to suppliers and clients are available in several formats and languages. to our employees reinforcing Citi's covered later in this section.) commitment to diversity and the EXTENDING RESPECT FOR HUMAN importance of maintaining an open Diversity and inclusion are of particular RIGHTS PROTECTION THROUGH and welcoming society. concern, especially in countries where OUR SUPPLIERS AND PARTNERS there is no legal protection based on Nondiscrimination policies also extend characteristics such as gender, gender to Citi’s and the Citi Foundation’s identity, race, age or sexual orientation. philanthropic grantmaking and to Citi’s Diversity and inclusion issues are not suppliers. We do not provide funding to always discussed in terms of human organizations that discriminate on the rights, but they are essential to human basis of personal characteristics, such dignity, a key tenet of basic human rights. as gender, race and sexual orientation, Championing diversity and inclusion among others, nor do we work with not only aligns with our core values, it suppliers that violate our policies. is also vital to our business success. Citi prohibits discrimination and harassment Our suppliers are expected to adhere of our employees in all forms regardless to Citi standards, including those of whether or not individual protections related to human rights, as outlined in are legally mandated in the countries and our Statement of Supplier Principles. communities where we operate. In fact, This expectation is reinforced by our we know that even in locations where antiCorporate Responsibility Questionnaire, discrimination laws exist, there is still a need which helps our procurement team for companies to stand up for individual determine how well potential and current rights. We provide diversity training to our suppliers manage environmental, social employees globally to foster a respectful and governance issues, including human and inclusive work environment, and we rights issues such as labor rights investigate and take action on all violations. and health and safety. As with our HOW WE DO BUSINESS  37 ADDITIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS reviews. Of the 28 transactions flagged identifying general areas in which the risk DUE DILIGENCE IN OUR FINANCING for additional human rights due diligence, of adverse human rights impact is most Assessing and managing human 9 proceeded to close after we confirmed significant. This entails identifying what rights risks related to our clients and the client was managing and mitigating may be the underlying cause of such risks the projects we finance are integral the potential risk appropriately. — for example, a company’s operating to respecting human rights at Citi. Transactions may not reach financial contexts or direct operations, their Our ESRM team reviews clients and close for a number of reasons, not solely products or services, or other relevant projects we are considering financing tied to ESRM review. The specific types considerations — and then prioritizing for environmental and social risks, of risks reviewed are outlined in the table them for review (see Our Salient Human including those relating to human rights. below. One transaction may have more Rights Issues on page 35). We regularly than one human rights risk. evaluate and, when needed, enhance our Our ESRM Policy pays special attention due diligence requirements to ensure that to activities we believe pose heightened One example of a transaction reviewed all our clients manage and mitigate risks risks to individuals and communities. was a small letter of credit for a construction in line with international best practices. This includes an absolute prohibition company acting as a subcontractor on a on financing any clients or projects hydroelectric dam. The business sent We also believe in the value of involved in forced labor, child labor the transaction to the ESRM team given transparency around these issues. or human trafficking. In addition, the some potential triggers of the Areas of Citi engages with NGOs in an effort to policy covers “Areas of High Caution” High Caution in Citi’s ESRM Policy. ESRM communicate about our processes and — heightened environmental and social screening flagged the transaction for advance transparency as appropriate. risks that require closer due diligence human rights review, and the ESRM While, in recent years, banks have come and heightened risk management. These team’s due diligence identified allegations under increasing pressure to disclose areas are discussed on page 35 under of forced labor in construction of the specific findings related to client projects, Our Salient Human Rights Issues. project, as well as troubling environmental we are bound by legal requirements and and cultural impacts to a UNESCO business ethics related to confidentiality To assess and manage risks consistently biosphere reserve. Given the identification that limit our ability to disclose such around the globe, our client transactions of these risks, we declined to approve the information. As we continue to work with must comply with Citi’s ESRM Policy. transaction as it was not in compliance our clients on human rights issues in We review transactions covered by our with our ESRM Policy. their organizations, addressing requests ESRM Policy for human rights risks for transparency will continue to be a during the initial due diligence phase, Citi has approximately 14,000 corporate balancing act between protecting the and do our best to ensure that these and institutional clients. The UN Guiding confidentiality of our clients’ information risks are being properly mitigated and Principles acknowledges the challenges and disclosing information to stakeholders managed by our clients as a condition for posed by having such extensive business as appropriate to advance the protection our financing. In addition, Citi complies relationships and, accordingly, we have of human rights more broadly. with the Equator Principles (EP) to assess adopted their recommendation of and manage environmental and social risks for financing projects. The EP framework helps financial institutions RISK(S) IDENTIFIED IN RISK(S) IDENTIFIED IN THOSE define processes and standards for TRANSACTIONS REQUIRING TRANSACTIONS THAT CLOSED stakeholder engagement, including HUMAN RIGHTS RISK ADDITIONAL DUE DILIGENCE* AFTER RISK REMEDIATION mechanisms for affected communities to address grievances proactively INDIGENOUS PEOPLE 16 7 with project sponsors. For more information, see the Environmental LABOR 8 1 and Social Risk Management section. RESETTLEMENT 6 1 Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement on Human Rights SECURITY 6 1 In 2016, the ESRM team screened 411 total transactions at the initial marketing OTHER 3 2 phase, and of those, 28 were flagged as *There were 28 transactions requiring additional human rights due diligence in 2016. Of those, requiring additional due diligence for nine closed after risk remediation. human rights risks. Note that this does not include other human rights risk assessments the ESRM team does as part of annual client reviews or portfolio HOW WE DO BUSINESS  38 CASE STUDY PREVENTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING “Following the flow of funds from and associations related to the human trafficking is no easy task; it’s movement of money to prevent fraud like looking for a needle in a haystack. and money laundering. To report But we began on a year-long journey and deter the illegal movement of of testing what we knew and what we money within Citi related to didn’t and inputting massive amounts of these crimes, the team worked data. In the end, we built an algorithm to with law enforcement and Citi identify potential patterns of behavior investigators to develop a highly related to human trafficking.” effective algorithm to systematically identify potential human traffickers. A lead statistical data miner, The team is leveraging its patentData Intelligence Unit, Citi pending methods to further advance detection by applying advanced data The Data Intelligence Unit is a specialized science techniques to detect human group within our AML team that trafficking networks — potentially seeks to understand connections giving the algorithms a global range. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  39 UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS IN Through our participation in Shift’s WHAT’S AHEAD COUNTRIES WHERE WE DO BUSINESS Business Learning Program, we are also We are committed to upholding high collaborating with other companies to standards of human rights protection, understand how they are bringing the Global financial institutions such as regardless of the varying human rightsUN Guiding Principles to life for their Citi operate within a complex set related laws and practices in the businesses. Given the broad range of of circumstances related to human many places where we operate. Not sectors represented, this strengthens rights. The extent of our influence all governments uphold their duty to our capacity to advise our clients, and input on our clients’ activities protect, respect and fulfill human rights especially those we have identified with can often be limited as they navigate according to international standards. gaps between their current human rights human rights challenges. We are Consequently, we sometimes find there performance and best practices. Clients mindful, as noted in the UN Guiding are situations where local policies do with identified gaps may be working Principles, that disengagement not align with efforts to respect human toward completion of an Environmental should be a last resort, as that rights. Particular examples include and Social Action Plan to fill those would eliminate any influence and issues related to diversity and inclusion, gaps. See the Environmental and Social potential leverage we might have especially related to gender and lesbian, Risk Management section for more in working with our clients. As we gay, bisexual and transgender issues; information about these action plans. continue to collaborate with clients, some countries where we operate have we are focused on strengthening laws or practices that are contrary to the COMPREHENSIVE REPORTING our due diligence and increasing our protection of these rights. Consistent To further analyze our human rights understanding of human rights risks with the UN Guiding Principles, in these performance and continue our that can be addressed. One area for instances, we increase our due diligence commitment to transparency, we opportunity is how we can go beyond to ensure we manage any risks related have undertaken an effort to align minimum legal compliance in highto our business, share best practices our reporting with the UN Guiding income OECD countries. and set a positive example to raise Principles Reporting Framework. In We will continue to listen to human rights standards worldwide. addition to increasing transparency and stakeholder concerns and expert accountability, this reporting provides views to stay on top of human rights CONTINUOUS LEARNING a single place to find a comprehensive issues. We receive this input in a AND IMPROVEMENT review of our human rights activities variety of ways, including through Continuous learning and engagement and our expectations for those we employee training, concerns raised with other companies and experts employ and do business with — further through our Ethics Hotline and in the field of human rights is a key clarifying the responsibilities our other feedback we receive from component of our approach to respecting employees, suppliers and clients have employees, suppliers and clients. human rights. In 2016, Citi joined Shift’s in this area. We will continue to develop Whatever we do, we must see Business Learning Program. Shift is a our reporting using this framework, human rights not in terms of how it nonprofit organization that engages with and we will engage with external affects companies or financial risk, companies, governments, civil society stakeholders to help us understand but how it affects people. and other actors to build capacity and their expectations for disclosure. provide guidance and expertise related to implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our work with Shift will improve our ability to meet our human rights responsibilities in a number of ways. First, we are working together to build a more sophisticated system that identifies heightened risks within our client base, across geographies and sectors. This system uses a portfolio-based approach, through which we identify client sectors and subsectors that, based on their industry and geography, have a greater risk of human rights impacts. The insights we gain from the analysis will help inform our evolving human rights due diligence approach. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  40 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT At Citi, we help our clients meet the world’s toughest challenges and embrace its greatest opportunities. Managing and addressing environmental and social risk in our financial transactions helps us ensure that those challenges and opportunities are met responsibly. Environmental and Social Risk Management is one pillar of our Sustainable Progress Strategy, and the related activities and policy 2016 HIGHLIGHTS help us and our clients navigate a constantly evolving risk landscape and make responsible decisions. REDUCED OUR CREDIT EXPOSURE to coal through the first full year GRI indicator: of implementation of our G4-27 COAL MINING OUR ESRM POLICY In 2016, coal mining and palm oil were STANDARD Citi lends billions of dollars of capital two sectors that received special to a wide variety of companies and scrutiny and focus from us and our projects, many of which have potential stakeholders. In the coal mining Addressed fire prevention environmental and social impacts. We sector, particular areas of concern practices of carefully evaluate and consider these risks when making financing decisions on are contributions to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, climate change and PALM OIL CLIENTS to assess alignment with industry individual, project-related transactions, community impacts. In 2016, we had during annual company reviews, and our first full year of implementation best practice by updating our when assessing entire portfolios. of our updated Coal Mining Standard, DUE DILIGENCE QUESTIONNAIRES which requires additional enhanced due Our ESRM Policy covers a broad diligence for coal mining companies scope of financial products, and it and commits Citi to reducing our credit Piloted an ESRM Watchlist sets standards for assessing client exposure to this industry over time. process to provide an impacts on local communities, labor, biodiversity, air quality, water quality This commitment applies globally to coal mining companies generating a EARLY WARNING and other environmental and social issues. As the first U.S.-based financial majority of their revenues from coal mining activities, including those that SYSTEM on clients and transactions institution to introduce a comprehensive use mountaintop removal methods, ESRM Policy — back in 2003 — we and to coal-focused subsidiaries of that may pose heightened continue to evolve our ESRM Policy diversified mining companies. As part ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL and standards in response to emerging of the enhanced due diligence process, OR REPUTATIONAL RISK risks and new product development. the ESRM team analyzes the companies’ HOW WE DO BUSINESS  41 environmental and social policies and the project. Project-related financing is MONITORING EMERGING RISKS performance, including environment, assessed against applicable standards As part of our commitment under our health and safety management systems, — either national law in high-income Sustainable Progress Strategy, the ESRM mine safety data, pollution control OECD countries, or the Environmental team is implementing new methods to information and community relations. and Social Performance Standards proactively scan for emerging risks in To deliver on our commitment to credit and Environmental, Health and Safety both specific clients and projects, and exposure reduction, we have reduced Guidelines of the International Finance more broadly in high-risk industries and are actively measuring and tracking Corporation (IFC) for projects in and stakeholder areas of concern. Our our credit exposure, which is reviewed emerging markets. Our ESRM policies Environmental and Social Risk Radar by senior management in our business, help us ensure responsible financing of Report tracks environmental and social Risk and Public Affairs groups. projects while managing and minimizing concerns that pop up in external sources, environmental impacts and effectively such as media outlets, data providers, We also updated the due diligence engaging local communities. Higher-risk, internet searches and financial industryapproach for our Sustainable Palm Oil project-related transactions receive targeted civil society reports. The Radar Standard in response to the growing in-depth reviews against applicable Report flags both high-risk projects human rights and environmental standards by independent environmental and emerging issues with increasing concerns that we see in this industry, and social consultants. If gaps are found risk and/or global attention. It helps us including impacts to biodiversity, air between a client’s environmental and fine-tune our risk management, raise quality and labor issues. In 2016, we social plans, policies or practices and awareness within Citi about new issue began strengthening our human rights industry best practices, we develop areas to watch, shore up our approach efforts through our partnership with an Environmental and Social Action Plan to specific sectors, update policies if Shift’s Business Learning Program and (ESAP) to fill the gaps. As a condition warranted and provide advice to our engagement of a third-party consultant of financing, we require the client to clients. The Radar Report is informing to help us further develop the “Areas implement the ESAP, and we monitor the development of a new ESRM of High Caution” — issue areas that progress over time. The application Watchlist, where we proactively flag require special attention, focus and of our ESRM Policy helps us identify certain client relationships as higher risk respect — outlined under our current additional risks we may not otherwise from an environmental, social, human ESRM Policy. For more information be aware of, guides decisions for rights or reputational risk perspective. on our human rights work, see the how to evaluate future transactions While Citi has always kept an eye on Human Rights section of this report. related to companies or projects emerging risks and updated our policy within high-risk sectors and presents to respond, the Radar Report reflects a POLICY IMPLEMENTATION opportunities for us to advise clients more systematic, data-driven approach, Our centralized team of ESRM specialists on solutions to thematic risks. which increases our ability to flag evaluates all transactions that trigger issues of concern and take a proactive a review according to our ESRM Policy. To learn more about our ESRM approach to addressing these risks. We also rely on employees throughout Policy, including Areas of High our organization globally, including Caution, sector-specific standards designated ESRM Champions — credit and policy prohibitions, visit our risk officers who have expertise in Guidelines for Environmental Practices regional and product-related ESRM webpage and our Environmental issues. ESRM Champions provide and Social Policy Framework. important regional insight that improves our ability to make responsible lending decisions. This network approach greatly enhances the global coverage capacity of our centralized specialist team. The ESRM team works collaboratively and regularly shares information and best practices that help support and strengthen the entire network. Transactions reviewed by the ESRM team are categorized as A, B, C or GR (general review), based on the magnitude of potential adverse social and environmental impacts associated with HOW WE DO BUSINESS  42 CASE STUDY DEFORESTATION AND THE PALM OIL INDUSTRY Palm oil is a widely used ingredient, receive ongoing fire and deforestation found in products ranging from food to alerts related to their clients. This kind cosmetics. Derived from oil palm trees, of information is invaluable for banks, which grow mainly in low-income, such as Citi, that are attempting to tropical countries, its cultivation is both provide oversight and accountability landand labor-intensive. In addition in the agricultural commodity sector. to human rights concerns related to labor practices and the displacement We also worked with World Wildlife of indigenous communities, there Fund and the Indonesian Financial are serious environmental risks in Regulator (OJK) to conduct a workshop the palm oil industry. Mass fires used with risk managers from Indonesia’s to clear tropical forests for palm oil eight largest banks on our palm oil plantations or caused by dry, exposed due diligence process. This effort is peat and combustible conditions shrink part of the government of Indonesia’s the habitats of endangered species and multi-year sustainable finance often cover the region in a thick haze, roadmap. This workshop focused on our contributing to climate change and use of GFW Fires, a separate platform serious health problems. developed by GFW that serves as an important tool for tracking fires, and Since 2016, Citi has been advising our questionnaire on best practices for Global Forest Watch (GFW) on the fire prevention on palm oil plantations. development of GFW Finance. The We also presented our Palm Oil Due platform is designed to enable the Diligence process at the Association of finance sector to screen palm oil and Banks in Singapore, which helped with forestry investments and portfolios the development of Singapore’s Haze for environmental and social risk and Diagnostic Guidance Note. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  43 CASE STUDY MINIMIZING IMPACTS TO HABITATS AND COMMUNITIES IN GUATEMALA Citi provided a loan, guaranteed in was designed in compliance with national part by Export Development Canada laws, it required additional biodiversity (EDC), for TRECSA — the Guatemalan assessment and mitigation work to subsidiary of Empresa de Energía de comply with IFC Performance Standards. Bogotá. The loan financed construction of a landmark, 868-kilometer, highCiti and EDC’s ESRM teams required voltage electric transmission line that the company to hire an independent will cover nearly half of Guatemala biodiversity expert to work with them and provide electricity to previously to bring the project into compliance underserved areas. However, the with IFC standards. This work included planned route passes through more than developing and implementing a formal 300 communities and 330 kilometers of biodiversity management plan to avoid natural habitat. An independent review impacts to critical habitat and mitigate of the project against the IFC standards impacts to sensitive species, as well as found that it had implemented a robust developing additional staff capacity to communications and engagement implement these plans moving forward. strategy with local communities at all This project has set a precedent for levels, including best practice elements other similar projects in the region such as stakeholder mapping and and helped our client enhance its community engagement in both Spanish own environmental and social risk and indigenous languages. Regarding management capacity. environmental impacts, while the project HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  44 ENHANCING OUR TRAINING CASE STUDY Annually, we train key risk and banking personnel on our ESRM Policy, including in-depth discussions on environmental ZERO DEFORESTATION and social risks relevant to certain INITIATIVES WITH THE regions and sectors, Equator Principles RAINFOREST ALLIANCE implementation and Citi Sector Standards. In 2016, our ESRM training Over the past few years, Citi and the was revamped to include emerging risks Citi Foundation have collaborated and new guidance to help recognize with the Rainforest Alliance to environmental and social risk in develop and roll out workshops transactions. We trained more than aimed at producing funding models 1,000 Citi employees under this new for zero deforestation initiatives format. We also worked with the Equator with smallholder farmers in Peru Principles Association to develop an and Indonesia. The 2016 workshop in-depth multimedia training module in Peru resulted in a blueprint for an on the details and implementation of impact investment fund, which will the Equator Principles. The training continue to be developed in 2017. includes videos, quizzes and a broad In addition, a similar workshop, range of useful guidance materials. focused on small palm oil farms in high-poverty areas, will take place STRANDED ASSETS ANALYSIS in Indonesia in 2017. Financial institutions are paying more attention to stranded asset risk, or the potential for assets to lose value as a result of circumstances such as climate change. For example, power companies that rely on water for their operations may face lower earnings or increased costs due to droughtinduced water scarcity. This may result in a decline in those companies’ credit profiles. To understand the resilience of Citi’s lending portfolios to drought scenarios, our ESRM team participated in a project hosted by the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA). The result was a drought stress-testing tool that blends traditional valuation methodologies with environmental scenarios to identify the impact of drought on key industries. Our ESRM team has tested the tool, which is a major step in creating a standard for environmental stress testing and climate scenario analyses. In the future, we will explore incorporating the tool into Citi’s Risk Architecture, as scenario modeling may reflect how external environmental shocks, which may become more frequent with climate change, could affect the credit quality of certain industries. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  45 CASE STUDY WHAT’S AHEAD DAKOTA ACCESS PIPELINE In 2017, we will strengthen our policy guidance on human rights due diligence, with a specific focus on Citi is one of the 17 banks that the need to directly engage with the indigenous peoples, in consultation financed the Dakota Access Pipeline Standing Rock Sioux tribe, as well as with Monkey Forest Consulting, (DAPL) project — an underground a number of stakeholders from the a third party specializing in oil pipeline in the U.S. from North human rights, academic, investor community engagement. This Dakota to Illinois. Construction of the and nongovernmental organization guidance will help inform another pipeline raised concerns and spurred communities, to better understand 2017 key initiative, the roll out of protests by indigenous peoples and their concerns. We greatly appreciated our ESRM Watchlist, which will environmentalists as well as many the constructive nature of those identify existing clients with others who were concerned about discussions and used what we learned elevated environmental and social the project and its potential impact. from them to engage with the project risks, prior to new transactions, Citi recognizes the importance of the sponsors, expressing our concerns and to stay ahead of emerging risks. issues they have raised and will learn advocating for steps toward a peaceful The Watchlist will incorporate data from this experience to improve our resolution. Citi, together with TD Bank from third-party environmental approach to due diligence on social and on behalf of the other banks, and social data providers together risk, including on issues related to spearheaded the engagement of an with further research by our indigenous peoples. independent human rights expert, internal ESRM team, and will create Foley Hoag LLP, to review the U.S. legal an early warning system allowing When first approached to work on requirements for consultation with us to flag targeted environmental this project, Citi conducted careful indigenous peoples and the project and social risks more efficiently due diligence under our ESRM Policy sponsors’ policies and procedures in and proactively. and the Equator Principles, and the the areas of community consultation, project was rated a Category A for cultural heritage assessment and We will also continue to develop high environmental and social risk. Citi security. The review resulted in and share best practices with the reviewed the project’s Environmental recommended improvements that banking industry through our active Assessment report, and, along with project sponsors can make to these participation in multi-stakeholder other banks involved, engaged an policies and procedures in line with industry associations. In our role independent consultant to review international best practice. as chair of the RSPO Financial the permitting and approval process Institutions Task Force, we will help to confirm compliance with U.S. laws Citi took away a number of key plan a series of workshops on labor and regulations, and to prepare a learnings from our involvement in standards and due diligence in report summarizing the findings as this project that will impact how we palm oil. And in our new role on the required by the Equator Principles. evaluate such work in the future. steering committee of the CrossThrough this process, we understood Specifically, the current approach to Sector Biodiversity Initiative, we that the Standing Rock Sioux tribe consulting indigenous peoples in the will contribute to the new Guiding had raised concerns about potential U.S. does not align with international Principles for Business on Key impacts to their drinking water at the standards, and the policies that Biodiversity Areas. Lake Oahe/Missouri River crossing. we have used to evaluate those We also understood that, in response, consultations during due diligence the project sponsors proposed using are not sufficient. Accordingly, we are horizontal directional drilling to go working with a third-party consultancy more than 95 feet under the river specializing in community engagement crossing to minimize impacts and risks, — Monkey Forest Consulting — to advise in line with industry best practice for us on strengthening our internal due water crossings. Subsequently, we diligence in this area this year. We also determined that the project met our intend to continue to maintain a direct ESRM Policy and the Equator Principles. dialogue with members of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe community and other As the objections of the tribal and relevant stakeholders on a regular other stakeholder communities to basis going forward. the project escalated, Citi realized HOW WE DO BUSINESS  46 Performance Against Our Sustainable Progress Scorecard for ESRM GOAL 2016 PROGRESS ESRM Policy Continuous Improvements Completed the first full year of implementation of our Coal Mining Standard; conducted analysis on the environment, health and safety performance of all coal mining clients, and reduced credit exposure to the industry Updated our Shale Oil and Gas Sector Standard Client Questionnaire Updated our Palm Oil Questionnaire with fire and haze questions Engaged a human rights expert to advise on an update to our due diligence related to indigenous peoples Internal Training Trained 1,011 risk managers and bankers on ESRM Updated our web-based training module and worked with Equator Principles Association banks to create a multimedia e-training program on the Equator Principles Portfolio-Level Analysis of High-Risk Sectors Worked with the NCFA to develop a drought stress-testing tool and began using it to better understand the risks that drought poses to our portfolio of U.S. companies in a number of industrial sectors Emerging Risks & Trends Implementing an innovative ESRM Watchlist to flag certain clients for ongoing ESRM monitoring across industries Instituted a regional Environmental and Social Risk Radar for Latin America Building Global Capacity Partnered with the World Wildlife Fund and OJK (the Indonesian Financial Regulator) on its multi-year workshop series to develop ESRM policies in Indonesia’s eight largest banks Presented Citi’s environmental and social due diligence process for palm oil to banks, palm oil buyers and other sustainable palm oil stakeholders at the Association of Banks in Singapore and at the European Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil in Milan See our 2015 report to compare our progress in 2015. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  47 2016 Projects Covered by the Equator Principles As part of our commitment to the Equator Principles, we report annually on our implementation. FUNDED EP PROJECT FINANCE LOANS FUNDED EP PROJECT-RELATED CORPORATE LOANS CATEGORY A 2 CATEGORY A 3 CATEGORY B 5 CATEGORY B 1 CATEGORY C 0 CATEGORY C 0 CITI HAD NO EP PROJECT FINANCE ADVISORIES AND NO EP BRIDGE LOANS IN 2016 FUNDED PROJECT FINANCE LOANS BREAKDOWN FUNDED PROJECT-RELATED CORPORATE LOANS BREAKDOWN BY SECTOR A B C TOTAL BY SECTOR A B C TOTAL Oil and Gas 2 0 0 2 Mining and Metals 1 0 0 1 Infrastructure 0 2 0 2 Power 2 1 0 3 Power 0 3 0 3 BY REGION A B C TOTAL BY REGION A B C TOTAL U.S. and Canada 1 4 0 5 U.S. and Canada 0 0 0 0 Latin America 0 0 0 0 Latin America 1 1 0 2 Europe 1 0 0 1 Europe 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 Middle East and Africa 0 0 0 0 Asia and Oceania 0 1 0 1 Asia and Oceania 2 0 0 2 BY COUNTRY DESIGNATION A B C TOTAL BY COUNTRY DESIGNATION A B C TOTAL Designated 1 1 5 0 6 Designated 0 0 0 0 Non-Designated 2 1 0 0 1 Non-Designated 3 1 0 4 BY INDEPENDENT REVIEW A B C TOTAL BY INDEPENDENT REVIEW A B C TOTAL Yes 2 5 0 7 Yes 3 1 0 4 No 0 0 0 0 No 0 0 0 0 For more information on our ESRM policy, including how we categorize loans, visit our Environmental and Social Policy Framework. 1 Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are High-Income OECD countries. 2 Non-Designated Countries as defined by the Equator Principles are all non-OECD countries and all OECD countries not designated as high income. See the Equator Principles website for more information. Citi received external assurance of our Equator Principles data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance Statement, see the Assurance section. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  48 2016 Transactions Receiving ESRM Review Our processes for identifying risks are strong, and we have committed resources to help our clients comply with standards to ensure responsible development can continue. BY REGION TOTAL TRANSACTIONS RECEIVING ESRM REVIEW 85 Asia and the Pacific 10 67 411 Europe 405 11 380 Middle East and Africa 49 54 54 CATEGORY A 7 29 125 Latin America and the Caribbean 22 66 U.S. and Canada 4 112 119 CATEGORY B 19 Global (multiple regions) 0 179 TOTAL  411 CATEGORY A  54 58 CATEGORY C 72 BY SECTOR 39 NOT CATEGORIZED 98 Infrastructure and Transportation 49 15 82 46 Metals and Mining 6 70 GR* Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals 141 14 118 94 90 Power (including Renewables) 12 26 Manufacturing and Industrials 4 2014 2015 2016 20 Other 1 * In 2015 we updated the ESRM policy to include 17 a new general review (GR) category, which Forestry, Pulp and Paper 0 covers corporate-level transactions, such as 24 forestry and palm oil annual reviews, transactions Agribusiness (including Palm Oil) below ESRM standard financial thresholds and 2 16 general corporate purposes transactions. Telecom 0 For more information on our ESRM policy, TOTAL  411 including how we categorize loans, visit our CATEGORY A  54 Environmental and Social Policy Framework. BY PRODUCT TYPE 17 Project Finance Loans 6 Advisories 5 2 167 Corporate or Government Loans 14 44 EP Project-Related Corporate Loans 19 28 Debt and Equity Underwriting 4 29 Forestry and Palm Oil Client Annual Reviews 0 27 Acquisition Finance 2 21 Letters of Credit and Guarantees 3 73 Other (e.g., Equity, Derivatives, etc.) 4 Citi received external assurance of our TOTAL  411 ESRM data from SGS. For our SGS Assurance CATEGORY A  54 Statement, see the Assurance section. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  49 OPERATIONS AND SUPPLY CHAIN With 12,000 owned and leased facilities and thousands of suppliers worldwide, our operational footprint and supply chain have an impact on the environment and the communities where we work. We take this responsibility seriously and continue exploring ways to increase efficiency and minimize our negative impacts on the environment and society. These actions represent one of the core pillars of our Sustainable Progress Strategy. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS RESOURCE USE AND In 2015, we announced the third ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS generation of our operational Nearly 2,400 We embrace our responsibility to environmental footprint goals, which minimize our global footprint, setting we intend to reach by 2020. We used goals to address the environmental a science-based approach to absolute impacts of our operations. We also reductions consistent with the United recognize the interconnectedness Nations’ 2°C threshold for a climate suppliers have completed our of environmental sustainability and tipping point to establish our goal to CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY employee well-being and continue to reduce GHG emissions by 35 percent QUESTIONNAIRE look for ways to advance progress by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050 since it was established in 2013 in these areas. compared with our 2005 baseline. To achieve this ambitious 2050 goal, we 2020 Goals will continue to set absolute GHG goals REDUCED ABSOLUTE GHG As part of our Sustainable Progress in five-year increments and track annual EMISSIONS BY 28 % Strategy and overall commitment to performance. We have also established action on climate change, we measure 2020 goals for energy use, water our environmental footprint and consumption, recycling, waste and green set ambitious goals to minimize our building (see box on the next page). towards our 2020 goal environmental impact. We began reporting on our direct environmental During 2016, we made positive gains impacts related to our operations in toward our 2020 goals in all areas. Expanded our LEED-CERTIFIED 2002, and have achieved the first and Our GHG emissions and environmental real estate portfolio to 20 % second generation of environmental data are verified and assured by SGS footprint goals that we set for ourselves. (see the Assurance section), a leading third-party inspection, verification, testing and certification company. HOW  WE DO BUSINESS  50 CASE STUDY UPDATE ON REDUCING CARBON EMISSIONS IN EUROPE Achieving energy and carbon dioxide (CO2) reductions at longestablished data centers can be 2020 OPERATIONAL FOOTPRINT GOALS more challenging than designing new, efficient facilities. In our 2015 Global Citizenship Report, 35% 30% we first reported on our U.K. data center and how we addressed this challenge by selecting Combined Heat and Power (CHP) technology REDUCTION REDUCTION to provide the electricity for the in absolute Scope 1 and in energy consumption data center. Scope 2 GHG emissions (compared with 2005 baseline) (compared with 2005 baseline) CHP is a highly efficient technology for generating energy on site from a single fuel source, such as gas. 30% 10% The CHP plant generates electricity and heat. The heat would normally be lost, but by coupling the CHP plant with cooling equipment that REDUCTION OF WATER runs in parallel, the heat energy can in water consumption used coming from reclaimed be used to help cool the data center. (compared with 2005 baseline) or recycled sources We are able to use up to 85 percent of the useable energy produced, reducing the amount of energy 60% 33% that would typically be lost during the transmission of electricity from central power plants. Citi’s Asset Finance Group worked DIVERSION OF GLOBAL with a third-party investment of waste stream to landfill real estate portfolio company to fund this project through (compared with 2005 baseline) LEED-certified normal operating costs rather than with a capital expenditure, requiring no upfront investment costs by Citi Realty Services. In 2016, we were able to avoid 6,790.54 metric tons of CO 2 emissions, significantly more than what had been estimated, resulting in even greater energy and cost savings at the data center than we had initially forecast. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  51 Reporting The way we procure energy for our In keeping with international best buildings is a big consideration for our practice for transparently reporting environmental footprint. Buildings climate-related impacts, Citi has account for about 40 percent of global submitted data to the CDP every year energy use and emit approximately since 2003. We follow the GHG Protocol one-third of the GHG emissions. 4 In 2016, Scope 2 Guidance for measuring and we established a contract to purchase reporting both market-based and energy for our data center in Roanoke, location-based Scope 2 GHG emissions, Texas. To accomplish this, we worked and we also report on Scope 3 CO2 with a retail energy provider and — for emissions from employee air and train the first time to meet our own energy travel and project-financed thermal needs — our subsidiary, Citi Energy power plants. In 2016, Citi received Inc. (CEI). To ensure the sustainable a score of Aon our climate change aspects of this transaction, Citi Realty impact reporting, compared to a score Services procured renewable energy of A in 2015. Reporting requirements certificates for the entire data center’s and expectations change frequently, load for 2017. CEI was an integral partner and while we remain diligent in our to the success of this transaction. effort to be as comprehensive and transparent as possible, these changes Travel can result in fluctuations in yearThere are a number of ways we work to over-year scores. In 2017, we will review reduce the environmental impacts of reporting requirements to identify any business travel and employee commuting. potential gaps that may be addressed. -Business Travel: We encourage Innovations in the Built Environment employees to use video and web There is much that can be done to conferencing technologies rather design physical workspaces that not than traveling, whenever possible. only reduce environmental impacts but When travel is unavoidable, we ask also enhance the comfort, well-being employees to group trips together and productivity of employees (see to manage costs and reduce the next page). In assessing our operations, number of trips taken, and we we looked for opportunities where the offer employees the option of train sustainable design of buildings could travel whenever it is a feasible contribute to improved employee alternative. Citi reports our Scope health and wellness, productivity, 3 emissions from business travel. engagement and satisfaction. -Commuting: Many of our offices We are incorporating biophilic design are centrally located near public elements — those that draw on the transportation, which reduces the principles of nature — into the current need for employees to drive to work. In renovation of our global headquarters in the U.S., we offer benefits that enable New York. We will be seeking LEED Platinum commuters to use pre-tax dollars certification when the update is complete to cover the cost of commuting by and are using environmentally sustainable subway, bus, train, ferry and vanpool. products throughout the renovated We also offer bike storage and bike spaces. We’re also improving air quality racks at a number of facilities and by using noor low-VOC (volatile organic sponsor bike share programs, known as compound) paints, installing direct outside Citi Bike, in New York City, Jersey City air systems, which balance recirculated and Miami. We encourage participation air with outside air, and opening up the in New York City’s bike share program workspaces to accentuate outside views through Citi Bike events at our New and bring in natural daylight. Our aim is to York offices. At our car park in London maximize efficiency and make the space as Citigroup Center, we offer a dozen natural as possible, which is not only better electric vehicle charging stations for the environment but also beneficial for those driving electric vehicles. to our employees (see page 53). 4 United Nations Environment Programme, Sustainable Buildings and Climate Initiative website. Last accessed December 2016. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  52 CASE STUDY WORKING WELL Our Citi Tower in Hong Kong is a significant milestone in our pursuit to operate facilities that live up to high environmental standards and also provide employees with workplaces that support their well-being. The building has been awarded LEED Platinum Certification, which contributes to our goal of 33 percent of our portfolio being LEED certified by 2020. Citi Tower’s environmentally sustainable features include solar control glass to help reduce the use of energy for air conditioning, efficient lighting and lighting controls and low-VOC paints and adhesives. Citi Tower is also the first Citi project approved for WELL Silver Precertification by the International WELL Building Institute™. The WELL Standard — which is separate from yet highly complementary to LEED certification — assesses buildings for features related to health and well-being. The Tower includes many wellness-related benefits for the over 3,000 Citi employees who work at the facility, from waterand air-quality testing to a fitness center and workstations with ergonomic features. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  53 CASE STUDY RENOVATING CITI’S GLOBAL HEADQUARTERS Work is well underway in transforming Citi’s global headquarters in New York City into a modern, world-class facility that supports our businesses and functions and enables employees to work more closely together and better Rendering of the public plaza at the lobby entrance of Citi’s new headquarters at 388 Greenwich St., serve our clients and customers. which will be rebuilt and re-landscaped with multiple outdoor seating areas. Nearly everything about our redesigned headquarters — from its design to its technology — incorporates sustainability goals and features, aligned with our Sustainable Progress Strategy. Some highlights of the many sustainability improvements include: -Reducing our annual carbon footprint by 30 percent, in part due to a new cogeneration plant that will produce heat and electrical power -Diverting nearly 98 percent of the waste from renovations to facilities that recover, reuse and recycle materials, to reduce the amount of construction and demolition waste that we dispose of in landfills and incineration facilities -Redesigning and renovating the public plaza with new walkways, a multitude of seating options, and new landscaping to create a more appealing environment for our employees and neighbors in Tribeca The renovated building will serve as home for most of our New York City employees by 2019. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  54 Employee Engagement Through our daily practices, environmental efforts and volunteer-led Green Teams, we work to engage employees in achieving our environmental sustainability objectives. Green Teams are employee-led groups that design and lead positive environmental initiatives tailored to their workplaces and local communities, such as recycling drives, volunteer projects, informative lectures and awareness campaigns. We have 17 Green Teams with more than 1,100 employees operating around the world. In 2016, these Green Teams held more than 250 volunteer and educational events, resulting in more than 7,200 volunteer hours dedicated to helping communities. Companywide participation in global environmental efforts plays an important role in engaging employees. During World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour in March, more than 3,000 Citi facilities in 94 countries participated in turning Citi Volunteers from Green Team in Tampa, Florida the lights off between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local time. This is the 9th consecutive year that Citi has participated in the event, and 2016 had the highest participation rate from our facilities since we joined Earth Hour in 2008. In April 2016, in support of Earth Week, an annual campaign of environmental and sustainability events to support the globally recognized Earth Day, employees organized more than 100 events across 10 countries in all four of Citi’s operating regions. More than 2,600 employees globally participated in environmentally focused events, including educational events, community projects and park cleanups, and recycling and environmental footprint reduction initiatives. In Tampa, Citi volunteers participated in a roadside cleanup with Citi volunteers in Bangkok, Thailand Keep Tampa Bay Beautiful, a community organization that combines education and service project opportunities in an effort to make the surrounding community cleaner and greener. Volunteers picked up 84 pounds of recyclable trash and 180 pounds of nonrecyclable trash. In Bangkok, 21 Citi volunteers participated in a workshop on improving their sustainability at home through urban farming, reducing consumption and recycling. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  55 CASE STUDY CONNECTING WELLNESS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY In addition to the importance of energy efficiency and green materials, we’re observing a shift toward buildings that also promote wellness as an important aspect of sustainability in building design. In keeping with this trend, we have introduced initiatives for our employees that emphasize the intersection of personal well-being and reduced environmental impact. The Drink-Up initiative is just one effort within a broader wellness campaign for our employees. The initiative promotes hydration, but rather than stocking our breakrooms with disposable plastic water bottles, we have started converting the water fountains at our facilities to also work as bottle-filling stations. Based on the amount of water dispensed via the bottle fillers, we estimate this has avoided more than 36,000 water bottles between April and December of 2016 at our global headquarters in New York. For more information about wellness programs for our employees, see the Talent and Diversity section. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  56 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Principles further underscores our with each of these suppliers to review Many of the material issues we’ve strong commitment to human rights in their CRQs, discuss the factors that led to defined for our company — ethical our supply chain. For more information their scores and outline steps necessary conduct, diversity, human rights, about our approach to human rights, for them to improve their scores within and environmental and social risks see the Human Rights section. a year when they will resubmit. If the — have just as much relevance in our necessary improvement is not achieved supply chain as they do for the rest We use our Corporate Responsibility within that year, we escalate review to of our business and operations. Questionnaire (CRQ) to evaluate determine whether the contract should suppliers’ adherence to our Statement be discontinued. To ensure a consistent Enterprise Supply Chain of Supplier Principles and Code of approach and understanding of the Our Enterprise Supply Chain (ESC) Conduct and to gauge how well they CRQ process and supplier evaluation, team works with our business units to manage a range of issues, such as we provide training for our employees. support the supplier selection process, environmental management, human We also provide sustainability training implement sustainable supplier initiatives rights, labor practices, diversity and education to suppliers. In 2016, we and mitigate environmental and social and health and safety. In addition, hosted several supplier summits, during risks in our supply chain. In 2015, we we include questions related to which we offered training on the CRQ identified three priority areas in our modern-day slavery in our Europe, to both new and established suppliers. supply chain that we are working to Middle East and Africa region to meet manage and measure as part of our the requirements of the U.K. Modern Sustainable Progress Strategy: paper Slavery Act and plan to roll out these CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY and paper products, information questions in other regions during 2017. QUESTIONNAIRE HIGHLIGHTS technology (IT) hardware and e-waste Our network of Global Champions disposal, and travel and logistics. In helps us adapt the questionnaire to 2016, we began additional education local cultures and business norms, NEARLY 2,400 and training for employees to ensure and we translate the CRQ into local suppliers have completed global progress in these three areas. languages to make it easier for the questionnaire since it suppliers to fill out and to enable was established in 2013 Supplier Engagement and Evaluation productive follow-up conversations. Suppliers provide critical goods and services our company needs to continue If a supplier’s CRQ score is low, we The CRQ will be available to all operating, and we view partnerships communicate our concerns to the approved suppliers worldwide by with our suppliers as an essential aspect supplier and our regional sourcing 2018 of operating responsibly, meeting our manager. We typically ask suppliers sustainability goals and managing to fill out the CRQ every two years. expenses. Our Statement of Supplier Suppliers who fall below 70 percent are AVAILABLE IN 14 LANGUAGES, Principles outlines the ethical, human asked to take action steps to improve including Arabic, English, French, rights and environmental standards we and submit a CRQ again the following German, Hungarian, Italian, expect from our suppliers. We continue year. We often find that additional Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, to build on this foundation, seeking out training and face-to-face dialogue can Russian, Spanish, Turkish and two suppliers that share our values and help suppliers better understand the different written Chinese formats: communicating to suppliers about the CRQ and our expectations so they can Simplified Chinese (China) and importance of these issues to Citi and quickly address any issues that we have Traditional Chinese (Taiwan) to society. Our suppliers are required to flagged related to their responses. Data as of December 2016 abide by the Citi Statement on Human In 2016, 90 potential suppliers scored Rights, and our Statement of Supplier 70 percent or lower on the CRQ. We met SUPPLIERS CRQ SURVEYS SCORING 70% REGION COMPLETED OR LOWER ASIA PACIFIC 1,700 60 EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST & AFRICA 475 25 LATIN AMERICA 180 5 NORTH AMERICA 45 0 HOW WE DO BUSINESS  57 Supplier Diversity Citi’s broader partnership with UN WHAT’S AHEAD Our ESC organization sets clear diversity Women. See the Talent and Diversity goals and embeds them in our supplier section for more information. Because Citi operates within a global selection processes. In addition, the Citi context, we must keep a constant Supply Chain Development, Inclusion Recognition for Supplier eye on our work to minimize our and Sustainability Program gives U.S. Diversity Efforts in the U.S. environmental footprint across all of small businesses and women-, veteran-, The strategic focus we have placed our operations worldwide. We have disabilityand minority-owned firms on our supply chain efforts, including made significant progress in the last access to business opportunities, our spend, global reach, education, year in incorporating considerations education, mentoring and training. training and development, led to the of how sustainable design can Working with a range of supplierfollowing recognitions in 2016: impact employee well-being, and we focused organizations, we identify will continue to look for cutting-edge small and diverse suppliers that can -National Minority Supplier approaches in this regard. meet our supply chain needs and then Development Council Gazelle Award help build these suppliers’ capacity. -National Minority Supplier In terms of our supply chain, we will In 2015 and 2016, in partnership with Development Council Corporate continue to focus on increasing the the New York and New Jersey Minority Trailblazer Award diversity of our suppliers. We have Supplier Development Council, Citi -New York and New Jersey made progress in promoting global hosted a sustainability symposium for Minority Supplier Development diversity among our supplier base suppliers and corporate sustainability Council Advocate of the Year in the U.S. and will continue to look professionals in New York City. And in -New York City & State CSR for ways to do so globally. 2016, we hosted the Chief Procurement Awards Sustainability honoree Officer Summit for the third year -New York State Sustainability honoree One opportunity we see moving — an opportunity for Fortune 500 -Wheeler, Wilson & Johnson forward is how we can source companies with an interest in supply Community Projects, Historically more renewable energy to meet our chain diversity and inclusion efforts Black Colleges and Universities needs. We are also considering how to share best practices and lessons Corporate Trailblazer Award a renewable energy sourcing goal learned related to supplier selection, could help us realize the impact third-party risk management concerns, we’d like to see in the coming supplier relationship management years. While these efforts could be and cost savings, among other things. TOTAL TIER 1 AND TIER 2 impacted by any shifts in the policy We also partnered with several of our diverse spend for 2016 was landscape of the many countries in financial services and insurance peers $828 million, with which we operate, there is potential to host the launch of the Global Supplier $476 million in Tier 1 direct to expand this work in line with our Diversity Alliance, an effort by a range spend with diverse suppliers broader sustainability goals. of supplier diversity organizations to promote global diversity. CONDUCTED We are also working to expand the Citi 6 TRAINING SESSIONS Supply Chain Development, Inclusion on our supplier diversity and and Sustainability Program beyond sustainability goals for our the U.S. In 2016, we continued our ESC employees in 2016 global engagement with Supply Nation in Australia, entered into our second year of membership with Minority IDENTIFIED Supplier Development U.K. in the 7 EMPLOYEE CHAMPIONS United Kingdom, joined the Canadian who share best practices Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council and drive global awareness and joined WEConnect International, on key supply chain issues a global organization dedicated to critical to our strategy the advancement of women-owned businesses. For each of these, there is a designated regional champion to oversee and support the relationship on a local basis. Additionally, we are working to drive awareness and support for women entrepreneurs as part of HOW WE DO BUSINESS  58 Performance Against Our Sustainable Progress Scorecard for Operations and Supply Chain OPERATIONS Minimize our impacts across Citi’s entire portfolio of 12,000 owned and leased facilities GOAL METRIC BY PROGRESS 35% reduction in absolute Scope 2020 28.5%* 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions 30% reduction in energy consumption 2020 25.1% 30% reduction in water consumption 2020 24.7% Environmental footprint (From a 2005 baseline) 10% of water used coming from 2020 3.8% reclaimed/recycled sources 60% diversion of waste stream to landfill 2020 60.7%** 33% of global real estate portfolio 2020 20.0% LEED certified * 34.7% with offsets ** Diversion ratio met SUPPLY CHAIN Work with our suppliers to ensure that they meet high environmental and social standards GOAL METRIC BY PROGRESS Supply chain policies: Paper and paper products Policy finalized and policy White papers for each finalized 2018 IT hardware and e-waste disposal training implemented† and disseminated Travel and logistics Statement update in process; on track to Update statement of supplier principles Statement updated and disseminated 2017 be finalized and disseminated by the end of 2017 Integration of supplier principles Number and percentage of contracts 2018 In progress into master contracts CRQ rolled out to all regions (EMEA, APAC, LATAM and NAM) during 2016; CRQ rolled out to all regions Percentage of suppliers 2018 expansion to additional countries forecast for 2017 with 100% completion estimated by the end of 2018 During 2016, completed a refresh of internal Enterprise supply chain employees trained 2018 training templates with the aim to deploy them during 2017 Internal/external training During 2016, held training sessions with suppliers in NAM (2) and LATAM (5); Suppliers in all regions 2018 planning additional sessions during 2017 with inclusion of EMEA and APAC † Four main steps: finalizing and disseminating white papers; integrating policies into Global Operations Procedures; finalizing, adopting and integrating policies; and providing policy training See our 2015 report to compare our progress in 2015. HOW WE DO BUSINESS  59 Progress on Our Goals PROGRESS IN 2016 AGAINST 2020 GOALS LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY REGION†† FROM A 2005 BASELINE PROGRESS REGION CERTIFIED SILVER GOLD PLATINUM TOTAL 35% reduction in absolute Scope 1 & Scope 2 GHG emissions 28.5%* North America 27 28 66 1 122 30% reduction in energy consumption 25.1% Latin America 2 3 6 0 11 60% diversion of waste stream to landfill 60.7%** Asia Pacific 4 9 31 9 53 30% reduction in water consumption 24.7% Europe, Middle 2 4 14 6 26 East & Africa 10% of water used coming from recycled/reclaimed sources 3.8% Total 35 44 117 16 212 33% of global real estate portfolio LEED certified 20.0% * 34.7% with offsets ** Diversion ratio met REGIONAL OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE LEED-CERTIFIED BUILDINGS BY BUILDING TYPE†† GHG GHG Total Total Emissions Emissions Energy Water Total BUILDING TYPE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Location-Based Market-Based Consumption Consumption Waste Region (mt) (mt) (GWh) (m3) (mt) Data Centers (DC) 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 North America 369,415 332,089 863 2,657,650 34,522 DC File Storage 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Latin America 126,368 96,423 314 1,227,380 11,071 Office Buildings 4 13 9 14 13 14 6 Asia Pacific 206,557 201,300 327 816,739 6,767 Operational Centers 2 0 2 0 3 1 1 Europe, Middle Branches 7 8 21 0 23 11 23 86,213 70,552 217 426,419 3,910 East & Africa Total 13 21 32 15 39 26 31 Cumulative Total 48 69 101 116 155 181 212 GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1 AND 2) BY REGION IN 2016 †† This is based on the active buildings in the portfolio by year-end 2016 Scope 2 Scope 2 and excludes projects for inactive and disposed buildings. CO2e CO2e Total CO2e Total CO2e Scope 1 (Location(Market(Location(MarketRegion CO2e Based) Based)† Based) Based) North America 15,528 353,887 316,560 369,415 332,089 Latin America 2,561 123,807 93,862 126,368 96,423 Asia Pacific 1,636 204,921 199,664 206,557 201,300 Europe, Middle 4,551 81,662 66,001 86,213 70,552 East & Africa † The Scope 2 Quality Criteria have been met for the instruments used in the calculation. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION AMOUNTS APPLIED TO MARKET-BASED EMISSION FACTOR TYPES 2016 Electricity Consumption (kWh) % OF TOTAL EMISSIONS FACTOR BASIS ELECTRICITY STEAM CHILLED WATER TOTAL CONSUMPTION RECs or Other Energy 104,825,872 0 0 104,825,872 6% Attribute Certificate PPA or Source Contract 104,349,009 0 0 104,349,009 6% Supplier Specific 170,352,308 0 8,546,673 178,898,980 11% Steam Default 0 32,745,027 0 32,745,027 2% Residual Mix 51,196,039 0 6,236 51,202,276 3% Grid Average 1,119,172,655 0 22,099,183 1,141,271,838 71% Total 1,549,895,883 32,745,027 30,652,092 1,613,293,001 100% HOW WE DO BUSINESS  60 Environmental Impact Report 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Operating Sq. Ft. 71,978,507 62,758,624 61,476,361 57,689,984 54,888,730 52,399,026 50,354,101 Headcount 344,650 342,546 306,370 235,054 225,750 224,740 219,056 ABSOLUTE INDICATORS ENERGY Electricity (GWh) 2,005 1,924 1,874 1,774 1,693 1,618 1,550 District Heating (Steam & Chilled Water) 87 62 62 57 60 62 63 Energy Purchased (GWh) Scope 2 2,092 1,985 1,936 1,831 1,753 1,680 1,613 Natural Gas (GWh) 157 122 93 94 90 82 77 Fuel Oil (GWh) 51 42 56 42 37 37 31 Energy Consumed (GWh) Scope 1 208 164 149 136 126 120 108 Total Energy (GWh) 2,300 2,149 2,085 1,967 1,879 1,800 1,721 CO2e EMISSIONS* Direct CO2e (GHG Scope 1) (Gas & Fuel Oil) 45,926 36,301 34,480 30,692 28,408 27,116 24,276 Indirect CO2e (GHG Scope 2) 1,056,596 954,527 920,929 871,580 836,053 803,880 764,277 (Electricity, Steam and Chilled Water) Total CO2e (mt) 1,102,522 990,829 955,409 902,271 864,461 830,996 788,553 Green Power Offsets (CO2e) 5,953 56,882 98,450 101,642 96,038 77,909 72,872 Net CO2e (mt) 1,096,569 933,947 856,959 800,629 768,422 753,087 715,681 WATER CONSUMPTION Potable Water (m3) 6,795,417 6,052,253 6,318,183 6,016,014 5,408,693 5,219,056 4,935,857 Non-Potable Water (m3) 13,014 14,899 21,414 20,433 20,784 57,822 192,330 Total Water Consumption (m ) 3 6,808,431 6,067,152 6,339,597 6,036,447 5,429,476 5,276,878 5,128,188 WASTE ONECITI Construction Recycling (mt) 0 0 0 0 0 0 15,251 Recycled Office Paper (mt) 6,230 17,676 14,068 16,846 16,629 15,009 11,753 Total Recycling (mt) 2016 27,004 ONECITI Construction Waste (mt) 0 0 0 0 0 0 661 Refuse and Other (mt) 58,670 38,988 35,420 32,668 31,288 30,332 28,606 Total Waste (mt) 2016 29,267 Total Waste (mt) 64,900 56,665 49,488 49,514 47,917 45,341 56,271 RELATIVE INDICATORS TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED KWh/Rentable Sq. Ft. 31.96 34.24 33.92 34.09 34.24 34.35 34.18 KWh/Headcount 6,674.00 6,272.91 6,805.89 8,368.02 8,324.42 8,008.63 7,857.94 NET CO2e Metric Tons/Rentable Sq. Ft. 0.0153 0.0158 0.0155 0.0156 0.0157 0.0159 0.0157 Metric Tons/Headcount 3.20 2.89 3.12 3.84 3.83 3.70 3.60 SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS Business Air Travel CO2e (mt) NA 119,179 123,302 150,967 178,694 109,687 135,735 Business Train Travel CO2e (mt) NA NA NA 5,335 6,651 1,605 2,125 THERMAL POWER 30-year Plant Life CO2 NA 7.4 .0 9.7 .0 9.6 7.8 60-year Plant Life CO2 NA 14.8 .0 19.4 .0 19.2 15.5 * For our GHG emissions performance, the base year and the annual performance against the goal are calculated using a location-based method. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  61 SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT Society is facing the interconnected challenges of rising wealth inequality, rapid urbanization and climate change. As one of the world’s leading financial services companies, Citi is well-positioned to address these complex challenges through our core finance and investment activities. Whether it is providing capital for large infrastructure projects or lending to a small business owner, we increasingly see these activities as potential solutions to global issues, delivering positive impact for society and the environment through products and services that create value for individuals and communities. There is still much work to be done, but we believe that by addressing the challenges of today, we can find greater opportunities for tomorrow. SOLUTIONS  FOR IMPACT  62 ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE We feel strongly that Citi can, and must, make a positive impact by using our banking products and services to finance a more environmentally sustainable economy. One of the pillars of our Sustainable Progress Strategy is Environmental Finance, which focuses on Citi’s client offerings that help combat climate change and provide other environmental benefits. We track this activity throughout the company as part of our flagship $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal. 2016 HIGHLIGHTS FINANCED & FACILITATED $ 26.3 B as part of our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Faciliated $ 5.9 B IN GREEN BONDS for environmentally responsible projects Financed FIRST-OF-ITS-KIND PROJECTS like the Block Island Wind Farm Project, the first OFFSHORE WIND FARM in the U.S. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  63 CITI'S $100 BILLION The Goal from a Global Perspective CRITERIA FOR THE $100 BILLION ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL Curtailing greenhouse gas emissions ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE GOAL In 2015, Citi announced our $100 Billion through greater development of energyEnvironmental Finance Goal to lend, efficient buildings, transportation invest and facilitate $100 billion over infrastructure and clean energy When we launched the $100 Billion 10 years in activities that reduce the sources will be a crucial part of global Environmental Finance Goal, we impacts of climate change and create commitments to climate action, including established environmental criteria environmental solutions in collaboration the Sustainable Development Goals and to identify activities that would with our clients. Large-scale projects the Paris Agreement to keep the average count toward the goal. Projects that support renewable energy global temperature increase below 2°C may qualify toward the goal if generation, green building and mass compared to pre-industrial levels. There they finance one or more of the transit solutions — the types of activities is a large need for financial solutions to following: that are counted towards the goal fulfill these commitments, and Citi and 1. Renewable Energy under our environmental criteria — our clients can play an important role are an integral part of the response by in bringing such projects to fruition. In 2. Energy Efficiency both the private and public sectors to relation to the SDGs, our environmental address the challenge of climate change finance efforts are directly aligned 3. Sustainable Transportation and other environmental issues. with Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and Goal 13 (Climate Action). 4. Water Quality & Conservation Since announcing our goal, we have 5. Clean Technology recorded environmental finance activity of $97.5 billion, $26.3 billion of which 6. Green Building took place in 2016. In fact, we have nearly achieved our goal in three years due to the unprecedented growth of environmental finance markets — ACHIEVING OUR GOAL including renewable energy finance The Corporate Sustainability team and green bonds — and the ambitions works in close partnership with a of our clients. Although we are on track range of Citi business units across to achieve our goal in 2017, we are the firm to track, on a quarterly basis, challenging ourselves by adopting a the deals that meet the goal's criteria. new methodology that counts only Citi’s These deals are carefully reviewed share of a transaction rather than total and considered for inclusion. deal value. This approach is based on established finance sector league table Although many deals under the accounting, rather than total deal value. $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal reflect day-to-day business This approach better captures the activity that would have taken place direct impact of our work. Applying regardless, by setting this goal we have this methodology, our 2016 share was been able to more proactively engage $17.9 billion, while our adjusted overall and collaborate with clients and others finance activity since 2014 is $41.2 billion. on the issues of climate change and We will continue to measure environmental sustainability. The goal has also given and social impacts associated with the us the opportunity to begin measuring deals counted toward the goal. These the impacts of our environmental measures reflect both our commitment finance activities and drive increased to addressing climate change through dialogue on the value of environmental our business, and a willingness to learn finance among our customers, and adapt as the field of environmental competitors and other stakeholders. finance continues to evolve. There are a number of ways that our business units contribute to our goal. Two examples of Citi’s leadership in environmental finance are our engagement in alternative energy finance and the growth of green bonds. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  64 Alternative Energy Finance Green Bonds BRINGING GREEN BONDS Citi provides a full range of financing Citi has been the second-largest TO NEW MARKETS solutions for environmental projects underwriter of corporate green bonds globally, and we continue to develop globally for the past two years. We also innovative, end-to-end solutions to meet cofounded the Green Bond Principles, In 2016, Citi continued to help our clients’ unique financing needs. which provides issuers with guidelines clients in new markets issue green Our Alternative Energy Finance team encouraging transparency, and are bonds for the first time. Citi helped has developed extensive expertise in an active member of its Social Bond Türkiye Sınai Kalkınma Bankası financing solutions for a broad spectrum Working Group. In 2016, as part of that A.S. (TSKB), Turkey’s first privately of renewable energy technologies, group, we worked on the release of owned development and investment including wind, solar, geothermal and the Social Bond Guidance document bank, issue the first-ever public biomass. For larger, utility-scale projects, to support the growth of the emerging benchmark sustainability/green such as the Mariah North Wind Project social and sustainable bond market bond for the Central and Eastern in Parmer County, Texas, we are able to and helped our clients raise $5.9 billion Europe, Middle East and Africa provide multiple services as a “onethrough green bonds to meet their region, supporting its goal of stop shop” for our clients, providing environmental and commercial goals. being a leading bank in Turkey’s construction financing, commodities sustainable development. Proceeds hedging and tax equity on a single deal. from this bond will be allocated By accessing multiple services from toward refinancing and funding a single provider, our clients are able new projects that address climate to reduce transaction costs, thereby change mitigation and adaptation, enhancing project returns. as well as sustainable infrastructure. The green nature of the offering allowed TSKB to save up to 20 basis points versus senior pricing on this $300 million, five-year green bond. This pioneering transaction won the International Financing Review’s 2016 Socially Responsible Investing Bond of the Year Award. Sustainable Progress Framework and Scorecard Environmental Finance Our $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal: To lend, invest and facilitate $100 billion over 10 years toward activities that reduce the impacts of climate change and create environmental solutions. PROGRESS GOAL METRIC STATUS (CUMULATIVE 2014-2016) Environmental finance goal $100 billion Ongoing $97.5 billion Environmental impact tracking* Total annual CO 2e emissions avoided Ongoing 9.1 million (mt) Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax Ongoing 46,193 jobs equity activity (includes direct, indirect and induced jobs) Annual riders on transit system projects Ongoing 7.3 billion rides Social impact tracking* People serviced by water-quality projects Ongoing 63.9 million people Families serviced by affordable housing activity Ongoing 19,954 families Total miles traveled on Citi Bike Ongoing 62.5 million miles * These potential impacts represent the positive environmental and social benefits of a subset of our environmental finance transactions. See our 2015 report to compare our progress in 2014 and 2015. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  65 Breakdown of Environmental Finance Activities BY REGION TOTAL DEAL VALUE 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL Billions % Billions % Billions % Billions % North America $9.5 40% $20.9 44% $16.0 61% $46.5 48% Europe, Middle East & Africa $9.2 39% $14.7 31% $5.9 22% $29.8 31% Asia Pacific $0.7 3% $0.1 0% $3.9 15% $4.7 5% Latin America $0.1 1% $0.6 1% $0.4 2% $1.2 1% Multiple Regions $4.0 17% $11.3 24% $0.1 0% $15.4 16% TOTAL $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $26.3 100% $97.5 100% BY ENVIRONMENTAL CATEGORY TOTAL DEAL VALUE 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL Billions % Billions % Billions % Billions % Wind $5.8 25% $11.7 25% $4.2 16% $21.7 22% Solar $3.1 13% $6.2 13% $6.4 24% $15.7 16% Sustainable Transportation $2.3 10% $4.2 9% $2.0 8% $8.5 9% Water Quality and Conservation $0.8 3% $1.9 4% $3.3 12% $6.0 6% Green Housing $0.6 3% $1.6 3% $2.5 9% $4.7 5% Energy Efficiency $0.3 1% $0.5 1% $0.3 1% $1.1 1% Citi Operations $0.2 1% $0.2 0% $0.3 1% $0.7 1% Multiple Categories* $10.4 44% $21.3 45% $7.5 28% $39.2 40% TOTAL $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $26.3 100% $97.5 100% * Includes transactions such as some green bonds and yieldcos activity that bundled together multiple environmental technologies. BY BUSINESS TOTAL DEAL VALUE 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL Billions % Billions % Billions % Billions % Banking and Capital Markets $11.5 49% $31.8 67% $11.8 45% $55.1 57% Green Bonds $9.5 40% $8.0 17% $5.9 22% $23.4 24% Public Finance $1.7 7% $6.9 14% $7.4 28% $16.0 16% Commodities $0.2 1% $0.5 1% $0.5 2% $1.2 1% Consumer/Commercial Banking $0.4 2% $0.3 1% $0.4 1% $1.0 1% Citi Operations $0.2 1% $0.2 0% $0.3 1% $0.7 1% Other $0.1 0% $0.0 0% $0.0 0% $0.1 0% TOTAL $23.6 100% $47.6 100% $26.3 100% $97.5 100% Some figures in the table above have been rounded, therefore minor differences in totals may occur. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  66 $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS* Greenhouse Gases Avoided (mt) BUSINESS 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL Banking and capital markets Alternative energy project finance and tax equity 3,450,713 2,686,335 574,627 6,711,675 Other banking and capital markets 1,995 0 0 1,995 Commodities 197,485 1,280,366 907,433 2,385,284 Other 3,224 4,352 7,166 14,742 Public finance 3,065 5,739 2,075 10,880 Consumer/Commercial Banking 3,182 2,981 3,455 9,618 TOTAL 3,659,663 3,979,773 1,494,756 9,134,192 Some figures in the tables above have been rounded, therefore minor differences in totals may occur. SOCIAL IMPACTS* 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL Jobs supported by renewable energy project finance and tax equity activity (includes 17,269 14,640 14,284 46,193 direct, indirect and induced jobs) Annual riders on transit system projects 143,739,841 4,075,493,683 3,128,031,314 7,347,264,838 People serviced by water-quality projects 13,914,915 20,863,570 28,831,321 63,609,806 Families serviced by affordable housing activity 3,485 4,498 11,971 19,954 Total miles traveled on Citi Bike 13,667,643 18,452,241 30,380,415 62,500,299 For more information on Citi’s environmental and social impact methodology, see our Finance Accounting and Impact Methodologies webpage. * This data represents estimated environmental and social outputs associated with a subset of our environmental finance transactions, for a period of one year. For the jobs supported calculations, these estimates are assumed over the total project life. SOLUTIONS  FOR IMPACT  67 Environmental and Social Impacts We measure the environmental and social impacts associated with many of the transactions that contribute to our environmental finance goal. Through a multi-stakeholder process, we identified greenhouse gas emissions reduced, jobs supported and additional community benefits as key areas of impact. We developed methodologies for acquiring the necessary data and created models to calculate estimated impacts. These metrics represent the potential positive environmental and social benefits associated with our clients’ environmental finance activity, and we are closely tracking best practices in impact measurement to see how we can continue to develop our own approach. SOLAR AT ALL SIZES In 2016, Citi provided tax equity financing for residential rooftop solar systems with approximately 159 megawatts in capacity to be installed across the U.S. In addition to providing financing solutions CASE STUDY in the residential rooftop space, Citi successfully closed its first Property Assessed Clean Energy CLOSING THE LOOP (PACE) tax equity transaction in the Small and Medium-Sized More companies are considering how of different types of PET — from raw Businesses sector, representing they can incorporate recycled product material feedstock to finished products the first solar tax equity structure and packaging materials back into their — without costly intermediaries, that incorporates PACE mechanics. supply chain to form a “closed loop” or enabling them to offer competitively circular economy, but the challenge of priced recycled PET suitable for bottles On utility-scale renewable projects, effective, economically viable recycling and packaging to a range of consumerCiti continues to be a key player continues to be a barrier to a truly industry customers. in the space, providing tax equity closed-loop approach. financing for over 525 megawatts The new rPlanet Earth facility, expected of solar and wind projects across rPlanet Earth is one company bringing to open in 2017, will be the country’s first the U.S. in 2016. For example, Citi an innovative new approach to address vertically integrated PET recycling plant provided tax equity financing to this barrier to a more sustainable and is expected to create over 100 higha solar PV facility developed by economy. With financing from Citi and quality jobs. Financing for the project Clenera. This is Idaho’s largest other investors, rPlanet Earth will build was structured through the New Market solar project, Grand View Solar its first polyethylene terephthalate Tax Credit Program, a federal initiative Farm, at 108 MW DC. The project (PET) recycling facility in Vernon, designed to spur private investment in is estimated to provide electrical California. PET is a type of polyester support of low-income communities. power to approximately 17,712 used in clothing, containers for food and Citi invested over $14 million, while homes in Idaho while setting a liquids, and a variety of other materials. New Markets Community Capital, MBS precedent for utility-scale projects The company’s technologically Urban Initiatives and private investors in Idaho’s emerging solar market. advanced and highly efficient provided the remainder of the capital. equipment is able to process a variety SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  68 WHAT’S AHEAD As companies and cities strive to meet their own climate change goals and contribute to national government commitments to a low-carbon economy under the Paris Agreement, we expect the renewable energy and energy CASE STUDY efficiency markets to continue to grow. These shifts toward increased climate action pose both challenges BRINGING OFFSHORE and opportunities for Citi and our WIND POWER TO THE U.S. publicand private-sector clients. Finding ways to translate traditional In October 2016, Citi provided financing approaches into agile, financing for the construction and effective mechanisms that enable operation of Deepwater Wind’s sustainable technology projects will Block Island Wind Farm, the firstbe a continuing area of innovation ever U.S. offshore wind farm. for Citi. Citi participated in the construction loan and provided tax equity Re n ewa b l e e n e rg y, e n e rg y financing along with GE. Block efficiency and clean tech solutions Island is a 30-megawatt wind farm, are maturing rapidly, but are not which utilizes five GE turbines yet at the level needed to keep and is located three miles off the warming to the 2°C level. Emerging coast of Block Island, Rhode Island. solutions, such as community Each wind turbine is 600 feet solar and energy storage, are (180 meters) high and can withstand becoming market-ready and a Category 3 storm. scalable, but they could require new financing and risk structures This is a landmark transaction in and will also require broader U.S. renewable power history, and energy sector transformation. representative of the continuing Meeting these challenges growth of renewable energy will require increased skills d eve l o p m e nt . T h e of fsh o re development internally, additional installation took two years, collaboration with key partners with more than 30 0 local externally, and an ongoing workers helping to develop, build commitment to applying our core and commission the project, expertise and activities to create according to Deepwater Wind. An economic growth and progress. independent report by the local Block Island government indicates that the Block Island Wind Farm will lower carbon dioxide emissions by 40,000 tons each year and is expected to save Block Islanders as much as 40 percent on energy bills. The wind farm has executed a 20-year Power Purchase Agreement with the Narragansett Electric Company and started delivering power in December 2016. Deepwater Wind's Block Island Wind Farm SOLUTIONS  FOR IMPACT  69 INCLUSIVE COMMUNITIES Since our founding in 1812, Citi has been deeply invested in the communities where we live and work. It’s where our employees’ children go to school and where our customers open businesses and buy homes. Increasing populations, a widening Through our business, including the wealth gap and aging infrastructure are Municipal Securities Division and 2016 HIGHLIGHTS all significant hurdles to the ability of the Public Sector Group, we provide communities to sustainably grow and financing and support to governments Launched the for residents to access opportunities for and institutions. Through specialized CITI FOUNDATION COMMUNITY economic advancement. At the same functions — including Citi Community PROGRESS MAKERS FUND, time, the resources already present Development, Citi Inclusive Finance and a two-year, 20 M in communities, including knowledge, our Global Government Affairs team, as capital and diversity, are powerful tools for creating innovative solutions well as the work of the Citi Foundation — we work with community partners, $ to these pressing issues. With this in policymakers and leading thinkers to mind, we work to make communities provide resources and expertise to test initiative to support local around the world stronger through new approaches and promote policies organizations working to build financing and direct investment, as well that can catalyze economic opportunity. more sustainable cities in the U.S. as through collaborations with public, private and community partners. Our engagement with clients and community partners goes much deeper RANKED TOP U.S. AFFORDABLE than simply financing projects. We roll HOUSING LENDER FOR THE 7TH YEAR up our sleeves and work with them to Financed $ 5.75 B develop and execute ideas that drive progress. While not every idea leads to a scalable solution, our objective is to uncover new ideas and ways of working of affordable housing, totaling that can strengthen communities. nearly 50,000 units INCREASED SMALL BUSINESS LENDING in the U.S. to more than $ 11 B, raising lending over the last five years to nearly $50 billion SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  70 CITI BIKE Citi’s sponsorship of our bikesharing program began in New York City, but has since expanded to several cities across the U.S., helping more urban dwellers decrease their carbon footprints and expand their transportation options. NEW YORK CITY CHAMPIONING THEMATIC BONDS Launched: May 2013 Trips Since Launch: 38 million Citi has championed the use of Miles Traveled: 80 million thematic bonds based on socially responsible issues or “themes,” MIAMI including green bonds, as a financing Launched: December 2014 tool to help clients raise funds in Trips Since Launch: 2.9 million the capital markets for social and Miles Traveled: 8.6 million environmental issues. We have been leaders and innovators in this space JERSEY CITY since 2012, when we first helped a Launched: September 2015 client issue a socially responsible Trips Since Launch: 285,000 investing corporate bond. Miles Traveled: 427,000 In 2016, Citi helped the International Stats through December 2016 Finance Facility for Immunisation to raise $500 million through a three-year Vaccine Bond that gave investors the opportunity to fund immunization programs at Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which delivers vaccines that protect millions of children in the world’s poorest countries against preventable diseases. We also financed nearly $6 billion in green bonds. For more information on green bonds, see the Environmental Finance section. Citi is also a member of the Green Bond Principles’ Social Bond Working Group, which developed the document Guidance for Issuers of Social Bonds in 2016. This document expands the concepts behind the Green Bond Principles to help address other social objectives beyond the environment. With this guidance, we hope more clients will leverage social thematic bonds as a tool to raise capital to address social challenges in the future. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  71 SUPPORTING SMALL BUSINESSES inventory. As a result, they not only In the San Francisco Bay Area, Citi is Companies with 250 employees or fewer struggle to save money and grow their providing financial support to help account for around 46 percent of the businesses, but are also often at risk local nonprofit SFMade scale its work country’s private-sector employment, 5 of theft when holding money to pay in building a vibrant manufacturing yet many small businesses struggle to distributors. Citi Latin America used sector to create more entry-level and access the capital that allows them to existing Citi payment systems and mobile middle-class jobs and opportunities for grow and, in turn, help communities prosper. platform technology provided by PAQ, business ownership. Besides funding a Guatemala-based company, to pilot a support, Citi fostered connections Financing Small Businesses secure mobile platform tailored for small between SFMade and municipal leaders Citi continues to deepen its commitment shop owners. Pilot users in Guatemala and advertised the organization’s to small businesses by responsibly and Peru can transmit mobile payments and its members’ work in Citibank providing capital — through loans, lines through SMS messages, decreasing branches in the San Francisco area. of credit and other products and services the need to carry cash. The service not In 2016, SFMade and the cities and — to as many small business customers only helps bring these small business mayors of San Francisco, San Jose, as possible to help their businesses owners into the formal banking sector, Oakland and Fremont announced a thrive. Citi increased small business but also provides users the potential three-year, Bay Area-wide manufacturing lending in the U.S. to more than $11 for greater economic well-being. initiative called the Bay Area Urban billion in 2016, raising lending over the Manufacturing Initiative, as well as the last five years to nearly $50 billion. Creating an Enabling Environment results from the first-ever Bay Area Citi also supports programs that help State of Urban Manufacturing Report. Digital Financing Solutions create an enabling environment for Our digital financial solutions are also the growth of small businesses. In connecting small businesses to new New York City, education, access to opportunities by reducing costs and capital and affordable space are all creating efficiencies. For example, obstacles to pursing formal businesses Citi worked with the government of for entrepreneurial New York City Dubai in the United Arab Emirates to Housing Authority (NYCHA) residents. introduce a smart payment solution With support from Citi, NYCHA, the BUILD RESILIENT INFRASTRUCTURE, to improve the efficiency of their largest public housing authority in PROMOTE INCLUSIVE AND payment and procurement processes. North America, created Food Business SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALIZATION The solution allowed suppliers to be Pathways, a free business accelerator AND FOSTER INNOVATION paid more quickly, which opened the program that empowers these residents door for smaller suppliers and greater to start and grow food businesses As a bank, we help to build economic overall diversity of companies working by providing them with a range of prosperity and support job growth in in the government supply chain. resources, including business training, communities around the world by financing coaching and necessary permits, at no growth and progress every day. Access to Citi’s digital payment systems are also cost. To date, 92 businesses have been financial services for small businesses providing formerly unbanked small formed and 140 people — 90 percent is a core part of SDG 9. Target 8.3 of businesses access to the formal financial of them women — have graduated from SDG 8 and target 9.3 of SDG 9 are both sector. In Latin America, hundreds of the program. This impactful approach dedicated to increasing access to financial thousands of small business owners run has been replicated for Childcare services to the full range of enterprises, informal corner stores, called tiendas Business Pathways, a program that microto small-scale industrial and others. de barrio, selling everyday consumer connects public housing residents with Small businesses are key drivers of growth, products. Most of these business the resources to launch home-based innovation and job creation in many owners do not have bank accounts childcare businesses across the city. parts of the world, but they face hurdles and instead rely on cash to pay for to accessing financial services, and we provide capital and other financial services to companies of all sizes across all industries. Citi and the Citi Foundation are working to address the challenges faced by micro and small businesses in accessing capital and other resources. For example, Citi’s Inclusive Finance unit is dedicated to developing innovative solutions that give unbanked and underbanked micro and small businesses access to financial 5 Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions Report, Infrastructure for Growth, October 2016. products and services. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  72 INFRASTRUCTURE FINANCE increases. Furthermore, outdated or AND INVESTMENT ineffective infrastructure can have a Globally, the amount spent on negative impact on both the economic infrastructure as a percentage of GDP and social health of communities. In a has declined in recent years even though Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions there is an enormous social need for (Citi GPS) report, Infrastructure for infrastructure investments, which have Growth, published in October 2016, the capacity to improve the lives of we made the case for investment in those living in underserved areas and infrastructure and explored ways in stimulate local economies. Currently, which we can overcome the barriers over 1.5 billion people live without to greater investment in global access to electricity, nearly 1 billion lack infrastructure, including transportation, safe drinking water and more than telecommunications, energy and water 2.5 billion have no access to basic and sanitation. Citi finances and makes sanitation. 6 As much as $59 trillion7 in direct investments in infrastructure global infrastructure investment will be in cities and communities around the needed over the next 15 years as current world, funding $42.6 billion worth infrastructure ages and the population of infrastructure projects in 2016. RESTORING LAGUARDIA AIRPORT New York City’s LaGuardia Airport is one of the nation’s busiest. Passenger activity grew nearly 20 percent between 2011 and 2015, straining the airport’s capacity and facilities. In July 2015, based on the recommendations of Governor Cuomo‘s Airport Advisory Council, plans were announced to rebuild and renovate the airport at a cost of around $4 billion. I n 2 0 1 6 , t h e N e w Yo r k Tra nsp o r tatio n D evel o p m ent Corporation sold approximately $2.5 billion of debt to finance the redevelopment of Terminal B, the airport’s main terminal. Utilizing our experience developing large-scale transportation projects around the world, Citi served as the bookrunning senior manager of this deal, a public-private partnership (PPP) between the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey and the LaGuardia Gateway Partnership. A total of 150 investors participated in the transaction, the largest-ever PPP deal in the U.S. Once fully operational, the new terminal will be more than 60 percent larger than the existing terminal and will ease airport congestion and 6 improve the passenger experience. Citi Global Perspectives and Solutions Report, Infrastructure for Growth, October 2016. 7 Ibid. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  73 POWERING SOUTH AFRICA While access to power across South Africa is fairly widespread, the reliability of the power is often tenuous. In addition, access is fairly limited in surrounding nations. Citi, in partnership with the African Development Bank and various commercial lenders, provided financing to Eskom, South Africa’s power utility and primary supplier of electricity, to improve and expand its energy transmission network. Financing will ultimately allow Eskom to further develop its electricity generation capabilities in South Africa and across the sub-Saharan region, thus increasing industrialization and job creation as well as energy reliability and overall quality of life for people in those areas. This project is a part of the New Deal on Energy for Africa, which aims to achieve universal access to energy in Africa by 2025. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  74 SUPPORTING MUNICIPAL AND GREEN BOND FUNDS COMMUNITY INNOVATION TRANSIT GROWTH Local governments often face some of the most complex urban issues: lack of affordable housing, unemployment, Thematic bonds can play a degraded infrastructure and strained valuable role in helping municipal MAKE CITIES AND HUMAN healthcare systems. But as budgets leaders finance innovations SETTLEMENTS INCLUSIVE, SAFE, tighten, municipal leaders and and opportunities for economic RESILIENT AND SUSTAINABLE community organizations are under progress in their communities. immense pressure to do more with less. Sound Transit, the regional public It is estimated that significant infrastructure In order to meet the changing needs transit authority, serving the urban investment will be needed to meet the of residents, particularly in lowerareas of King, Pierce and Snohomish rising demand of a growing population and income communities, local governments counties in Washington state, is to create climate-resilient cities — critical and community organizations responsible for developing and elements of SDG 11. However, the cost and need to increase collaboration and operating a regional, high-capacity complexity of this type of investment often invest in new, efficient solutions. transit system in the high-growth prevents cities from building the necessary area of Seattle and the surrounding infrastructure. City Accelerator, an initiative of the metropolitan area. Over 2.9 million Citi Foundation and Living Cities, has people live in this region, which In 2015, the Citi Foundation seeded a brought together municipal leaders from continues to see significant partnership with the World Resources 12 U.S. cities to test new ways to drive economic and population growth Institute’s Center for Sustainable Cities, sustainable growth while increasing along with significant congestion. a leading environmental research think economic opportunity for lower-income In 2016, Citi helped bring to market tank, and C40 Cities, an organization residents since 2014. For example, a $400 million green bond that will that connects 90 of the world’s greatest the city of Philadelphia — one of three support the expansion of light rail, cities to address climate change, to cities to finish the program in 2016 — commuter rail and bus operations form the Financing Sustainable Cities used the City Accelerator program to in the region, where the agency’s Initiative. The initiative helps cities develop explore new ways to increase citizen overall ridership increased by business models that can accelerate the participation in obtaining subsidies. 27 percent from 2015 to 2016. implementation of sustainable urban City officials tested the use of text solutions in three ways: the development This bond financing will help to fund messages and innovative marketing of a learning community; the provision of vital expansions to points north, tactics to ensure low-income seniors technical assistance; and the delivery of an south and east of the existing line. were signing up for subsidies offering a online engagement platform. It also aims Sound Transit’s planned use of bond 25 percent reduction in their water bills. to identify and support the implementation proceeds adheres to its Sustainability As a result, participation in the program of an ongoing plan for sustainable urban Plan, which aims to reduce car doubled, and hundreds of Philadelphia’s service investments in cities. trips by carrying more transit most vulnerable seniors are now riders, supporting smart regional receiving a discount that will make The Financing Sustainable Cities Initiative growth, fostering transit-oriented managing their household bills easier. promotes the financing of sustainable urban development, designing and building development and contributes to a number greener projects, and operating Community organizations also play a of targets within SDG 11, improving the fleets and facilities more efficiently. critical role in making communities more quality of life for citizens, delivering positive The expansion makes transportation resilient. In 2016, the Citi Foundation environmental impacts and contributing to in the Seattle metropolitan region launched the Community Progress Makers local economic growth. more sustainable by saving its riders Fund — a two-year, $20 million initiative to 15 million gallons of gasoline per help these organizations scale, innovate year by removing the equivalent of and impact more people. The inaugural 28,400 cars from the road each year. group of 40 grantees is working on a range of issues, from economic development and affordable housing to environmental sustainability and financial inclusion, in six major cities across the U.S. Grantees receive general operating support grants of $500,000 over two years, in addition to access to skills-based, pro-bono Citi volunteer teams and technical assistance from a network of national experts. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  75 AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND We also partner with and support other New Financing Approaches HOMEOWNERSHIP organizations to create affordable Homeownership is increasingly out Safe and affordable housing is a critical housing through Citi Community of reach in communities across the need in communities, but demand Development. One population country as the cost of real estate often exceeds existing supply as cities disproportionately impacted by lack continues to rise while incomes are experience rapid expansion in many of access to affordable housing is stagnant. For example, the NYU Furman parts of the world. In the U.S., the veterans. Each year, an estimated Center/Citi Report on Homeownership homeownership rate has fallen to the 250,000 servicemen and women and Opportunity in New York City lowest level in half a century8 and, transition out of the military to found that more than half of New York over the past five years, the median embark on new chapters, careers and City homes are unaffordable to the new home price has increased by 35 opportunities. While the rate of veteran majority of households. New financing percent,9 while wages have remained homelessness has declined over the approaches are required to create nearly flat. With more and more past several years, estimates suggest affordable housing that is safe, wellAmericans renting rather than buying that as many as 100,000 vets in the maintained and financially viable over homes, rental prices have gone up. U.S. are homeless at some point during the long term, moving homeownership In 2016, the number of households a 12-month period. Bring them HOMES, into reach for more people. severely burdened by rental costs a partnership with the Local Initiative (paying 50 percent or more of income) Support Corporation and the National To address this, Citi is supporting the hit an all-time high at 11.4 million.10 Equity Fund, its investment affiliate, launch of Community Land Trusts (CLTs) is an initiative to build affordable in several cities across the country. In many cities, these price rises have permanent, temporary and transitional A CLT is a nonprofit corporation that disproportionately affected low-income housing with supportive services for maintains ownership of a parcel of land, families and communities of color. Citi America’s veterans. Even for those not but sells properties on that land at an works to finance the construction and facing such dire circumstances, the affordable rate. The arrangement allows preservation of affordable rental housing men and women of the military and lowand moderate-income residents and community projects across the their families face many financial and to build equity and accrue the benefits U.S. while also working on development logistical challenges, especially during of homeownership, while saving on models to build stronger affordable the transition out of active duty. Over property taxes and housing costs. housing markets from the ground up. the past four years, Citi’s funding has To ensure long-term affordability in the helped bring to fruition nearly 2,000 units community, CLTs typically cap property Financing Affordable Housing of housing for homeless, at-risk and resale prices. Projects are currently Through Citi Community Capital (CCC), low-income veterans and their families. underway in New York and Washington, we provide financing — including D.C., to develop CLTs that preserve municipal bonds, tax credits and Homeownership Preservation long-term affordability for local residents subsidies — for a range of affordable The Citi Office of Homeownership and enable them to build their assets. rental housing projects. We focus on Preservation works to prevent developments that serve low-income foreclosures and promote affordable and special needs populations, including and inclusive housing options for seniors, those with disabilities and the Citi clients and the communities that homeless. We also finance community we serve. While foreclosure rates in revitalization projects such as schools the U.S. have improved significantly and healthcare facilities, as well as compared to the years immediately after job-creating businesses to develop the recession, the rate of completed services and resources most needed in foreclosures in the first half of 2016 the community. In 2016, the CCC provided was still above pre-recession levels. over $5.75 billion in loans for affordable Our efforts to address this challenge rental projects, for nearly 50,000 units include restructuring loans, training in 204 cities. For the seventh consecutive housing counselors, scaling technological year, we were the leading financer efficiencies to coordinate loan servicing, of affordable housing in the U.S. and investing in shared equity models. 8 Harvard University Joint Center for Housing Studies, The State of the Nation's Housing 2016. 9 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Median Sales Price for New Houses Sold in the United States (Oct. ’11-Oct ’16) 10 Harvard University Joint Center for Housing Studies, The State of the Nation’s Housing 2016. 11 RealtyTrac, Midyear 2016 U.S. Foreclosure Market Report  SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  76 PROVIDING AFFORDABLE HOMES IN OUR HOME CITY Through innovative financing and strategic partnerships, we help create thousands of units of affordable housing for New Yorkers. We also partner with nonprofit organizations to enable financial stability among lowto medium-income homeowners. -Over the past five years, Citi has provided $5.2 billion in financing for housing for lowto medium-income New Yorkers. -In 2016, the city of New York, Citi and other contributing partners launched a $140 million extension of the Community Preservation Corporation (CPC) fund for affordable housing. We worked with the city and the CPC to structure and arrange the initial $350 million fund in 2014. -Citi also supports U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Developmentapproved housing counseling organizations — including NeighborWorks America, the National Council of La Raza and the National Community Reinvestment Coalition — to train counselors who can provide education and one-on-one counseling in New York City communities on financial capability, property maintenance and foreclosure prevention. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  77 SUPPORTING THE FINANCIAL STABILITY OF “GRANDFAMILIES“ There are approximately 2.7 million grandparents in the U.S. who are responsible for raising their grandchildren. This family structure, called a grandfamily, is represented in all income levels, but 21 percent of grandparents who head these households live below the federal poverty line. A Citisponsored report, The Resounding Resiliency of Grandfamilies, aims to develop a richer understanding of these grandfamilies and provide recommendations for strengthening their financial lives. In line with this report, ensuring access to affordable housing for WHAT’S AHEAD grandfamilies is critical to their long-term financial stability. In 2016, Citi closed an innovative Increasing population pressure transaction in Washington, D.C., will continue to present major called Plaza West, which reserves infrastructural and social almost a quarter of available challenges for cities around units for, but not restricted to, the world. Local budgets face grandfamilies. This research and increasing stress, and municipal innovative housing model, a firstleaders are hard-pressed to find the of-its-kind concept in the D.C. financing and resources required market, serves to shine a light to meet local needs. Housing on the needs of households that affordability in cities is likely to often provide alternatives to foster remain a significant challenge care by providing stability and for years to come, as population community to youth. growth and economic opportunity become more concentrated in urban centers. At the same time, there is a clear need for sustained support for small businesses to aid in the resiliency of local economies. Rightfully so, there is significant attention on what can happen at a community level to support economic progress for all citizens. The private sector can play an important role in backing innovation and new ways of working, while also helping to appropriately scale approaches that work. That is the role we embrace in the communities where we live and work, and we will continue to use our core banking skills and resources to enable growth and progress. SOLUTIONS  FOR IMPACT  78 FINANCIAL RESILIENCE Citi protects people’s savings and helps them make purchases — from everyday transactions to buying a home. Through our products and services, we advise people on how to invest for future needs and plan for upcoming life events. We also use our capabilities and our scale to support people in building their financial capability and resilience. This type of economic empowerment is the backbone of a thriving economy. To do this, we need to help create REACHING UNBANKED AND opportunities for individuals to earn UNDERBANKED COMMUNITIES 2016 HIGHLIGHTS an income and access high-quality, Globally, some 2 billion adults, affordable financial products and largely in developing regions, remain Launched services to protect and grow their outside the formal banking sector, CITIBANAMEX FINANCIAL INCLUSION, wealth. The need to get this right affecting the resiliency of individuals a unit dedicated to broadening is particularly pressing for today’s and communities. The issue extends access to affordable and youth, who face many obstacles to to developed countries as well. appropriate financial products employment and financial stability. in Mexico, as part of our new 1B In the U.S., around 7 percent of the Through innovation, partnerships and leveraging the time and expertise population does not have a bank account and an additional 20 percent $ of our employees — who volunteer in are underbanked, according to the the communities in which they live FDIC, while half of all U.S. households investment in Citibanamex and work — we're helping to foster lack sufficient savings to sustain economic resiliency and strength three months without falling below in communities around the world. the poverty level in the event of Piloted the Citi ATM Community a sudden drop in their income. As Network, providing FREE USE a result, during times of financial OF CITI’S ATM NETWORK to over distress many are pushed toward options outside the traditional banking 300,000 CLIENTS of participating minority-owned sector, such as payday loans or other predatory lenders, and wind up paying banks and credit unions in the U.S. more for less while not building their credit history. This is coupled with a historic mistrust of large institutions Met our Citi Foundation Pathways and a lack of convenient geographic to Progress goal to invest $ 50 M access to bank branches and ATMs among some populations. Citi pursues solutions and partnerships to improve access to banking services and AND REACH 100,000 YOUTH provide practical financial education with training, leadership and resources for low-income consumers. entrepreneurship opportunities SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  79 Access to Financial SUPPORTING U.S. VETERANS Products and Services Access to simple and affordable banking products can improve people’s lives. Citi Salutes is our firmwide The Access Account, one of Citi’s initiative to meet the unique needs fastest-growing products within the of service members, veterans Global Consumer Bank in 2016, is one and their families in the areas of example of how we are building viable employment, financial capability solutions for often-overlooked portions and housing. One initiative through of the U.S. market, including low-income Citi Salutes in 2016 was in individuals, senior citizens and recent partnership with Military.com — immigrants. Introduced in 2014, the the leading online platform for Access Account is a checkless bank service members and veterans — account with no or low monthly fees, to launch Transition, a free app no overdraft fees, the ability to link to that assists military families with a savings account and access to Citi’s the transition to civilian life. The digital banking network, retail and app offers hundreds of veteranspecific resources on issues such BUILDING ACCESS ATM locations. Over 223,000 Access Accounts have been opened since 2014. as finance management, relocation ACROSS LATIN AMERICA and employment. The app has been Transfer, a joint venture between downloaded more than 6,000 times Financial inclusion also requires Citi and America Movil, the an understanding of the needs of since its launch. largest telecommunications a wide range of communities. For example, studies show that low-income company in Latin America, aims communities of color still predominantly to use mobile banking to expand use cash for transactions, making ATM access to financial products to access and fees especially important. all segments of the population This offered Citi, with our large ATM network, an opportunity to leverage in Latin American countries, our resources to improve banking particularly among low-income accessibility for all. In 2016, we communities. To date, Transfer introduced the Citi ATM Community STRENGTHEN THE MEANS OF IMPLEMENTATION AND REVITALIZE has more than 5 million active Network pilot program, which gave clients of minority-owned banks and THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR accounts, 80 percent of credit unions access to our national SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT which belong to previously network of ATMs. The program enables G l o b a l p a r tn e r sh i p s a cro s s unbanked customers. more than 300,000 clients of participating sectors, the focus of SDG 17, are institutions to withdraw cash without required to meet the scope, scale surcharge fees at 2,400 Citibank branch and ambition of the sustainable ATMs in the U.S. By removing surcharge development goals. Our business is fees and expanding the reach of local about partnering — with our clients institutions, we have reduced transaction and stakeholders — to provide costs, expanded ATM access and improved the financing solutions that meet convenience for clients. When global and the needs of our clients and help local financial institutions collaborate address global challenges. We in this way, we can build a more also participate in public-private inclusive financial services industry partnerships with organizations that expands access to unbanked such as the Overseas Private and underbanked populations. Investment Corporation and the World Bank to share risk, ideas and best practices and to co-finance or co-invest in projects that promote environmental, social and economic progress that none of us can accomplish alone. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  80 Financial Capability Earned Income Tax Credit ENABLING FINANCIAL INCLUSION Financial inclusion is not just about Access and Awareness THROUGH MICRO-BUSINESSES access to affordable products and For many low-income households, tax services; it is also about having the refunds such as the Earned Income Tax knowledge to use the products and Credit (EITC) are the largest lump-sum Microfinance can be a valuable services in a safe and responsible way. payment they receive all year, making tool in creating income-generating We are committed to ensuring that tax season a key opportunity to pay opportunities that support the our clients, as well as the extended down debt, save money and start to livelihoods of low-income network of individuals and families build assets for a secure financial future. individuals and their families. we work with, have the knowledge, But far too many people are not aware Through a range of programs tools and resources needed to manage that this program exists, or are paying and partnerships, Citi invests their financial well-being. Citi offers a to file instead of taking advantage of in microfinance initiatives that number of free public online resources free tax preparation services. For the promote financial inclusion and that provide financial education. In past three years, Citi has supported enable economic growth for addition, we support numerous financial New York City’s marketing campaign to underserved market segments. capability programs around the world. expand access to free tax preparation For example, Citi has maintained For example, Citi and the Citi Foundation services and the EITC, returning close a partnership with the U. S. have contributed $1.6 million in funding to $500 million in fee savings and government’s Overseas Private since 2008 to support the New York tax credits to 310,000 households. Investment Corporation (OPIC) City Office of Financial Empowerment that has enabled us to provide (OFE), to scale efforts to provide funding to many micro and small knowledge and resources for low-income entrepreneurs in developing households to overcome their financial markets around the world. By challenges and build a more resilient risk-sharing and other guarantee financial future by saving money, mechanisms, together with OPIC building credit and paying down debt. we have provided more than The OFE has provided free financial $417.4 million in financing to 46 education, coaching and counseling to microfinance institutions in 24 more than 35,000 New Yorkers, and countries, reaching over 1.2 million Boston, Chicago, San Francisco and Los entrepreneurs, 92 percent of which Angeles County have since launched are women. Offices of Financial Empowerment. In addition, in October, Citi signed an agreement with the PhilippinesU.S. FINANCIAL INCLUSION RESEARCH based Asian Development Bank (ADB) to facilitate up to The Citi Foundation supports research efforts aimed at $100 million of local currency helping financial education practitioners evolve their loans to microfinance institutions interventions to maximize impact. The U.S. Financial Diaries in the Asia Pacific region . research uncovered new insights on how American families The agreement expands the existing reach of ADB’s Microfinance make ends meet and how financial services and public Program, which has supported policy sometimes help and sometimes hinder their progress. more than 2 million borrowers, Another project, What It’s Worth, is a collection of viewpoints mainly in India, Bangladesh from 40 of the nation’s leading practitioners, policymakers, and Indonesia. legislators, researchers and business executives, including Citi Foundation President Brandee McHale, on how to improve the financial well-being of American families. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  81 Reaffirming Our Commitment to Mexico Mexico is one of Citi’s largest markets outside of the U.S. and also has a notably high rate of unbanked citizens, at close to 50 percent. In 2016, Citi made a commitment to invest $1 billion in Citibanamex, our Mexican subsidiary and Mexico’s second-largest retail bank. “My personal finances have changed This commitment aims to deliver a richer, a lot. I did not know how to save — smarter, more intuitive experience to whenever I had money in my pocket everyone who does business with us. I spent it right away. Now, the money that I have left, I save it in Saldazo and A key part of the investment is the I am increasing a little nest egg….” creation of a Financial Inclusion business unit at Citibanamex, dedicated --MR. ADRIÁN to expanding access to safe and Saldazo is a simplified debit cardaffordable financial services for the linked savings account with low 38 million adults who remain outside the requirements and no minimum mainstream banking system in Mexico. balance. It is the first retailer-branded These efforts build upon Citibanamex’s transactional account in Mexico, decades of experience supporting issued by Citibanamex through a Visa microentrepreneurs, expanding mobile card sold at Mexico‘s largest corner banking tools and providing financial store retail chain, Oxxo. education. Citibanamex Financial Inclusion will also provide private-sector expertise and resources to support the Mexican government’s newly announced National Financial Inclusion Strategy. CITI MICROENTREPRENEURSHIP AWARDS For more than a decade, the Citi Microentrepreneurship Awards program has been a signature financial inclusion initiative of the Citi Foundation focused on generating economic opportunities for low-income entrepreneurs in approximately 30 countries. To date, more than 6,000 microentrepreneurs have received more than $9 million in prizes. One example is Vietnam’s 2016 Microentrepreneur of the Year, Phung Thi Thuy, who used a $136 microfinance loan to lift her family out of poverty in one of the poorest provinces in Vietnam. Mrs. Thuy’s business now earns about $11,300 per year and has created five new jobs. She is using her prize to expand her Phung Thi Thuy, Vietnam’s 2016 Microentrepreneur of the Year, in front of her home in the western business further and create even more jobs in her community. region of the Thanh Hóa province in Vietnam. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  82 JOBS AND THE NEXT GENERATION The surest path to financial stability is a steady, well-paying job, but that is out of reach for many. Youth in particular are experiencing high joblessness rates. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the unemployment rate for young people aged 16–24 is 10.8 percent, with more than 6 million young people disconnected from school and work. Globally, the youth unemployment rate remains stubbornly high at more than 13 percent,14 and in developing countries, 70 percent of youth live in extreme poverty despite being employed. Today’s young people need an agile and versatile skill set to compete for opportunities that boost their individual well-being Pathways to Progress youth entrepreneurs Anna Doherty and Hope Sacco, winners of the Network for Teaching and the overall stability and success Entrepreneurship National Youth Entrepreneurship of communities and economies more Challenge. The entrepreneurs created a coloring book to broadly. This younger demographic, promote strong women and took home the $25,000 prize, especially low-income minority youth, to be used for scholarships and furthering their business. faces significant hurdles to accessing education and jobs. The Citi Foundation focuses on expanding early exposure to young people by equipping urban youth career-readiness programs to help ensure from low-income backgrounds with the that the next generation is prepared to skills and opportunities needed to build take advantage of future opportunities. a resilient financial future. The program launched in 2014 with a three-year, Pathways to Progress $50 million commitment to provide Competing in the 21st century job market summer employment, entrepreneurship requires new thinking around job training and leadership opportunities to 100,000 and career readiness. Through Pathways young people between the ages of 16 and to Progress, Citi and the Citi Foundation 24 in 10 major U.S. cities. Citi volunteers are supporting the career readiness of played an integral role in the program, acting as mentors and coaches. CREATING A FINANCIAL FOUNDATION FOR YOUTH In 2016, we met our U.S. goal to invest at least $50 million in training, entrepreneurship and leadership A first job is important to a young the path to economic success. As part opportunities for 100,000 young people. person’s future, but understanding of their experience, participants receive Based on this progress, in February 2017, what to do with a paycheck and how to financial education and access to safe Citi and the Citi Foundation announced a use money responsibly is also critical and affordable banking products to help new global commitment under Pathways to their long-term economic prospects. create a relationship with mainstream to Progress. The Citi Foundation will The Citi Foundation partnered with the financial institutions as a foundation invest an additional $100 million to reach Cities for Financial Empowerment Fund for their financial future. SJC has 500,000 youth by 2020, renewing our to create Summer Jobs Connect (SJC), a been held up as a model financial investment in the U.S. and reinforcing program that offers youth paid summer inclusion effort and endorsed by our commitment to promoting jobs, financial education and tools, as regulators and policymakers, including opportunities for young people around well as access to safe and affordable the Consumer Financial Protection the world. In addition, we will leverage bank or credit union accounts to directly Bureau, the U.S. President’s Advisory the time and talent of 10,000 Citi deposit their paychecks and manage Council on Financial Capability, the U.S. employee volunteers in projects that help their finances. This partnership is Department of the Treasury and the young people build their employability helping set over 8,500 young people on U.S. Department of Labor. skills and professional networks and expand internships and other on-site learning opportunities for youth at Citi. 14 United Nations, Global Youth Unemployment Is on the Rise Again, August 25, 2016. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  83 Pathways to Progress OUR U.S. COMMITMENT 34,000+ CITI EMPLOYEE $50M+ INVESTED 10 U.S. CITIES VOLUNTEER HOURS OUR IMPACT 130+ YOUTH-LED 100,000+ YOUTH INVESTED 6,100 MUNICIPAL SUMMER JOBS BUSINESSES STARTED 8,900+ YOUTH BUILDING 10,000+ YOUTH ENGAGED IN SERVICE PROJECTS AN ENTREPRENEURAL MINDSET “I am so proud of my mentee. Daylin “Pathways to Progress set a is breaking out of her shell, and with foundation of skills I needed to a little time and guidance she has succeed in my career. The rest was become noticeably more confident me just jumping into things and trying about her intelligence, true potential them out. That hands-on experience and future possibilities. We have just was key to finding out what was finished the college application right for me. I’ve grown so much as a process and our hopes are high. person in the last six months.” Daylin has become like the daughter -BEN TYSON, I never had. We go to ball games, get Youth Radio, Youth Opportunity manicures and spend time with each Fund Grantee other’s families. To see the wonderful transformation in someone so The Youth Opportunity Fund is an deserving is very rewarding! annual grant program that supports innovative, city-level initiatives that This program is extremely worthwhile prepare young people for today’s for these young students. The impact competitive job market. Youth Radio, is obvious and almost immediate.” a 2016 grantee, launches young people on career and education -SUSANN GILBERT, pathways by teaching them to produce Director, Citi Institutional Clients marketable media for mass market Group, and iMentor Volunteer while bringing youth perspectives to issues of public concern. SOLUTIONS FOR IMPACT  84 WHAT’S AHEAD While the rate of unbanked individuals continues to decrease both in the U.S. and worldwide, there is a continued need for innovative products and affordable resources that help individuals and families thrive. The prolonged economic slowdown and foundational shifts in the labor market are putting new pressures on many families to simply hold their place on the economic ladder, rather than striving to move upwards. Banks are in a position to build better financial tools for the financially insecure and to work with a range of stakeholders to develop professional training and education programs that prepare the next generation for a rapidly shifting job market. Citi will continue to focus on meeting people where they are in regard to their finances, to create the tools and opportunities necessary to build PROMOTE SUSTAINED, the financial resiliency of families INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE in a changing world. ECONOMIC GROWTH, FULL AND PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL A core focus of SDG 8 is decent work and full employment for youth, addressing the significant barriers to job opportunities that result in especially high yo u th u n e m p l oy m e nt rate s around the world. The work of the Citi Foundation’s Pathways to Progress initiative to advance economic opportunities for youth directly contributes to SDG 8, in particular target 8.6 which aims to substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employment, education or training by 2020. By the end of 2016, we had supported the career readiness of over 100,000 youth in the U.S. Over the next three years, as part of our new Pathways to Progress commitment, we will connect another 500,000 youth around the world to training and jobs. INDEX  85 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE G4 CONTENT INDEX We prepared this report in accordance with the G4 Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative. We also used the Financial Sector Supplement, which is part of the G4 Guidelines. The index that follows provides readers with references for where they can find information in this report and other public documents that addresses GRI indicators relevant to our business. This report is “in accordance” with the Core option, although we reported on many indicators beyond this reporting option. Please visit the GRI website for the full text of the indicators and other information on the guidelines. INDEX  86 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO statement on sustainability Fully CEO Letter CEO Letter Strategy Fact Sheet G4-2 Description of key impacts, risk and opportunities Fully Sustainable Progress Strategy 2016 10-K pages 54-63 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization Fully Citigroup Inc. Citi at a Glance G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Fully Citi Website Citi at a Glance 2016 10-K pages 2-4 G4-5 Location of organization‘s headquarters Fully 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013 Number of countries where the organization operates, and CEO Letter G4-6 countries with major operations relevant to sustainability Fully Citi at a Glance issues Citi Website Country Presence G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully 2016 10-K page 2 CEO Letter Citi at a Glance G4-8 Markets served Fully Citi Website Citi at a Glance 2016 10-K pages 2-4 Citi at a Glance G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Fully Citi Website Citi at a Glance 2016 10-K pages 2-4, 8-9 Talent and Diversity > Table: 2016 Consolidated U.S. Employee Information Report (EEO-1) No portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers G4-10 Employees by employment contract and gender Fully who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. There were no significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment). Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our G4-11 Fully agreements Employees G4-12 Supply chain Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing G4-13 Significant changes to size, structure or ownership Fully 2016 Annual Report pages 2-5 As discussed in the respective sections of this report, we evaluate and address risks as part of our Environment and Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle G4-14 Fully Social Risk Management efforts. Our ESRM Policy prohibits is addressed activities we believe pose risks to us, our clients and our stakeholders. This may include taking precautionary actions. * CDP * Equator Principles * International Finance Corporation’s Environmental and Social Performance Standards * International Finance Corporation’s Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines Externally developed economic, environmental and * International Labour Organization Core Conventions G4-15 social charters, principles or initiatives the organization Fully * Natural Capital Declaration subscribes or endorses * Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil * UNEP Finance Initiative * UN Global Compact * UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights * UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights * Wolfsberg Principles G4-16 Association memberships Fully Political Activities Statement INDEX  87 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in consolidated financial statements and if G4-17 Fully 2016 10-K pages 3-4 any are not in report Citizenship Approach > Citi in a Global Context: Purposeful How principles for defining report content were Solutions for Societal Progress G4-18 Fully implemented Strategy Fact Sheet 2015 Citi Global Citizenship Report Citizenship Approach > Citi in a Global Context: Purposeful Solutions for Societal Progress G4-19 Material aspects Fully Strategy Fact Sheet 2015 Citi Global Citizenship Report Citizenship Approach > Citi in a Global Context: Purposeful Solutions for Societal Progress G4-20 Material aspects within the organization Fully Strategy Fact Sheet 2015 Citi Global Citizenship Report Citizenship Approach > Citi in a Global Context: Purposeful Solutions for Societal Progress G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization Fully Strategy Fact Sheet 2015 Citi Global Citizenship Report G4-22 Effect of restatements Fully There are no such restatements for this reporting period. There are no significant changes from the previous reporting G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting period Fully period. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Fully Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi G4-25 How these stakeholders are identified and selected Fully Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including G4-26 Fully Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi Key concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and G4-27 Fully Human Rights how the organization responded Environmental and Social Risk Management REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Fully This report covers fiscal and calendar year 2016. G4-29 Most recent report (if any) Fully April 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Fully Annual 388 Greenwich Street, New York, NY 10013 G4-31 Contact us Fully citizenship@citi.com G4-32 Table with Standard Disclosure locations Fully We are reporting in accordance with the G4 Core option. We secure external assurance annually for data related to our reporting on the Equator Principles, transactions covered G4-33 External assurance statement Fully by Environmental and Social Risk Management reviews, and environmental data for our operations. Assurance Conduct, Culture and Governance > Corporate Governance Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi 2017 Proxy Statement pages 18-31 G4-34 Governance structure Fully Board Charters Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 1, 5 Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter Board of Directors Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi Conduct, Culture and Governance > Corporate Governance G4-35 Process for delegating authority Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 40-58 Board Charters How organization appointed executive-level position(s) Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi G4-36 responsible for sustainability issues, and if they report to Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 40-58 the organization Board Charters INDEX  88 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi Consultation between stakeholders and the highest Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi G4-37 Fully governance body on sustainability issues 2017 Proxy Statement pages 40-58 Board Charters Details on composition of organization‘s highest governance G4-38 Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 25-31, 44-58 body and its committees GOVERNANCE The chairman of the board is a nonexecutive, independent Whether chair of highest governance body is also an director. G4-39 Fully executive officer Conduct, Culture and Governance > Corporate Governance 2017 Proxy Statement page 24 Processes for nominating and selecting highest governance G4-40 Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 40-58 body and its committees Highest governance body process for avoiding and disclosing G4-41 Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 21, 34, 93 conflicts of interest Highest governance body‘s role in setting purpose, values Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi G4-42 Fully and strategy 2017 Proxy Statement page 18 Process for enhancing highest governance body‘s G4-43 Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi competencies on economic, environmental and social issues Process for evaluating highest governance body‘s 2017 Proxy Statement pages 40-58 G4-44 Fully performance on economic, environmental and social topics Corporate Governance Guidelines pages 5-6 Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi G4-45 Highest governance body‘s role in risk management Fully Risk Management Committee Charter 2017 Proxy Statement pages 20, 25-26 Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter Highest governance body‘s role in the identification and Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi G4-46 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, Fully Nomination, Governance and Public Affairs Committee Charter risks and opportunities Frequency of the highest governance body‘s review of At least annually G4-47 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and G4-48 Fully Executive Vice President, Global Public Affairs approves the organization’s sustainability report Conduct, Culture and Governance > Importance of Escalation Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest G4-49 Fully Code of Conduct page 12 governance body 2017 Proxy Statement page 37 Conduct, Culture and Governance > Executive Compensation Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and G4-51 Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 11, 18-22, 30-31 senior executives Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 Conduct, Culture and Governance > Executive Compensation Citi Compensation Philosophy G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Fully 2017 Proxy Statement pages 11, 18-22, 30-31 Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 Conduct, Culture and Governance > Executive Compensation How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account Citi Compensation Philosophy G4-53 Fully regarding remuneration 2017 Proxy Statement pages 11, 18-22, 30-31 Personnel and Compensation Committee Charter pages 1-4 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY We performed strongly on our ethical culture index as part of our annual Voice of the Employee Survey, an average score comprised of items predictive of an ethical culture, with an 88 percent favorable score this year. Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of G4-56 Fully behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Citizenship Approach > Reporting on Our Mission Conduct, Culture and Governance Code of Conduct Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on Conduct, Culture and Governance > Ethics Hotline G4-57 Fully ethical and lawful behavior, and organizational integrity Ethics Hotline Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns Conduct, Culture and Governance > Ethics Hotline G4-58 Fully about unethical or unlawful behavior Ethics Hotline INDEX  89 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully 2016 10-K pages 5-12 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully 2016 10-K pages 5-12 Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for G4-EC2 Fully Environmental Finance the organization‘s activities due to climate change Environmental and Social Risk Management 2016 10-K pages 78, 307 2016 10-K pages 8, 129, 145 G4-EC3 Coverage of benefit plan Fully Citi Benefits Online MARKET PRESENCE DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully 2016 10-K pages 2-4 We provide competitive levels of compensation that exceed local minimum wage requirements. Competitive wages and benefit programs vary according to facility, location and G4-EC5 Entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Fully position. We do not track the ratio of the entry-level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. We hire hourly positions locally whenever possible. We work to hire locally wherever possible; when hiring for Percentage of senior management at significant locations of G4-EC6 Fully senior management, we consider qualified candidates from operation that are hired from the local community across the globe. INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Performance Highlights Environmental Finance Inclusive Communities > Infrastructure Finance and Investment G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments Fully Inclusive Communities > Affordable Housing and Homeownership Our Mission and Value Proposition: Enabling Growth and Progress Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Performance Highlights Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Deforestation and the Palm Oil Industry Inclusive Communities > Powering South Africa G4-EC8 Indirect impacts and extent Fully Inclusive Communities > Economic Growth > Supporting Small Businesses Financial Resilience > Reaching Unbanked and Underbanked Communities Financial Resilience > Jobs and the Next Generation > Creating a Financial Foundation for Youth ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Environmental Impacts Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Regional Operational Environmental Performance G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact Report Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact G4-EN5 Energy intensity Fully Report Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Progress in 2016 Against 2020 Goals G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact Report INDEX  90 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION EMISSIONS Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Environmental Impacts Operations and Supply Chain > Table: GHG Emissions Scope 1 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Fully and 2 by Region in 2016 Operations and Supply Chain > Table: GHG Emissions Scope 1 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Fully and 2 by Region in 2016 Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Fully Report Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Fully Report Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact Report G4-EN19 Reductions in GHG emissions Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Progress in 2016 Against 2020 Goals EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Environmental Impacts Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Fully Report PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Environmental Finance Environmental and Social Risk Management Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact Report Environmental and Social Risk Management > Performance Against Our Sustainable Progress Scorecard for ESRM Environmental Finance Environmental Finance > Table: Sustainable Progress G4-EN27 Impact mitigation Fully Framework and Scorecard Environmental Finance > Table: Breakdown of Environmental Finance Activities Environmental Finance > Table: $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal Environmental Finance > What‘s Ahead TRANSPORT Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Environmental Impacts Inclusive Communities Operations and Supply Chain > Travel G4-EN30 Transportation impacts Fully Operations and Supply Chain > Table: Environmental Impact Report SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Talent and Diversity G4-LA1 Turnover Fully Talent and Diversity > Table: Workforce Data by Region Talent and Diversity > Workforce Well-Being G4-LA2 Benefits Fully Citi Benefits Online TRAINING AND EDUCATION DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development G4-LA9 Employee training hours Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development INDEX  91 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION G4-LA10 Skills management and lifelong learning Fully Talent and Diversity > Learning and Development We hold year-end performance reviews for all G4-LA11 Employee reviews Fully employees, including executives, as well as less formal mid-year development conversations. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Talent and Diversity Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Employees 2017 Proxy Statement page 25 2017 Proxy Statement page 25 G4-LA12 Governance body diversity Fully Board of Directors SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect for Human Rights DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Statement on Human Rights Statement of Supplier Principles Human Rights > Transactions Reviewed Under Citi’s Statement G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements and contracts Fully on Human Rights Citi‘s employees and board members attend regular ESRM and Code of Conduct trainings that address human rights polices and procedures. We do not track the hours for these Hours of employee training on human rights policies or G4-HR2 Fully trainings. procedures Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training Conduct, Culture and Governance > Code of Conduct SOCIAL: SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operations and Supply Chain Environmental and Social Risk Management DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Inclusive Communities Financial Resilience Percentage of operations with local community engagement, Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement at Citi G4-SO1 Partially impact assessments and development programs Inclusive Communities Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Deforestation and the Palm Oil Industry Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impact on community Fully Dakota Access Pipeline Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case Study: Minimizing Impacts to Habitats and Communities in Guatemala Access points in low-populated or economically Financial Resilience > Reaching Unbanked and Underbanked FS13 Fully disadvantaged areas by type Communities Consumer and Client Protection > Innovating Access Initiatives to improve access to financial services for FS14 Fully Financial Resilience > Reaching Unbanked and Underbanked disadvantaged people Communities ANTI-CORRUPTION DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk G4-SO3 Incidents of corruption and actions taken Fully Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program We do not report quantitatively on training for management or business partners. G4-SO4 Communicating anti-corruption policies and procedures Fully Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption Fully We had no incidents of corruption in this reporting period. INDEX  92 G4 INDICATOR CODE G4 INDICATOR SUMMARY STATUS REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION PUBLIC POLICY Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Citi Political Activities Statement G4-SO6 Value of political contributions Fully Citi U.S. Political Contributions ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully 2016 10-K pages 286-296 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust G4-SO7 Fully 2016 10-K pages 286-296 and monopoly practices COMPLIANCE Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully 2016 10-K pages 52-62 G4-SO8 Noncompliance Fully 2016 10-K pages 52-62 SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Consumer and Client Protection > Treating Customers Fairly DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Consumer and Client Protection > Responsible Marketing Citi has policies in place that ensure accurate product and service information in compliance with applicable laws and G4-PR3 Product and service information Fully regulations. Consumer and Client Protection > Responsible Marketing Consumer and Client Protection > Responsible Marketing G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Fully Consumer and Client Protection > Customer Feedback and Satisfaction CUSTOMER PRIVACY Consumer and Client Protection > Information Security Consumer and Client Protection > Privacy DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully Code of Conduct Online Privacy Statement Citi Security Center Consumer and Client Protection > Information Security G4-PR8 Customer privacy Fully Consumer and Client Protection > Privacy FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT PRODUCT PORTFOLIO DMA Disclosure on management approach Fully 2016 10-K pages 10-11 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific FS6 Fully 2016 10-K pages 10-11 region, size (e.g., micro/SME/large) and by sector Environmental Finance Environmental Finance > Table: Sustainable Progress Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver Framework and Scorecard FS8 a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken Fully Environmental Finance > Table: Breakdown of Environmental down by purpose Finance Activities Environmental Finance > Table: $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal INDEX  93 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX This report serves as our 2016 communication on progress for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Citi joined the UNGC in 2010, and we continue to embed the Compact’s 10 principles across our business and report on activities related to human rights, labor issues, the environment and anticorruption. “Citi supports the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact as an important part of its business strategy and ethical culture. Our participation in this important initiative, which binds signatories from around the world to a common set of principles of responsibility, reinforces our commitment to corporate citizenship and sustainability.” Michael L. Corbat Chief Executive Officer Citigroup Inc. INDEX  94 UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Human Rights of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: Human Rights make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Environmental and Social Risk Management LABOR PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Human Rights > Operating Within the Global Context of Human Rights PRINCIPLE 4: Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due Diligence in Our Financing the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Human Rights > Operating Within the Global Context of Human Rights PRINCIPLE 5: Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due Diligence in Our Financing the effective abolition of child labor; and Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Talent and Diversity > Fair Employment Practices PRINCIPLE 6: Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Our Employees the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Human Rights > Extending Respect for Human Rights Protection Through occupation. Our Suppliers and Partners ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Environmental and Social Risk Management > Our ESRM Policy Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Environmental and Social Risk Management > Policy Implementation challenges; PRINCIPLE 8: Operations and Supply Chain > Resource Use and Environmental Impacts undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing and PRINCIPLE 9: Environmental Finance > Citi’s $100 Billion Environmental Finance Goal encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Environmental Finance > Achieving Our Goal technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Conduct, Culture and Governance > Managing Compliance Risk Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-Bribery and Corruption Program extortion and bribery. INDEX  95 UNITED NATIONS GUIDING PRINCIPLES REPORTING FRAMEWORK INDEX We have included information and disclosures in this report aligned with the United Nations Guiding Principles reporting framework. This reflects our support of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and our commitment to transparency and accountability regarding our human rights-related activities and policies. The table on the following pages indicates where readers can find information that addresses the framework requirements, either in this report or other publicly available documents. INDEX  96 SECTION OF THE FRAMEWORK REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATIO PART A: GOVERNANCE OF RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS A1 What does the company say publicly about its commitment to respect human rights? Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect A1.1 How has the public commitment been developed? for Human Rights Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect Whose human rights does the public commitment A1.2 for Human Rights Policy commitment address? Citi Statement on Human Rights Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect for Human Rights Citi Code of Conduct A1.3 How is the public commitment disseminated? Citi Standards for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Citi Statement on Human Rights How does the company demonstrate the importance it attaches to the implementation of its human rights A2 commitment? Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due How is day-to-day responsibility for human rights Diligence in Our Financing A2.1 performance organized within the company, and Environmental and Social Risk Management > why? Policy Implementation Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing What kinds of human rights issues are discussed by Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect A2.2 senior management and by the Board, and why? for Human Rights Conduct, Culture and Governance > Code of Conduct Embedding respect for How are employees and contract workers made Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of human rights A2.3 aware of the ways in which respect for human rights Our Employees should inform their decisions and actions? Citi Statement on Human Rights Citi Code of Conduct Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due Diligence in Our Financing How does the company make clear in its business Environmental and Social Risk Management > A2.4 relationships the importance it places on respect for Policy Implementation human rights? Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Citi Standards for Suppliers Citi Statement of Supplier Principles Human Rights > Continuous Learning and What lessons has the company learned during the Improvement A2.5 reporting period about achieving respect for human Environmental and Social Risk Management > rights, and what has changed as a result? Case Study: Dakota Access Pipeline INDEX  97 SECTION OF THE FRAMEWORK REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION PART B: DEFINING THE FOCUS OF REPORTING State the salient human rights issues associated with Statement of salient B1 the company’s activities and business relationships Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Issues issues during the reporting period. Determination of salient Describe how the salient human rights issues were B2 Human Rights > Our Salient Human Rights Issues issues determined, including any input from stakeholders. If reporting on the salient human rights issues Choice of focal B3 focuses on particular geographies, explain how that geographies choice was made. Identify any severe impacts on human rights that occurred or were still being addressed during the Additional severe B4 reporting period, but which fall outside of the salient impacts human rights issues, and explain how they have been addressed. PART C: MANAGEMENT OF SALIENT HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES Does the company have any specific policies that address its salient human rights issues and, if so, C1 what are they? Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement Human Rights > Respecting the Human Rights of Specific policies Our Employees How does the company make clear the relevance and Environmental Social and Risk Management > C1.1 significance of such policies to those who need to Policy Implementation implement them? Environmental and Social Risk Management > Enhancing Our Training Citi Code of Conduct Citi Standards for Suppliers What is the company’s approach to engagement with stakeholders in relation to each salient C2 human rights issue? Citizenship Approach > Stakeholder Engagement How does the company identify which stakeholders at Citi C2.1 to engage with in relation to each salient issue, and Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect when and how to do so? for Human Rights Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect Stakeholder for Human Rights engagement During the reporting period, which stakeholders has Environmental and Social Risk Management > C2.2 the company engaged with regarding each salient Case study: Minimizing Impacts to Habitats issue, and why? and Communities in Guatemala Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case study: Dakota Access Pipeline During the reporting period, how have the Human Rights > Implementing Our Respect for Human views of stakeholders influenced the company’s Rights C2.3 understanding of each salient issue and/or its Environmental and Social Risk Management > approach to addressing it? Case study: Dakota Access Pipeline INDEX  98 SECTION OF THE FRAMEWORK REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION C3 How does the company identify any changes in the nature of each salient human rights issue over time? During the reporting period, were there any notable C3.1 trends or patterns in impacts related to a salient Human Rights > What’s Ahead Assessing impacts issue and, if so, what were they? During the reporting period, did any severe impacts Environmental and Social Risk Management > C3.2 occur that were related to a salient issue and, if so, Case study: Dakota Access Pipeline what were they? How does the company integrate its findings about each salient human rights issue into its decision-making C4 processes and actions? How are those parts of the company whose decisions Citizenship Approach > Citizenship Governance at Citi and actions can affect the management of salient C4.1 Environmental and Social Risk Management > issues, involved in finding and implementing Policy Implementation solutions? Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due When tensions arise between the prevention or Integrating findings and Diligence in Our Financing mitigation of impacts related to a salient issue and taking action C4.2 Environmental and Social Risk Management > other business objectives, how are these tensions Policy Implementation addressed? Operations and Supply Chain > Responsible Sourcing Human Rights > Continuous Learning and Improvement During the reporting period, what action has the Environmental and Social Risk Management > C4.3 company taken to prevent or mitigate potential Case study: Minimizing Impacts to Habitats and impacts related to each salient issue? Communities in Guatemala Environmental and Social Risk Management > Case study: Dakota Access Pipeline C5 How does the company know if its efforts to address each salient human rights issue are effective in practice? Tracking performance What specific examples from the reporting period Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due C5.1 illustrate whether each salient issue is being managed Diligence in Our Financing effectively? INDEX  99 SECTION OF THE FRAMEWORK REPORT SECTION OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION How does the company enable effective remedy if people are harmed by its actions or decisions in relation to a C6 salient human rights issue? Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due Diligence in Our Financing Through what means can the company receive C6.1 Conduct, Culture and Governance > Ethics Hotline complaints or concerns related to each salient issue? Citi Code of Conduct Citi Standards for Suppliers How does the company know if people feel able and Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due C6.2 empowered to raise complaints or concerns? Diligence in Our Financing Remediation Human Rights > Additional Human Rights Due How does the company process complaints and Diligence in Our Financing C6.3 assess the effectiveness of outcomes? Conduct, Culture and Governance > Ethics Hotline Citi Code of Conduct During the reporting period, what were the trends and patterns in complaints or concerns and their C6.4 outcomes regarding each salient issue, and what lessons has the company learned? During the reporting period, did the company provide or enable remedy for any actual impacts related to a Environmental and Social Risk Management > C6.5 salient issue and, if so, what are typical or significant Case study: Dakota Access Pipeline examples?  100 ASSURANCE ASSURANCE 101 ASSURANCE 102 ASSURANCE 103 ASSURANCE 104 ASSURANCE 105 ASSURANCE 106 ASSURANCE 107
