Statement by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director On behalf of Dhiraagu, it is my pleasure to submit our Communication on Progress (COP) Report for the year 2016 to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We continued our CSR programme which ensures we run our business with the highest level of integrity and professionalism, while contributing to our community and protecting our environment. We remain committed to the 10 principles of the Global Compact covering the core areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This report outlines our policies and actions and the progress we have made in implementing the Global Compact principles. The report will be available on our website dhiraagu.com.mv Sincerely, Ismail Rasheed Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director Introduction DHIRAAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in December 2012 and this report is the fifth Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year 2016, from January – December. The report is divided into two parts; Section 1 Provides an overview about the company and our approach to corporate social responsibility Section 2 Describes our policies, implementation and outcomes in relation to the specific Global Compact Principles. Section 1 About Dhiraagu Our Mission About Dhiraagu Dhiraagu is the leading and largest digital services provider the country, we remain the largest telecommunications offering total solutions and a comprehensive range of provider in the Maldives. We overcome geographic barriers mobile, internet, data and fixed line services throughout and stay close to customers through the nation’s largest the Maldives. BTC Islands Limited (Batelco) holding 52%, retail and distribution network of 40 exclusive partners, To lead the market through and the Government of Maldives holding 41.8%, are the two 40 distributors, 120 agents and over 3,000 retailers across excellence in customer substantial shareholders of Dhiraagu. The remaining 6.2% the country. We provide the widest coverage in Maldives, experience. of shares are held by the general public. Our business is which includes all of the country’s 199 inhabited islands, all based on a commitment to providing innovative products resort islands and all major industrial islands. We are the and services and a philosophy that places high value on first operator to have linked the Maldives from North to customer experience. Our customers include individual consumers, small to medium businesses, corporate and South through a 1,253km long fibre optic submarine cable network which supports the nation’s largest 3G and 4G LTE Our Vision government institutions. We provide total solutions and and fixed broadband network. With nearly three decades cater to specific needs ranging from simple telephone of excellence and a proven record of success, we continue services to complex integrated private networking to lead the market, holding a superior market position on solutions for global corporate customers. With half a million high value segments such as mobile, enterprise and fixed customers, and employing 99% trained qualified Maldivians broadband. present in 10 strategically located operating centres across Enrich lives through digital services. Our Values Collaborate Serve Innovate Inspire We work together to offer We keep our customer We constantly innovate We empower people, and our customers a seamless at the heart of all we do, to provide our customers never lose sight of the experience because we win when with the latest and best in bigger picture of nationthey do digital services building and growth Corporate Social Responsibility The 3 pillars Key community focus areas Our People Our Community Our Environment Child Protection Empowerment and Support of Youth At Dhiraagu, our work is motivated by the maximum impact and ensures sustainability. a culture of learning within the community. the Chief Executive Officer & Managing principles of remaining a good corporate In the past, we have identified three key As one of the most climate vulnerable Director and is represented by senior citizen. We seek to set an example for pillars of focus for our CSR initiativescountries in the world, we are committed management from various departments. the rest of society by adhering to the namely our people, our community and to ensuring environmental protection and We remain committed to our obligations highest levels of integrity, sound ethics, our environment. Our people refers to the building a more climate-resilient country under the United Nations Global Compact, transparency and accountability. These Dhiraagu family of staff, whose welfare and in the Maldives. We are committed to the largest voluntary CSR initiative in are values that are clearly reflected in our wellbeing remain a principal concern of protecting our oceans and reduce our the world, and remain steadfast in our core business processes. We are actively ours. Likewise, we are a distinctly Maldivian carbon footprint by remaining as one of commitment to promote the key areas of committed to reinforce the ties that bind company who play an important role in the largest utiliser of renewable energy in Human Rights, Labour, the Environment us to the greater Maldivian community by strengthening the social fabric of our the Maldives. and Anti-Corruption. contributing towards causes that promote society, which is why we remain committed nation building and societal development. to programes that protect and preserve the Our CSR actions are informed by our CSR We have sought to ensure our CSR initiatives sanctity of children, provide development strategy and guided by Dhiraagu CSR are strategically programmed, have opportunities for young people and foster Committee. The Committee is chaired by Our Community Care for Children We undertook the following initiatives to support and help protect children. 200 children participated in Dhiraagu On children’s day, supported the Special Sports Festival 2016, an annual NGO, Care Society to help establish an event organized and driven by Dhiraagu Early Intervention Class to support skills for children with disabilities in collaboration development for children with disabilities with various NGOs. under the ages of 7. With 3,000 participants, organised the On World Autism Awareness Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race 2016 for the Day, collaborated with Detune Band 10th consecutive year. Donated financial and conducted the “#1000Likesgrants of MVR 200,000 to 5 local NGOs #ThePowerIsYours” campaign on social working in the area of child protection and media to promote a special video song support. dedicated to help raise awareness on Autism Contributed indoor playground equipment and established a Children’s Contributed developmental resources to Play Area at Indira Ghandhi Memorial Special Education Needs classes in Laamu Hospital to support children and families Atoll and Baa Atoll visiting the hospital. On World Down Syndrome Day, volunteers from Distributed gifts for children across the country as a operator from Maldives to have joined this alliance along Dhiraagu participated in the “Buddy Walk” to support the goodwill gesture on Eid Day. with other leading telecom operators from around the NGOBeautiful Eyes Down Syndrome Association to help world. raise awareness on Downs Syndrome. Supported the local artist Unoosha, to launch a special Eid Song dedicated to helping children with disabilities. Continued to support the Child Helpline 1412 which Contributed computer systems to the Kuda Kudhinge provides assistance to all children across the country in Hiyaa orphanage and organized a special children’s evening Renewed membership of ‘GSMA Mobile Alliance Against need of protection to access help via a toll free number. for the children during school holidays. Also renewed our Child Sexual Abuse Content’ with the Internet Watch commitment to sponsor and support the arrangement of 3 Foundation, to block child sexual abuse content from teachers at the orphanage for another year. Dhiraagu’s network. Dhiraagu was the first and the only Empowering Youth Enrolled 25 new apprentices in Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Program, one of our biggest CSR programmes. The programme is targeted for youth to enhance their work skills development. By 2016, 149 young people had benefited from this educational and training programme from Dhiraagu. Disaster Relief and Other Support Supported disaster relief efforts in Thinadhoo, following Donated oxygen concentrators to regional hospitals in Provided Mega Access Network solution free of charge the fire incident in the island’s powerhouse. We lent a four atolls. for the Centre for Holy Quran to digitally connect and generator to the Disaster Relief Centre at Thinadhoo, and conduct classes across five atolls. distributed water, candles and torches to the people of Provided a special add-on to the Blind and Visually Thinadhoo during the crisis. We set up phone charging Impaired Society of Maldives enabling all their members services and activated an Emergency Pack with 500 free across the country to use mobile conference calling service mins and 1GB free data for the people of Thinadhoo to help for free of charge. them stay connected during the crisis. Information under “Caring for our People” and “Caring for our Environment” is detailed under Section 2 of the report under the respective Global Compact Principles. Section 2 Global Compact Principles United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles Principle 1 Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, Assessment, proclaimed human rights and; Policy and Goals Caring for our People Our committed and talented workforce is the most important and distinct strength, and the driving force behind our continued growth and success. We closed the year with 599 full time staff, of which 99% remains Maldivians, signifying our continued efforts to employ, retain and develop local talent. Grievance Policy and Procedure Our Grievance Policy and Procedure sets out the mechanism for employees to raise any concerns regarding any work related matters. Whistle Blowing and Fraud Reporting Our “Whistle blowing and Fraud Reporting Policy” protects our employees who wish to raise concerns about any irregularities within the company. Medical Care We have an in-house medical benefits scheme that offers more benefits and is more comprehensive than a basic health insurance scheme. The medical benefits scheme applies to all staff and to their dependents under age of 18. Retirement Care We continue to contribute 10% to the employee pension fund, which is beyond the 7% required by law. We have had a Retirement and Redundancy Policy and a voluntary retirement benefit scheme in place, even before the establishment of the national pension scheme in 2009. Code of Conduct We place great emphasis to conduct our affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. We have adopted internal policies which promote ethical and responsible conduct. These policies provide guidance to our Directors, management and employees on the standards of ethical business and personal conduct required of all employees in undertaking their daily business activities. We target for all our employees to become familiar with our Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. Our Ethics Policy, recognizes that our success depends on the ability to establish and maintain positive relationships, both internally within employees and externally with our stakeholders Health and Safety We are committed to ensuring the health and safety of all our staff. Apart from complying with local legislations, we work towards achieving international best practices in relevant areas relating to our industry and specific work environments. We have the following targets: To ensure that work activities are not harmful to the health of employees or to the general public and are as safe as is reasonably practicable To provide and to maintain adequate measures to control health and safety risks arising from work activities in order to prevent accidents and cases or workrelated ill health To provide staff with relevant information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure health and safety at work To ensure that a conducive work environment is established for our staff Implementation The Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we remain committed to comply with all local laws and regulations pertaining to it. Employee Induction Programme A Safety Committee with representatives from all departments and regional centres is in place and a Safety Management Review is organised once a month in order to monitor and The Ethics Policy together with the code of conduct is communicated with all new employees review the programme. as part of the Employee Induction Programme and is shared on the online employee portal for further reference The company implements the following in accordance to the Health and Safety Policy Committee to Prevent Sexual Harassment at Ensure that safe systems of work are implemented and reviewed. Workplace Ensure that all personnel are given information, instruction, training and supervision as Our Committee to Prevent Sexual Harassment at the Workplace is primarily responsible for appropriate in order to carry out their work safely. increasing awareness to prevent sexual harassment, conduct investigations regarding any complaints and to take necessary actions against any persons who is proved to have carried Carry out assessments of risk to the health and safety of persons involved in or affected out an act of sexual harassment. by the operations of their departments Health and Safety implementation Arrange induction safety training for all new employees. Our Health and Safety Policy is applicable to all Dhiraagu employees and contractors. All senior managers are responsible to ensure that the Safety policy is implemented in their Ensure that all firefighting equipment is regularly inspected and serviced. respective functions. As part of the Induction Programme, all staff are briefed with regard to safety procedures including fire and first aid procedures. Measurement of Outcomes The Induction Programme was conducted for ALL new staff and the ethics policy, code of conduct and safety procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with the policies from the very beginning. 60 staff were trained as industrial fire squad for our Head Office. Basic fire awareness trainings were conducted in all regional centres with fire drills conducted at Dhiraagu Head Office and all regional centres. Basic Fire Awareness training and Basic First aid trainings were completed for all newly joined staff. United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Implementation We believe in open, transparent dialogue with regard to labor related issues within the organization. We adhere to the Maldives Employment Act to ensure the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Staff Development Staff Engagement Legal Reviews Dhiraagu Human Resources Development Strategy focuses We have a well-rounded, structured programme to motivate Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly gives legal advice on providing a wide range of training and developmental and engage staff. A wide range of events were conducted on employment issues to deal within the bounds of the opportunities to support our staff in achieving business during the past year, which gave the opportunity for staff Employment law and company procedures. objectives along with their career goals. As part of our and families to participate. Key events included the DESCUP commitment to groom local staff for leadership roles and to Football Tournament, 28th Anniversary Talent Show, Staff support their career development, a special management Karaoke Competition (DhiRaagu 2016), Roadha Festival, development programme composing of three modules 3ON3 Futsal Tournament and Staff Picnic. under the theme – “Agility in Execution”, was conducted during the year. This programme was designed and delivered by an internationally renowned institution in HRD Board the field of management and leadership development. To periodically review human resource development Senior management and middle management level 57 staff plans, policies and procedures and recommend strategic participated and completed the programme directions, a Human Resources Board (HRD Board) is established and the committee convenes regularly. Measurement of Outcomes By the end of 2016, we conducted 34 Training Programmes where 396 staff were trained in technical and non-technical areas. These included academic programs at masters, and undergraduate level. 45 staff also completed professional certification programmes. United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of Environmentally friendly technologies Implementation Protecting and preserving our natural environment and ensuring environmental sustainability in our corporate practices is a priority goal for us. For the Oceans Each year, pollutants, including plastic bags and PET and in turn affecting our food supply and the wellbeing We also instituted a company-wide initiative to eliminate the bottles, are the principal cause for the deaths of hundreds of our communities. As a way of addressing this problem use of single use plastic water bottles and have supplied all of endangered marine species including turtles and we carried out “For The Oceans” awareness campaign in our staff with BPA free multi-use water bottles & reusable sharks – which are protected by law. Plastic, furthermore, collaboration with Parley Maldives encouraging all staff shopping bags. gets strewn up on our beaches, caught up on delicate and public to use reusable bags and to reduce single use corals jeopardizing the health of the entire reef system, plastic bags. Renewable Energy For a climate vulnerable country such as ours, burning fossil fuels is not a sustainable long term solution. While renewable energies are yet to achieve the same economies of scale as more traditional sources of energy, we are committed to low emission carbon-resilient business practices. This is why we seek to reduce our carbon footprint through increasingly relying on renewable energy to power our various systems. We are a long way off from completely weaning off fossil fuels, yet we take great pride in our role as one the largest producers and users of renewable energy in the country. In the past year, we have initiated a project to install additional solar panels in our equipment sites where we use renewable energy as a secondary source of power. It is estimated that the additional solar panel installations would produce 219,000 KWh of renewable energy every year, which would result in an approximated reduction of 153 metric tons of CO2 emitted. Energy Efficiency The sustainable green design features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office leads to significant energy Measurement of Outcomes The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office resulted in an annual reduction of consumption efficiencies. approximately 390,228.00 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide or 636 barrels of oil. All the lights used in the building, including emergency lights are 99% LED lights Motion detectors/sensors are used to switch off the lights in common areas of the building such as corridors, staircases, toilet areas etc, to ensure lights are switched off when not in use. High heat reflective glass is used in building facade to minimise heat entering into the building Ozone friendly refrigerant R410A is used in the VRV AC units installed in the building. Air conditioning is set at a minimum 25 degree Celsius in all main office areas. The office adopts central AC control, where air-conditioning is centrally turned off at pre-set times and is limited to official working hours. World Environment Day We collaborated with the Civil Service Commission to support the Aaro Tree Planting programme, in the newly reclaimed land of Hulhumale’. United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy and Goals Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy comprehensively addresses always be proportionate and reasonable in terms of value in detail with regard to the following; and frequency. Gifts and hospitality should never be offered or accepted if it may be perceived as improperly influencing We do not tolerate bribery, and do not offer , give or a business decision about or by us or impair independence receive bribes or improper payments or participate in any or judgment about us. kind of corrupt activity, either directly or through a third party. We do not make political contributions either directly or indirectly to political parties, causes or individuals We do not make facilitation payments and we do not allow others who work for us to make them either. We are committed to ensure that those who act on our behalf as representatives, agents, consultants and other Any gifts or hospitality or promotional expenditure we providers of services do not bribe on our behalf. receive or give in connection with our business should Implementation Supplier Code of Conduct From 2013 onwards, it was made mandatory for all our suppliers to sign the Supplier Code of conduct when entering into a contract with us. This code of conduct addresses the commitment to comply with applicable laws and regulations concerning bribery, corruption, fraud, and any other prohibited business practices. Measurement of Outcomes ALL suppliers entering into a contract with Dhiraagu signed the Supplier Code of Conduct.
