Communication on Progress 5 May 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qualcomm Incorporated reaffirms our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Steve Mollenkopf Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress 5 May 2017 Our Commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles and Key Accomplishments Qualcomm is committed to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse, throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our efforts are informed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Our membership in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and our participation in BSR’s Human Rights Working Group and the UN Global Compact further augment our efforts. Working with other companies in these multi-industry groups provides us with an opportunity to share best practices and discuss challenges in developing companywide solutions to address human rights concerns. Over the past year, we have continued to make progress on this commitment. We completed our first formal corporate human rights impact assessment to align our programs and efforts with our corporate priorities. In addition, we conducted our annual legal and compliance risk assessment of our operations worldwide, which included the analysis, review and prioritization of company risks by a cross-functional group of key representatives from our legal, compliance, finance, human resources and internal audit teams. Our Commitment to Human Rights is a statement that details our commitment to respecting human rights and avoiding complicity in any human rights abuse throughout our company, our operations and our communities. Our 2016 Qualcomm Sustainability Report highlights our sustainability strategy, governance and progress and announces our new 2020 sustainability goals – the milestones that will help us realize our 2030 Sustainability Vision. Our sustainability website features detailed information about our programs on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, as well as other sustainability topics, and provides opportunities for our stakeholders to contact us directly. Our Sustainability Policy articulates our sustainability mission and overarching commitments to innovate responsibly. The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct serves as a reference guide to articulate our company values and help us navigate the ethical and legal situations we face on a daily basis. It sets forth the behaviors expected of each employee. It highlights the laws and regulations employees must know and follow, and it describes our common responsibilities—to our customers and business partners, to our stockholders, to our company and to one another. It covers a wide range of topics, including anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, proper record-keeping, workplace safety and security, import-export controls, ethical selection of suppliers, human rights, our environmental responsibility and more. We provide The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct training to all employees worldwide and require them to acknowledge that they’ve read, understand and will comply with this key overarching Policy. We also offer additional live trainings on The Qualcomm Way as needed. Our internal website makes it easy for employees worldwide to access country-specific policies and frequently asked questions. In keeping with our open-door culture, each page of the site also invites employees to ask questions or raise concerns, with the option of doing so in-person, via email or via our Business Conduct Hotline, which is available 24 hours a day and can be used anonymously wherever permitted by law. We respond to reports of misconduct as quickly and as confidentially as possible. Since its inception in 2006, Qualcomm® Wireless Reach™ has collaborated with more than 650 stakeholders on 119 programs in 47 countries—benefitting more than 10 million people globally. These advanced wireless programs strengthen economic and social development with a focus on education, entrepreneurship, health care, the environment and public safety. To promote its long-term success, Wireless Reach is aligned with our broader business goals as well as global government and policy agendas, including the newly adopted UN Sustainable Development Goals. We were proud to receive a 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Information about our other awards related to the UN Global Compact Principles is available here. Our policies, implementation efforts and outcomes related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact for the past year are detailed below. For more information on Qualcomm's commitments, please contact humanrights@qualcomm.com. Communication on Progress 5 May 2017 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Human Rights Policies and Implementation Principle 1: Businesses should support and The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct respect the protection of internationally Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct proclaimed human rights; and Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Outcomes 2016 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website Labour Policies and Implementation Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct freedom of association and the effective Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Outcomes and 2016 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in Content Index respect of employment and occupation. Qualcomm Sustainability Website Environmental Policies and Implementation Principle 7: Businesses should support a The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct precautionary approach to environmental Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct challenges; Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote Our Environmental Guiding Principles greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and Outcomes diffusion of environmentally friendly 2016 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI technologies. Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website Qualcomm Wireless Reach™ Qualcomm Products Qualcomm Solutions Communication on Progress 5 May 2017 Global Compact Principles Qualcomm’s Commitments Anti-Corruption Policies and Implementation Principle 10: Businesses should work against The Qualcomm Way: Our Code of Business Conduct corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct bribery. Our Commitment to Human Rights Qualcomm Sustainability Policy Code of Ethics Corporate Governance Outcomes 2016 Qualcomm Sustainability Report, including GRI Content Index Qualcomm Sustainability Website
