COP 2017-18 October 2017 Report Guidelines The Ten Principles of the Global Compact Data Consult continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact notably when it comes to Human Rights Principles, Labour Principles, Environmental Principles and Anti‐Corruption Principles. In this report we keep abreast Global Compact stakeholders of our engagement in each of the following areas: Human Rights Policies Labour Policies Environmental Efforts Anti-Corruption Policies 2 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Human Rights Equal Employment Safety Regulations Data Consult is an equal employment opportunity employer. Employment decisions are based on merit and business needs, and not on race, color, citizenship status, national origin, ancestry, gender, sexual orientation, age, weight, religion, creed, physical or mental disability, marital status, veteran status, political affiliation, or any other factor protected by law. The safety and health of employees is a priority. Data Consult makes every effort to comply with all workplace safety requirements. Data Consult’s workplace safety rules and regulations are the following: · Usage of trolleys when lifting any heavy object to avoid any physical traumas. . . Health Insurance, life and disability insurance coverage is offered to all employees. . Fireproofing and fire alert system installed in all offices. · Following safety rules when installing antennas or working on an elevated platform. (Employees are supplied with safety gear and trained on safety measures) Data Consult made sure to include in its employment manual, the above regulations in addition to two additional clauses related to workplace harassment and rejection of all forms of violence. 3 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Human Rights Anti-harassment Anti workplace harassment and anti-violence clauses: ➔ Data Consult does not tolerate any form of workplace harassment. Workplace harassment can take many forms. It may be, but is not limited to, words, signs, offensive jokes, cartoons, pictures, posters, e-mail jokes or statements, pranks, intimidation, physical assaults or contact, or violence. ➔ Data Consult has adopted a policy prohibiting workplace violence. Consistent with this policy, acts or threats of physical violence, including intimidation, harassment, and/or coercion, which involve or affect Data Consult or which occur on Data Consult or client property, will not be tolerated. Data Consult is also committed to several other rules that help create a healthy and respectful work environment. . Data Consult provides fair treatment for all staff in handling grievances. . Data Consult provides a wages and benefits package that meets and rivals national standards. . Data Consult ensures a fair treatment when it comes to trainings and skill development. . Data Consult ensure that its engineers are trained according to international technological & ethical standards. . Data Consult upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. . Data Consult supports the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 4 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Human Rights Ethical Recruitment When it comes to its business association and partnerships Data Consult does not hire or deal with companies that do not respect the abolition of child labor, moreover the company hires only employees who have completed their university studies. Moreover, Data Consult does not manufacture or trade with products or deal with any entity that does not respect the Human Rights and Labour Principles as stipulated by the United Nations. Data Consult stands against all forms of unlawful hiring and the unethical poaching of resources, believing in the principals of fair competition among industry actors. All of the above regulations are stated in Data Consult's Internal Regulations, Employment Contracts and Business Agreements. Data Consult acquired WorldNet in 2016 and made sure that all of its policies are aligned with the UN Global Compact's Ten Principles. 5 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Reducing the Carbon Footprint Data Consult has also been active in reducing its carbon footprint; to that end Data Consult partnered with Zero Waste Act and Pesco Energy SAL to take its commitment towards a greener Lebanon a step further. To further support this step, Data Consult runs an e-service employee interaction tool where employees can find organizational announcements, news/events, company policies, and furthermore use the portal to manage annual leaves, payroll transactions and employee claims/requests. The launching of online workflows has reduced the annual usage of paper by 30%. Moreover Data Consult continuously initiates and promotes eco-friendly technologies, such as teleconferencing, energy optimization solutions, data virtualization, Cloud based solutions, IoT, etc. that will allow its clientele to grow their businesses while minimizing their carbon footprint and initial investment. Data Consult adopts a minimalistic approach to stock keeping to further reduce its carbon footprint. Data Consult affiliates with Partners and suppliers that are respectful of the UN Global Compact's ten principles. Data Consult seeks to lead by example in taking actions to be environmentally sustainable business. 6 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Reducing the Carbon Footprint Data Consult has engaged Pesco Energy SAL to switch its entire office light fixtures to a more environmentally friendly solutions and this efforts has reduced the annual energy consumption by 40%. To better illustrate the positive impact on the environment, Data Consult is proud to share in numbers the savings made as per the below table. Environmental Benefits over 48 months. Annual CO2 emission reduction 76,528 kg⁴ Annual Tree Planting Equivalent 119, 112 m² of tree⁵ 7 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Reducing the Carbon footprint : Recycling Data Consult continues its collaboration with Zero Waste Act to recycle all the waste generated by the company, with respect to the international norms of recycling and waste management. . Data Consult reduced its paper consumption by 56% since 2014 by adopting cloud based solutions. . Data Consult also enrolled in a Plastic and Aluminum recycling program that is also aimed at encouraging employees to adopt the same approach outside company premises. The below table highlights in numbers the amount of recycled paper, plastic and aluminum. Year Paper (in kg) Plastic (in kg) Aluminum (in kg) 2014 328 2015 424 58 4 2016 461 90 1 2017 430 75 4.5 8 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Carbon Footprint Reduction In addition to the obvious measurable savings described above, we also witnessed equally important savings when it comes to the following: ➔ Economy on the upgrade of the existing electrical installation’s components, such as, avoiding the replacement of the existing electrical components (cables, breakers, etc.) and increasing their lifetime. ➔ Economy on the maintenance/replacement of CFL tubes and halogen spot lights as they have an average lifetime of 2 years. ➔ Decrease in heat dissipation, thus reduction of load on the AC systems which further reduced our energy consumption. 9 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Sustainable Technologies Solutions To complement the abovementioned efforts, Data Consult switched to more eco friendly solutions as per below: ■ Data Consult went digital in all its client communication, i.e. newsletters, invitations, event collaterals to reduce the usage of paper, making sure to opt for environmentally friendly products and recycled material. ■ Data Consult invested in a new cloud based portal to manage its customer relationship management system. ■ Data Consult & WorldNet (acquired by Data Consult in 2016) with the help of its sister company Exeo migrated to Google business to benefit from the collaborative experience of Google drive and Google Cloud. Google announced recently that they are running on 100% clean energy, Data Consult and its subsidiaries all operate from Google cloud minimising the electrical usage on servers and storage. ■ Data Consult developed its in house Data Orchestration Platform a data visualization tool, that allows the company to monitor its energy, internet, water and fuel consumption and consequently implement eco-friendly policies to manage its consumption. ■ Data Consult further reduced its usage of paper, hardware, fuel and electricity by adopting a cloud based storage and management solution for its data. 10 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Sustainable Technologies Solutions Data Consult is actively working on promoting its managed services to provide its clients with solutions that will manage their resources and energy consumption. For starters Data Consult will be installing smart devices that will allow the automatic shutdown of office lights and AC units when employees step outside of their offices. In the same spirit, the solution will allow the company to monitor in real time the energy consumption of all its electrical appliances including the back up generators. These solutions aim to reduce energy consumption, waste and emissions and allow for a smarter management of any energy consuming machine. 11 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Lebanon Smart City Experience Smart Cities Eco Friendly Living Data Consult collaborated with Ogero and BeitMisk to build the first smart city in Lebanon. This achievement is considered a major turning point in Lebanon. Data Consult was able to install, activate and start the analytical process in a relatively short period of time and with an affordable investment, this has opened the road to other cities in Lebanon to follow suit and adopt a green approach in managing the city. From traffic control, to waste management, to decreasing pollution, the possibilities are endless and because this technology is scalable and secure, it can cater to bigger cities hence offering a more responsible and sustainable citizen experience. 12 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Environmental Efforts Strategic Partners ■ In 2016, Data Consult signed the Green Pledge which was initiated by Lebanon Opportunities which is based on the recommendations of the United Nations Environmental Program, the Corporate Green Pledge provides a list of 7 green engagements to companies and organizations that allow them to become environmentally friendly in a feasible manner. It is an expression of their moral commitment to a greener corporate behavior. ■ In 2017, Data Consult collaborated with Ogero and BeitMisk to build the first prototype of a smart city in Lebanon. 13 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Anti-Corruption Policies ISO ISO/IEC 27000 family Information security management systems (ISMS) Information assets have become the target of malicious cyber attacks, to preserve the integrity of its services and to further demonstrate its commitment to offering ethical business solutions and the promotion of virtuous business practices, Data Consult is currently pursuing the ISO ISO/IEC 27001 certification. This ISMS is a systematic approach to managing sensitive company information so that it remains secure. It includes people, processes and IT systems by applying a risk management process. This allows Data Consult to keep its client's information assets secure as well as the company's own information assets. 14 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Anti-Corruption Policies Anti-bribery & Anti-Corruption Agreements Data Consult actively works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This position is reflected in all activities that the company engages in, it is even stated in the employment manual and as part of the onboarding process, where newly hired employees are warned not to engage in any form of bribery or extortion activities and to report any such violations whether by fellow colleagues or third parties. . Data Consult employment contracts stipulates that unethical business practices offer grounds for dismissal. . Data Consult has signed several anti-bribery and corruption agreements with partners and clients alike prohibiting the use of any form of bribery, gifts or money donations. 15 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Closing Statement Future Areas of Focus Data Consult will actively work on advancing two of the Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the UN Global Compact. SDG 11 : Sustainable Cities and Communities. SDG 12: Responsable Consumption and Production. Data Consult continues in bringing awareness to the ten principles in all its daily communication and business activities, in addition to the above, the company will work on achieving the below goals. ➠ Providing measurable outcomes related to IoT solutions. ➠ Bringing more awareness to the 10 principles of global compact through its social communication channels. ➠ Continuing with its efforts in establishing a safe, healthy and respectful work environment. 16 © Copyright 2017 DATACONSULT All rights reserved. No part of this presentation in all its property may be used or reproduced in any form without a written permission Thank you Dcgroup.com jtimani@dcgroup.com
