2016 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius AB PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2017 04 28 1 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 TABLE OF CONTENT ABOUT THE REPORT 4 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 28 CEO’S FOREWORD 5 Energy Efficiency 28 PRINCIPLES AND PRIORITIES OF RESPONSIBILE ACTIVITY 6 Energy efficiency initiative “As much as needed“ 28 ABOUT THE COMPANY 10 The good will arrangement “The Green Protocol” 29 Shareholders and Key Performance Indicators 10 Energy Saving Advice to Residents 29 Corporate Governance 11 National Educational Programme “A Sustainable School” 29 Description of the Supply Chain 14 Landscape protection 29 Risk Assessment, Adherence to the Precautionary Principle 14 Modern Technologies 29 Transparency and Anticorruption 14 Environmental protection management system 30 EMPLOYEES 15 Environmental protection management system 30 Transparent and clear remuneration system 16 Saving of resources 31 Trade Unions and Collective Agreement 16 SOCIETY AND COMMUNITIES 32 Staff Competency Development 17 Cooperation with Lithuanian libraries 32 Traineeship and Employment Opportunities 18 Events of Energetics for the Public 32 Integration of New Employees 18 Preventive education of residents 32 Human Rights Protection, Diversity and Equal Opportunities 19 Informational Safety Campaign “Safe Energy” 34 Management System for Employees Activity and Improvement thereof 20 Support 34 Occupational Health & Safety and Health Promotion 21 Public Opinion survey 34 Professional Mastery 21 CONTENT OF THE REPORT AND LIMITS OF THE ASPECTS 36 Education of Contractors (Supply Chain) 21 Involvement of Stakeholders 36 MARKET, INVESTORS AND CUSTOMERS 22 Index of GRI Indices 37 Market Liberalization 22 Investors 22 Customer Service 22 Customers’ Opinion 22 Development of Customer Support Channels 23 INVESTMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE GRIDS 24 Operation and Development of Electricity and Gas Meters 24 Smart Metering 24 Modernisation of Electricity and Gas Grids 25 Investments into the Electricity Grid 25 Investments into the Gas Grid 26 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT THE PROGRESS REPORT CEO’S FOREWORD By renewing the infrastructure of electricity and gas grids Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius AB (hereinafter – ESO, the Company) is a member of the “Global under our management, we implement innovations Compact” initiated by the United Nations and submits an annual progress report prepared in and optimise operational resources – this enables us to accordance with the Global Compact principles and UN Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. ensure a high quality of services, reduce prices, save These guidelines are recommended to the UN Global Compact members to use as an instrument resources. One of the innovations successfully developed since the middle of 2016 – a pilot smart accounting helping with a company’s sustainable performance measurement, presentation and accountability project helping residents to save energy, change to its internal and external stakeholders. their consumption habits with the help of modern technologies. The Global Compact covers the implementation of ten responsible operation principles and obliges member organisations to follow them: not to harm the environment, community and Business has been actively interested in the topic of other businesses, and in a joint effort with the United Nations authorities and non-governmental energy efficiency enhancement – this is evident from conferences generating huge interest we have organised organisations to participate in the process of solving social and environmental problems, and for already six years. contribute to the development of society and economic growth. However, it is relevant for us not only to share the accumulated expert experience or innovations This is the first Progress Report on social corporate implemented in the market. With the change of world trends, growing demand for energy efficiency and responsibility of ESO established in 2016 upon merging renewable sources, it is especially important for us to LESTO AB with public company Lietuvos Dujos. assume responsibility and leadership, as well as prepare for changes in Lithuania. As a separate document, the Progress Report has been prepared by LESTO AB annually, since Our society has changed too: growing public spirit has 2012, and provided in Lithuanian and English. The public company Lietuvos Dujos disclosed Dear Reader, manifested in the increasing number of people who activities in social responsibility in the company’s periodic financial statements. do not remain indifferent and notify of any unethical, By introducing the first activity responsibility report of irresponsible behaviour they have noticed, take care of ESO Report for 2016 is published on the Company’s website at www.eso.lt (in the social ESO – merged electricity and gas operators – I speak not the safety of our grids infrastructure. It is great that the as a manager of this company, but as one of the more responsibility section), on the NASDAQ Baltic stock exchange website, as well as the Global initiatives of fostering the public spirit and anti-corruption than one and a half million customers daily using gas, are bearing fruit. Compact website www.globalcompact.org. electricity and observing how services provided by ESO This Progress Report presents ESO activities carried out in the field social responsibility in 2016: become easier and faster accessible, help save my time, I am pleased that during 2016, a year of changes, we relations with clients, market participants, activities associated with environmental protection, as finance, and energy. did not deviate from the goal we have set – to organise our activities in a responsible manner, with consideration well as relations with employees and the public. The Report outlines strategic directions, actions I believe that a responsible attitude and transparent to communities in which we operate. This is proved by and achievements in the field of social responsibility. responsibility, perception of one’s impact on the the national award of the most Community-Minded environment and an endeavour to reduce it create a Company received for close and active long-term Please email any questions, comments or observations regarding the content and improvement of value to society and the market – therefore we try to cooperation. Once again, we will confirm the importance social responsibility report at ks@eso.lt. share it actively. Our services help leading an easier of cooperation and harmonisation with external During 2016, no feedback on reports for 2015 or ongoing responsible activities have been and more comfortable life at home, and seeking a environment when drafting our 10-year investment plan – competitive advantage in business. we will coordinate it with the stakeholders. received from the stakeholders. The year 2016 clearly demonstrated the synergy and By inviting to become familiar with what we have done Accountability for Society value of the merger of the organisation contributing to in the field of responsible business in 2016 I assure you the saving of resources and energy – an important goal that ESO will further seek to operate in a responsible Progress Report of ESO responsible activity is prepared in Lithuanian and English. The report is of the operator in creating a sustainable and responsible and active manner in creating a more sustainable published on the Company’s website at www.eso.lt, website of the securities exchange NASDAQ environment. future relying on good practices of electricity and gas Baltic, and website of the Global Compact www.globalcompact.org. operators. We seek that every ESO employee would follow a responsible approach to customers and environment, Sincerely ESO announced about this activity in press releases, informs on the website www.eso.lt and the as the territory of our activities covers the whole country. website of the Ministry of Economy “State-Controlled Companies” (http://vkc.turtas.lt/imoniuBesides, it is very important that our attitude towards Dalia Andrulionienė socialine-atsakomybe/apie-imoniu-socialine-atsakomybe). quality and responsibility, especially when talking about CEO of Energijos Skirstymo Operatorius AB safe work and environmental protection, would be very and Chairwoman of the Board ESO report was prepared with consideration to the methodology of Global Reporting Initiative important values for both, our partners, contractors, and (GRI). No independent audit of this report has been conducted. suppliers. 4 5 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 PRINCIPLES AND PRIORITIES OF Responsible and sustainable development of ESO means an assurance of the reliability of infrastructure that RESPONSIBLE ACTIVITY contributes to the economic and social development without causing imbalance with the environment. The development of innovative technologies carried out in By carrying out operation in a responsible way, ESO seeks to contribute to the creation of sustainable society a timely and reasonable way, concerted satisfaction of needs of employees, customers and society reduce an Economy: by ensuring an independent distribution and supply of impact on the environment to the maximum extent. electricity, and distribution of natural gas. At the same Efficiency time the Company constantly informs on issues of safe ESO also defines the directions of responsible activities Transparency and rational use of energy, fosters to take interest in by the UN Global Impact principles and obligations to Market innovative instruments and technologies. act responsibly in the Lithuanian Responsible Business Association (LAVA) where it shares the accumulated experience and good practice. The basis of ESO responsible activity – energy efficiency enhancement by inducing the public and business to save energy resources, as well as to The Company implements these principles through change consumption habits. The substance of bilateral responsible partnership between business and the focused daily activity in the following fields: public – sustainable, safe and clean environment that 1. Economic responsibility we will leave for the future generations. 2. Employees 3. Environmental protection ESO operates in a socially responsible manner also in other fields, with other stakeholder groups, first of 4. Society and communities Environment: all – by ethical behaviour based on partnership on an equal footing with its employees, attention to their work environment and safety. ESO employees transpose such Equipment Priorities of the responsible activity: Resources practice to external relationships with customers, society • Enhancement of energy efficiency and Services and environment. reduction of the environmental impact by ESO also encourages other companies to join the saving energy and resources expansion of responsible activities based on sustainable development principles. Cooperation and sharing good • Responsible behaviour with electricity and practices lead the country and society to social and gas (for both, customers and employees) economic welfare. • Occupational health and safety Social area: It is activities ESO complies with the following By 2020, it has been planned to cut down Employees sustainable development principles: the duration of connecting new customers Community • Assurance of reliability of electricity and natural to the electricity and natural gas distribution Society gas distribution and electricity supply boosting an economic and social development by sparing the grid: to the gas grid – from 177 to 85 environment and meeting interests of the target days, and to the electricity grid – from 66 groups; to 50 days. Upon reducing the process of • efficient use of natural resources for the implemented hooking-up new customers, the results of activities; Lithuania in the World Bank rating Doing • smart and effective use of energy, reduction of the environmental impact at the time of distribution and business will be improved, as one of its use of electricity and natural gas; constituents is “Getting electricity”. • promotion of the sparing approach towards the environment among employees, contractors, suppliers and society. 6 7 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Scheme of ESO Operational Strategy VISION To be reliable in the world of advanced energy technologies MISSION We are here to ensure that energy reaches you in a reliable and simple way EFFECT Increasing the value of the Company STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS Reliability, Cutting edge Continuous convenience technological improvement Unified culture and speed of solutions of the of a responsible the services to increasing network perfomance organization customers effectiveness VALUES RESPONSIBILITY COOPERATION RESULT ESO Values, Strategy and Objectives ESO bases the implementation of its mission, investment by 45 percent until 2020 and to channel achievement of its vision and all activities by the funds to the improvement of technical condition of the following core values: electricity and gas distribution grids. • Responsibility ESO will seek to improve substantially reliability of the Stakeholders ESO defines its responsibility and in its electricity distribution grid. It is planned that by 2020, the activities relies on the following documents: • Cooperation Balanced implementation of strategic direction system average interruption duration index (SAIDI1 with is sought with consideration to interests and • Documents valid for companies of Lietuvos • Result force majeure) will reduce to 87 min, the system average expectations of shareholder groups. The following Energija groups: interruption frequency index per customer (SAIFI2 with most important shareholder groups have been These values express the approach that we constantly force majeure) will reduce accordingly to 0.94 time. ESO Social responsibility policy distinguished: feel responsibility for our actions, work concertedly will seek also to maintain high reliability indicators of the Zero tolerance to corruption policy and always seek the best result for stakeholders in a natural gas distribution grid. • Customers; • Shareholders Employee safety and health policy responsible way. • Society • Regulator ESO will seek to maintain a high customer satisfaction Human resources management policy ESO long-term operation strategy for the years 2016– level exceeding the average of energy companies in the • Employees • Contractors Information security policy 2020 is based on the organisational culture relying European countries. It has been planned that the GCSI on service reliability, expeditiousness, effectiveness, Aid granting policy (Global Customer Satisfaction Index) of ESO customers ESO strategic directions reflect interests of the common values, high reputation and continuous will remain 80 points in 2020. most important stakeholders. Each strategic Customer service standard improvement. direction is associated with one or several • ESO Collective agreement The strategy foresees that operational efficiency will stakeholders. be further enhanced and by 2020 operating expenses 1 SAIDI – System Average Interruption Duration Index will reduce by more than 10 percent. Seeking to 2 SAIFI – System Average Interruption Frequency Index ensure quality, safe provision of electricity and gas distribution services, it has been planned to increase 8 9 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ABOUT THE COMPANY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Quality of Electricity Supply ESO has become operational since 1 January 2016, The impact of force majeure, the system average after the merger of the electricity distribution operator interruption duration index (SAIDI) per consumer LESTO AB and the public company Lietuvos Dujos. amounted to 172.9 min during 2016, and, as compared ESO belongs to Lietuvos Energija UAB group of statewith 2015, increased by 66.4 min (in 2015, SAIDI controlled companies – one of the largest groups of energy 92,5 m amounted to 106.5 min). companies in the Baltic States. ESO took over the property, rights and duties, all current and fixed assets, long-term The system average interruption frequency index (SAIFI), and short-term financial, other obligations, receivables and bearing the impact of force majeure during 2016, was payables of LESTO AB and the public company Lietuvos Net GENERAL MEETING OF bigger by 1.25 time – more by 0.19 time than in 2015, Dujos according to previously concluded agreements or profit when it was 1.06 time. SHAREHOLDERS obligations arising under other grounds. ESO manages 121.698 thousand km of power lines: 78.7 Grid supply quality indicators 2016 2015 Change percent of them consist of overhead power lines, and 21.3 ELECTRICITY 66,4 percent – of electric cables; besides, the Company operates 8.4 thousand km of distribution gas pipelines. SAIDI, min. (with „force majeure“) 172,9 106,5 0,19 The main functions of ESO: supply and distribution of SAIFI, psc. (with „force majeure“) 1,25 1,06 electricity, distribution of natural gas, warranty supply of GAS -0,505 electricity and gas, connection to electricity and gas supply, SAIDI, min. (with „force majeure“) 0,529 1,034 -0,001 operation of electricity and gas distribution networks, maintenance, management and development, assurance of 61,8 m SAIFI, psc. (with „force majeure“) 0,006 0,007 COLLEGIAL SUPERVISORY BODY – THE SUPERVISORY BOARD their safety and reliability. The geographic market covered by ESO is the whole Taxes for For more detailed information see ESO audited Annual report for 2016, Chapter “Quality of Electricity Supply” (page 59). territory of Lithuania. a state Shareholders CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Based on data as of 31 December 2016, the number of According to the valid articles of association, the ESO totalled 8,841. Company’s bodies are: Lietuvos Energija UAB holds 94.98 percent of the • General meeting of shareholders; Company’s shareholders, households – 4.24 percent. COLLEGIAL MANAGEMENT BODY – • Collegial supervisory body – the Supervisory Board; Financial institutions, insurance and other companies THE BOARD hold 0.77 percent of ESO shares. • Collegial management body – the Board; ESO Key Performance Indicators 8,98 B kWh • Single-person management body – CEO. ESO net profit in 2016 amounted to EUR 92.5 million General meeting of shareholders and was bigger by 8.2 percent than in 2015, when the Distribution A general meeting of shareholders is the supreme body of consolidated net profit of LESTO AB and the public of electricity the Company. During the reporting period the Company’s company Lietuvos Dujos in 2015 amounted to EUR 85.5 million. The growth of net profit determined increased shareholders had equal rights (property and non-property) income and reduced operating expenses. laid down in the laws, other legal acts and the Company’s Articles of Association. None of the shareholder had any SINGLE-PERSON MANAGEMENT Last year ESO income amounted to EUR 650.1 million special control rights, and the rights of all shareholders BODY – CEO and was bigger by 1.9 percent than in 2015, when they were equal. The Company’s management bodies equalled to EUR 637.9 million. Income grew due to established proper conditions to exercise the shareholder bigger distribution volumes of electricity and natural rights during the reporting period. gas. In 2016, the company’s operating costs totalled EUR 98.6 million – 11.5 percent less than in 2015, when they Supervisory Board equalled EUR 111.3 million. In 2016, ESO distributed to customers 8.98 billion kWh of electricity and 7.39 billion 7,39 B kWh Supervisory Board of ESO – a collegial supervisory body. The Supervisory Board of ESO consists of three members kWh of natural gas – more by 5.2 percent and 8.3 percent Distribution who are elected for a four-year term at a general meeting accordingly than in the year 2015. of natural of shareholders. At least one third of the Supervisory In 2016, ESO paid to the state budget EUR 61.8 million in gas Board of ESO consists of independent members. The taxes. Supervisory Board elects from its members a chairperson See Chapter “Analysis of financial and operating results“ of ESO of the Supervisory Board. audited annual report for 2016 (page 56) See Chapter “Supervisory Board of the Company“ of ESO audited annual report for the year 2016 (page 83). 10 11 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Audit committee Membership in Organisations ESO Governance Structure The main functions of the audit committee: In 2016, ESO participates in activities of the following General meeting Lithuanian and international organisations: of shareholders • to monitor the process of preparing financial statements of Lietuvos Energija UAB and its group of companies; Lietuvos Energija UAB Supervisory Chief Internal audit service of Audit committee of • to monitor efficiency of the internal control and risk Board Auditor the Supervisory Board Lietuvos Energija UAB management systems of Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies in its group of companies, to perform an analysis and revision of the need for these systems National and the suitability thereof; Lithuanian Board Supervisory Board of Electrical Lietuvos Energija UAB • to monitor how a certified auditor and audit firm Association complies with the principles of independence and objectiveness, to submit relevant recommendations; CEO • to observe processes of audit conduction at Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies of its group of companies, to assess the efficiency of audit and Finance and reaction of the administration to recommendations Lithuanian Grid Operation Service Grid Development Service Desk Administration submitted by an audit firm to the management; Service ministravimo tarnyba Responsible • to monitor the efficiency of the internal audit Business function at Lietuvos Energija UAB and companies Association of its group of companies, to analyse the need for (LAVA) this function and the suitability thereof, to submit Organisation Employee Safety Public Central recommendations on the necessity of the internal Communication Activity Quality Development Prevention and Environmental Supplier‘s Calibration and audit function, efficiency and other issues associated division Department Department Division Protection Division us Department Test Laboratory with internal audit. From 5 January 2015, the internal audit function was centralised at Lietuvos Energija UAB group of companies. United This way independence and objectiveness of the internal Nations Shareholders Structure Distribution of the shareholders by groups audit activity, uniform methodology and accountability were Global ensured. Audit resources and competences are distributed Compact more rationally. Country Number of shareholders 4,24% 4,24% Lithuania 8549 Financial institutions Households See Chapter “Audit Committee” of ESO audited annual report for Estonia 84 2016 (page 83) Russia 49 The Board of the Company Latvia 41 Belarus 39 The Board of ESO is a collegial management body of the Association USA 17 Company. ESO Board consists of five Board members of Personnel The Great Britain 11 who are elected by the Supervisory Board for a term of Management Other countries 51 four years. The Board elects a chairperson from among Professionals Total 8 841 its members. See chapter “The Board of the Company” of ESO audited annual report for 2016 (page 84) 94,98% “Lithuanian energy” CEO Shareholders who held more than 5 percent of the issuer’s authorised capital as of 31 December 2016 The manager of the Company – CEO – is single-person Nonmanagement body of the Company. The CEO’s governmental competence, election and withdrawal procedure organisation Number are established by the laws, other legal acts and the of ordinary Available EUROGAS Shareholder’s name, registered shares share of the Share of votes surname (company’s carried by the Company’s articles of association. The CEO is elected name, legal form, legal belonging by authorised shares held, the right of capital, and withdrawn, also dismissed from office by the Board office, code) ownership to the percent percent of the Company. The CEO organises daily activity of the shareholder, psc. Company, manages it, acts on behalf of the Company and Lietuvos Energija UAB, Žvejų str. 14, LT-09310 concludes transactions at his /her discretion, except for the Vilnius, 849 743 761 94,98 94,98 cases stipulated in the Company’s articles of association Enterprise code 301844044 and legal acts. See Chapter “CEO” of ESO audited annual report for 2016 (page 86) 12 13 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Description of the Supply Chain TRANSPARENCY carries out control over activities and takes actions to eliminate the detected violations, remove pending ESO performs the functions of distribution of electricity and Transparent, honest and open business activity is one of the most important elements of the irreproachable threats to the Company’s reputation. natural gas, and guarantee supply, also the function of a business reputation. Business communities that implement A trust Line (1802, +370 611 21802) functions in the public electricity supplier. ESO activity is regulated, therefore corruption prevention measures in their activity, acquire Company; it is possible to inform also anonymously by when acquiring electricity or natural gas the Company a competitive advantage with respect to other market must comply with the price level estimated by the National e-mail pasitikejimolinija@eso.lt. participants long-term, protect and improve their Commission for Prices and Energy Control by making reputation, are able to attract more investment and objective assessments. establish durable relationships with reliable business In September 2016, ESO also approved the Trust Line partners. Policy outlining the principles of operation thereof, as The Company purchases electricity and natural gas necessary ESO takes special care of the transparency of well as raising awareness of employees and third parties, for residents, companies or its own needs seeking the best procurements. In accordance with Part 1 of Article 7 of the establishing the conditions for them to express their acquisition price. The major part of electricity is acquired Law on Public Procurement of the Republic of Lithuania, concern about any noticed possible violations. The Trust at exchange prices where every hour a different price is using the Central Public Procurement Information System Line Policy emphasizes absolute protection of notifiers. formed, depending on the formed supply (production) and ESO announces all of its procurements with the exception demand (need/consumption); besides, electricity is bought of low-value purchases and technical specification up under bilateral contracts from the producers connected projects, and, additionally, provide this information on its to the Company’s distribution grid (the majority of whom use In 2016, 262 notifications relating to possible corruption website, as well as publishes public procurement reports energy from renewable resources). and provides information about ongoing procurements. manifestations were received by the Trust Line: Natural gas for technological needs and assurance of the Among other requirements, participating suppliers • In cases when employees go beyond their official guarantee gas supply under bilateral contracts. Besides, ESO must provide proof confirming that for at least 5 years capacities and the suspicions turn out to be true has a possibility to acquire gas also in the gas exchange. the supplier did not participate in any activities related after an internal investigation, such employees are to corruption, bribery, fraud, tax avoidance or money immediately dismissed from office. ESO also acquires different goods, services and works laundering (as specified in Part 1 of Article 45 of the • In the cases when ESO employees notify necessary for assuring an effective operation of the Company European Council Directive 2004/18/EC). Companies from suppliers operating on the market. Such purchases themselves about offers from outside to take a bribe participating in large public procurement projects must are carried out in accordance with the Law on Pubic provide relevant evidence of professional qualifications Procurement. During 2016, Verslo Aptarnavimo Centras – a certificate of LST EN ISO 9001: 2001 (ISO 9001: UAB (VAC), which performs the purchase function for the 2001) standard or an equivalent standard certificate, or Company, executed over 1,700 public procurements and equivalent documents issued in the European Community EMPLOYEES signed over 170 agreements. Member States, certifying that the supplier’s quality management system meets the relevant standard. The biggest asset of ESO in seeking the objectives set are Risk Assessment, Adherence to the Precautionary its employees. The Company is focused on continuous Principle In 2016, while participating in activities of the Lithuanian improvement of employee skills and formation of the Responsible Business Association, ESO actively organisational culture, thus assuring the creation of greater Risk is understood at ESO as an effect of uncertainty on contributed to the creation of the “Anticorruption Manual value to customers, partners and society. objectives. Uncertainty is explained as a condition associated for Business” initiated by the Special Investigations Service As of 31 December 2016, the number of employees with the shortage of information for perceiving a possible prepared in cooperating by the public and private sectors. totalled 2 6153. effect or probability of event (if full information on risk probability and effect is available, then this is deemed an The manual was made public on the International event). An effect is explained as a deviation from expectations Anticorruption Day – the 9th of December – and is a Structure of ESO Employees by Categories: methodological tool of practical application aimed to help that may be both, positive and negative. Objectives are create an anti-corruption business environment, enhance understood as being of different level, from individual transparency and responsibility. Number of employees Employee category employees to the Company’s strategic ones (strategic, 31.12.2016 organisational, project, product, processes, etc.). Corruption Prevention CEO 1 Risk identification, analysis and management are carried ESO does not tolerate any manifestations of corruption Top-level management 6 out systemically, in accordance with the uniform Risk Management policy in Lietuvos Energija group of and supports fair business and transparent collaboration Middle-level management 153 companies, and the Risk Management Procedure approved with all stakeholders. Corruption prevention is one of the Experts, specialists, blue-collar functions pursued by the Company’s Prevention Division. 2 455 in the Company, also other internal legal acts associated with workers risk management. The Company’s risk management system In 2015, a policy of zero-tolerance to corruption became All employees 2 615 is based on COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations effective in Lietuvos Energija group of companies. of the Treadway Commission) ERM (Enterprise Risk The provisions of this policy have been brought to the Structure of ESO employees by education: Management), AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009 (Risk Management – attention of all ESO employees. On 5 April 2016, the Principles and Guidelines), ISO/IEC 27005:2011 (Information rules for declaring private interests were approved on Number of employees Technology – Security Techniques – Information Security Risk which basis all employees annually fill out declarations of Education Management) principles. private interests. 31.12.2016 See ESO audited annual report for 2016 (page 66). The risk is reduced by complex control mechanisms Higher 1 504 operating in the Company aimed to identify possible Junior college 891 corruption risk factors. The Prevention Division constantly Secondary and vocational 220 3 The number of actually working staff members is indicated that does not include 14 employees on pregnancy and childbirth, or child-care leave and on military service. 15 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Transparent and clear remuneration system Trade Unions in case of accident, disease, death of family members, To ensure the efficiency of internal processes of the support after the birth of a child, additional days of paid company, employees are familiarised with initiatives and ESO has installed an innovative employee remuneration The Company supports the clustering of employees into leave after the birth of a child, contracting a marriage, etc.). programmes implemented in the Company, for example, system that enables it to align with other leading volunteer trade unions and closely cooperates with them, operational excellence, employee activity management companies in the country who reward employees maintains a constructive social dialogue. Once a quarter Staff Competency Development programmes. according to achieved results, value created for the meetings are organised aimed to discuss strategic organisation and the team. projects carried out in the Company. If necessary, ESO pays much attention to the development of In 2016, ESO employees studied for 40,693 hours. The representatives of trade unions always participate in number of training hours per employee – 19.06 hours. When creating this remuneration system, reference employee competences. workgroups when issues associated with employees was made to Hay Group methodology that ensures Training plans are drawn up annually, with consideration an objective assessment of job positions according to (working conditions for employees, remuneration, social issues, etc.) are discussed. to the Company’s objectives and the matching of necessary education, complexity of problems and level of Training was attended by 2,135 ESO responsibility per specific job position. This system enables employee competence. Especially much attention is employees. This accounts for nearly 80 to effectively manage the Company’s costs and ensures that In total, 7 trade unions which bring together devoted to the training ensuring an effective and quality percent of the total number of employees. ESO strategic objectives and business management logics approximately 20 percent of the Company’s maintenance of electricity and gas distribution grids, would be reflected in the remuneration system. In 2016, as employees operate in the Company. customer service and occupational safety. a result of change of a part of job positions or emergence When preparing training programmes, close cooperation is of the new ones due to the merger of companies, the In 2016, mandatory professional training was attended A joint representation of trade unions has been formed maintained with training suppliers, also training assessment remuneration system was revised in order to maintain by 1556 employees4 who received permits authorising to out of them. The chairwoman of the joint representation, surveys are conducted. Besides, ESO also constantly competitiveness in the labour market. perform special works. Ms. Dalia Jakutavičė took part in preparing legislative cooperates with producers, equipment suppliers who share The remuneration package for the Company’s employees proposals for the social model in 2016. Employees attended programmes for emergency their knowledge with employees by introducing innovations consists of the financial and non-financial remuneration; in the energy field. Members of trade unions actively participate in different electrical plant diesel operator, steeplejack, operator of also an emotional satisfaction of employees if important. The financial remuneration system covers a part of the events and training organised by professional unions or lifting platforms and its equipment, cutter of tree and In 2016, ESO also partly funded studies of 15 employees at remuneration indicated in the agreement payable on their associations. In 2016, trade unions organised for bush branches, emergency aid and hygiene skills, as well Lithuanian higher education institutions seeking to improve a monthly basis, whereas upon achievement of the set their members a sports game of Industry trade union as participated in other programmes. staff qualification and develop leadership competences. operating results – a variable part of the remuneration, employees, a professional mastery competition, seminars In 2016, 2,739 participants attended training for the Employees have a possibility to study in energy and and benefits stipulated in the Collective agreement (for on labour law issues. A part of trade union members overtime, night work, etc.). general competency development. General training managerial study programmes associated with the attended international seminars organised by the Company’s activity. European Trade Union Institute, visited different energy are organised by both, sending individual employees A non-financial remuneration is an indirect form of reward to employees, used for fostering the employees’ efforts, companies in Poland. to seminars and conferences organised by external In 2016, two ESO employees achieved excellent results involvement and loyalty, enriching the employees’ suppliers (in Lithuania and abroad), and forming groups in master’s studies in leadership at ISM University of welfare and activities in the Company. These are different Collective Agreement inside the Company. Management and Economics: Darius Bagdonas was events and activities for employees, acknowledgement recognised the best graduate of master’s studies in and evaluation of their achievements, health promotion, In 2016, ESO renewed its collective agreement ensuring ESO involves into the competency development programmes internal lecturers having specific knowledge leadership, and Ignas Pranskevičius – the person who wrote education of employees, etc. greater protection and additional benefits for employees. and skills, as well as capable of sharing them with others, the best final master’s thesis. An emotional satisfaction of employees is deemed a The goal of the collective agreement– to represent rights and legitimate interests of all employees. The agreement also invest into the ability of these employees to conduct factor having to have huge significance for the employees’ involvement, covering also the Company’s reputation, establishes labour, remuneration, social, economic and training. During 2016, 3,273 participants attended internal organisational culture, values and provided career professional conditions and guarantees that are not training. A great part of such internal training was intended 4 Here and anywhere else in the chapter “Staff Competency Development”, training opportunities, different programmes for the promotion regulated by the laws and other regulatory enactments. for the development of energy staff in order to enhance participants are called not unique ESO employees, but the total number of participants is indicated, i.e. a part of employees could have participated in training more than once. of internal development, possibilities to implement one’s Employees are applied additional guarantees (benefits the quality of occupational safety and customer service. ideas, etc. Average remuneration of ESO employees Employees trainings 2016 Average renumeration, EUR Employee category 2016 January-December CEO 6 472 Top-level management 4 754 Middle level 2 036 management Experts, specialists 1 017 40 700 19,06 hours Blue-collar workers 760 Training Per person All employees 1 033 hours 16 17 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Human Rights Protection Diversity and Equal Opportunities ESO does not tolerate any violation of human rights; The majority of the Company’s employees consists it supports fair and transparent remuneration policy, of men. This may be accounted for by the specifics of complies with the laws regulating working hours and pursued activities: fewer women choose work of the overtime, respects the right of workers to rest and does technical engineering profiles and jobs performed under not tolerate any kind of harassment or violence. The outdoor conditions, and specialities directly associated Company condemns all kinds of discrimination, as well as with them. forced and child labour. At the end of 2016, ESO employed 615 ,2 staff members: In 2016, no cases of discrimination or other incidents men – 2,215; women – 400. The average staff age – 45 associated with violations of human rights were years: women’s – 41 year, men’s – 46 years. 30 % 272 stablished. trainees who were new employees Distribution of Staff Members by Region and Gender (2016): employed by ESO 91% 9% Šiauliai region 89% 11% 87% 13% Panevėžys region Klaipėda region Traineeship and Employment Opportunities Every year ESO together with Lietuvos Energija group of companies participates in career fairs of vocational training ESO actively cooperates with educational institutions and establishes the conditions for students of universities schools, interactively present their activity, communicate 85% 15% with students. and colleges to apply theoretical knowledge and to Kaunas region acquire practical skills. During 2016, 46 students went In total, in 2016 272 got a job at ESO, of which – 83 77% 23% on placement in ESO in the whole Lithuania. 45 of them employees (64 men and 19 women) within the age range Vilnius region were citizens of Lithuania, and 1 – of Jordan. from 22 to 25 years. The most plentiful share of employed specialists were of the engineering profile. The youngest trainee was 20 years, and the oldest – 30 years. Traineeships lasted from one month to half a Integration of New Employees 2615 year. The ratio of male and female trainees – 31 / 15 (67 In order ensure adequate adaptation process of new In total percent / 33 percent). The most popular traineeship employees, the Company organises “Newcomer’s Days” periods–summer and winter seasons. when the new employees become acquainted with the ESO is an open organisation and provides the young Company’s management and department activities. The specialists with possibilities to disclose their abilities: 14 newcomers get introduced to the energy sector’s structure, trainees after the traineeship became permanent ESO strategic directions, mission, vision, values, the most staff members. This accounts for as many as 30 percent of important principles of energy sector operation, other all trainees. fundamentals of activities. Newcomers are also set plans of goals for the probationary period. Practical training in the Company is attended not only by The distribution of gender among the Company’s topThe average service level executives: at the end of 2016, the position of ESO The average staff age record of ESO staff students who are organised compulsory traineeship, but The management assigns a mentor to new employees who – 45 years member – 15 years also motivated and enthusiastic students are provided becomes responsible for providing all kinds of assistance to CEO and chairperson of the Board was occupied by a with an opportunity to have a job placement voluntarily. new employees during their probationary period. woman; out of 11 managers of the units subordinate to the CEO, women occupied two positions. 46 years 41year 15 years 11years The ratio of lower-level unit managers at the end of 2016: 314 men and 26 women held managing positions. 18 19 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Management System for Employees Activity and Main Directions of Operational Excellence: Training on occupational safety and health are regularly In 2016, a project on the training ground designated for the Improvement thereof organised in the Company, also notices, reminders on improvement of professional skills was started in Panevėžys, Flexible reaction to change by implementing prophylaxis are published, handouts are prepared (memos which is planned to be finished in the autumn of 2017. In The management of employee activity is one of the and applying a meeting system for daily activity most important ways of governance and effective about flu prophylaxis, exercise, work with the computer, this training ground, ESO employees, also partners and management; adequate reaction to work outdoors in hot or cold periods). contractors will be able to train their professional skills, and management helping to achieve organisation’s objectives and create positive relationships among It was laid down in the Collective Agreement that if he feels to perform simulated work assignments practically, etc. Standardisation and improvement of activity processes managers and their subordinates, allowing planning not too good, an employee may take two days of leave a with consideration to customer needs; Education of Contractors employees’ career, enhancing their motivation. year for prophylaxis reasons. Fostering and implementation of employees’ innovative ESO teaches not only its employees who perform enhanced Annual Conversation risk jobs, but also contractors whose activity constitute a ideas for improving daily activities seeking to shorten In gas activities pursued by ESO, a certified occupational An annual conversation – a measure for the employee’s the duration of operations, reduce operating costs, safety and health management system BS OHSAS substantial part of the whole technological works of the activity management ensuring that their personal improve occupational and environmental safety, increase 18001 has been implemented. In 2016, an independent Company. During 2016, 6 educational cartoons were objectives would be set with consideration to the created or renewed: for specialists in the electricity field: customer satisfaction. oversight audit by an external institution did not identify Company’s objectives. The objectives are coordinated, “Preparation for Work”, ”Use of Safety Measures”, ”Work in approved and assessed in the electronic system. They incompliances and the certificate validity was renewed. Power Lines”, for specialists in the gas field: “Work in the should be measurable, specific, defined in terms of time, Environment of Natural Gas” and “Work in Excavations and achievable and motivating. An annual conversation In 2016, a course on requirements of this standard was Wells”. These cartoons were shared publicly. Occupational Health and Safety helps assess the achievement of objectives set by heard by 17 Company employees. Greater attention the employee and to determine the new ones, forms was devoted to the work performance procedure of the A tradition has become also professional mastery By taking care of employees we organise regular medical a feedback culture between the superior and the Company’s contractor organisations, identification of competitions in which ESO employees and contractors’ examinations. In 2016, medical examinations were representatives try out their hand in professional disciplines subordinate. During the conversation, opportunities for performed for 1,651 employee. This accounts for more hazards, conduction of safety days. the improvement of employee competency, learning, of different fields, demonstrate their abilities and than 60 percent of all ESO employees. In 2016, implementation of the management system was competence. career are discussed. started and is planned to be finished during the first quarter In 2016, slightly more than 30 percent of ESO employees Staff members working outdoors are vaccinated against 2017 in the electricity distribution field. participated in the annual conversation process. A tick-borne encephalitis (in 2016, 833 employees were relatively small number of annual conversations may vaccinated). All wishing employees are vaccinated against The implemented and certified management system be accounted for by changes due to the merger of two the flu (772 employees). will help not only insure smooth compliance with legal companies. Meanwhile in 2017, also a system of quarterly requirements, but also better manage the Company’s conversations has already been implemented. environmental protection aspects, constantly assess efficiency, develop and improve processes associated with Operational Excellence environmental protection, meet additional obligations to Vaccination Seeking to implement the defined strategic direction Medical Medical against customers and society. examination Flu of continuous performance improvement, in 2016 examination of drivers tick-borne the Company started to implement an Operational encephalitis Health Promotion Excellence programme based on the principles of LEAN, Number of vaccinated employees ESO promotes a healthy lifestyle, sports activity and taking Six Sigma methodologies. The programme has been Vilnius region 475 61 340 222 care of physical health among employees. In 2016, the planned to gain a momentum and reach all units of the Company established favourable conditions for employees Company during 2017, and it will be continuing. Kaunas region 392 106 129 210 to go in for sports in 19 cities of Lithuania. Employees could It has been planned that during 2017 the Company Klaipėda region 327 122 129 85 selectively attend a swimming pool, sports club, or play will consistently review and purify the processes of its Šiauliai region 197 46 83 35 basketball. During 2016, 882 employees registered for activities, will use a whiteboard system during meetings, Panevėžys region 260 107 152 220 sports activities. will familiarise 50 percent of employees with the instruments being implemented at the time of special In total 1 651 442 833 772 In team-building events, much attention is also devoted training, and will introduce 900 improvements. to sports activity and different disciplines, promotion of healthy lifestyle. Professional Mastery The Company pays great attention to employees’ professional competence and occupational safety. One of the measures inducing employees’ willingness to improve and to test their knowledge – professional mastery competitions. In May 2016, in Panevėžys, a joint competition of electricity and gas field specialists took place for the first time, where employees and competition guests tried out 1651 their hand in disciplines associated with daily activities as power engineers. 37 Experience acquired inside the Company is handy also in Carried out international professional mastery competitions. In August Teams of health checks for 2016, a joint ESO team of Kaunas and Klaipėda dispatcher professional employees management divisions participated in competitions in Latvia excellency from which they came back with an award in the discipline. In total, 37 teams from the entire Baltic Region participated in these competitions. 20 21 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 MARKET, INVESTORS AND CUSTOMERS The Company’s information is equally accessible to all ESO result in 2016 was 79 points, whereas the average shareholders and potential investors. An Investuotor’s result of European energy companies – 70 points; In the business environment, ESO seeks to maintain Calendar is published on the Company’s website. the average result of world companies– 71. Private transparent relationships with all market participants – ESO relationships with shareholders published on the customers are more satisfied with services and customer customers, partners, investors. Each year care is taken of the safety of energy supply, as well as economic and Company’s website are maintained by the Company’s Senior Economist Giedrė Matulevičienė (giedre. support provided by ESO than corporate customers: the 407 000 satisfaction index of private customers– 79, and that of of registered private social benefit for society. ESO pays great attention to the matuleviciene@eso.lt). corporate customers – 74. customers development and upgrading of the electricity and gas In 2016, no violations of rules of the securities exchange www.manogile.lt distribution grids. An important aspect of this activity is in Development of Customer Support Channels the field of environmental protection – better conditions were recorded. 2016 12 31 to save energy, use it in a more rational way. Customer Service Due to targeted actions taken by ESO during 2016, Market Liberalisation the number of clients using remote customer support As of 31 December 2016, ESO had 1.595 million channels (website www.manogile.lt and customer A free electricity market has operated in Lithuania since purchase-sale contracts with private customers and service numbers 1802 or +370 611 21802) continued to 2010. According to the electricity market development 68,377 thousand electricity supply or transmission grow, while customer flows to customer service centres plan all consumers may freely choose an independent service contracts with commercial customers. in smaller cities have decreased. At the beginning of During 2016, information by the customer service electricity supplier. 2016, the self-service website was adapted for common numbers 1802 or +370 611 21802 was furnished to more declaration of readings and payment for electricity and The Company also very actively cooperates with than 1,179 million customers (during 2015, information gas, besides convenient tools were installed. At the same producing consumers and seek to establish favourable was furnished to 999 thousand customers), over 511 time, a new www.eso.lt website was also developed conditions for their integration into the electricity thousand customer queries on different issues were where one can find a calculator of the most favourable distribution grid. resolved ( during the reporting period in 2015 – 479 tariff plan and other useful functionalities. thousand customer queries). On 31 December 2016, independent suppliers supplied Gas electricity to 68,124 objects of commercial customers As of 31 December 2016, 407 thousand private In 2016, more than 263 thousand customers (249 (in 2015, their number was 66,354). According to the customers were registered on the ESO services website www.manogile.lt. This accounts for more than 20 percent thousand in 2015) were served in customer service electricity market development plan approved by the centres located in the seven major Lithuanian cities. Government of the Republic of Lithuania of 8 July 2009, of the total number of ESO customers. as of 30 September 2016, an independent electricity Private customers Business customers supplier has been selected by: 565 900 9 600 Permissible power of 400 kW and more 95% Electricity Permissible power of 100 kW and more 86 % Private customers Business customers 1,6 m 68 400 Permissible power of 30 kW and more 75% On 31 December 2016, about 565.9 thousand private and about 9.6 thousand business customers who were Permissible power less than 30 kW 55 % ensured the distribution service were connected to the ESO gas distribution grid. In 2016, an obvious revival of gas consumption was observed. ESO acquired more than 10 thousand new customers (this is more than during To the remaining objects, electricity is further supplied by the 2014 and 2015 altogether). guarantee supplier whose function is performed by ESO. Investors Customers’ Opinion In the event “Nasdaq Baltic Market Awards 2015” held For the first time, after the merger of LESTO AB and the in January 2016, three awards were won for progress public company Lietuvos Dujos, a survey of customer achieved by the public company Lietuvos Dujos and satisfaction with service quality was carried out. This year LESTO AB during 2015 in improving relationships with was an excellent period to compare at a different look investors. how the two services provided by the energy operator ESO also participated in the meeting of managers of the were assessed by customers: customers using only companies recorded on the exchange lists with investors electricity, and those using both, electricity and gas. The organised by the securities exchange NASDAQ Vilnius on satisfaction level of ESO customers estimated according 30 November 2016. to the world Global Customer Satisfaction Index By publishing operating results for 6 months of 2016, methodology is higher by 9 points than the GCSI index of ESO, apart from the financial report, also submitted a European energy companies. video commentary by the Company’s CEO. 22 23 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 INVESTMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT OF Upgrading of Electricity and Gas Grids THE GRIDS During 2016, ESO investments into electricity and gas Operation and Development of Electricity and Gas distribution grids amounted to EU 149.188 million – 13.4 Meters 8,5 m percent more as compared to 2015, when investments totalled EUR 131.556 million. 16,5 m During 2016, ESO installed 23,339 electricity meters (of invested in IT and invested in the development of which 25 percent are intended for electricity accounting management systems the gas distribution network in single-phase AC current grids, and 75 percent – in three-phase grids), changed 76,346 electricity meters ESO investments, million EUR with an expired metrological verification term (of which 2016 12 2015 12 81 percent are used for energy accounting in singlemonths months phase AC current grinds, and 19 percent – in three-phase Renewal of the electricity grids). distribution grid 84,659 70,565 By constantly renewing the operated electricity and gas Development of the electricity 39,500 42,937 meters, the Company and its authorised persons has distribution grid performed operation works for over 1,058 thousand of Construction and reconstruction of 16,499 13,301 electricity meters (checking, troubleshooting, control of gas systems readings) and operation works for over 127 thousand of Other (IT, management systems, etc.) 8,531 4,754 gas meters. By investing into the modernisation and automation 149,2 m Total investments 149,188 131,556 39,5 m of electricity meters, ESO hooked up 2,435 electricity Investments invested in the development meters to the existing automated data scanning system, into grids of the electricity distribution network thus increasing the number of electricity meters operated 2016 in objects of the Company’s customers which readings Investments into the Electricity Grid are remotely readable up to 29 ,773. Automation of electricity meters provides with the During 2016, ESO investment into the renewal of the possibility to submit invoices for electricity consumed electricity distribution grid equalled EUR 84.659 million during a respective period to business customers – 20 percent more than in 2015. In 2016, the Company automatically, without the need to declare the quantity of invested into the development of the electricity consumed energy by the customers themselves. distribution grid 39.5 million, when in 2015, investments totalled EUR 42.937 million. In 2016, the average duration of During 2016, investments into IT and management getting electricity reduced from 78 to 58 calendar days. 29 360 systems amounted to EUR 8.5 million – 1.8 time more than in 2015. This was determined by installation works of 84,6 m number of new users the new control system for the new electricity distribution invested in the modernisation connected to the grid. The new system will enable to ensure a better 2016 distribution of the electricity m. electricity distribution network Smart Metering quality supply and distribution of electricity, greater reliability of the grid and expeditious renewal of energy The pilot project on smart accounting is half-through; supply in the event of power failure. customers (3,000 customers participate in the During 2016, ESO hooked up to the electricity project) may select a plan of four time-zone tariffs distribution grid 29.36 thousand new consumers specially adapted for this project, inducing to change – 3 percent more than in 2015 years, when 28.50 consumption habits and cut down electricity costs. thousand consumers were hooked up. The permissible At the end of 2016, more than 12 percent of the project consumption power consumption of connected new participants had chosen this plan. An assessment of consumers in 2016 totalled 349.28 thousand kW and was consumption habits of the project participants is carried less by 9.7 percent than in 2015, when it equalled 386.86 out further. thousand kW. A map of objects where the electricity distribution A cost-benefit analysis commenced at the time of project grid is planned to be renewed has been created. The implementation will help evaluate whether it is worthy to interactive map (www.eso.lt/investicijuzemelapis) conduct mass installation of smart accounting devices in provides information on investment projects planned the entire Lithuania, and in what way this could be done. to be implemented in 2017. At the end of 2016, The cost-benefit analysis is planned to be finished in the there were 1990 investment projects in total, after the autumn of 2017. implementation whereof electricity supply reliability and voltage quality will be enhanced. 24 25 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Investments into the Gas Grid Development Modernisation The ESO gas distribution grid functions in 42 out of 60 and 2015 altogether. It was attractive to get gas also due to Striving to ensure security and reliability of the natural minimum levels of SAIDI and SAIFI indexes, ensure an municipalities of the country. ESO operates 8.4 thousand both, record-low prices of natural gas, and more convenient gas distribution system, modernisation is planned uninterrupted and reliable gas distribution and avoid and faster gas getting process. to be continued. Remotely controlled smart control interruptions of gas supply due to emergency cases or km of distributive gas pipelines to which are connected systems and diagnostics equipment are installed in gas repair and reconstruction works, invests into projects of about 560 thousand objects of private and 9.5 thousand of assuring the reliability gas distribution (circuiting). business and public sector customers. pressure regulators. After installing it, ESO will be able A gas getting process was shortened in 2016 by nearly to respond more expeditiously to arising disturbances in One of the most important constituent parts of the At the end of 2016, ESO finished building a gas pipeline 54 calendar days – from 216 to 162 days. gas pressure regulation stations, to remotely control gas distribution systems is the gas pressure regulators for the distribution of natural gas in Tauragė. This is the pressure and this way ensure an interrupted and stable which purpose is to reduce gas pressure down to the 42nd gasified municipality in Lithuania. ESO installed in Guarantee supply established level and to maintain the established gas distribution of gas to customers. Tauragė a 5.8 km long distributive gas pipeline. The biggest pressure parameters necessary for gas consumers. Another event of no less importance – a loan-for-use ESO also constantly invests into the upgrading and Therefore, seeking to enhance the reliability of gas and main user of this gas pipeline will be one of the major automation of gas meters seeking to determine agreement signed by ESO and the company Druskininkų distribution and the safety of operation thereof, ESO Lithuanian milk processing companies Vilkyškių Pieninė. automatically and precisely the amount of natural gas invests into the reconstruction of these facilities. Šilumos Tinklai on 26 October 2015 that ensured an The milk processing company operating in Tauragė plans to consumed by a business customer. The number of uninterrupted guarantee supply of natural gas. Since consume more than 6.5 GWh of natural gas. remotely readable gas meters is – 1212. 1 November 2016, in Druskininkai municipality, due In total during 2016, ESO invested into the gas In 2016, agreements were signed with more than 10 suspension of activities by the previous supplier, the supply The Company operates gas pipelines which age ranges from 50 and more years, therefore especially much distribution grid EUR 16.5 million – 24.04 percent thousand of new customers. This is more than during 2014 of natural gas is now ensured by ESO. more than in 2015. attention is paid when assessing the technical condition of gas pipelines to the ageing gas pipelines. If corrosion damages are detected, gas pipelines are reconstructed under the priority procedure. ESO, seeking to maintain 16,5 m 8 400 km Investments in gas gas distribution network distribution network 26 27 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION The good will arrangement “The Green Protocol” National Educational Programme “A Sustainable School” In its day-to-day activities, the ESO encourages the The “Green Protocol” is ESO initiated the only-one application of working tools, which reduce costs, such type arrangement in the country, based on which In order to raise awareness among school communities quantities of pollution and waste, actively seeks to find companies and organisations operating in different fields and contribute to the development of sustainable, energyways to reduce the negative impact of energy facilities on confirm that they have already become familiar with efficient and environmentally friendly Lithuanian society, people and the environment, invests in environmentally ideas promoting rational consumption of energy, they ESO together with their partners invited Lithuanian friendly modern technologies, contributes and organises approve these ideas and undertake to apply them in educational institutions to participate in the educational initiatives involving the public and promoting responsible practices, i. e.: programme “A Sustainable School”. After the project won energy consumption. in 2015 a prize of the Swedish business awards for the • to implement the measures for enhancing the best social responsibility project in 2014, it is currently Energy efficiency energy consumption efficiency; continued further (see more at www.darnimokykla.lt). • to contribute to the environmental protection and Landscape protection The promotion of rational energy use is one of the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (CO2); priority directions of ESO responsibility contributing Instead of the old power lines, ESO constructs new, to the preservation of the environment and energy • to induce its employees, colleagues, family underground lines in localities where overhead wires resources, as well as obligations of the country in members to do this and this way to contribute to became too thin, came dangerously close to plantations, implementing the European Union climate change whereas the old infrastructure causes many malfunctions. the creation of energy-saving society. policy. Cable lines are safer, ensure reliable electricity supply During 2016, this initiative was joined by 25 new to residents, also allow enjoying a more beautiful Energy efficiency initiative “As much as needed“ companies (at the end of 2016, 205 companies joined landscape. In 2016, more than 2 thousand km of the initiative in total). A competition is organised annually, underground power cables were laid down, and other The initiative “As much as needed” implemented by and “The Green Protocol” companies recognised as technologies of the smart grid were installed further. ESO is intended to create public traditions relying on having consumed energy in the most rational way, as well By further improving the quality of services, during 2017 rational behaviour, to suggest rational ways of energy as the most active disseminators of the energy efficiency ESO plans to implement 94 smart grid installations, and consumption for household and business purposes. ideas in companies are proclaimed . In 2016, an award in addition to replace 2.7 thousand km of overhead was given to Šiaulių Vandenys UAB, whereas the title of power lines with the underground ones. Modern In November 2016, ESO organised a cycle of public the “Green Ambassador” went to Ms. Rasa Pečiulaitė, technologies will enable to observe in real time the regional conferences “As much as needed for the representative of Eika UAB. parameters or modes of separate grid elements, to react industry 2016“. During the events held in five major cities of Lithuania – Vilnius, Kaunas, Klaipėda, Šiauliai and more expeditiously to non-typical situations, to eliminate The competition winners are traditionally awarded at the Panevėžys – representatives and experts of the country’s breakdowns in electrical installations faster. This way, the time of the aforementioned annual conference “Energy leading companies shared their good experience and quality of services will improve for nearly 100 thousand Efficiency Solutions for Competitive Business”. practical advice on the enhancement of energy efficiency. ESO customers. In total, 300 participants visited the cycle of regional Energy Saving Advice to Residents In 2016, 32 gas pressure regulators were reconstructed conferences, the majority of whom were chief power Tools aimed to save energy and implement simple, by destroying the old structures and building equipment engineers and executives of companies. effective solutions for household use have been cabinets that do not deteriorate the landscape. developed by the Company and published on the Another educational tradition initiated and developed by website at www.eso.lt: Modern technologies ESO – an annual conference “Energy Efficiency Solutions • Calculator of the most favourable tariff; Much attention is created also to assuring security of for Competitive Business” was organised together with the gas system under ESO management. In case of the publication Verslo žinios. In February 2016, already • Visual advice how to use electricity at home emergency or improper operation of gas pipelines, the sixth such conference took place bringing together sparingly (a visual flat with useful interactive advise is damage to the environment is done, economic and business, installers of energy efficiency solutions, provided); social losses are sustained. A possibility to remotely analysts, power engineers, representatives of the observe, measure and control a gas grid is very academic society. Guests of the event establish contacts, • By cooperating with the Lithuanian National important from the environmental point of view, as in the exchange experience and later apply the knowledge Consumer Federation, a useful video memo for National companies not indifferent to the case of gas leak, during repair and reconstruction works, acquired in business. energy consumers has been created. climate change problem have been invited less carbon dioxide causing a greenhouse effect will be In the event in 2016, 220 business representatives of the for already the sixth year to join the initiative emitted into the environment. Therefore, the condition country participated, of whom 96 percent confirmed that of “The Green Protocol”. of the gas distribution network is carefully observed and the event met their expectations. This is more by three new solutions are implemented. percent as compared to the feedback of conference In 2016, the following smart remote control systems participants in 2015. were installed in Vilnius: diagnostics equipment in gas pressure regulators. During 2017–2018, it is planned to install such equipment also in other regions that will enable to ensure not only greater safety and reliability, but also will reduce CO2 emissions into the environment by approximately 157 t a year. 28 29 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 on which basis cooperation was continued by Environmental protection management system Saving of resources implementing a social project “Libraries for Progress 2” The Company constantly encourages its customers to seeking to ensure further development of computerised An international environmental protection management system LST EN ISO 14001was installed in ESO gas refuse of paper bills and utility payment books. workstations of the self-service website www.manogile.lt. activities. In 2016, an independent oversight audit of 2000 km Customers may bring meter readings to the place of Events of Energetics for the Public the external institution did identify any incompliances payment simply by writing them down on a piece of and the certificate validity was renewed. During 2016, paper or record it in any other convenient way, or simply a training course on requirements of the standard was Day of Energetics. On 17 April, the National Lithuanian pay electronically in the ESO self-service system. Thus, attended by 17 Company’s employees. Electricity Association (NLEA), which unites the country’s Underground power step-by-step a transition is made to remote service channels. biggest energy companies including ESO, traditionally In 2016, greater attention was paid to waste sorting cables celebrates the Day of Energetics and invites the public and use of chemical substances: it is observed how Nearly 93 percent of ESO business customers have already switched to electronic bills. to free events in the Lithuanian Energy and Technology hazardous and non-hazardous waste is sorted out and stored, whether employees are familiarised with data Museum. Visitors may become familiar with the country’s About 89 percent of private and about 96 percent of safety sheets of chemical substances, whether they business customers who have furnished their contact energy history, are involved into interactive games. meet the newest requirements of the EU Regulation data in ESO self-service system are informed about a TEDxVilnius. On 2 April 2016, the sixth TEDxVilnius concerning Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and planned or occurred interruption of power supply, also Restriction of Chemicals, how chemical substances are conference of progressive ideas and inspiriting stories estimated duration of its elimination by free notifications stored, alternatives for replacing hazardous chemical by SMS messages and e-mails. held in Vilnius was also attended by the partner of this substances with more environmentally friendly ones are event ESO that introduced a stand inviting to share the About 35 percent of letters to partners, contractors, searched for. good energy. More than 800 event participants visited customers, suppliers are sent by ESO by e-mail. This Implementation of the management system was started percentage has grown constantly. For example, in the stand. The educational TEDxVilnius events was in 2016, and it is planned to be finished in the first the central office in Vilnius or Klaipėda region, the broadcasted directly on the internet. . quarter of 2017 in the electricity distribution field. The percentage of letters sent by e-mail ranges from 60 to 70 Researchers’ Night. On 30 September, an event implemented and certified management system will percent, whereas in other regions, still the major part is help not only ensure smooth compliance with legal constituted by letters sent by regular post. intended for science enthusiasts and the public “The requirements, but also better manage the Company’s environmental protection aspects, constantly assess efficiency, develop and improve processes associated 93 % In September 2016, changes on the submission of technical documentation after executing repair and Researchers Night” took place that offered more than 300 free events in the whole Lithuania. This initiative maintenance works both, in the gas and electricity part, was jointed together with Lietuvos Energija group also with environmental protection, fulfil additional became effective. Now the Company’s contractors submit by ESO which offered to visit unique objects under the Number of business obligations to the customers and society. customers swiched to all technical documentation in the electronic format. Company’s management. ESO suggested seeing live Management of atmosphere pollution electronic bills Besides, in September 2016 the Company switched how the Central calibration and test laboratory in Vilnius to the signing of statements of accomplished works distinguished for accuracy and precision looks like, Seeking to pollute the atmosphere from mobile sources in the electronic space, therefore there is no need to where the verification and calibration of measuring of to the smallest possible extent, ESO uses economic print them. Contractors are encouraged to submit VAT invoices only in the electronic format. instruments for gas accounting, pressure, temperature, cars in its activity in order the emissions performance standards would meet high quality requirements of the gas concentration and electrical quantities are carried Familiarisation with internal legal acts (arrangements, standard. The company operates 1 electric vehicle and process schemes, policies, procedures etc.) approved out, also control of gas quality parameters transported 33 natural-gas powered vehicles. For comparison: CO2 in the Company are carried out in the electronic space. by natural gas grids is performed. Panevėžys residents emissions of this fuelled driven 80 kW power vehicle– Requests for vacations, orders on business trips are filled and guests could visit the site of practical training for 157 g/km, meanwhile that of petrol-driven 59 kW power out and approved also in the special electronic space. gas installers – the only one in the Baltic States where vehicle – 191 g/km, whereas that of diesel-driven 55 kW professional gas installers try out and may demonstrate A tool of the Company’s internal communication– a power vehicle 167 g/km. newsletter intended for employees was also prepared in professional skills in different simulations requiring fast Wind and solar plants have been installed in three ESO the electronic format in 2016. reaction and precision in eliminating gas leaks. objects. These renewing energy sources enable to charge batteries powering the remote data collection and control equipment. SOCIETY AND COMMUNITIES One of the most important objectives of the Company Public Opinion in controlling and reducing environmental pollution with the help of technical means is to control possible leaks ESO implements broad range long-term social Lithuanian resident opinion survey showed responsibility projects aimed at the general public, that people positively assess ESO activities. when distributing natural gas. including the young generation. The company appeals The majority of the respondents indicated that by different means to everyone united by active Seeking to ensure the reliability of gas systems, the most important qualities of ESO activity maintenance of gas pipelines and equipment, repairs, involvement of local communities, target groups, safe behaviour and efficient energy use, as well as are reliability (39 percent), efficiency (37 reconstruction and modernisation are carried out. Seeking to prevent interruptions of gas transportation due to fault environmental conservation ideas. percent), fast elimination of breakdowns (37 of third persons, ground excavation works are supervised, percent), professionalism (30 percent). information on the performance of ground works in Cooperation with Lithuanian libraries the gas protection zone, etc. is disseminated, etc. To 28 percent of the respondents stressed that it In March 2015, by cooperating with the National ensure safety and reliability of the gas system, 10.3 km of Martynas Mažvydas library an agreement was signed is important for them that the Company would polyethylene gas pipelines were inserted in 2016. take care of customers and responded to their needs. 30 31 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Informational Safety Campaign “Safe Energy” via the Lietuvos Energija website section “Responsible On 14 September 2016, ESO and the State Labour “Energy to School” Business”. All properly filled out applications are transferred Inspectorate (SLI) signed a cooperation agreement under In the spring of 2016, a broad range information campaign for assessment to the Assessment Committee of the Support An active cooperation is maintained also with educational which they agreed to exchange information on noticed focused on behaviour with electricity and gas by additionally Fund that performs quality assessment of applications. institutions. The new initiative of 2016 – “Energy to cases of illegal work or illegal hook-up to the electricity giving useful advice to the public was launched. The School”. All information on support beneficiaries of Lietuvos and gas grids. campaign carried out through the media – television, radio, Energija Support Fund in 2016, activity report and audit An idea to implement this initiative and to promote The agreement lays down that upon suspecting or press and internet – covered the safety things associated conclusions are published on Lietuvos Energija website. education of the young generation appeared with noticing by ESO, in which roughly 90 percent of objects with the beginning of outdoor works, by emphasizing consideration to the available information that also Preventive education of residents the repair and reconstruction works are carried out by overhead and undergrounds electricity and gas grids, also minors are involved into criminal activity. During 2016, contractors who won public procurement, any violations educational advice on safe behaviour during storms near the ESO seeks to promote responsible behaviour with devices employees of the Company’s Prevention Division visit 14 of employment relationships or occupational safety, they electricity grid. ESO operatives recorded themselves how of electrical and gas distribution grids, raise residents’ different educational institutions operating in problem must be immediately reported to the LSI. they eliminate the effects of storms on the electricity grid. The awareness of safe behaviour and reduce negative regions. Company shares this vide material with the publicly. Pic consequences arising due to irresponsible and malicious On its own turn, SLI inspectors undertake to monitor Topics of thefts from transformer stations, accidents were behaviour. whether there are no breaks in electricity, gas installation, At the end of summer, a part of the campaign was intended discussed with schoolchildren during meetings. More In 2016, ESO continued active cooperation with the and whether there are no illegal hook-ups. ESO is for farmers –about safe behaviour near energy objects during than 700 schoolchildren participated in meetings with Association of Elders of Local Authorities in Lithuania. In expeditiously informed on suspicions or noticed harvesting, also adequate maintenance of the so-called employees of the Prevention Division. the summer of 2016, in enhanced risk regions where the violations. “electrical shepherds”. 2 posters were created that were biggest number of ESO technological property thefts shared in meetings with communities. are recorded – in Biržai, Šalčininkai, Pasvalys, Jurbarkas In the autumn of 2016, a safe gas heating campaign aimed and Trakai – an informational theft prevention campaign to educate the public how to prepare properly for a heating took place during which time the existing situation was introduced, and a discussion on thefts from ESO season, and on regular maintenance of equipment using gas transformer stations, accident prevention topics was held. took place. The campaign was conducted on the internet, by employing different educational type infographics and other Representatives of the Company’s Prevention Division met Dynamics of thefts in the regions in 2015–2016 visual measures. Together with the State Labour Inspectorate with representatives of 30 different communities: elders, community leaders, police and media representatives. (VEI), a public event for the media representatives was organised during which time it was shown how ESO In 2016, preventive posters regarding thefts of ESO dispatcher or gas emergency service operate, also the main technological property and careless behaviour at the distribution grids were prepared, also wide-range 2015 14 422,29 EUR things residents should know when using natural gas in television campaigns were conducted during which 2 2016 8 584,31 EUR household were stressed. 2015 41 940,68 EUR video reportages (“Why is it necessary to notify of electricity Šiauliai region 2016 23 276,68 EUR theft?”, “The biggest dangers may be visible”) were 2015 1 049,34 EUR Support prepared. These video clips were shown more than 600 2016 3 626,69 EUR Panevėžys region ESO grants support to projects, programmes and activities times on different television channels of the country. Klaipėda region significant for the public only in a coordinate way, through the Support Fund of Lietuvos Energija group of companies what In June 2016, a non-traditional social experiment enables to ensure the transparency of support allocation and was conducted “How passers-by react to the theft of implementation of social responsible measures. technological property?” during which time they observed how residents during the day time react to suspicious By decision of the shareholder of Lietuvos Energija group behaviour of strangers in the place of mass gathering. (the Ministry of Finance) the budget of the Support Fund may be formed by contributions of all companies of the group ESO believes that one of the most important factors in amounting to 1 percent of the consolidated net profit of the fight against thefts is public spirits of residents. Residents’ group of companies assessed by eliminating the result of notifications help identify offenders expeditiously, arrange non-typical activity. the damaged equipment before electricity or natural gas In 2016, Lietuvos Energija Support Fund allocated nearly 620 supply to residents is interrupted. 2015 5 647,39 EUR thousand euros for 25 activities and projects that best met Based on received notices, 7 illegal electricity consumption 2016 3 373,78 EUR the Fund’s criteria and priorities. In 2016, for the national-level cases, and 12 cases of illegal use of natural gas were Kaunas region 2015 32 320,06 EUR support, three priority directions for allocating support were detected. 2016 23 656,83 EUR set: support of children with oncological diseases, science and sports. In 2016, as compared to 2015, the total number of losses Vilnius region In 2016, also a new priority area of support was established – caused by thefts in the electricity and gas field markedly fostering of science and innovations. reduced, and the number of losses increased in the only one Klaipeda region. The Support Fund supports ideas, research and works of young researchers the implementation whereof would Seeking to prevent thefts from facilities of distribution grids, strengthen the position of Lithuania in the international ESO cooperates with other large Lithuanian companies innovation market, help strengthen the Lithuanian education which encounter similar problems, also an Association for and science system, enhance public interest in science, Recycling and Municipal Waste Management Companies. consolidate long-term cooperation traditions between In all units of the Company nation-wide attempts are made science, business and the public. to involve local communities, a dialogue is search; ESO Applications to the Support Fund are submitted once a prevention specialists participate in meetings with elders, year within the set deadlines and under the established community leaders, representatives of local authorities and procedure. It is possible to submit an application for support other institutions. 32 33 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 CONTENT OF THE REPORT AND LIMITS The provided information is sufficiently precise and Aspects Significant for the Company’s Stakeholders OF THE ASPECTS detailed, understandable and clear to enable the parties concerned to assess activities of the organisation. The content of the report was prepared with regard to The report was submitted on time, according to the activities conducted by ESO, long-term strategy and established schedule. upon assessment of the aspects most important for the Company long-term, also enforced policies. Information of the report is collected, analysed and disclosed in order to make sure of its quality and The information provided reflects both, positive and significance of the aspects. It is noteworthy that the negative aspects of the organisation’s responsible determination of limits and significance aspects by CUSTOMERS SOCIETY REGULATORS ENERGY SECTOR SHAREHOLDERS efficiency. Information is aimed to be provided in such including the parties concerned after the merger of a way as it would be possible to compare it with the companies was not performed, therefore this is planned efficiency of other organisations. to be done in 2017-2018. Assurance of electricity and gas distribution activity Operation efficiency and transparency Fast restoration of electricity and gas distribution grids after accidents Important aspects for ESO: Safety of facilities of the electricity and natural gas grids Expeditious informing and fast problem solving Op Reduction of visual pollution Partnership in carrying out energy efficiency research and social responsibility projects Environment: Impact of electricity and gas Economy: Social area: grids on fauna and nature Equipment noise level Economic efficiency, Operated equipment, Education and training, market, indirect products and services local communities, economic impacts non-discrimination Limits of significance aspects internal and external environment of the Company Significant aspects Limits of aspects Affected group Economic efficiency Organisation’s internal and external environment Shareholders Market Organisation’s external environment Customers, shareholders, energy sector Indirect economic effects Organisation’s external environment Customers, shareholders, energy sector Biological diversity Organisation’s external environment Regulators, society, shareholders Products and services Organisation’s external environment Customers, society, shareholders Education and training Organisation’s internal environment Employees, society Non-discrimination Organisation’s internal and external environment Employees, regulators Local communities Organisation’s external environment Society, shareholders 34 35 PROGRESS REPORT ON SOCIAL CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2016 Index of GRI indices Involvement of Stakeholders List of general indexes of the report ESO seeks to create a dialogue with parties interested in its activity. The Company identified the following Indicator code Description Page in this report stakeholders: according GRI Strategy and analysis GRI 102-14 Foreword of the Company’s CEO about significance of sustainable development for the organisation 5 Description of the company GRI 102-1 Name of the company 4 CUSTOMERS SOCIETY REGULATORS ENERGY SHAREHOLDERS GRI 102-2 Activity, main trademarks and services of the Company 10 SECTOR GRI 102-3 Main legal office address of the Company 13 Large business ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION National Commission LITGRID LE customers for Energy Control GRI 102-4 Countries where the Company operates 13 State Service for Protected Areas and Prices Minor producers Minor shareholders GRI 102-5 Ownership type and legal form 10 Small business Directorate General of State Forests Ministry of Energy of Independent EE customers the RL suppliers Investors GRI 102-6 Markets in which the Company operates (according to geographic limits, sectors, customers, etc.) 10 State Forest Service Association Private customers Ministry of Economy GRI 102-7 Size of the Company 10 Lithuanian Ornithological Society of the RL State Consumer GRI 102-8 Number of employees 15 LOCAL AUTHORITIES State Energy Rights Protection Inspectorate G4-11 The percentage of all employees covered by the collective contract agreements 16 Authority Local councils EU Energy Directorate GRI 102-9 Organisation’s supply chain 14 Lithuanian Association of Elders of Local Confederation of Authorities in Lithuania ACER GRI 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period (regarding the Company’s size, structure) 10 Industrialists SCIENCE AND RESEARCH Government of the RL GRI 102-11 Compliance with the precautionary principle 14 Universities (KUT, VGTU, VY, KU) GRI 102-12 External economic, environmental and social initiatives 31-33 Lithuanian Energy institute GRI 102-13 Membership in national and international organisations 12 Lithuanian Hydrometeorology Ethics and Integrity Service GRI 102-16 Values, standards and norms related to behaviour or ethics codes 8 OTHER Governance of the Company Lithuanian National Consumer GRI 102-18 Company’s governance structure 13 Federation GRI 102-19 Delegated authorisations 11 Ministry of Finance of the RL GRI 102-20 Attribution of the Company’s management level representatives and their representation in financial, environmental and 12 social responsibility fields GRI 102-21 Responsibility for providing information / consultations to shareholders on financial, environmental protection and social 11 responsibility issues Main Requirements for Identification of Stakeholder The Company’s Attitude towards the Involvement of groups and their Selection Stakeholders Identified significant effects and limits G4-17 List of related companies (which are included in the consolidated report) 36 The main strategic direction of the Company – to increase ESO seeks to actively cooperate with each identified the Company’s value long-term. 5 main groups of the stakeholder group. G4-18 GRI report content and aspects of limits 34 stakeholders are distinguished and stakeholders are G4-19 Significant aspects identified when defining the content of the report 34 indicated in them. The groups of these stakeholders Both, the Company’s employees, and the management G4-20 Limits of each important aspect 34 were analysed when preparing an ESO investment plan were involved into the preparation of this report. G4-21 Significant aspects of limits outside the company 35 for 2016-2020, also invited to participate in the dialogue Specialists responsible for the development of in the year 2017, when approving an ESO 10-year responsible activity identified with consideration to G4-22 Effects after any change of previous reporting data 10 investment plan. G4-23 Significant changes of limits of aspects in comparison with previous reports 10 ongoing activities and cooperation, and, while preparing Seeking the identified goals, it is important to balance for the presentation of ESU investment plan, included Engagement of stakeholders the needs of all stakeholders: shareholders, customers, into the surveys of stakeholders also questions about G4-24 List of the groups of stakeholders 36 investors, employees and different society groups. specific fields of responsibility. G4-25 Main requirements for identification of stakeholders and their selection 36 ESO has a crucial importance due to the specificity of G4-26 Organisation’s attitude towards the engagement of stakeholders 36 its services provided outside the Company – electricity G4-27 Main topics discussed with stakeholders 35 and natural gas distribution activity is significant in all economic levels, therefore also for each resident of the Accounting parameters country. G428 Reporting period 4 Internal stakeholder groups were selected by relying G4-29 Date of previous report 4 on the Company’s long-term operational strategy. G4-30 Report frequency 4 External stakeholder groups were selected on the basis G4-31 Contact data of the person who my answer questions about the report 4 of effective national and EU legal acts regulating the Company’s activity, also the Company’s experience in G4-33 Organisation’s policy and practice due to external audit of the report 4 cooperating with population groups. Management G4-34 Company's management structure, including top-level committees 11-13 36 37 List of the company’s effects and specific indices External Impact Description, disclosed governance method and indictor Page / Source verification Economy Economic efficiency Direct economic benefit received and distributed Performed Annual report Market Comparison of employees’ remuneration with the minimum wages Social responsibility Not performed report Indirect economic effects Development and impact of investment into the infrastructure and Performed Annual report services Environmental protection Biological diversity Conserved or restored habitats Social responsibility Not performed report Products and services Environmental impact mitigation measures for the company’s products Social responsibility Not performed and services report Social field Education and training Programmes intended for improvement of employee skills and lifelong learning assuring the continuity of employee’s working capacity and Performed Annual report contributing to career management Non-discrimination Number of discrimination incidents and actions taken to solve incidents related with human rights violations Social responsibility Not performed report Local communities Units in which local communities are involved by assessing the impact or Social responsibility Not performed development programmes report 38
