SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Digital Admired United SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Admired Agile www.transnet.net TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 1 Navigating this report Reporting formats CONTENTS Icons key Market Demand Strategy (MDS) Financial Organisational Available in print sustainability readiness format and About this report 2 full online HTML Capacity creation Sound governance REPORTING APPROACH 2 Assurance 2 and maintenance and ethics Integrated Report Market segment Constructive Suite and interaction between reports 2 competitiveness stakeholder relations 2017 Operational Sustainable  Who we are 3 excellence Developmental Outcomes The 2017 Integrated ABOUT TRANSNET 3 Where we operate and what we do 3 Report is the Company’s Human capital management primary r eport to all Services provided 6 stakeholders. Our support services 8 Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDOs) Our supply chain 8 LEADERSHIP 10 Employment Transformation Message from the Board 10 Skills Health  development and safety Message from the Group Chief Executive 12 Industrial Community Available online SUSTAINABILITY AT TRANSNET 14 capability building development in PDF format Our sustainability framework 14 Investment Environmental Outcomes-based reporting 15 leveraged stewardship Integrated Report Annual Financial Sustainability Report Operating Division 2017 Statements 2017 Reports Our strategy 15 Regional 2017 2017 integration MATERIAL ISSUES 18 Material issues determination 18 The 2017 Annual Financial Statement of Strategic Intent (SSI) and Shareholder’s Compact 18 The Capitals Statements include reports of the directors and Transnet’s top 10 strategic risks 18 Financial capital Human capital independent auditors. Global and domestic business context 20 The 2017 Sustainability ENABLERS OF SUSTAINABLE Stakeholder engagement 20 Manufactured capital Social and Report documents relationship capital DEVELOPMENTAL OUTCOMES 24 Transnet’s sustainability performance in greater Intellectual capital Natural capital detail. Governance 24 Ethics 24 Stakeholder engagement 26 Performance Key SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW 28 Improvement on prior Target achieved year performance Employment 30 Decline on prior year Target partially performance achieved Skills development 34 Equivalent performance ANNEXURES 78 Annexure A: Industrial capability building 38 to prior year Target not achieved Forward-looking information Assurance statement 78 All references to forward–looking information and targets Investment leveraged 44 Annexure B: Material clusters MDS strategic thrusts in the 2017 reports are extracted from the 2018 Transnet Transnet’s sustainability reporting Regional integration 48 Corporate Plan approved by the Board of Directors. criteria 82 Transformation 54 Build social trust through ethical leadership and ABBREVIATIONS Annexure C: A Transnet ’s Integrated Report 2017, Annual Financial Global Reporting Initiative 83 Health and safety 58 corporate citizenship Statements 2017 and Sustainability Report 2017 are AND ACRONYMS 88 Unlock organisational Community development 62 value by attracting talent, available in PDF on www.transnet.net. fostering innovation and Environmental stewardship 68 building unity Ensure long-term financial A Feedback on this report stability in a tough economy We welcome feedback on our Integrated Report to ensure CORPORATE INFORMATION 89 Ensure customer-centricity and build partnerships for that we continue to disclose information that is pertinent sustainable growth to all our stakeholders. Promote transformation and growth in the wider South African economy 2 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 3 REPORTING ABOUT APPROACH TRANSNET About this report Assurance Who we are The Sustainability Report 2017 (SR 2017) provides our 2017 marks the fourth year that Transnet has obtained an external Transnet is a State-owned company (SOC) and the custodian of Our vision stakeholders with a view of Transnet SOC Ltd’s (Transnet or assurance statement for the Sustainability Report from its the country’s freight railway, ports and pipelines. As an SOC, Transnet will meet customer demand for the Company) sustainability performance for the financial year independent external assurance provider, SizweNtsalubaGobodo Transnet is accountable not only to the South African Government reliable freight transport and handling 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. It builds on the Sustainability Inc. (SNG). The assurance statement provides reasonable as sole Shareholder, but to society at large for the long-term services by: Report of 31 March 2016 and has been structured to reflect the assurance over specific key performance indicators (refer sustainable value it creates for the economy, society and the Fully integrating and maximising the use nine Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDO) themes as Annexure A). Financial information included in the SR 2017 is environment through its day-to-day business activities. of our unique set of assets; agreed with our Shareholder, the Department of Public extracted from the Annual Financial Statements (AFS) audited Continuously driving efficiency Enterprises (DPE), in 2015. by SNG, which includes an unmodified audit opinion. Transnet’s primary business is freight logistics services. In line improvements; and with Government’s National Development Plan (NDP), Transnet The Company’s sustainability performance is measured in five is required to contribute to the Government’s Medium-term Demonstrating concern for sustainability Operating Divisions: Transnet Freight Rail (Freight Rail), Transnet Suite and interaction between reports Strategic Framework (MTSF) outcomes. By balancing these in everything we do. Engineering (Engineering), Transnet National Ports Authority Transnet undertakes its annual reporting across three reports: the developmental outcomes with building a commercially viable (National Ports Authority), Transnet Port Terminals (Port Terminals) Integrated Report (IR), the AFS and the Sustainability Report (SR). business, Transnet aims to: and Transnet Pipelines (Pipelines); the Transnet Corporate Centre; The IR is the Company’s primary report to all its stakeholders; the • Contribute to economic growth through the provision of and three Specialist Units: Transnet Foundation, Transnet Capital AFS includes reports of the independent auditors and directors' world-class infrastructure and technologies; Projects and Transnet Property. report; and the SR complements the IR by providing more detail • Expand economic infrastructure; Our mission on Transnet’s sustainability performance for the year under review. • Create jobs; To enable the competitiveness, growth The boundary of this report is the Transnet legal entity. There have • Build a skilled and capable workforce; and development of the South African been no significant changes in scope or aspect boundaries during The IR, AFS and SR 2017 are available on www.transnet.net. • Protect and enhance environmental assets and natural economy by delivering reliable freight the reporting period save for progress made in execution of resources; and transport and handling services that Transnet’s Africa Strategy during the year under review. Where any • Provide a better South Africa contributing to a better Africa satisfy customer demand. restatements or changes in measurement methods have taken and a better world. place, these are described in the relevant section of this report. Transnet’s sustainability reporting for 2017 is based on Where we operate and what we do Transnet-specific reporting criteria (refer Annexure B). This report Transnet has a co-ordinating Corporate Centre located in contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative Values Johannesburg, South Africa, and five Operating Divisions with (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have further We have a safety mindset. operations spread across South Africa. Transnet is in the final provided disclosures on our management approach for material stages of registering Transnet International Holdings SOC Ltd We have good communication. issues in line with the Specific Standard Disclosures of the as a wholly owned subsidiary company, tasked with expanding We treat each other with dignity guidelines (refer Annexure C). Transnet’s sustainability reporting Transnet’s operations outside South Africa into the rest of the and respect. for 2017 has further been informed by the principles of the African continent. Together with the relevant railways, ports and We are empowered to perform our jobs. United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) to which Transnet has been terminal operators, Transnet participates and plays a central role a signatory since 6 July 2012; the Greenhouse Gas Protocol – We are business-focused. in three Joint Operating Centres (JOCs) in Mozambique, Botswana Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard prescribed by the We recognise and reward good work. and Zimbabwe. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP); and the AccountAbility 1000 We deliver on our promises. Stakeholder Engagement Standard. SR The report is aimed at Transnet’s broad range of stakeholders (see section on Stakeholder Engagement, pages 20 and 26). Our mandate 20 Assist in lowering the cost of 26 doing business in South Africa; Enable economic growth; and Ensure security of supply by providing appropriate port, rail and pipeline infrastructure in a cost-effective and efficient manner, within acceptable benchmarks. Transnet’s mandate and strategic objectives are aligned with national plans and the Statement of Strategic Intent issued by the Minister of Public Enterprises. 4 ABOUT TRANSNET continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 5 Geographic location of the Transnet Corporate Centre and Operating Divisions Freight Rail, the largest of the five Operating Divisions, operates 30 400 km of rail network across South Africa, which transports bulk, break-bulk and containerised freight. The Figure 1 Freight Rail network and rail services provide strategic links Transnet between mines, production hubs, distribution centres and Corporate ports; and connects with the cross-border railways of the Centre region. Shifting rail-friendly freight off roads and onto rail Engineering Johannesburg reduces logistics costs, impacts positively on the road Koedoespoort, Germiston, Beit Bridge network, and has many indirect benefits for the country, Bloemfontein, Durban, including a reduction in transport sector carbon emissions. Uitenhage, Salt River LIMPOPO Engineering provides manufacturing, maintenance and refurbishment services of rolling stock and specialised equipment to Freight Rail, National Ports Authority, Port Terminals and Pipelines. Engineering is focused on becoming an original equipment manufacturer and is supplying rolling Rail Corridors Maputo stock and services to other countries on the continent. GAUTENG MPUMALANGA NORTH Engineering also houses the Company’s Research and WEST Development (R&D) unit to capture opportunities for Pipelines technology innovation. SISHEN Sishen FREE STATE KWAZULUNATAL Richards Bay National Ports Authority provides port infrastructure and marine services at the eight commercial seaports in South Africa. The division’s core functions include the planning, Durban provision, maintenance and improvement of port NORTHERN CAPE infrastructure; and the provision of marine-related services, EASTERN CAPE port services and navigation aids to assist the navigation of vessels within port limits and along the coast. Port Saldanha East Terminals WESTERN Ngqura London CAPE Cape Town Mossel Bay Port Port Terminals operates all of South Africa’s port container Elizabeth and automotive terminals and some bulk and break-bulk terminals. Provides cargo handling services to a wide spectrum of customers, including shipping lines, freight forwarders and cargo owners. Operates 16 terminals in seven ports spread along the South African coastline. National Ports Authority MOZAMBIQUE ZIMBABWE Joint Operating Centres Pipelines transports fuel from coastal refineries and crude oil imports to the inland market, and gas from Secunda to BOTSWANA industrial users in Durban and Richards Bay. The New Multi-Product Pipeline (NMPP) enables the increase in liquid SOUTH AFRICA fuels volume throughout to meet forecast demand. 6 ABOUT TRANSNET continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 7 Operating context Market context Financial context Freight Rail Engineering National Ports Authority Port Terminals Pipelines • Global growth for 2016 estimated to have slowed to Transnet is funded through reserves and borrowings 3,1%, recovering to 3,4% in 2017. and does not receive subsidies or guarantees from Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue • Partially recovered commodity prices. Government. It raises funds in the debt markets based R39,1 billion R9,4 billion R10,4 billion R11,2 billion R4,4 billion • Global asset markets appear calm, equity prices are on the strength of its own balance sheet, having raised funding without Government guarantees since Figure 2 at high levels. Total employees: 30 305 Total employees: 12 164 Total employees: 4 188 Total employees: 8 891 Total employees: 686 • Renewed capital inflows to emerging market March 1999. Legacy Government-guaranteed debt Female employees: 28% Permanent Permanent Permanent Permanent Permanent amounts to R3 500 million comprising Eurorand bonds economies. employees: Male 27 67972% employees: employees: 11 731 employees: 4 160 employees: 7 087 employees: 642 under the Euro Medium-term Note Programme maturing Fixed-term contract • Subdued outlook for advanced economies, placing Fixed-term contract Fixed-term contract Fixed-term contract Fixed-term contract in 2028 (R2 000 million) and 2029 (R1 500 million) employees: 2 626 downward pressure on interest rates as monetary employees: 433 employees: 28 employees: 1 804 employees: 44 respectively. policy could remain accommodative for longer. • Prospects for 2017 differ sharply across countries As an SOC, the financial strategy reflects the higher and regions, with emerging Asia and India showing risk profile of the business. To meet long-term market robust growth. demand, Transnet must invest for long-term growth • Sub-Saharan Africa forecast to experience overall prospects, but be cognisant of shortto medium-term growth of only 2,9%. volatility in the domestic and international markets. The Capital Investment Plan has reduced from R277,8 billion • Continuing trend of weaker gross domestic product to R229,2 billion over the next seven years in response (GDP). to the predicted lower-than-planned freight demand. • The South African ratings downgrade greatly limits 28% Female employees 22% Female employees 33% Female employees 27% Female employees 34% Female employees the options for Government to intervene to boost Key financial interventions 72% Male employees 78% Male employees 67% Male employees 73% Male employees 66% Male employees economic activity through fiscal or monetary actions. • Revenue diversification • While commodity markets could improve, demand for • Stringent cost management and optimisation value-added and consumer goods could struggle to 2,6% People with disabilities 1,4% People with disabilities 2,1% People with disabilities 1,2% People with disabilities 2,9% People with disabilities • Aggressive working capital management grow. Transnet’s regional demand prospects remain positive, especially if greater connectivity can be • Generating a return on assets commensurate with engineered. the risk IR 98 Read more IR 98 Read more IR 99 Read more IR 99 Read more IR 99 Read more • Maintaining Transnet’s standalone investment grade • The 4th Industrial Revolution promises a fusion of technologies poised to disrupt almost all industries credit ratings and transform systems of production, management • Structured funding at cost-effective levels and governance. • During the year, there were no significant changes to Customer profile the way in which Transnet is owned, structured or in the Large mining, shipping, manufacturing, agricultural, industrial, retail and energy contributors to the South African economy. way it functions Socio-economic context Transnet SOC Ltd is a freight transport and logistics company. The Company’s strategic focus is guided by Services provided • General freight includes containerised cargo, local the SSI issued by the Minister of Public Enterprises; manganese, minerals, local coal, local iron ore, chrome and the Shareholder’s Compact, which stipulates • Transnet’s services are both outbound (South African and ferrochrome, agricultural products, iron and steel, medium-term strategy and objectives, including: businesses moving products to international markets) and fertilisers, cement, fast-moving consumer goods, bulk Regulatory context inbound (bringing products to South African markets). liquids, wood and wood products, industrial chemicals, • Reduce the cost of logistics as a percentage of • Commodities transported include mining exports, general transportable GDP; The Company operates in compliance with 200 intermediate products and automotive products. freight and petroleum products. regulations. Tariffs charged by the National Ports • Petroleum products include crude oil, refined petroleum • Effect and accelerate the modal shift by maximising Authority and Pipelines are determined by independent products, aviation turbine fuel and methane-rich gas the role of rail in the national transport task; economic regulators, namely the Ports Regulator of South products. • Leverage the private sector in the provision of both Africa and the National Energy Regulator of South Africa infrastructure and operations where required; respectively. • Integrate South Africa with the region and the rest of the continent; Strategic context Main growth thrusts of Transnet 4.0 include: The Railway Safety Regulator regulates the safety of • Optimise sustainable economic, social and the rail operations of the Company, issues safety permits • Accelerated efforts to extend Transnet’s footprint in the Transnet’s strategic direction is expressed through the Market environmental outcomes of all activities undertaken fast-growing regions of Africa, Middle East and South Asia; (for a fee), and conducts inspections and audits on Demand Strategy (MDS). by Transnet; and • Product and service innovation to transform from a the Company. Transnet also operates within a policy The MDS and its implementation is guided by the Statement of transport and cargo handling-focused business to an • Nine Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDOs) context which is determined by the Department of Public Strategic Intent (SSI) issued by the Minister of Public integrated, end-to-end logistics service provider; and have been negotiated with the Shareholder and align Enterprises and the Department of Transport respectively. Enterprises; and the Shareholder’s Compact. The Company has adopted a new strategic blueprint, namely • Scope expansion of Transnet’s manufacturing business, with with the Government’s vision as per the NDP and the Transnet 4.0, to gear the MDS to meet the challenges and leading technologies to enhance new and existing products medium-term initiatives that Government is driving opportunities of the 4th Industrial Revolution. and improve business processes. to address poverty, inequality and unemployment. 8 ABOUT TRANSNET continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 9 Our support services Our supply chain Transnet’s core business of freight logistics services Transnet’s supply chain has an extensive reach into the (provided by Freight Rail, National Ports Authority, Port manufacturing and services sectors of South Africa and Terminals and Pipelines) is supported by Engineering, draws upon international sources where required. Our service Transnet Corporate Centre and Specialist Units: Transnet to customers is linked to the quality of these suppliers and Capital Projects, Transnet Foundation and Transnet Property. their products. Furthermore, we recognise the important role that Transnet’s purchasing power plays in the local economy. Transnet Corporate Centre provides the following To achieve wider economic, social and environmental value, support services: Transnet recognises that procurement practice must go • Office of the Group Chief Executive beyond sourcing inventory and logistics. It must be supported by an outcomes strategy. As procurement practices have • Group Company Secretariat matured in Transnet, increasing focus has been placed on • Internal Audit integrated Supply Chain Management (iSCM) with our sphere • Strategy, planning and Africa expansion of influence extending through the upstream supply chain to • Financial management, treasury and procurement Enterprise Development (ED). Our ED and Supplier • Business development, commercial and private-sector Development (SD) are increasingly supporting small, medium participation and micro-enterprises with a focus on education and • Chief Corporate and Regulatory Office awareness, innovation and technology advancement, and • Human resources support for industrialisation and entrepreneurship. Transnet’s • Information, communication and technology procurement strategy is further integral to the growth of a green economy in which the adoption and development of Transnet’s Specialist Units have the following efficient and resilient technologies, along with increasing use supporting roles: of rail for freight transport, will lower business costs and stimulate economic activity. • Transnet Capital Projects focuses on capital planning and execution of large infrastructure projects. These services are supported through establishment of Centres of Excellence for planning and delivery. • Transnet Foundation implements the Company’s corporate social investment (CSI) projects. • Transnet Property manages Transnet’s non-core property portfolio comprising commercial and residential properties (approximately 13% of the total Transnet property portfolio). 10 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 11 MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD The Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee of the Board By following an outcomes-based approach to sustainability, of Directors is proud to share Transnet’s Sustainability management is embedding sustainability in all aspects Report 2017 with stakeholders. The committee has reviewed of its decision-making and business operations. We remain the Sustainability Report 2017 together with the external committed to creating and sustaining jobs; skills auditor’s assurance statement as a reflection of Transnet’s development; localisation of procurement spend; investing in sustainability performance and initiatives for the year under new technologies; promoting regional integration; improving review. The Board of Directors has duly approved this report logistics infrastructure through catalysing private-sector for publication. investment; transformation; improving the quality of life of the communities we operate in; and becoming stewards This report reflects Transnet’s performance against its nine of the environment. Including all our stakeholders in these Sustainable Developmental Outcome themes which were efforts is integral to our success. agreed with our Shareholder in 2015 for measurement in the Shareholder’s Compact. These outcomes are aligned with the We trust our Sustainability Report gives our stakeholders Government’s vision as set out in the National Development insight into Transnet’s leadership in sustainability and the Plan and the Medium-term Strategic Framework that progress that has been made in embedding ‘sustainability Government established to address poverty, inequality and in all we do.’ unemployment. The report further demonstrates our commitment to upholding the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 universal principles on human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption; and our alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Developmental Goals. The Board of Directors is mindful of the complex and challenging economic, social and environmental context within which Transnet operates. Despite the challenges of a lagging global and local economy, unemployment, poverty, social inequality, racism, corruption, water shortages and energy insecurity, the Board of Directors is confident that management is proactively striving to create value, contribute to South Africa's economic development and improve the quality of life for all South Africans. Vusi Matthew Nkonyane Chairperson: Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee 12 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 13 MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE Transnet finds itself operating in an ever-changing global Regrettably, our safety results overshadow these environment. Traditional markets are changing fundamentally. achievements. The tragic loss of lives, both of our employees The 4th Industrial Revolution characterised by the changes in and members of the public, is regrettable. We have lost traditional economic paradigms is transforming the way we do 15 colleagues in work-related incidents during the year and business, how we respond to our stakeholders and the impact our deepest condolences go to their families, friends and we have on society. While these changes are exponential and colleagues. A renewed effort is needed to reverse this loss disruptive on industry and society, they also provide Transnet of lives that plagues our operations. with opportunities to grow and diversify our business. We must embrace these changes and keep up with the Looking ahead, we will be driven by our strong desire to proliferation of multi-disciplinary technologies across all achieve greater SDOs with higher levels of innovation and dimensions: economic, social and environmental. The good news agility. New markets are opening up and we can use is that technological innovation will allow for transportation integrated port, rail and pipeline solutions to take advantage costs to drop, logistics and global supply chains to become of these new opportunities for increasing our revenue and more effective and the cost of trade to diminish, all of which profitability. Our stakeholders need to be part of these will open new markets and drive economic growth. Transnet solutions. Our four strategic thrusts will continue to guide has identified innovation as one of the key drivers of revenue the ‘Transnet of tomorrow’: Agile, Admired, Digital and United. and profitability, operational efficiency and, most importantly, as a way of improving customer service. ‘Sustainability in all we do’ is our commitment to deploy our financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, social, relational The year under review saw Transnet embrace these changes and natural resources to build a better future for the through its Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDOs), Company, South Africa and our children. I am confident that as measures of the sustainability of our business practices. we can create an exceptional company that helps build We are encouraged by the results of our investment in skills, a better world. localisation of industry and suppliers, transformation, community support, energy efficiency and carbon emissions reduction. We have made progress in private-sector investment in both our ports and rail infrastructure, and are looking forward to establishing Transnet International Holdings SOC Ltd as a subsidiary company to further promote regional integration. The increase in our research and development spend is evidence of the importance we place on innovation and new technologies, as new sources of revenue and profitability. Siyabonga Gama Group Chief Executive 14 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 15 SUSTAINABILITY AT TRANSNET Our sustainability framework Demand Strategy (MDS) reflecting the critical developmental Outcomes-based reporting outcomes for implementation of the National Development Plan, outcomes of all Transnet’s activities. and Transnet’s outcomes-based reporting aligns with this. Sustainability at Transnet is driven by an outcomes-based Measuring the developmental outcomes of our activities means approach to reporting on performance. This outcomes-based doing things differently in order to improve the impact we have The nine SDO themes are: Employment, Skills development, Industrial Our performance report-back for the year under review is approach focuses on achieving real, measurable value for the on society. The outcomes approach is focused on achieving real capability building, Investment leveraged, Regional integration, structured in terms of this approach and readers are provided economy, for society and for the environment. Transnet adopted improvements in the lives of South Africans. It outlines what we Sustainable Developmental Outcomes nine Sustainable Developmental Outcome (SDO) themes in 2015, and Enablers Transformation, Health and safety, Community development and expect to achieve, how we expect to achieve it and how we will with references throughout the report to direct them to the Environmental stewardship. Transnet’s sustainability performance is source and additional information. and these reflect the value that we create for society at large. measure our achievement and impact. The following definitions1 measured against these nine SDOs with three key business enablers: The SDOs were agreed with the Shareholder Minister and are are used in Transnet to embed the nine SDOs in the Company: Governance, Ethics and Stakeholder Engagement directly affecting included in the Shareholder’s Compact for measurement purposes. • Inputs – resources invested in an activity (typically assets, time, Our strategy our ability to deliver these SDOs. These outcomes have been further integrated into our Market money and relationships). The MDS is entering its sixth year of implementation and enables • Activities – the actions which utilise inputs to produce outputs Transnet to serve as a proactive enabler of economic growth, with and outcomes (for example, training courses, supplier over R300 billion capital investment planned in infrastructure. development initiatives, construction works and materials It is estimated that over the past five years Transnet has invested recycling). R145 billion in the freight system. The MDS directs the significant • Outputs – the direct and tangible products from the activity (for planned capital investment of the Company in the expansion of example, people trained, goods produced, quay walls built and Sustainable Developmental South Africa’s rail, ports and pipelines. Transnet needs to achieve tons of waste avoided). Outcomes and Enablers and sustain higher levels of growth in order to fund the extensive • Outcomes – changes to a set of beneficiaries resulting from the capital investment plan that prioritises the improvement of rail, activity (for example, skills enhanced, industry growth, efficient port and pipelines reliability as well as productivity. Figure 3 Ethics operations and lower costs of waste). • Impact – the actual difference made to society, being outcomes IR The MDS has been redesigned to reflect a new outcomes-based less an estimate of what would have transpired regardless of approach that has at its core the financial sustainability of the Stakeholder Governance 38 the inputs (baseline changes to macro-indicators such as organisation. Initiatives are focused on capacity creation and engagement education levels, competitiveness, availability of economic maintenance, operational excellence and market segment SR infrastructure and environmental quality). competitiveness. In the current economic conditions, however, Employment www Transnet is adjusting the timing and focus of its capital 1 Transnet activities that create measurable As a State-owned company, Transnet is expected to deliver on investment programme in line with the lower economic growth direct, indirect or induced employment. Government’s socio-economic, developmental imperatives (job trajectory and changing patterns of commodity demand. Skills development creation, skills development, transformation and localisation). 2 Government’s Medium-term Strategic Framework outlines the key Transnet activities that enhance or improve human capabilities and build the productive capacity of people, Industrial capability building Adapted from: ‘Guide to the Outcomes Approach‘, Department of Performance Monitoring and Evaluation' 2010 www.thepresidency.gov.za/dpme/docs/ 1  both within and outside the Company. 3 guideline.pdf; and ‘The International <IR> Framework’, International Integrated Reporting Committee, 2013. www.integratedreporting.org. Transnet activities that facilitate the country’s industrial development and Investment leveraged improve competitiveness. 4 Transnet activities that facilitate private-sector investment in the country’s Shareholder’s freight logistics system. Regional integration compact 5 Transnet activities that result in Operational Sustainable improved freight logistics connectivity Figure 4 performance Developmental Outcomes Transformation on the continent. 6 Transnet activities that result in Grow volumes and market share, Employment, skills development, employment equity within the Company reduce the country’s logistics cost, industrial capability building, and black economic empowerment within Health and safety improve operational efficiency and Financial investment leveraged, regional the entities that supply Transnet. 7 enhance customer satisfaction integration, transformation, health Transnet activities that improve the sustainability and safety, community development physical and mental health, well-being and environmental stewardship Community development and safety of its employees and the 8 communities within which it operates. EBITDA, CIC Transnet activities that measurably and gearing improve the economic, social, cultural and environmental well-being of communities Environmental stewardship Market segment Capacity creation within which it operates. 9 competitiveness and maintenance Transnet activities that enhance the natural environment’s capacity to meet Increase the competitiveness of Increase infrastructure capacity the resource needs of future generations. industry supply chains (automotives, and network connectivity containers, agriculture, coal, iron ore, etc) 16 SUSTAINABILITY AT TRANSNET continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 17 Market Demand Strategy (MDS) Our organisational culture and activities support our strategy Transnet’s future success is underpinned by its culture and behaviours. Our people must hold a clear vision of a shared and prosperous future in which we achieve excellence in all we do; and have an openness to learn, explore and improve with the discipline Figure 5 Figure 6 to deliver consistently high performance outcomes. Accordingly, Transnet has introduced ‘four MDS strategic thrusts’ to drive an organisational culture that can thrive amid exponential change. Continue to grow the modal shift from Promote ethical leadership at all levels of the organisation. Ethical leade road to rail – increase weekly railed rship e tempos. Develop and deploy innovative customer value propositions orc rkf by harnessing the knowledge, experience and strengths wo Re ive gu Fully implement Group-wide Capital across Operating Divisions and functional departments. tat lat en or Platinum Standard. res yc ep om dr me nt So un pl Meet efficiency-improvement targets through a highan ge dg ia nc Optimise the capital portfolio and lle d ana ov e performance ethos, supported by the right skills at the lm Regional er eliminate negative-return projects. ta na right time. pi ski nc Bu ca integration ea ild an nd a um e Identify cost-saving opportunities in Provide reliable and predictable services and exceed H s procurement and eliminate unnecessary customer expectations. and thic overhead and administrative expenditure. nce Investment Optim era work ise Transformation leveraged ines s portf d cap Build trust through an ethical and governance-led organisation. Bus uity asset olio an tal i ov d g me Implement a capital and income statement tin un fra con utili d s sat ct So risk je ro d ion planning system – ensure every Rand Maintain industry ‘legitimacy’ by practising care in the way we l p e an t spent is justified and tied to growth. m dge Ca impact the six capitals through all our activities. Ca Oper u pa ci p atio Provision of critic ce t on ita al nal rea yc logistics Agile Admired on ti Cos ex Industrial Infra t-e Health and ce stru y ff f Driven A Impeccable relia cture b infrastructure n o of A n in t e capability safety lle Financ bili ing tio ad building ial ty und Efficient Innovative n st ef he and and s ea tre abili tiv grated organisational struc Cr ity a dem ng Adaptable Motivated by excellence t ec ce A ntenan th c mai d pa te lass World-c tions in rail, ca lida nd na opera y d e r re va tio ilit and pipeline Digital ports na in l a t i on s Fi ab Or g a n i s nci al susta Community Inventive ext Skills Co or development United t Customer-centric e ll a s sec c r it r n al development at io n St ber me a t i ve p r i v a t e t ur e eg s tak Single-minded Advanced sta t ic a l t ra co ic p a r tic i p a ti o n ou e ho l to s keholder a l re a s rge im l Tolerant of others’ ideas ci a co per r o h if t -s c er u p po s a d in mp ke rt M D e n g ag ed i s a d f r ale a t i ve s and com m ar v M ti ti to o m tive en t L Understand our impact ss es s e ra Ma Embrace the benefits of technology to achieve ene il S es ru c rket s Cu s e g m e n t c o m p e ti t i v nst s a st o m ed interoperability, information transparency and integrated t is ea s nd fac er In cr m es Environmental Co Employment ti o n Integrated volu stewardship al a Promote an ethical culture in all we do by technical support systems. in te r m od a l e rn recognising our connectivity to – and impacts on – s y s te m each other and all our stakeholders. Implement real-time customer feedback systems, thereby Int enabling stakeholders to make informed assessments of Sus es Engage the broader stakeholder base in proactive our performance. t a in a ble d tc o m evelopmental ou and responsive ways. Introduce ‘click-of-a-button’ transparency on the state of A Build enthusiasm and motivation by actively Transnet’s capital portfolio. engaging people in the field. Implement digital dashboards that show a ‘single version B u si n e s s e n a b l e rs Know Transnet through its people – an ‘employer of the truth’ focus problem-solving and decision-making of choice’ and a work environment in which to accordingly to shift performance. grow and prosper personally and professionally. O r g a ni s a t ion al ou tc o m es Create new mobile applications to display operational activities and progress in real time. Introduce appropriate ICT governance controls. Figure 6 demonstrates the connectivity between our MDS strategic imperatives, commercial drivers and outcomes, and the value created for the economy through our Sustainable Developmental Outcomes. The four MDS strategic thrusts are key in driving the desired activities to achieve outcomes. 18 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 19 MATERIAL ISSUES Material issues determination Statement of Strategic Intent (SSI) and Transnet’s top 10 material risks for 2017 Transnet defines materiality with respect to sustainability as: Shareholder’s Compact and the year-on-year movement of the top 10 risks from the prior year Figure 8 ‘issues4 that substantively impact Transnet’s ability to create The SSI issued by the Shareholder, represented by the Minister and sustain value over the short, medium and long term.’ of Public Enterprises, includes ‘promoting sustainable This definition includes those issues pertaining to Transnet’s Risk ranking/ Level Impact on net operating developmental outcomes’ as one of Transnet’s strategic focus priority profit range ‘significant economic, social and environmental impacts’. areas. The annual Compact that Transnet signs with the Shareholder sets out specific annual targets to achieve the nine Priority I risk GCE and Board level > R1 billion Identifying and confirming material issues SDOs, and targets are set every year to inform Transnet’s annual Priority II risk Operating Divisions’ CE level R100 million to R999 million The identification of Transnet’s material issues follows a Corporate Plan. Priority III risk General Managers’ level R10 million to R99 million SR structured process in consultation with the Integrated Reporting Priority IV risk Managers’ level R100 000 to R9,9 million 21 team (see figure 9 on page 21). This is necessary to ensure Priority V risk Employees’ level < R100 000 alignment between the developmental ‘issues’ that are deemed Transnet’s top 10 strategic risks material for Transnet and the commercial ‘aspects’ that are During 2017, Transnet identified the following top 10 strategic deemed material for Transnet. The distinction between risks impacting its ability to implement the MDS and sustain value Residual risk profile 2016 developmental material ‘issues’ and commercial material ‘aspects’ over the short, medium and long term: 1. Macro-economic environment risk provides the focus of the Sustainability Report (SR) and the 2. Energy supply risk Integrated Report (IR) respectively. Both material ‘issues’ and 1 Pricing/tariff guidelines, methodologies and models not ‘aspects’ are clustered to show further alignment between the 3. Capital execution risk supportive of volume growth; SR and IR. 4. People management risk 2 Not realising the benefits from capital investments; 5. Pricing risk Transnet’s developmental material issues were determined Capital projects become non-viable as a result of global 6. ICT risk 3 4 through a structured process of identifying relevant issues economic slowdown; 7. Productivity and efficiency risk 3 9 for each one of the nine Sustainable Developmental Outcomes 8. Operational readiness risk 10 1 6 (SDOs) and prioritising those that are material. 4 Inability to attract and sustain additional volumes as 9. Regulatory risk 2 new capacity is created; 5 1 3 10. Volume growth risk 2 The content of the SR is structured according to our material Misalignment between operational readiness and rolling 5 10 issues. These material issues cover those issues most material stock acquisition; Residual risk profile 2017 8 to our business, our Shareholder Minister, and our stakeholders. 5-20 25-30 35-55 60-80 85-100 7 These issues are assessed as to their relevance in terms of our 6 Inadequately skilled staff in operations, not skilled for 1. Pricing risk 4 7 sustainability context, and the scope and boundary of this report. future operations; 2. Capital execution risk 5 Productivity inefficiencies; 3. Macroeconomic environment risk 6 7 Material issues were reviewed and approved by Transnet’s 4. Volume growth risk 9 Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee, and the Board 8 Changes in the regulatory environment (economic, 5. Operational readiness risk of Directors. technical and compliance) – spending on capex based on 6. People management risk assumptions that may be negatively impacted by 8 7. Productivity and efficiency risk subsequent changes in regulation; 8. Regulatory risk 9 Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology to enable 9. ICT risk business and deal with disruptive innovation; and 10. Environmental risk 10 Energy supply, water shortage and adverse weather patterns. Probability key 5-20 25-30 35-55 60-80 85-100 The scope and boundary of our materiality determination process is shown below: The Statement of Strategic Intent (SSI) issued to Transnet by the Minister of Public The relative position of the risks are plotted on the heat map according to the consequence and likelihood ratings of the risks. Enterprises; issues arising from Transnet’s business context and operating environment The annual Shareholder’s Compact that Transnet signs with the Minister; issues arising In reviewing the Company’s key risks, we consider both internal and external factors to understand the interconnectedness of risks Figure 7 from Stakeholder concerns and to appreciate the possible impacts. Risk sponsors are assigned to each strategic risk to ensure mitigation strategies are aligned Transnet’s across all operations. Risks are ranked according to the residual risk rating after considering the adequacy and effectiveness of most Transnet’s top 10 strategic risks controls that mitigate those risks. material aspects The global and domestic business context within which Transnet operates Transnet’s stakeholder issues identified through stakeholder engagement 4 Transnet uses the word ‘issue’ to refer to sustainability matters, aspects and topics that are material to its business. 20 MATERIAL ISSUES continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 21 Global and domestic business context Stakeholder engagement Figure 9 SR Transnet finds itself operating in an ever-changing global Stakeholder engagement forms an integral part of Transnet’s 26 environment. The world is in a period of flux undergoing multiple value creation (refer to page 26 for more detail on Transnet’s transitions from moving towards a lower carbon future, engagement with stakeholders). Transnet’s most material technological change of unprecedented depth and speed, stakeholders are: and towards new global economic and geopolitical balances. • Employees; Continued slow economic growth over the past few years, • Shareholder (Ministry of Public Enterprises); Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 combined with high debt and demographic change, is creating • Customers; Identification Validation Prioritisation Approval an environment characterised by financial crises and growing • Investors and commercial partners; inequality. • Rating agencies and financial institutions; • Sustainability Department • Sustainability Department • Sustainability Department • Sustainability Forum • Suppliers and service providers; The 4 Industrial Revolution is fundamentally transforming th • Group Finance • Group Finance • Group Finance • Remuneration, Social societies, economies and ways of doing business. • Regulators; • Corporate • Corporate and Ethics Committee • Government; and Regulatory and Regulatory (materiala sustainability For Transnet, slow rates of global and domestic economic • Media; • Transnet Operating aspects) growth have impacted freight volumes and revenues, and • Academia and research; Divisions • Group Financial resulted in certain capital expenditure being delayed. Committee (material • Non-governmental organisations; financial and Widening social inequality, structural unemployment, energy • International bodies; commercial aspects) supply, water shortages and adverse weather patterns • Communities and general public; and • Risk Committee are risks that affect Transnet, our customers, funders, employees (all material aspects) • Organised labour. and suppliers. Transnet’s ability to effectively respond to these • Transnet Group risks and take advantage of new opportunities is integral to Leadership (all Our stakeholders’ most material developmental issues reported business sustainability. material aspects) during the year under review include: • Transnet Board of • Transnet’s long-term plans for rail, port and pipeline Directors (all material Our external challenges include declining demand for infrastructure; Identification criteria Validation criteria Prioritisation criteria aspects) commodities; regulatory uncertainty, particularly with respect to lower-than-required tariff escalation as determined by the Ports • Safety incidents; • Frequency of aspect • Actual incidents arising • Align ‘relevance’ of Regulator and the Nersa; and domestic political risk which has • Disaster management strategies; being raised during the year material aspects with seen South Africa being downgraded to non-investment grade BB+ • Operational efficiencies; • Relevance of topic to • Continuing applicability ‘boundary context’ from BBB-, ‘junk’ status by rating agencies Standard and Poor’s, • Supplier and industry development; multiple stakeholders from the prior year • Management perspective and Fitch. Following on this, rating agency Moody’s placed South • Applicability to • Stakeholder inclusivity on impact and likelihood • Regulatory compliance; Africa on a ratings review. This Sovereign credit rating saw the Transnet’s mandate, • Management assessment, on Transnet’s business • Environmental compliance; strategy and SDOs discussion and approval context, strategy further downgrade of State-owned company’s, including Transnet, • Community development; and • Efficacy of the Transnet • Severity of impact on the • Alignment with top 10 impacting our credit rating going forward. Our internal challenges • Job creation and skills development. control environment in business * risks include: operational efficiencies; attracting and sustaining mitigating associated • How and where material issues • Consideration of * Quantitatively measured in customers under low economic growth; viability of capital risks occur and impact in terms of ‘relevance’ both in terms potential ZAR impact and projects; and information systems enablement. • Emerging risks Transnet’s reporting boundary of challenges and qualitatively measured in terms of value impacted, • Relevance within the 2017 opportunities, i.e. overall e.g. impact on reputation, The focus areas of the National Development Plan (NDP) reporting period impact on the Company’s natural capital, relationship constitute Government’s policy framework and priorities, and ability to create capital and strategy). provide the national imperatives within which Transnet operates. sustainable value These focus areas include the economy and employment; economic infrastructure; transition to a low carbon economy; South Africa’s position in the region; education; training and innovation; healthcare; safe communities; a capable state; fighting corruption and enhancing accountability; and transforming society. These focus areas are integral to Transnet’s mandate, highlighting the complex socio-economic challenges and environment within which the Company operates. 22 MATERIAL ISSUES continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 23 Material issues determination process indicating alignment with Integrated Report Figure 10 Shareholder’s Top 10 strategic Stakeholders' Sustainability Report Integrated Report SSI Business context Clusters Compact risks material issues material issues material aspects • Promote transformation Employment • Slow economic growth • Transnet’s ability to create and • Creating jobs and sustaining • Create jobs and growth in the wider South Top 10 strategic risks • Structural unemployment sustain jobs. jobs in the wider economy. African economy. Pricing Skills • Having the right skills at • Unlock organisational value development • Having the right skills at the • Skills shortages • Improve skills and training the right time to implement by attracting talent, fostering right time. the MDS. innovation and building unity. Capital execution Industrial • Promote transformation and capability • Procurement spend on Macro economic • Localisation of supply. growth in the wider South building localisation of supply. environment • Technology advances • Improve supplier and industry • Investing in emerging African economy. Promoting Sustainable Developmental Outcomes • Investing in emerging • Innovation opportunities development technologies and • Unlock organisational value technologies and Inability to attract and • 4th Industrial Revolution manufacturing capabilities. by attracting talent, fostering manufacturing capabilities. sustain additional volumes innovation and building unity. Misalignment between Investment • Communicate Transnet’s • Ensure customer centricity operational readiness and leveraged • Facilitating private-sector • Facilitating private-sector • Need for economic infrastructure long-term plans for rail, port and build partnerships for rolling stock acquisition investment in logistics. investment in logistics. and pipeline infrastructure sustainable growth. Ineffective people management Regional • South Africa’s opportunities in • Ensure customer centricity integration • Improve operational • Expanding Transnet’s business • Expanding Transnet’s business the region and build partnerships for efficiencies on the continent. on the continent. • Need for economic infrastructure sustainable growth. Productivity inefficiencies Transformation • Increasing representation Changes in the regulatory • Improve supplier and industry • Promote transformation and • Transforming society of black employees, female environment development • Promoting transformation. growth in the wider South • Social inequality employees and people with • Regulatory compliance African economy. disabilities. Inadequate ICT infrastructure and technology Health • Public safety at level crossings. and safety • Reduce safety incidents • Unlock organisational value • Adherence to standard • Safe communities • Improve disaster management • Promoting health and safety. by attracting talent, fostering Energy supply operating procedures. strategies innovation and building unity. • Absenteeism. Water shortages Community • Improve community development • Social inequality • Measurably improving development • Building social trust through Adverse weather • Structural unemployment the quality of life of the • Partnering communities to patterns • Reduce safety incidents ethical leadership and • Safe communities communities within which build mutual value. • Create jobs corporate citizenship. • Healthcare Transnet operates. • Reduce environmental hazards Environmental • Transition to a low carbon • Energy supply and use. stewardship • Environmental compliance economy • Modal shift from road-to-rail. • Building social trust through • Reduce environmental hazards • Managing our environmental • Energy supply • Water stewardship. ethical leadership and • Improve disaster management impact. • Water shortages • Waste management. corporate citizenship. strategies • Adverse weather patterns • Biodiversity enhancement. 24 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 25 ENABLERS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTAL OUTCOMES As part of our reporting this year, we have consulted the King IV • The Audit Committee which is responsible for decision-making • Creating and maintaining a conducive environment for ethical Fraud and corruption risk assessments and Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa, 2016 (King IV). relating to economic impacts on the Company. It is charged with behaviour within the organisation. compliance checks We are encouraged that our outcomes-based reporting approach reviewing and assessing the integrity and effectiveness of the Transnet has a ‘zero tolerance’ approach to fraud and is aligned with the principles and thinking reflected in King IV. accounting, financial, compliance and other control systems. Section 29.1.1 of Treasury Regulations prescribed under the corruption. Transnet’s fraud and corruption preventative As stated in the Supplement for State-owned entities, The Audit Committee reviews financial information and Public Finance Management Act, No 1 of 1999, as amended, methodology enables Transnet to discover and reduce the performance encompasses both an organisation’s achievements provides a balanced view after it engages external assurance requires all SOCs to submit a comprehensive annual FRMP, as occurrence of fraud and corruption through annual risk relative to its strategic objectives, and positive outcomes in providers to provide assurance on the information, including amended, to the Minister of Public Enterprises. Transnet’s FRMP assessments and compliance checks at the Transnet terms of the triple context in which it operates. Our ability to sustainability information. The Audit Committee also reviews aim is to decrease the negative impact of fraud and corruption Corporate Centre, in all Operating Divisions and the Specialist deliver positive outcomes to society is directly linked to the the expertise, resources and experience of the Company’s within the organisation, and in companies and suppliers with which Units. These assessments assist in identifying potentially continuous improvements in corporate governance, ethics and finance function and discloses the results in the Integrated it interacts. The following comprises Transnet’s FRMP: high-risk areas of fraud and corruption. Mitigating controls stakeholder engagement. Report (IR). It recommends the Company’s Fraud Risk and action plans are identified and implemented to address Management Plan (FRMP) to the Board of Directors for approval these risks. Code of Ethics after consultation with the Risk Committee; Governance • The Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing all risks Transnet’s Code of Ethics (the Code) enables a culture of Good corporate governance is paramount to the success of a relating to economic, social and environmental impacts on the entrenched values, principles, standards and norms that guides Fraud and corruption investigations State-owned company (SOC), in that it protects and advances the the behaviour of Transnet employees. The Code aims to instil a Transnet’s investigation methodology actively addresses Company. It reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the interests of the country and society. Good governance informs culture of honesty, respect, integrity and overall ethical behaviour fraud and corruption by responding to allegations of fraud Company’s risk management function, considers the Enterprise Transnet’s day-to-day business activities and provides our in employees in their engagements with both internal and external and corruption timeously. Disciplinary action, criminal and/or Risk Management Framework and ensures that market, stakeholders with the assurance that the Company is well managed stakeholders. The Code commits the executive directors, civil cases are pursued in each instance where fraud and operational, environmental, health and safety risks are formally and functioning with integrity and accountability. King IV links management and employees to the highest standards of ethical corruption are found to have occurred. Subsequent to an reviewed on an annual basis. It recommends the Company’s Risk governance more tightly to value creation and the achievement of behaviour, and all Transnet employment contracts make reference investigation, all internal control weaknesses or breakdowns Appetite Statement to the Board of Directors for approval; desired outcomes. Corporate governance according to King IV is to the Code. Transnet’s service providers, suppliers and trade in processes are rectified to prevent future repetition of • The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee viewed as a means to an end in achieving certain outcomes, and in partners are all subject to the Code. Group Company Secretariat the irregularity. ensures that all committees of the Board of Directors are this lies the linkage between Transnet governance and our ability is responsible for the development and review of the Code, while properly resourced to enable them to fulfil their mandates. to deliver on our Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDOs). Group Human Resources is responsible for the implementation. Fraud and corruption awareness education involves formal It guides the Board composition, succession planning and assists the Chairperson in managing the Board; and training annually with all employees, including both bargaining The Transnet Board of Directors has established the Remuneration, Integrity pacts and non-bargaining council employees. • The Acquisitions and Disposals Committee is responsible for Social and Ethics Committee (REMSEC), Audit Committee, Risk decision-making on economic and social impacts. It ensures that Transnet concludes Integrity Pacts with all its bidders and Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, procurement and provisioning policies are fair, equitable, suppliers. The Integrity Pact is an agreement to avoid any and Acquisitions and Disposals Committee to be responsible for transparent and cost-effective. The Acquisitions and Disposals unethical or collusive behaviour between the contracting parties Lowest Lowest Lowest economic, social and environmental matters. The Board of Directors incident incident total Committee approves procurement criteria for certain activities and to follow procedures that are fair, transparent and free from unfounded has delegated the leadership, oversight and accountability for founded incidents within its mandate, ensures that there are transparent processes influence during the procurement process. sustainability-related matters at Transnet to REMSEC which advises in place, and contracts up to the maximum of the investment the Board of Directors on issues pertaining to responsible corporate decision in accordance with the Delegation of Authority citizenship, ethical behaviour and sustainability. REMSEC is charged Framework based on the Significance and Materiality Framework Reported incidents of irregularities 2017* with, among other matters, oversight of the Company’s legal and of the Company. It advances the implementation of the moral obligations to its economic, social and natural environment. Reported Reported Total Government’s transformation agenda and monitors trends in Investigations Its functions include assessing, measuring and reviewing the Transnet SOC Ltd incident incident reported supplier development spend and progress on plans, including in progress Company’s activities related to human rights, equality, fraud, unfounded founded incidents support of the Government’s economic policies, Competitive corruption, health, public safety, consumer and labour relations Supplier Development Programme, local supplier development, including empowerment, thus reflecting the principles of the United Transnet Corporate Centre 177 343 9 529 preferential procurement and enterprise development. Nations Global Compact. REMSEC further assesses the Company’s The Acquisitions and Disposals Committee recommends the Freight Rail 255 163 47 465 promotion of equality, prevention of unfair discrimination and Supplier Development Plan to the Board of Directors for reduction of corruption. approval by the Shareholder Minister. Engineering 115 95 26 236 The Sustainability Forum is tasked with developing key performance Ethics National Ports Authority 42 21 1 64 indicators (KPIs) in relation to analysing sustainability The importance of ethics and the linkages that exist with good performance; structuring inputs to the Sustainability Report (SR); Port Terminals 104 26 3 133 corporate governance and stakeholder relationships, both internal reviewing the draft SR prior to submission to the Chief Corporate and external to the organisation, are critical principles espoused and Regulatory Officer who, in turn, recommends to the Group Pipelines 15 3 4 22 in King IV. Transnet is committed to instilling a culture of good Leadership Team for REMSEC’s review and approval. The Board of ethics throughout the Company, and to proactively identify and Transnet Capital Projects 12 8 7 27 Directors approves the SR and ensures that all material issues address any fraud and corruption risks that may impact the are covered. Market Demand Strategy (MDS). Transnet Property 13 2 1 16 The other committees within the Transnet governance system Transnet’s Ethics Management Programme focuses on: TOTAL 733 661 98 1 492 whose responsibilities impact our delivery of economic, social and • Developing the moral responsiveness of employees and environmental outcomes include: stakeholders; and * Categories include: Fraud, Corruption, Human Resources, Misuse of Resources, Non-compliance to Policy and Legislation, Procurement and Theft. 26 ENABLERS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTAL OUTCOMES continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 27 Tip-offs Anonymous Hotline Key stakeholder engagement initiatives for the year under Transnet has a Tip-offs Anonymous Hotline for reporting review included: concerns about unethical behaviour. The hotline is managed by Transnet Internal Audit and all reported cases are investigated Multi-stakeholder Perception Survey through an established forensics investigation process. Cases A multi-stakeholder perception survey was conducted telephonically reported are managed through an automated case management with 150 participants across six stakeholder groups (Opinion and system and allocated to the relevant Operating Division for Influencers, Governing Bodies and Regulators, Investors, Organised investigation. Operating Divisions’ fraud working groups are Labour, Suppliers and Enterprise Development) to determine mandated to monitor the investigation of allegations reported. whether Transnet’s engagement with stakeholders has improved The hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week and as a result of the implementation of the policy. The survey focused the call centre agents are able to converse in all 11 official South on areas where Transnet has significant operations. Results African languages. indicated that, overall there has been an improvement in the quality of stakeholder engagements by 60%. In all, 65% of the Details of the hotline are communicated to all employees participants indicated that they are satisfied with Transnet’s through various awareness and education mechanisms. engagement practices since implementation of the policy in 2014. Employees are protected from victimisation by the Transnet Whistle-blowing Policy insofar as reporting is undertaken in line with the Protected Disclosures Act, No 26 of 2000, Stakeholder Relationship Management Maturity as amended. assessment The Stakeholder Relationship Management Maturity (SRMM) model is used to assess the maturity levels of stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement practices across Transnet. The SRMM has five stages of maturity, Stakeholder engagement forms an integral part of Transnet’s which are informed by six attributes: use of standardised day-to-day business activities and the implementation of the processes; centralised support; organisation-wide implementation; MDS. Transnet’s Stakeholder Engagement Policy, adopted by the application of SRMM methodology and processes across the Board of Directors in November 2014, defines ‘stakeholder’ as a organisation; development of a ‘normal stakeholder community’; person or group of persons who are directly or indirectly affected and proactive use of the ‘typical view’ of a stakeholder community. by Transnet, including those who may have interests in Transnet’s Results indicated that Transnet achieved a level three in comparison business activities and/or the ability to influence Transnet’s to a level one in 2013, indicating an overall improvement in business outcomes, either positively or negatively. stakeholder engagement practices across the Company. Transnet identifies, prioritises and maps its material stakeholders based on: Community grievance mechanism • The effect each stakeholder has on Transnet’s ability to A community grievance mechanism was developed and is successfully implement strategies and achieve its objectives; currently being piloted for one year through the existing and Tip-offs Anonymous Hotline. The pilot aims to establish the • The effect of Transnet’s activities, products and services necessary controls and capacities for Transnet business on stakeholders. practices to address and be responsive to stakeholders’ needs and expectations. It further aims to embed the community’s Stakeholder engagement is decentralised, but the Board of interests into the Company’s decision-making processes, build Directors has overall responsibility for stakeholder engagement. community trust and participation, and facilitate expedited The Board of Directors delegates authority to the Group Chief response to community concerns as they arise. Executive who reports to the Board of Directors on all material stakeholder issues, and takes responsibility for incorporating To date, 19 community-related issues have been recorded from these into our strategy and risk management. the hotline and these have been escalated to the relevant Operating Divisions for investigation. During the year under review, the Stakeholder Engagement Database was developed and deployed throughout the business. There has been an overall improvement in stakeholder Training commenced in July 2016 and will continue with refresher engagement practices and processes being implemented in training on an annual basis to embed the policy and process Transnet, as well as in the way the Company engages with various control manual in the Company. stakeholder groups. Transnet will continue embedding the various practices and processes across the Company and implement engagement plans in areas that require attention. 28 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 29 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW Transnet’s sustainability performance for the year under review highlights the importance of the nine Sustainable Developmental Outcomes (SDOs) with Company; their alignment with the United Nations Sustainable Developmental Goals (SDGs) and the South African National Development Plan (NDP); the opportunities and challenges faced by Transnet in achieving each outcome; identifies Figure 11 the most material issues for each outcome; describes our management approach to each outcome; and provides our performance for the year. Transnet is currently developing systems to improve our ability to report on the outcomes that arise from Transnet activities. In due course, this will enable more outcomes-based reporting to provide stakeholders with a greater understanding of Transnet’s impact on the economy, society and the environment over time. 30 Employment Sustainability performance 2017 Skills 34 development Industrial R746m R234m 38 capability building Total CSI spend Total spend on skills development 44 Investment leveraged 58 828 57 782 Total employees Training initiatives 0,69 48 Regional integration DIFR 54 Transformation 85,1% 1,7% Health Black employees Decrease in electricity consumption 58 and safety 2,3% 2,8% 62 Community development People with Increase in fuel consumption disabilities 57% 1,2% 68 Environmental stewardship Energy-efficiency improvement Females in top management 2,3% R37bn Carbon emissions intensity reduction B-BBEE spend 637 152 tCO e 2 LEVEL 2 Transport sector carbon emissions avoided B-BBEE rating R185m 242 788 MWh Electricity regenerated R&D spend by new locomotives 30 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 31 Transnet’s employee age profile, including racial composition, is Our management approach depicted below: Employment Transnet’s Human Capital Strategy approaches job creation within the framework of strategic workforce planning to ensure Workforce profile 2017 recruitment and retention of the top-quality employees in all Transnet activities that create measurable direct, indirect or induced employment. employment groups. Transnet’s talent management and White development programme aims to retain this talent and ensure Indian robust succession plans for priority and critical positions. 3 000 Coloured Leadership programmes target specific management levels, African 2 500 while coaching and mentoring programmes are also provided. 2 000 Our performance 1 500 Transnet’s total headcount decreased from 64 467 in 2016 1000 to 58 828 in 2017. Headcount comprises 53 661 permanent 500 employees and 5 167 fixed-term contract employees. There has been a gradual decrease in headcount over the past three years. 0 19 21 23 25 27 29 31 33 35 39 41 43 45 47 49 51 53 55 57 59 61 63 00 This can be attributed to the weak demand for commodities that has hampered our growth in volumes, and resulted in a decline in the Company’s revenue. In order to curb recruitment costs and support cost-saving initiatives within the Company, a moratorium Value-add is defined by Transnet as the financial value created was placed on the appointment of external candidates during by the activities of the business and its employees. Transnet’s 2016. The focus for the year was on training and further skills gross value-add amounts to R50,3 billion for 2017. development, and job preservation. Employee headcount 2017 Gross value-add resulting from Transnet Capital and Operating Expenditure 2017 Actual Actual Actual 2015 2016 2017 VALUE ADDED Transnet Corporate Centre 887 911 699 2015 Transnet Capital Projects 1 100 1 177 1 231 Employees 42% R44,3 Capital Providers 14% billion Transnet Foundation 116 110 109 Reinvested 44% Transnet Property 570 578 555 Why is it important to Transnet? Freight Rail 37 723 36 033 30 305 8 ECONOMIC Unemployment is one of the biggest challenges globally and a skills profile that meets the needs of the Company both in 12 164 DECENT WORK AND Engineering 12 230 11 377 GROWTH in South Africa. The SDGs emphasise productive employment the short and long term. The global economic downturn and VALUE ADDED and decent work for all, while the NDP focuses on decent current macro economic environment has, however, resulted National Ports Authority 4 265 4 404 4 188 2016 employment through inclusive growth. South Africa’s in employment targets being compromised over the past Employees 43% unemployment rate is currently at 27,1%3, the eighth highest few years, with the focus being on training interventions Port Terminals 9 140 9 210 8 891 R45,6 Capital Providers 17% billion unemployment rate in the world according to the International to increase skills development. Reinvested 40% Pipelines 634 667 686 Labour Organisation4. Transnet’s most material issue with respect to employment is: As a State-owned company (SOC) that is responsible to TOTAL 66 665 64 467 58 828 Government and society for delivering on its developmental • Transnet’s ability to create and sustain jobs. mandate, Transnet has to create and sustain jobs. The material outcome that Transnet aims to achieve is: VALUE ADDED The average age of a Transnet employee is 41 years; 26,4% As a result of the high operational intensity and large capital 2017 of employees are between the ages of 48 to 60, while 39,2% investment of the Market Demand Strategy (MDS), Transnet • Decent and sustainable job opportunities. of employees are younger than 36 years. There has been a Employees 42% has the opportunity to create jobs, but it needs to grow its R50,3 concerted effort in recent years to increase the percentage Capital Providers 18% workforce at a pace that the business can sustain, and with 3 Statistics South Africa, 22 November 2016. billion of younger employees. Leadership development has focused Reinvested 40% 4 ‘World Employment Social Outlook’, International Labour Organisation, 2017. particularly at lower and middle management to ensure that the younger workforce is upskilled, and that the talent pool for succession is strengthened. 32 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 33 Transnet awarded South Africa’s Top Employer certification for 2017 Case study Transnet was ranked as one of South Africa’s top employers by the Top Employers Institute during October 2016. The Institute recognises and certifies leading employers worldwide for excellent employee conditions, nurturing and developing talent throughout all levels of the organisation, and for continuously optimising employment practices. Regional Director of Africa at the Institute, Samantha Crous, said: ”Optimal employee conditions ensure that people can develop themselves personally and professionally. Our comprehensive research concluded that Transnet SOC Ltd provides an outstanding employment environment and offers a wide range of creative initiatives, from secondary benefits and working conditions to performancemanagement programmes that are well-thought out and truly aligned with the culture of their Company.” The award follows a stringent research process in which companies are assessed on their ability to meet the highest standards of employment conditions. The process is scrutinised by a firm of independent auditors to ensure its validity. The evaluation criteria for the certification include workforce planning, performance management, leadership development, succession management, compensation and benefits, and culture. Culture Performance management Compensation and benefits Succession Leadership management development Workforce planning Transnet Employees celebrating the Top Employer Certification 34 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 35 Annual training plans are discussed with recognised trade unions Our management approach in line with the requirements of the Skills Development Act No 97 of 1998 as amended. These are submitted to the Transport Education Skills development Transnet’s Human Capital Strategy responds to the skills Training Authority for approval and monitoring in order to process shortages experienced in the Company and the broader economy training grants. through the following initiatives: Transnet activities that enhance or improve human capabilities and build the productive capacity of people, both within and outside the Company. Strategic workforce planning is undertaken to continually analyse Our performance business needs, skills requirements and skills gaps. To ensure accurate identification of the right skills to be developed, a Transnet invested 3,1% of the wage bill (R746 million)6 in skills stringent engagement process is embarked upon involving line development in 2017 against a target of 3% (R777 million) in managers. This is enhanced by collating information from comparison to 3,6% (R850 million) in 2016. A training throughput employee development plans. of 57 782 training initiatives were recorded against the target of 48 544. Feeder training pipelines have been established for critical skills categories including artisans, technicians, engineers and In 2017, Transnet fell short of its targets for sector-specific skills sector-specific5 . The Youth Development strategy is aligned to with 1 724 learners entering against a target of 2 200. Transnet’s the feeder pipelines. The feeder pipelines also provide focus intake of new recruits for engineering bursars (173) and technician areas for student financial assistance, internships, learnerships, learners (229) were above target against the planned 171 and 220 apprenticeships, sponsorships, career guidance, various graduate respectively. In all, 250 artisans were targeted in 2017, and 250 programmes, coaching and mentorships. entered the programme. A total of 810 employees were trained as part of leadership development. Excluding sector-specific skills, the Transnet has six schools of excellence: planned training targets were achieved in 2017 despite cost-cutting • The School of Rail focuses on sector-specific training including measures due to lagging growth in volumes and revenue. train driving, yard operations, train control operations and track operations. Refresher and relicensing training takes place regularly to ensure compliance with current regulatory Training participants 2017 requirements. • The School of Engineering delivers apprenticeship programmes Actual Actual Actual in 27 trades. Sector-specific training is also delivered in 2015 2016 2017 Why is it important to Transnet? examiner repairer, maintenance assist and air brake systems. Refresher training for air brake systems and high voltage as per Artisans 613 102 250 4 QUALITY EDUCATION South Africa needs a skilled and capable workforce to support Additional challenges include the following: regulatory requirements is also conducted. an inclusive growth path. Transnet needs to develop and • Attracting and retaining critical skills (more specifically, • The Maritime School of Excellence focuses on sector-specific Technician learners 563 232 229 maintain a skills and talent pipeline that not only addresses female employees and people with disabilities) into a training in the ports and marine disciplines such as pilot, tug Engineering bursars 255 155 173 business priorities but also those of the broader economy. highly operational environment; master, marine engineering, dredge masters, skippers and • Approximately 33% of Transnet’s workforce is semi-skilled master operations. Sector-specific 3 320 1 830 1 724 Transnet responds to this by ensuring that training plans are with low skills density levels and limited literacy; and • The School of Pipelines trains artisans in the pipeline responsive to both these requirements and, more specifically, • The age profile of Transnet employees reflects a high environment. Leadership development 6 666 1 347 810 the engineering skills and artisans required by the economy. percentage of ageing skills and work experience, and • The School of Security delivers the protection officers’ skills Extensive investment in skills development is necessitated to a rapidly growing percentage of young employees with programme to unemployed youth. ALL TRAINING* 53 591 58 967 57 782 ensure that Transnet delivers critical logistics infrastructure generally limited experience. • The School of Leadership focuses on supervisory, managerial and operational efficiency that South Africa’s freight system and leadership training in the Operating Divisions, spanning * Refers to number of training initiatives. needs to support economic growth. The challenge lies in Transnet’s most material issue with respect to skills from entry to executive levels. Transnet’s ability to meet and sustain the required scale, development is: timing and cost of addressing its skills needs. The year under Transnet also provides opportunities for workplace experience Key comparisons review saw the Company optimising training targets and • Having the right skills at the right time to implement through its Young Professionals-in-Training (YPT) programme. budgets in the face of cost-cutting measures resulting from the MDS. During 2017, 77 new YPTs were recruited with a total of 2016 2017 reduced volumes and revenue. 240 YPTs in Transnet. YPTs are contracted for a period of The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: two years and, on average, 11% are placed permanently within Skills development Transnet per annum. Transnet supports its feeder pipeline R850 million R746 million • Increased technical skills within Transnet; graduates through its Engineer-in-Training (EIT) and Technician• Improved productivity; and in-Training (TIT) programmes. In 2017, 73 EITs entered the Training initiatives • Addressing the technical skills gap in the economy. programme with 312 EITs in Transnet, and 116 new TITs 58 967 57 782 participated in the 24-month structured programme that includes mentoring and coaching. 5 Sector-specific skills refer to non-generic skills only applied in a certain sector within Transnet. Transnet is responsible for training and/or issuing of qualifications (for example, train driver, cargo co-ordinator, tug master and planner). 6 The skills levy constitutes 28% (R193 million) of the total spend on skills development for 2017. 36 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 37 Transnet accelerates maritime skills training Transnet’s engineering and accounting students training programme On 22 September 2016, 283 trainees graduated from Transnet’s Maritime School of Excellence, The year under review saw Transnet launch a bursary drive inviting eligible students to apply for Case study Case study completing qualifications in various aspects of port and marine operations (marine pilots, tug masters, 171 bursaries and a training programme for chartered accountants. This initiative was driven by the engineers and operators for lifting equipment). This marked the highest number of graduates since the Company’s commitment to strengthening its scarce skills base, particularly in the fields of engineering first intake in 2013. and accounting. Transnet’s Maritime School of Excellence was launched in 2013 to address the technical skills The bursaries are for full-time study towards a Bachelor of Engineering or a Bachelor of Science in shortages in the maritime sector and to respond to the broader challenges of critical skills shortages Engineering at any South African university in the following disciplines: civil, electrical, electronic, required to stimulate economic growth and job creation. The school offers sector-specific training in mechanical, industrial and metallurgical engineering. Bursaries cover full costs and on-the-job training. marine operations, terminal operations, port management, port engineering and other specialised training for Transnet’s port operating divisions (National Ports Authority and Port Terminals). It has a Transnet also offers a three-year learnership programme for candidates with a Certificate in Theory of main campus in Durban with three satellite campuses in Richards Bay, Cape Town and Port Elizabeth. Accounting or Bachelors of Accounting Sciences in Financial Accounting (BCompt/Honours) or The school’s programmes are aligned with the requirements of the MDS. equivalent. Transnet’s Chartered Accountants Training Programme is accredited with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, and provides practical experience and preparation for Board Since 2013, 210 trainees have graduated from the programme. The majority of graduates have been examinations. The programme includes extensive training in financial management, financial absorbed into Transnet’s various marine and port operations throughout the country. accounting, internal audit, auditing and taxation. Currently, there are 17 black professionals in various stages of the programme in Transnet. Since inception of the programme in 1996, 118 students have completed the programme, with more than 28 employed in the Company. Transnet has also trained students from Malawi, Botswana, Mozambique, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe, positioning itself as a premier service provider for marine training programmes. Chartered Accountant Training in: financial Training Programme management, financial accredited with SA Institute accounting, internal audit, of Chartered Accountants auditing, taxation Since inception, 118 students completed programmes Director-General of the DPE, Magokare Seleké 28 students employed by Group Chief Executive, Transnet Siyabonga Gama, with Maritime graduates 38 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 39 Our management approach Engineering continues to strengthen its R&D activities to provide technologies for world-class products and services Industrial capability building Transnet developed a comprehensive SD programme guided by the Government’s Competitive Supplier Development Programme, and for African markets. Initiatives include: • A new diesel locomotive; an ED programme informed by the Broad-Based Black Economic • A traction motor for rugged conditions; Transnet activities that facilitate the country’s industrial development and improve competitiveness. Empowerment (B-BBEE) Codes of Good Practice. Transnet’s • A standard gauge bogie to compete in the standard contracts with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and large gauge market; and suppliers focus on skills development, job creation and preservation, intellectual property transfer, localisation of supply • An energy storage system for capturing regenerative and ultimately industrialisation through contractually binding energy. SD plans. This is usually achieved through targeted interventions that address the lack of black industrialists and black-owned Our performance manufacturing companies, while leveraging the SD commitments of large and/or OEM suppliers. With respect to the B-BBEE Codes, Since the inception of Transnet’s SD programme in 2012, Transnet plans to maximise the 2% SD spend and the 1% ED total contract value has been R134,4 billion (2016: 119,9 billion) spend. This will be done and enhanced through the already with SD obligations concluded with suppliers of R62,6 billion or existent programmes of hubs, incubation, productivity, funding 46,6% of contract value (2016: R56,6 billion or 47,2%). To date, and business development support which address the basic R32,2 billion or 51,5% (2016: R23,2 billion or 41,1%) of these requirements for businesses to perform optimally. supplier development obligations has been met. The overall contract value and total SD target have increased due to the Following on from the establishment of ED hubs in Johannesburg, inclusion of the 1 064 locomotives deal signed in 2014. De Aar (Northern Cape) and Saldanha Bay (Western Cape), the Mdantsane Hub in Buffalo City was opened in May 2016. There was an increase in R&D expenditure from R58,9 million These hubs provide a one-stop shop for potential suppliers in 2016 to R185 million in 2017. to Transnet offering the following services: business Why is it important to Transnet? development and registration, procurement advisory services, tax registration and compliance, financial support and guidance 9 INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE Building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and Innovation and technology play important roles in the on black economic empowerment. sustainable industrialisation, and fostering innovation that growth and competitiveness of industry. Transnet therefore leads to economic growth and development is one of the aims to lead R&D with the adoption of new and emerging global SDGs. Through its procurement spend, Transnet is technologies, and to use technology and manufacturing Key comparisons able to target local suppliers in order to support national capabilities as an enabler for the business. Transnet developmental goals; while its investment in Research and acknowledges that disruptive technologies are changing 2016 2017 Development (R&D) is aimed at building long-term original dominant business models and has thus positioned itself equipment manufacturing capability for the broader economy. as a catalyst for African innovation and industrialisation. Contract value As an SOC, Transnet contributes significantly to growth and R119,9 billion R134,4 billion Transnet’s most material issues with respect to industrial transformation in the South African economy. This capability building are: SD obligations contribution is important when considering the challenges of R56,6 billion R62,6 billion inequality, unemployment and poverty that South Africa faces. • Procurement spend on localisation of supply; and SD obligations Transnet has identified its Supplier Development (SD) and • Investing in emerging technologies and manufacturing achieved Enterprise Development (ED) initiatives as interventions that can address these challenges. These initiatives are aimed at capabilities. R23,2 billion R32,2 billion increasing the competitiveness, capacity and capability of The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: R&D spend black-owned suppliers through financial and non-financial support services. Transnet’s SD programme is aimed at skills R58,9 million R185 million development, job creation, intellectual property transfer, • Increased competitiveness, capacity and capability of the localisation of supply, and industrialisation through local suppliers; contractually obligated SD plans. Transnet’s ED programme is • Establishment of original equipment manufacturing in aimed at supporting small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Transnet; the transport sector to ensure that they become operationally • Growth in local industry and increased security of supply; and financially independent and contribute to the country’s and growth and transformation agenda, specifically among black women and the youth. SMEs are important in their contribution • Increased employment and entrepreneurship for black to the economy as drivers in reducing unemployment, women and the youth. especially since the formal sector continues to shed jobs. 40 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 41 Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts Enterprise Supplier R60 million 11 271 beneficiaries • Increase local supplier base • Inclusive and sustainable Development hubs in (Johannesburg: 5 856, De • Increase in number of suppliers industrialisation Johannesburg, De Aar, Aar: 786, Saldanha Bay: that were registered, incubated • Economic development and Saldanha Bay and Mdantsane 4 236, Mdantsane: 393) and developed to supply growth. provide a one-stop shop received non-financial Transnet and others. for potential suppliers to support (assistance in Transnet. business development and registration, procurement advisory services, tax registration and compliance, financial support and guidance on black economic empowerment). Shanduka Black Umbrellas R30 million New businesses recruited • Increase in number of suppliers • Inclusive and sustainable (SBU) business incubators into both incubators: that were registered, incubated industrialisation operate in Richards Bay • 113 black-owned and developed to supply • Economic development and Port Elizabeth. The Transnet. and growth. • 113 exempted SBUs focus on sourcing and developing 100% micro-enterprises and black-owned businesses for qualifying small procurement opportunities enterprises in Transnet’s supply chain in • 41 black womenthese regions. owned • 59 youth-owned. GIBS Academy empowers R3,5 million 55 entrepreneurs • Increase in revenue of • Fostering entrepreneurship 50 new and existing growthcurrently in the graduates. and innovation oriented entrepreneurs programme. • Economic development and with business education, growth. mentorship and other support services to build or grow their enterprises. Material strategic Contract value: % of SD targets since • Increase in local industrial • Building original equipment procurement R56,6 billion contract commenced*: capacity manufacturing capability Relevant captions to • 1 064 Locomotives • 23,3% industrialisation • Increase in skills for broader economy support connector points... SD target: contracts signed in 2014 • 24,5% capacity and • Increase in local technology • Building economic with four international R37,7 billion and intellectual property infrastructure. capability building OEMs. Stringent local 67% transfer • 40,7% sustainability/ content, skills development SD • Job creation and preservation technology and and training requirements. commitment intellectual property • Increase in small businesses transfer supported Relevant captions to • 7,5% skills development • Increase in local suppliers. support connector points... • 14,6% job creation • 20,5% job preservation • 76,7% small business promotion • 46,2% downstream supplier development. * Data provided up until 31 December 2016. 42 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 43 Stringent controls in place to ensure 1 064 Locomotive deal meets Transnet leads in entrepreneurial innovation localisation targets In partnership with the SABS Design Institute, Transnet established the Transnet Design, Innovation Case study Case study In 2014, Transnet signed the single largest infrastructure investment initiative (R50 billion) with four and Research Centre. The aim is to promote a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship among international OEMs7 to supply the Company with locomotives. Transnet has implemented a series of black entrepreneurs, more specifically school learners, the youth and SMEs. The centre is focused governance, control and monitoring measures to ensure that the OEMs meet the Company’s on facilitating and identifying low-tech to high-tech solutions and providing subsidised R&D tools, localisation obligations and SD commitments. facilities and resources. Transnet developed the innovation concept and provided the funding (R85 million), while the SABS Design Institute availed the technical expertise to refine the ideas In addition to normal governance structures, Transnet established a special sub-committee of the into feasible products for the market. Group Leadership Team, chaired by the Group Chief Executive, and attended by executives tasked with the execution of the project, including the Chief Financial Officer, chief executives from Freight Rail Young entrepreneurs throughout South Africa were invited to submit innovative ideas that would and Engineering, and heads from Procurement, Legal and Risk. The committee is tasked with the provide solutions to challenges in their communities and some of Transnet’s operational challenges. monitoring of contract execution, delivery of local content obligations, compliance with SD More than 1 200 aspirant entrepreneurs submitted their concepts, culminating in 20 entrepreneurs commitments, skills development, review of project budget and governance, and oversight of the OEMs being selected to participate in the programme. The programme involves conceptual design and market and sub-contractors involved in the build programme. At an operational level, Transnet has developed research; trademark/product design and testing; pitching advisory and commercialisation plan; and the various monitoring tools for the OEMs to provide regular updates on their performance on localisation. development of prototypes. To provide further assurance, Transnet performs an internal validation process of each of the OEMs' performance as part of contract management. On 25 October 2016, the innovators gathered at the SABS Design Institute to showcase their innovations and market their inventions to possible funders. Products and services developed through the programme include: • A renewable energy storage system that converts electricity into different storable energy forms. It has the energy density to back up the grid for multiple hours. It is environmentally friendly; • A cold chain monitoring service to inform hospitals and manufacturers of the temperature and Increase in local technology location of their products. Temperature data is collected via a wireless sensor network and Increase in and intellectual property presented through a web interface to the stakeholder; Skills transfer • Rust Rid is a rust prevention, rust removal and anti-corrosion spray-on product that chemically dissolves rust to renew metals, works faster, is more effective and is environmentally friendly; and Increase in local • Bitu-box is a mobile unit to store and transport bitumen in bulk. It can transport 24 000 kg of bitumen. industrial capacity Commenting on the achievement, Transnet’s Executive Manager for Enterprise and Supplier Development, Ms Mmadiboka Chauke, said that innovation and enterprise development are at the core Job creation and of Transnet’s plans to improve its service offering and contribute to the advancement of the economy. preservation 20 entrepreneurs participating Increase in local in programme suppliers Transnet Design, Innovation and Research Centre Increase in small businesses supported Culture of innovation and Transnet awarded CSR Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive and Bombardier Transportation South Africa contracts for the supply of entrepreneurship 7 599 electric locomotives; while General Electric South Africa Technologies and CNR Rolling Stock South Africa (Pty) Ltd were awarded contracts to build and supply 465 diesel locomotives. among black Funding of R85million entrepreneurs 44 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 45 Operation Phakisa projects in ship and rig repair, boatbuilding and Our management approach related port services were initiated in 2016, aiming for privatesector investment contracts in 2017. These include the following: Investment leveraged The Transnet PSP Policy serves as a framework for establishing • The development of a boatbuilding facility at the Port of objectives, benefits, project lifecycles and governance, and the East London will be separated into a boat building and a dry functional focus areas for PSP are: dock precinct, and a commercial lease approach will be followed Transnet activities that facilitate private-sector investment in the country’s freight logistics system. • Bulk commodities (coal, iron ore and manganese); to allow for the development of the industry; • Intermodal (containers); • The implementation of a floating dock at the Port of Richards • General rail (general freight services); Bay. Finalisation of the RFP process will take place once a • General port (multi-purpose terminal developments); successful environmental impact assessment is complete; and • Development of oil and gas, including ship repair infrastructure; • The construction of a new berth to support rig and ship repairs • Regional integration; and at the Port of Saldanha. Little interest was received from the • Non-core but complementary to the MDS. expression of interest process, and an alternative approach to securing an investor is being explored. Our performance During 2017, the following PSP milestones were achieved: • A preferred bidder to design, fund and operate an offshore oil supply base in the Port of Saldanha for a period of 20 years is awaiting approval; • A preferred bidder to design, fund and operate the cruise terminal in the Port of Durban for a period of 25 years is awaiting approval; • A Request for Proposals (RFP) for Tambo Springs inland terminal was issued. Bids were received and are being evaluated; • Technical study for the manganese common user facility was concluded; and Why is it important to Transnet? • Award to preferred bidder to build, operate and maintain a 5,2 million ton per annum coal-loading facility at Grootvlei Investment is paramount in South Africa’s freight logistics • Mitigate risk for large infrastructure projects and freight power station was concluded. system, beyond the levels already committed by Transnet systems connectivity; in the MDS. The Department of Public Enterprise (DPE) has • Position Transnet to support the involvement of B-BBEE mandated that Private Sector Participation (PSP) be investors in PSP opportunities to contribute to included in the broader delivery of the MDS as large-scale transformation in the broader economy; and investment in economic infrastructure designed to support • Improve the social and developmental benefits leveraged the country’s socio-economic imperatives is required. from such investment programmes through close Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts collaboration between the public and private sector. Creating additional capacity and enabling service delivery Concessioning of branch lines require Transnet to pursue new revenue streams through • Ceres concession R20 million Conclusion of contracts • Remove barriers to private • Economic infrastructure Transnet’s most material issue with respect to investment private-sector collaboration. As an SOC, Transnet is well • Umtata concession R12 million and commencement of investment and operations that supports socioleveraged is: concessions in rail economic imperatives positioned to facilitate and encourage complementary • Grahamstown concession R60 million investment by private companies. This will accelerate Transnet’s • Knysna concession R30 million • Increase in rail capacity and • Lower cost of doing business • Facilitating private-sector investment in logistics. efficiencies to lower the cost • Economic development commercial impact on economic growth and job creation in of logistics. and growth./ South Africa and the region. PSP enables Transnet to: The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: • Broaden the available finance pool and expedite Investment in terminals • Remove barriers to private • Economic infrastructure infrastructure development and capacity creation; • Removing barriers to entry for private investment and • Grootvlei coal handling terminal R250 million Conclusion of terminal investment and operations that supports socio• Encourage intermodal efficiencies and road-to-rail contracts in rail economic imperatives operations in the ports and rail; and • Tambo Springs inland terminal modal shift; R100 million • Increase in rail capacity and • Lower cost of doing business • Increased capacity and efficiencies for freight logistics. • Manganese common user • Leverage private-sector skills and expertise in the facility R50 million efficiencies to lower the cost • Economic development provision of infrastructure and operations; of logistics. and growth. • Encourage foreign direct investment in South African and regional infrastructure and industry; 46 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 47 Private sector to partner in Tambo Springs inland terminal On 1 June 2016, Transnet issued a request for proposals from suitably qualified global logistics Case study service providers to design, build, operate, maintain and eventually transfer the inland container terminal in Tambo Springs, east of Johannesburg. The proposed terminal is aligned with Transnet’s drive to migrate rail-friendly cargo off road. The concession will be for 20 years and will be Transnet’s largest PSP project to date. The terminal is expected to be in operation by 2019 and will have an initial capacity of 144 000 20-foot equivalent units (TEUs) per annum, with an option to ramp it up to 560 000 TEUs. The project entails the following: an arrival and departure yard for handling cargo trains, terminal infrastructure and equipment, stacking area, warehousing space and distribution centre. Freight Rail will be responsible for operating the arrival and departure yard that will service the terminal. The operator will be responsible for loading and offloading containers, and marketing the facility. The proposed terminal is an integral part of Government’s Strategic Integrated Programme 28 aimed at unlocking the country’s industrial development while boosting export capability. It is one of three mega-terminals that Transnet is planning to build in Gauteng over the next 20 years. It is expected that the project will create 50 000 jobs. There are stringent requirements for skills transfer and supplier development. Expected to create 50 000 jobs Stringent requirements for skills transfer and supplier development Will unlock industrial development and boost export capability Drive to migrate rail-friendly cargo off road 8 The South African Government adopted a National Infrastructure Plan in 2012. Eighteen Strategic Integrated Projects were identified to fast-track economic development and growth. These projects cover social and economic infrastructure across all nine provinces. 48 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 49 The hubs, rail corridors and shipping feeder networks depicted Our management approach in the 2030 vision map represent the areas where Transnet will either have an operational presence and/or an ability to Regional integration In developing an international strategy for Transnet, great care participate in the logistics chain and growth of cargo corridors. was taken to ensure that while targeting the commercial objectives and gains that are of specific interest to Transnet, With respect to rail, Joint Operating Centres (JOCs) have been Transnet activities that result in improved freight logistics connectivity on the continent. established in Botswana to service the East/West Corridor; the strategy was aligned with and supported the Government’s broader regional integration initiatives. Zimbabwe to service the North/South corridor, and in Mozambique to service the Maputo Corridor. The aim is to grow cross-border Transnet’s Africa Strategy outlines Transnet’s intention to extend volumes and enable rail connectivity in these regions. Freight Rail’s International Business unit has satellite offices business beyond the borders of South Africa and into the region in Maputo, Gaborone, Lesotho, Bulawayo and Ndola. to become the leading logistics service provider in sub-Saharan Africa. Transnet is targeting 25% revenue from outside South With the discovery of new oil and gas reserves in the region, Africa by 2025. South Africa is a potential gateway to the region, new capacity is required for refinery, storage and pipeline and Transnet, through its port, railway and pipeline infrastructure, infrastructure. Opportunities are being identified to operate is well placed to enhance regional integration. depots, terminals and pipelines through concession or management contracts. Transnet’s Africa 2030 Vision Figure 12 Satellite offices TOGO NIGERIA NIGERIA ETHIOPIA GHANA TOGO ETHIOPIA GHANA CAMEROON CAMEROON EQUATORIAL GUINEA EQUATORIAL GUINEA KENYA GABON KENYA GABON DRC DRC Why is it important to Transnet? TANZANIA Africa’s projected growth forecasts and untapped potential and inter-country trade on the continent. While South Africa’s TANZANIA are well known. While the outlook is positive, resolving the current economic growth is low, other countries in the region ANGOLA ANGOLA ZAMBIA MOZAMBIQUE ZAMBIA MOZAMBIQUE infrastructure backlog is a significant challenge. There is a are on a stronger growth path with significant need and Shipping MAURITIUS MAURITIUS need for consolidation and integration within the regional opportunity for improved infrastructure and connectivity. Feeder NAMIBIA NAMIBIA Network MADAGASCAR MADAGASCAR freight system in order to build system density and take Their growth provides business opportunities for Transnet BOTSWANA BOTSWANA advantage of economies of scale. as an infrastructure and logistics service provider. South Africa is ranked 20 out of a total of 160 countries9 Transnet’s most material issue with respect to regional Rail in logistics performance, ahead of other African countries, integration is: Corridor Hub suggesting that it is well positioned to build logistics density and help facilitate improved trade between neighbouring • Expanding Transnet’s business on the continent. states. As the custodian of South Africa’s rail, ports and 2016 FOOTPRINT 2030 VISION pipeline network, regional integration and the enhanced The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: connectivity of the regional freight system is a strategic priority for Transnet. Such integration will boost investment • Increased connectivity; and • Increased revenue. The Africa Strategy comprises four key revenue drivers: • Cross-border rail volumes on the Maputo, East/West and North/South corridors; • Increased use of the ports of Durban and Ngqura as transshipment hubs to service East and West Africa; • Export sales of rolling stock and associated maintenance services; and • Geographic expansion of port, railway and pipeline operations through concession agreements or management contracts. 9 ‘Connecting to Compete: Trade Logistics in the Global Economy’, World Bank, 2016. 50 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 51 Revenue from cross-border activities for Engineering and Freight Our performance Rail amounted to R2 087 million in 2017. Transnet’s Africa Strategy Transnet has commenced the process of registering a wholly Key comparisons owned subsidiary company, Transnet International Holdings SOC Ltd, that will house all foreign contractual arrangements 2016 2017 Figure 13 for foreign operations and/or export of goods and services 1 Transshipment hub 2 Training and from our South African operations. Cross-border revenue Grow transshipment revenue from skills development R1 965 million R2 087 billion R267 million per annum to Position the Transnet schools as a R498 million per annum by 2023/24 Engineering learning and development hub for The business model addresses the legal and tax compliance Promote linkages between short-sea sub-Saharan Africa arrangements providing for an initial focus on: R319,0 million R226,8 million 8 Governance and systems shipping and rail corridors Collaborate with other training • The Business Development and Implementation Framework Freight Rail institutions in the region The Corporate Centre’s ‘international Create alliances with key transshipment destination ports to govern capital investment decisions; R1 645,9 million R1 860,1 Use the schools to promote alignment unit’ is responsible for: (Angola, Namibia, Mozambique, of regional transport policy • The Human Capital Framework to support mobility for Africa million • Co-ordination of • External Tanzania, Kenya and Mauritius) expansion; Position training as a value-added Transnet’s stakeholder product for the export sales and • The New Country Entry Model Framework for project international engagement geographic expansion drivers management and new country operations; and activities • Provision of • Maintenance of governance, • Implementation of the Go-to-Market Strategy10 by deploying an information risk and policy resources, creating partnerships and leveraging stakeholders warehouse guidelines across target markets. • Liaison with • Monitoring Operating Division’s of targets international • Communication Geographic 3 structures Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts and reporting expansion Transshipment Freight Rail and Engineering 7 CrossGo hub Pursue ve r ng ni lls t border volumes sy an nan ai ki en options to invest National Railways of • Time engaging • Proposal re-submitted • Increase in opportunity • Economic growth and st d ce 1 2 Tr s pm d Focus on three rail corridors em an elo in port, rail and pipeline Zimbabwe Rehabilitation partners in • Technical partnerships to improve regional development on the s v operating concessions Programme (Maputo Corridor, North/South de negotiating focusing on co-operation and Continent Corridor and East/West Corridor) Transnet Relationship management deal structure operational integration • Improved intra-Africa 8 International 3 (partners, joint ventures, etc.) Tanzania Railways Limited Cross-border • Time efficiencies, sales • Increase in revenue trade Geographic Set up JOCs and inter-rail and Tanzania Zambia Railways agreements to improve corridor Strategy Revenue target of R5,6 billion Corporation negotiating of rolling stock, for Freight Rail and • increased investment (4,2% of total Transnet revenue) contract. maintenance of Engineering. volumes expansion efficiency Transnet is recognised on the continent. as the leading logistics per annum by 2023/24 railway line. Increase cross-border rail volumes 7 services provider in sub4 from 7,8 mtpa to 10,7 mtpa by 2023/24 Saharan Africa National Ports Authority Increase annual revenue g tin ing 6 5 in Reg te io Regional 4 from this activity ke d gr na to R2,8 billion by ar an M br at l integration Interport agreements • Time • Six signed MOUs in • Increase in opportunity • Economic growth and d io n 2023/24 an Export sales signed with Ghana Ports and negotiating six countries. to improve regional development on the Harbour Authority, Namport, Memoranda of co-operation and continent Maputo, Kenya Port Authority, Understanding integration • Improved intra-Africa Active participation in regional integration Port Corporation of Sudan, (MOU). • Increase opportunity trade initiatives and structures: Port of Cabinda (Angola). in skills and expertise • Increased investment transfer. on the continent. 6 Marketing and branding 5 Export sales • DPE Market Entry • Strategic Integrated Strategy for Africa Project 17 Develop and implement a marketing and Position Engineering as Port Terminals • SADC Regional • Port Management branding strategy for international expansion the preferred OEM for Infrastructure Association of Re-brand existing cross-border sites (and all Africa Development Plan Eastern and future sites) under a single Transnet brand Launch the TransAfrica Southern Africa Contract signed with • Time • One contract signed • Increase in opportunity • Economic growth and • Programme for (serving all Operating Divisions) locomotive Infrastructure (regional Ports Plan) Port of Cotonou, Benin negotiating • Four Port Terminals’ to improve regional development on the All marketing material to incorporate Increase export sales to Development in • Nepad Business (Benisa 1) for operational contract. employees deployed co-operation and continent Transnet’s full service offering R2,0 billion per annum by Africa Foundation Africa support to Sobemap (Statein Benin for one year integration • Improved intra-Africa (rail, port and pipeline) 2023/24 Infrastructure Desk owned terminal operator) • Developed General • Increase skills and trade in the Port of Cotonou. Cargo Operating expertise transfer as a • Increased investment System to automate result of the contract. on the continent. Inter-port co-operation agreements business processes. Revenue drivers Inter-rail company agreements Support services 10 Enables Transnet to pursue international opportunities in a co-ordinated well-planned manner by defining specific opportunities, positioning Transnet in a specific market and defining the support services required. 52 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 53 Transnet and General Electric to digitise Africa’s transport sector On 27 January 2017, Transnet and General Electric (GE) announced plans to deliver a digital solution Case study that will enhance efficiency and productivity in Africa’s transport sector. The proposed plan will connect shippers and transport operators, making it easier for a company to understand pricing and capacity on the network, plan a shipment and get goods to market. Transnet delivers, on average, 13 000 containers and 620 000 tons of goods critical to Africa’s economy on a daily basis. Africa’s intra-continental trade has almost doubled since 1995, and the increase in volume of goods moving through the supply chain is creating transportation and logistical complexities that slow down shipments. The digital solution will be enabled by Predix, the operating system for GE’s industrial internet. It will connect shippers and transport operators by providing real-time, data-driven insights on the status of shipments. Processes like payment, customs and inspection become digitised, and on-demand solution for transporting freight inspired by consumer-on-demand transportation models will be created. Speaking at the launch, GE Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt stated “this planned digital partnership with Transnet will be another step forward in how we can work together to improve Africa’s transport sector, delivering efficiency and productivity.” Group Chief Executive of Transnet, Siyabonga Gama, reiterated this sentiment: “This digital solution will be key in optimising freight efficiency and bringing products to market faster and for less across the continent. Businesses will be enabled to meet the high level of customer expectations, gain competitive edge and continue to thrive in today’s robust digital economy.” Transnet Group Chief Executive, Siyabonga Gama, and General Electric Chief Executive Officer, Jeff Immelt at the event. 54 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 55 a three-year EE plan on targets to be achieved per occupational Our management approach level, together with key initiatives aimed at addressing barriers to affirmative action in the workplace. The targets are informed Transformation Transnet’s Employment Equity (EE) Policy confirms the Company’s by the NEAP statistics. There are extensive engagements with commitment to the elimination of unfair discrimination and employees and recognised trade unions on the plans. These plans implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve a are signed off annually by the Group Leadership Team prior to Transnet activities that result in employment equity within the Company and black economic empowerment within the workforce that reflects the National Economically Active submission to the Department of Labour, fostering management entities that supply Transnet. Population (NEAP) of South Africa across all occupational levels. ownership and performance monitoring against the plan. The EE Policy is regularly revised to include ‘preference for designated groups’. In addition, Transnet has a B-BBEE policy Campaigns and training programmes are used to educate and strategy to ensure that a uniform message is understood employees and create a positive work environment for females throughout the Company, and consistency in how B-BBEE is and employees with disabilities, and B-BBEE awareness. managed and implemented. Under the policy, preferential procurement is advocated whereby bids (tenders) are not only awarded on technical specifications and price but also on a Our performance prescribed point system where preference is given to historically disadvantaged individuals. Transnet has achieved a B-BBEE rating of Level 2 for the calendar year ending December 2016. This rating reflects combined In line with the requirements of the Employment Equity Act, scoring for the Generic Transport Public Sector, Rail, Maritime Transnet prepares and submits to the Department of Labour and Property Charters. Transnet B-BBEE rating December December December Operating Division/Specialist Unit Total points Charter applied 2014 2015 2016 Transnet SOC Ltd 2 2 2 90,31 Generic Transport Pipelines 3 2 2 91,33 Public Sector Transnet Capital Projects 2 2 2 92,12 Why is it important to Transnet? Freight Rail 2 2 2 87,43 Rail Charter Engineering 2 2 2 90,58 5 GENDER EQUALITY Transnet is bound by the Constitution of the Republic of and black economic empowerment within the entities that South Africa which contains the Bill of Rights11 providing for supply Transnet. We have the opportunity to create new black Port Terminals 2 2 2 86,40 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES the redress of inequalities experienced by the majority of industrialists in a multitude of sectors through our supplier Maritime Charter South Africans under apartheid. We are further committed base. Despite significant progress made in recent years, National Ports Authority 4 3 3 80,93 to upholding the principles of the United Nations Global Transnet still has a great deal to accomplish in relation Compact (UNGC) on equity and anti-discrimination, and seek to race, gender and disability. Transnet Property 5 5 6 44,77 Property Charter to create an organisation that reflects the diversity of South African society. Transnet’s most material issue with respect to transformation is: Transnet’s focus remains on the attraction and retention of As one of South Africa’s largest single employers, Transnet • Increasing representation of black employees, female Transnet aims to increase representation of the following females in a highly operational environment. Despite this focus, is committed to supporting Government initiatives aimed at employees and people with disabilities. designated groups: African (as per the Department of Trade representation remains lower than that of the NEAP, with female addressing the socio-economic legacy of the past. We seek and Industry’s Codes of Good Practice definition), females employees representing 27,7% of the workforce compared to the to create an organisation that reflects the diversity of South The material outcome that Transnet aims to achieve is: and people with disabilities. As a result of the high rate of NEAP target of 45,2%. African society. We have strengthened our approach in terms retirements in recent years, Transnet has had the opportunity of the appointment and promotion of women, and people • Skilled, technical, professional and managerial posts that to improve both its race and gender profile to more closely with disabilities. Our long-term social value creation involves reflect the country’s racial, gender and disability profile. reflect the NEAP benchmarks. the transformation of society through employment equity Key comparisons With respect to black male employees, representation is above 2016 2017 that of the NEAP, with black male employees representing 59,63% of the workforce compared to the NEAP target of 48,4%. It is B-BBEE spend encouraging that there has been a steady increase of black male employees in the professional and skilled levels in the Company. R43,5 billion R37 billion 11 The Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, 1996. There is, however, a significant over-representation of black male employees at semi-skilled and unskilled levels in operations. B-BBEE rating Level 2 Level 2 56 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 57 Black male employees 2017 Black female employees 2017 Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual Occupational level Occupational level 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Empowering people with disabilities Top management12 61 61 74 Top management12 45 45 57 Pipelines’ learnership programme for people with disabilities focuses on necessary skills required Case study to enter the job market. The programme provides developmental opportunities in business and Senior management 444 456 453 Senior management 236 242 239 administrative skills to young people with disabilities. The learnership takes into account all disabilities including the hearing impaired, making Pipelines the first Operating Division to upskill Professional 2 527 2 614 2 622 Professional 1 558 1 652 1 673 people living with disabilities. Skilled 10 082 10 210 11 890 Skilled 5 569 5 815 6 667 Mind-the-Gap was appointed as the accredited training provider, providing a detailed analysis and Semi-skilled 15 832 15 407 13 747 Semi-skilled 5 064 5 214 4 639 strategy on how to develop and implement a learnership of such magnitude. A total of 22 candidates were selected after a stringent process of psychometric testing and various analytical tools. The Unskilled 3 777 3 701 7 174 Unskilled 884 886 1 491 programme follows six months of theoretical learning and, thereafter, six months of on-the-job practical training. All 22 candidates completed the programme despite challenges faced at the TOTAL 32 723 32 449 35 960 TOTAL 13 356 13 854 14 766 beginning as the learners took time to adapt to the style of learning and their new environment. All candidates received certificates and endorsements of results from the Services Sector Education Training Authority. As part of its commitments under the UNGC, Transnet upholds the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. People with disabilities are a key area of focus for Transnet’s transformation agenda. The year under review has seen the proportion of people with disabilities stabilise at 2,34%. The EE plan for 2017 continued to focus on Transnet’s commitment to EE principles, namely the elimination of unfair discrimination and implementation of affirmative action measures to achieve a workforce that reflects the NEAP of South Africa across all occupational levels. Targets for 2017 for black employees, females and people with disabilities included: Mind-the-Gap training graduation Targets (%) for black employees, females and people with disabilities 2017 Category Actual 2015 (%) Actual 2016 (%) Actual 2017* (%) Black 83,0 84,2 85,12 Females (Group Leadership Team) 40,0 35,7 31,82 Females (General Managers) 43,0 44,3 44,88 Females (below General Managers) 26,4 27,5 27,73 People with disabilities 2,3 2,3 2,34 * Calculated using permanent headcount of 53 661 employees. Transnet has progressed in transforming its supplier base towards a B-BBEE supplier base with actual B-BBEE spend for 2017 amounting to R37 billion or 103,1% (2016: R43,5 billion or 100,6%) of total measurable procurement spend (TMPS) of R35,8 billion. In terms of the DTI Codes of Good Practice, Transnet’s B-BBEE spend in 2017 is as follows: • Black-owned enterprises – R12,20 billion (2016: R13,02 billion); • Qualifying small enterprises – R2,8 billion (2016: R3,04 billion); • Black women-owned enterprises – R4,6 billion (2016: • Black youth-owned enterprises – R127,34 million R4,22 billion); (2016: R741,52 million); and • Exempted micro-enterprises – R2,8 billion (2016: R2,34 billion); • People with disabilities – R1,30 million (2016: R46,73 million). 12 Top management comprises Group Executive and General Managers. 58 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 59 Our management approach Our performance Health and safety Transnet’s Safety, Health, Environment and Quality Policy guides Safety performance is measured against industry-recognised our approach to safety management. The policy outlines our indicators such as the disabling injury frequency rate (DIFR), approach to promoting a safe and healthy working environment for including fatalities, as well as loss incidents and derailments. Transnet activities that improve the physical and mental health, well-being and safety of its employees and the communities employees and creating a culture in which trained and competent Overall, there has been an increase in many of these categories within which it operates. employees strive towards excellence in service delivery through over the past year, and this is a concerning trend. ‘zero harm’ to self, colleagues and the environment. The Chief Corporate and Regulatory office is responsible for the Transnet’s DIFR for the past year remains at 0,69. On average, development, implementation and review of the policy. the ratio has been below 0,75 for the past five years. There were, however, 516 disabling injuries in 2017 (568 in 2016). In the past year, Transnet has further enhanced its safety management approach by focusing on Employee Leadership The following DIFR figures were recorded per Operating Division: Engagements (Visible Felt Leadership) where each Leadership Team member has been assigned operations where ongoing Freight Rail: 0,78 (2016: 0,86) engagements on safety take place. Engineering: 0,61 (2016: 0,45) National Ports Authority: 0,59 (2016: 0,63) Various policies are implemented to improve safety across the business. These include: Port Terminals: 0,71 (2016: 0,61) • Transnet Occupational Health Management Policy – to promote Pipelines: 0,37 (2016: 0,18) the physical, mental and social well-being of employees; • Integrated Emergency Management Service – all Operating Divisions share this service at common locations; Safety management remains a primary focus area for Transnet, • Integrated Security Management Strategy – to protect Transnet’s and the embedding of a safety culture within all Operating customers, employees, assets, income and infrastructure; Divisions is of critical importance to the Company. • Board of Inquiry Policy – to investigate all safety incidents deemed significant, resulting in formal findings and recommendations; • Employee Assistance Programme – provides psycho-social counselling services, education and awareness; The Seven Golden Safety Actions • Substance Abuse Policy – pronounces on Transnet’s zero-tolerance approach with procedures for testing and wellness support; and • HIV/Aids Management Policy – to manage HIV/Aids in the workplace. I will not perform unsafe work and 1 Why is it important to Transnet? put myself and others in danger. Transnet further implements internationally recognised safety 3 GOOD HEALTH The nature and scope of Transnet’s operations necessitate • Motor vehicle accidents caused by third parties affect management systems, including the Railway Safety Management I take responsibility for myself AND WELL-BEING a concerted effort in maintaining the highest standards of Transnet drivers; 2 system (ISO 3000), Quality Management system (ISO 9001), and my team. I don’t blame others. safety for our employees, contractors, business partners, • Level crossings pose the greatest risk to public safety Environmental Management systems (ISO 14001), Integrated customers and the general public. Transnet has to provide in our operations; and Occupational Health and Safety Management systems a safe and healthy working environment for all its If I don’t understand and if I have • Absenteeism among employees affects productivity. (OHSAS 18001) and the National Occupational Safety 3 a problem, I speak up and say so. stakeholders. Strict standard operating procedures are Association. These programmes are intended to continually implemented and strict adherence to these are advocated improve safety performance. Transnet’s most material issues with respect to health together with continuous programmes to instil a safety No matter what my level, and safety are: 4 mindset of ‘zero harm’ to self, colleagues, communities I contribute to improving safety. Safety audits are conducted annually to evaluate the and the environment. effectiveness of our policies, systems, procedures and guidelines. • Public safety at level crossings; I always prepare, check and • Non-adherence to standard operating procedures; and 5 Staff wellness is an important aspect of employees’ Safety training is conducted through the Transnet Academy report unsafe acts and conditions. well-being, impacting on efficiency and performance, safety • Absenteeism. Schools of Rail, Maritime, Pipelines and Security, and built into all and the cost of absenteeism if not managed effectively. functional and technical training. Awareness campaigns are The material outcome that Transnet aims to achieve is: 6 I rest well and work safely. conducted on a regular basis throughout the Company. The Safety Significant health and safety challenges exist across Culture Programme instils in all employees a safety mindset and the Company: • Improved quality of life of employees. commits every employee to Seven Golden Safety Actions. • New employees are unfamiliar with standard operating 7 I know the standard operating procedures and are not fully integrated into the safety With respect to staff wellness, training is conducted on stress procedures and safety rules, follow culture of Transnet; them and don’t take shortcuts. management, diversity management, personal finance and health. Staff wellness days are held on a regular basis to raise awareness. 60 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 61 The unreserved commitment by Transnet management and labour leadership is essential in leading, facilitating and demonstrating Key comparisons appropriate behaviour at all levels of the Company. To achieve this level of cultural entrenchment, it is important to make safety 2016 2017 One life too many awareness a conscious commitment in day-to-day operations. DIFR 0,69 0,69 In order to commemorate the loss of lives of our 15 colleagues during the year, employees gathered Case study Despite this commitment, the Company tragically reported Fatalities 8 15 on the 50th floor of the Carlton Centre in Johannesburg on 23 February 2017 to observe a moment 15 employees who were fatally injured during the year Public fatalities 97 82 of silence. (2016: eight employees), indicating that even greater efforts Level-crossing incidents 64 89 are required to ensure the Company improves its safety performance. The identification and mitigation of operational Running line 81 One hour work stoppages were observed across derailments 84 the Company. The Chief Corporate and risks, heightened leadership roles and the adoption of Integrated Management Systems are some of the key success factors in the Shunting 159 Regulatory Officer, Ms Disebo Moephuli, shared Company’s management approach. This emphasis on safety offers derailments 171 the circumstances of each facility (14 men and the Company an opportunity to analyse and review its current one woman) and the various safety challenges safety approach and efficacy, while proactively striving towards facing the Company were discussed. She stressed We deeply regret the loss of lives the importance of altering behaviours to achieve ‘zero harm’. A Company-wide consensus exists that employee and remember our colleagues: the ideal of ‘zero harm’ to all, and that all safety should be considered the highest operational priority and that safety efforts at all levels of the organisation should receive colleagues need to be the custodians of a safe the required support and commitment from management – 2016 and secure working environment. In the words of more specifically, line management, who carry the first-level our Group Chief Executive, Siyabonga Gama, 14 April Mr Café Johannes Kumalo “We must all commit with our hearts that we will accountability for safety performance. Disebo Moephuli, Chief be relentless in seeking to provide a secure work 15 April Mr Lwazi Ngcobo Corporate & Regulatory environment that is without calamity, loss or Public fatalities are 82 in 2017 compared to 97 in 2016. A large 31 May Mr Keith Poggenpoel Officer, addressing death. We must recommit to ‘zero harm’ in the number of these incidents are emanating from trespassing and Transnet employees 21 June Mr Orapeleng Goodboy Aukhweng workplace. We must stop and discuss nearencroachments of informal settlements in the railway reserve. misses. We must not allow a single one of our 18 August Mr Alexander Frederick Flemming Level-crossing incidents were 89 in 2017, up from 64 in 2016. peers to escape with experimenting on unsafe Freight Rail continues to collaborate with local municipalities, 3 September Mr Bhekizenzo Lloyd Mathe acts. Whatever our station in the workplace, schools, the South African Police Service and other stakeholders 3 September Ms Nombulelo Carol Mdingi we can all contribute towards recommitting to intensify Level Crossing Awareness Campaigns. The focus of the Transnet to a safe working culture.” campaigns is on communities that are around the rail network and 6 September Mr Nkosinathi Kenneth Mathobela to road travellers who are likely to cross the railway lines. Marking 15 September Mr Tebogo Petrus Phiri of level crossings, erecting signage and construction of pedestrian 21 December Mr Neo Ezekiel Oageng bridges are under way at various locations. Running line derailments decreased from 84 in 2016 to 81 in 2017. 2017 Shunting derailments decreased from 171 in 2016 to 159 in 2017. 11 January Mr Christopher Sauer With respect to staff wellness, there has been an increase in the 19 January Mr Adolph Dikobe Mogashoa unplanned absentee rate for the period under review, from 2,25% 27 January Mr Themba Jabulani Methula in 2016 to 2,96% in 2017. The change in leave policies may Safe & secure working 4 February Mr Steven Lategan have led to this increase. The sick absentee rate decreased Altering behaviours environment from 2,61% to 2,39% in 2017. Transnet continues to improve 18 February Mr Lindani Philip Sithole governance related to the management of attendance in order to curtail absenteeism. Material Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts Zero harm to all in activities the workplace Safety Leagues R1,6 • Six Internal Safety Leagues (ISL) Clubs • 84% job observations conducted • Safe working among Operating million (Freight Rail, Port Terminals, Pipelines) • 90% safety symposiums attendance rate environment. Divisions • 30 Golden Safety Leagues (GSL) Clubs • 81% shift meeting attendance rate • 24 Platinum Safety Leagues (PSL) Clubs • 84% safety practice slips issuing rate • Over 70% of employees are involved in • 89% breathalyser testing frequency rate the Leagues. • 95% return to work interviews compliance. 15 fatalities Employee R11,8 • 7 310 calls made to the EAP service • Increase in telephonic counselling • Improved Assistance million provider sessions performance Programme (EAP) • 2 981 telephonic counselling sessions. • Increase of face-to-face counselling and sessions. efficiency. 62 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 63 Our management approach • To integrate and align the Foundation with the MDS by implementing 75% of its initiatives in close proximity to Community development The year under review has seen a shift in the focus of the Transnet Transnet’s mega-projects; Foundation. Previously mandated to implement corporate social • To allocate at least 15% of the Foundation’s initiatives to investment (CSI) programmes with a national reach, the areas where there is a high socio-economic need that falls Transnet activities that measurably improve the economic, social, cultural and environmental well-being of communities Foundation’s focus has shifted to community development within outside the ambit of Transnet’s mega-projects; and within which it operates. the context of the MDS. The previous focus on health, socio• To improve external stakeholder perceptions and economic infrastructure and education will remain but evolve to relationships with communities. focus on and include communities located close to the megaprojects of Transnet’s capital expenditure. Closer collaboration between the Foundation and Operating Divisions, as well as Our performance Transnet’s Schools of Excellence, to enable an integrated approach towards community development will take place. Transnet’s total CSI spend for 2017 was R234 million. CSI spend contributed to the achievement of an overall B-BBEE score of Level 2. Altogether R197,1 million was spent on programmes and In line with the new strategic focus, key priorities for the R37,3 million on support functions. The total CSI spend includes Foundation include: external sponsorships/donations (R17,6 million), Transnet • To provide effective and efficient developmental initiatives employees’ directorship fees13 (R1,0 million) and the Transnet CSI in the health, education, employee volunteerism, sport and budget allocation (R215,2 million). socio-economic infrastructure sectors that will contribute towards improved quality of life for South African communities; • To provide primary healthcare services through the Phelophepa trains in communities affected by Transnet operations; 13 In terms of Transnet policy, employees serving as non-executive directors of other companies donate directorship fees to the Transnet Foundation. Why is it important to Transnet? 11 SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES Transnet’s activities take place in and around many South Expectations from the communities are high and we are faced African communities. The Company is committed through its with challenges in implementing programmes. Sourcing 3 ANDGOODWELL-BEING Transnet Foundation to improving the quality of life of these HEALTH suppliers from the communities is one such challenge where 10 REDUCED INEQUALITIES rural communities. The emphasis is on empowering those prospective suppliers are not adequately equipped to who are most vulnerable in areas of greatest need. By so provide the necessary services and/or supplier registration doing, we demonstrate our commitment to the creation of documents required. Ensuring that the developmental sustainable communities as espoused in the global SDGs programmes meet the diverse and ever-growing expectations and the developmental outcomes of the NDP. of the community is a significant challenge to the extent that it creates a positive relationship between Transnet and the Transnet’s social licence to operate finds expression through community. the socio-economic upliftment of the communities within which it operates. Our operations touch rural communities Transnet’s most material issue with respect to community situated along the rail network, near our ports and pipelines. development is: Initiatives take various forms, including localised procurement and localised employment, where feasible, • Measurably improving the quality of life of the enterprise development interventions, collaboration on communities within which Transnet operates. safety and the environment, and targeted investment in social services. The material outcome that Transnet aims to achieve is: • Improved physical and mental health, well-being and safety in communities. 64 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 65 Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts Phelophepa I and II trains R95,7 million • 173 016 patients • Improved access to primary • Impaired quality of life Orphaned Youth R14,2 million • 52 youth enrolled (39 high schools • Access to quality education for • Socioprovide primary healthcare received primary healthcare services for for rural communities. Education Development and 13 institutions of higher vulnerable youth economic services to communities healthcare communities Programme provides learning) • Improved academic performance upliftment of along the rail network. During • 438 807 individuals • Improved health status of education for vulnerable youth. • 100% pass rate for 39 youth in • Improved quality of life. the year under review, the received services the beneficiaries resulting youth. high schools in 2016 trains visited communities through community from the presence of train in the Northern Cape, • 95% pass rate for 13 youth in outreach services • Increased opportunities for Western Cape, Eastern Cape, institutions of higher learning • 1 624 student medical students to receive Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, in 2016. placements. experiential training. Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the North West. Teacher Development R2,2 million • Six teacher interns. • Improved teacher performance • Improved and mentorship of in maths and science. quality of Socio-economic R5,0 million • 43 976 beneficiaries: • Increase in beneficiaries • Access to basic services teacher interns in maths • Improved academic performance education. Infrastructure Development Social services receiving social services for rural communities and science. of students in maths and science. converts old freight • 1 588 beneficiaries: • Increase in beneficiaries • Meeting basic needs of containers into community Police services receiving skills rural communities. SAFA/Transnet School R18,5 million • 120 learners enrolled in 2016 • Improved footballing skills • Improved centres, police stations and development through • 497 beneficiaries: of Excellence to develop • Improved academic performance quality of life school clinics. ABET programme • 100% matric pass rate Home Affairs services youth footballing • Improved quality of life. • Socio• Increase in destitute potential. • 20 graduates participating in economic • 201 beneficiaries: families receiving food provincial/national sporting codes. Adult Basic Education upliftment of distribution. youth. and Training (ABET) programme • 1 369 destitute • Improved families benefited Rural and Farm Schools R14,6 million • 100 000 learners participated • Improved sporting skills Development to discover in 2016 • Improved academic performance quality of life from food distribution sporting talent and • 1 200 graduates participating • Improved quality of life. • Socioprogramme. nurture it to the highest in provincial/national sporting economic Teenage Health provides R20,4 million • 9 105 teenage girls • Reduced absenteeism of • Improved quality of life possible level. codes. upliftment of menstrual health and teenage girls from school for teenage girls youth. • 2 845 boys benefited hygiene management, health from the teenage • Improved academic • Improved quality of life Employee volunteers R16,7 million • 3 216 employees volunteered • Improved quality of life for • Improved education and menstrual health programme. performance for teenage boys. in communities that during the year beneficiary communities quality of cups to teenage girls. • Improved quality of life. Transnet operates in. • Youth empowerment life for rural • 360 youth received coaching and communities career advice through the Youth • Skills transfer (administrative, Empowerment programme business and governance) to • Sociocommunities economic • 15 NGOs received business skills upliftment of training through the Civil Society • Sustainable communities. communities. Development programme • 300 employee volunteers participated in rehabilitation of five schools in Uitenhage, Eikenhof, Mamelodi, Elsies River and Nyanga during annual Mandela Day. Heritage preservation of R9,8 million • Three Freight Rail locomotives • Preservation of heritage assets. • Educating heritage assets. transferred to Foundation • Tourism attractions society on heritage. • Five locomotives relocated to • Education on heritage assets for Bloemfontein storage facility schools and the community. • Four heritage objects (vintage steam boiler, water pump, tamping and levelling machine, model steam locomotive) restored at the Transnet Transport Museum, George • 800 learners visited the Transnet Transport Museum, George, during Heritage Awareness Campaign • The Transnet Transport Museum, George, received a Certificate of Excellence from Trip Adviser for the third consecutive year, based on client feedback. 66 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 67 Transnet Phelophepa health train to reach 12 million patients Transnet CSI initiatives across South Africa At the end of September 2016, Transnet’s Phelophepa trains reached their 12 millionth patient since Figure 13 Figure 14 inception in 1994. Transnet’s so-called ‘Trains of Hope’ provide primary healthcare services to previously disadvantaged communities in remote rural areas throughout South Africa. The trains target those communities that would otherwise not have access to such facilities. Sport Phelophepa I started in 1994 and Phelophepa II was launched in 2012. Both trains reach close to Portfolio 400 000 patients per annum. Healthcare services include: on-board primary healthcare; dental and optometry screening programmes; basic health education courses; psychological care; and community counselling workshops. Phelophepa I and II operate simultaneously and have a staff complement of 40 permanent employees each, complemented by a team of 40 volunteer students who are rotated on Muswodi Grants and Makhado a two-weekly basis. These students are in healthcare disciplines in various universities in South Africa and abroad. Approximately 90% of the staff have come through this training pipeline, while the LIMPOPO Donations Mokerong Ga-Dikgale Koloti remainder have been absorbed into the broader healthcare industry. Tzaneen Polokwane Mookgophong Mokopane Jane Furse Kgwana GaMasemola Both trains were built and are maintained at Engineering, Transnet’s manufacturing and engineering Burgersfort Groblersdal Ireagh division. The success of the trains is underpinned by collaborations with key strategic partners in the Moses Kotane Denilton Acornhoek Mkhulu public and private sectors, namely Roche, Colgate-Palmolive Foundation, 3M, and American and Swiss Kgabalatsane Pretoria Socio-economic Infrastructure Nelspruit Mahikeng Waterval Boven Friends of Phelophepa. These trains provide a blueprint of workable private-public partnerships while Itsoseng Johannesburg Mgobodi NORTH WEST Koster advancing South Africa’s developmental objectives. GAUTENG Springs Gert Sibande Delareyville Vryburg Khuma MPUMALANGA Piet Retief Klerksdorp Koppies Driefontein Schweizer Bothaville Development Programme Taung Kroonstad Reneke Kuruman Welkom Paulpieterburg Blikfontein Jan Kempdorp Dundee Ulundi Mtubatuba Upington FREE STATE Bethlehem Tshiame Pomeroy Keimoes Kimberley Ladysmith Mambuka Ficksburg Mooirivier Bloemfontain Lions River Richards Bay Pietermaritzburg Ndwedwe Prieska Douglas Thaba Nchu NORTHERN CAPE Impendle Pinetown Durban Donkerhoek KWAZULU-NATAL De Aar Brandvlei Port Shepstone Education Burgersdorp Mkapusi Portfolio Tsolo Queenstown Lady Frere Qunu EASTERN CAPE Beaufort West Mbutye Elands Bay Alice King Williams Town Middle Drift Dimbaza Saldanha Vredenburg WESTERN CAPE Willowmore Touwsrivier Grahamstown EVP: Employee Port Elizabeth Cape Town Swellendam George Ashton Grabouw Mossel Bay Caledon Volunteer Programme Health Portfolio 68 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 69 Energy supply and use The risk comprises a number of elements: • Risk to customers’ production and investments and Environmental stewardship 7 CLEAN AFFORDABLE AND ENERGY In recent years, South Africa experienced electricity supply subdued demand for logistics services due to low levels constraints with operating reserve margins well below acceptable of economic growth; levels. Due to the global economic downturn, demand for • Risk to Transnet capital projects costs arising from Transnet activities that enhance the natural environment’s capacity to meet the resource needs of future generations electricity in South Africa has declined. The availability of Eskom being unable to fund upgrades to some of its electricity has improved considerably over the past few months as transmission sub-stations; units from Medupi and Inqula power stations came on line, adding • Risk to Transnet’s capacity upgrade timelines arising additional capacity to the power grid. from the limits on available power constraining freight volume growth and effectively deferring returns on Transnet is an energy-intensive business; the primary source of invested capital; energy (58%) comes from electricity generated by Eskom, with • Risk to volume and revenue growth on existing routes coal being the primary source of fuel. Diesel fuel constitutes 33% due to transmission constraints; and of the total energy used. The remainder of energy sources constitute distillate fuel oil, petrol and other sources. Freight Rail • Electricity pricing risk with above-inflation annual consumes more than 70% of Transnet’s total electricity and fuel increases, and uncertainty as to whether Eskom’s carbon consumption. In 2017, energy constituted 16,9% of Transnet’s tax will be passed on to customers from 2018. total operating cost. Although the electricity improved and stabilised in the latter part of 2016, constrained capacity in recent years has deemed electricity supply to remain a strategic risk for Transnet. Why is it important to Transnet? Environmental stewardship is necessary to ensure Currently, Transnet’s most material issues with respect to sustainable growth and development. Access to affordable environmental stewardship are: and sustainable energy for all; combating climate change; availability and sustainable management of water for all; • Energy supply and use; and a halt to biodiversity loss are prioritised by the • Modal shift from road to rail; global SDGs. South Africa’s NDP further emphasises the • Water stewardship; need to protect and enhance environmental assets and • Waste management; natural resources. • Biodiversity enhancement; and • Incidents management. Transnet’s environmental stewardship commitment goes beyond compliance with environmental law. It is our undertaking to become a corporate leader in enabling the Other areas of environmental stewardship in the Company planet’s natural resources to support the well-being of future are climate-change adaptation, and land-use management. generations. To this end, energy and water use are our two The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: most significant impacts to the environment, and Transnet has made the management thereof the focus of its • Improved energy efficiency; environmental stewardship initiatives. • Reduced carbon emissions; • Improved water management; • Improved waste management; and • Improved protection and restoration of natural habitats. 70 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 71 Our management approach Our performance Total electricity consumption 2017 (MWh) Energy efficiency 2017 (ton/GJ) Transnet’s Energy Policy outlines the Company’s commitments that: Transnet’s total electricity consumption for 2017 was • Energy consumption is proactively managed; 3 207 544 MWh, down 1,7% from 3 262 509 MWh in 2016. • Energy efficiency improves; Since 2012 when energy-efficiency measures were instituted • Greenhouse gas emissions decline; in Transnet, total electricity consumption has decreased by 2016 18,6 2016 3 262 750 16% from 3 798 908 MWh. • Energy costs are reduced; and 2017 18,9 • Energy security improves. 2017 3 207 544 Transnet’s total fuel consumption for 2017 was 238,9 megalitres, a 2,8% increase from 232,5 megalitres in 2016. This can be Natural gas has been identified as a viable alternative energy source both for the country and potentially for Transnet. Transnet attributed to a 13% increase in traction diesel volumes moved. Variance 1,2% is advancing plans to establish independently managed, midstream, Variance 1,7% Altogether 74% of electricity in 2017 was used for Freight Rail multi-user, gas transmission networks of integrated port and traction12, and the remainder in Transnet’s properties, ports, pipeline infrastructure in partnership with the private sector. pipelines and engineering operations. Carbon emission intensity 2017 (kgCO2e/ton) The initial focus is on unlocking the natural gas transmission Total fuel consumption 2017 (Litres) potential of Transnet’s pipelines between KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng Of the total fuel consumption figure: altogether 73% was used for to expedite and anchor the establishment of liquefied natural gas Freight Rail diesel traction13, 9% on road vehicles, 12% on import terminal facilities in the Port of Richards Bay. The Transnet home-based fuel and 4% on marine diesel. 2016 10,59 Natural Gas Networks Strategy is designed to service industrial gas demand in the KwaZulu-Natal/Gauteng corridor and support 2016 232 406 116 Energy efficiency improved by 1,2% in 2017 compared to 2016, 2017 10,34 Government’s planned introduction of gas power generation. 2017 measured as tons/GJ. 238 948 240 The following initiatives are under way: Transnet recorded a decrease of 1% in carbon emissions in • A review of the Energy and Carbon Strategy to account for 2017 from 3,99 mtCO2e in 2016 to 3,95 mtCO2e. Freight Rail Variance 2,3% the implications of the 4th Industrial Revolution and the ramifications of the Paris commitment on climate change; Variance 2,8% is responsible for more than 80% of the total emissions. • The ISO 50001 energy management system is currently being 12 Freight Rail traction refers to the use of electrical locomotives to move With respect to overall carbon emissions intensity, Transnet freight volumes. implemented across the business. An ISO 50001 forum provides recorded an overall 2,3% reduction from 2016, due to a 1,5% a community of practice to facilitate the implementation Electricity distribution 2017 (%) 13 Freight Rail traction diesel power refers to the use of diesel locomotives increase in volumes from 2016. to move freight volumes. towards certification; • Guidelines have been established for energy specifications Freight Rail Traction 73% in Transnet procurement (especially for locomotives and port Freight Rail Real Estate 7% Electricity efficiency performance 2017 equipment) and capital projects lifecycle management; 2017 Transnet Property 2% (%) Engineering 4% Energy-efficiency gain on • Energy-efficiency initiatives continue to be implemented Operating Division Measurement Actual 2016 Actual 2017 National Ports Authority 1% previous year across the Company; and Pipelines 7% • The R&D unit in Engineering is investigating alternative Freight Rail Traction gtk/kWh 68,4 65,4 (4,3%) Port Terminals 7% energy technologies, including regenerative braking energy storage systems. Freight Rail Real Estate kWh 218 889 801 208 680 615 (5%) Fuel distribution 2017 (%) Freight Rail’s energy management initiatives include: investigating Transnet Property kWh 67 071 119 66 320 249 (1,0%) locomotive driver training to improve energy efficiency; optimising regenerative braking and configuration of trains; and Pipelines Mℓkm/MWh 37,0 36,8 (1,0%) reducing locomotive idling. Freight Rail has an Energy Efficiency Traction 74% Port Terminals Ton/kWh 0,7 0,7 2,0% Forum which monitors its electricity and fuel performance, 2017 (%) Stationary 12% investigates and evaluates energy-efficiency initiatives, and On road 9% National Ports Authority Employee/MWh 1,5 1,4 (4,0%) oversees all energy management systems. Marine diesel 4% Jet fuel 0,2% Engineering man-hour/MWh 220,3 250,5 14% Freight Rail’s new class 19E, 15E, 20E and 21E electric locomotives with regenerative capabilities have contributed to reducing electricity consumption. The regenerated Key electricity is partly used in our own network and excess Fuel efficiency performance 2017 Improvement on prior year performance electricity is transmitted back into the Eskom grid. A total of Energy-efficiency gain on Decline on prior year performance Operating Division Measurement Actual 2016 Actual 2017 242 788 MWh of electricity was regenerated by these previous year Equivalent performance to prior year locomotives in 2017. Target achieved Freight Rail Traction gtk/litre 192,7 207,9 8,0% Transnet reports the Company’s scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions Target partially achieved annually in the global Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), using Target not achieved Port Terminals ton/litre 5,8 5,5 (5,0%) international standards for disclosure. Transnet scored a ‘B’ on the overall performance rating in 2016. Engineering man-hour/litre 16,0 10,1 (37,0%) 72 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 73 Modal shift from road to rail Water stewardship Mitigation of emissions in the global mobility system requires shifting transportation to the most energy-efficient mode. Road-to-rail is 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION Water has for the third consecutive year been identified as one of the top-10 global risks in terms of impact and certainty by the World accepted as a keystone initiative to be driven from a country level. In South Africa, accelerating modal shift from road to rail is included in Economic Forum14. South Africa is a water-scarce country and our freshwater resources are being threatened, exacerbated by the current the Minister of Public Enterprises’ Statement of Strategic Intent (SSI). Government’s National Climate Change Response White Paper, 2011, drought. Given the current water constraints and Transnet’s national footprint, the Company is exposed to this risk as a number of its identifies a modal shift from road to rail as a flagship carbon mitigation programme for South Africa. Transnet continues to support the operations are located in water-stressed catchments. Access to water remains a challenge for Transnet and, as such, is one of the national carbon mitigation programme through collaboration to reduce emissions in the South African transport sector. Company’s top-10 strategic risks. Transnet’s water usage includes: human consumption; sanitation and hygiene; equipment operation; ballast; foundries; washing containers, Our management approach Carbon mitigation results wagons and locomotives; dust suppression; and gardening/landscape irrigation. Insufficient access to clean water can significantly disrupt from road-to-rail gains for 2017 operations, increase costs and curtail growth. As the owner and operator of the country’s rail freight network, Transnet has committed to increasing rail market share and to Carbon The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: demonstrate the carbon emissions saving achieved annually Commodity Volume gains emissions through its growing market share. groups (tons) savings • Reduced water consumption; • Reduced quantity of water discharged; (tCO2e) • Improved water efficiency; • Improved quality of water discharged; The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: Agriculture and • Reduced stress on natural water resources; • Increased water recycled and reused; 678 606 39 412 Bulk Liquids • Reduced water costs; • Increased security of water supply; and • Improved energy efficiency; and • Reduced water loss; • Protection of water resources. • Reduced carbon emissions in the transport sector. Coal 6 153 259 270 603 Our performance Containers and 685 568 55 310 Transnet continues to engage with public and private stakeholders Automotive Our management approach in key water-stressed areas aimed at collaboratively developing Iron Ore and solutions for business, Government and communities. We are Freight Rail continues to make a meaningful contribution 815 302 95 838 further committed to continue participating in the CDP: Water Manganese Transnet’s strategic objectives on water use are to the reduction in carbon emissions in the South African in 2017. Mineral Mining as follows: transport sector. In 2017, Freight Rail gained market share 1 539 091 110 034 and Chrome • Promote the adoption of sustainable water use and in a number of commodity groups where there is strong management practices throughout the business; competition with road hauliers. This rail tonnage gain amounts Our performance Steel and Cement 819 248 69 954 • Improve water efficiency; to ‘volumes off road’. The carbon emissions savings in road-to-rail volume gains in 2017 amount to 637 152 tCO2e. • Ensure water efficiency is integral to procurement and Delays in issuing water-use licences remain a challenge. Transnet The emissions savings are dependent on the distance travelled TOTAL 10 691 074 637 152 decision-making; continues to engage the Department of Water and Sanitation with as opposed to the volumes gained – there is no correlation • Improve the quality and reduce the quantity of wastewater the aim of establishing a bilateral agreement to streamline the between the volumes gained and the emissions saved. discharge; process. The engagements have yielded positive results, and in • Encourage reuse and recycling of water; 2017 all water-use licences on the critical path for infrastructure • Promote water accounting; development were received from the Department of Water and • Improve data management and increase understanding of Sanitation. Transnet remains committed to managing water water use; efficiently by implementing comprehensive water management programmes aligned with water-use licence commitments. We also • Account for changes in water performance; and continue to identify opportunities to improve water use in all our • Promote water conservation and stewardship. Operating Divisions. The objectives follow on from the baseline water assessment that Transnet is committed to investigating alternative water sources. was conducted in 2015 to assess the Company’s water use. From The current water crisis experienced in KwaZulu-Natal has this assessment a Water Stewardship Strategy was developed prompted the Company to tap into underutilised underground which translated into the strategic objectives, for implementation. water from a borehole at the Port of Richards Bay, to reduce the water supply risk. Large volumes of water are used at the port for In 2016, Transnet undertook a water risk and opportunities dust suppression, woodchip compaction and cleaning of conveyor assessment in order to understand the impact of water scarcity systems that transport the bulk cargo. The borehole water is used on the business in the short, medium and long term. The results to top up the water reclamation plant, which recycles water from were published in the Sustainability Risk and Opportunities the galleries. Assessment: Trends and Innovation Report, 2016. The mitigation measures and opportunities are being investigated further. 14 ‘Global Risks Report 2017’, World Economic Forum, 2016. 74 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 75 Operating Divisions’ performance 2017 Pipeline spills 2017 Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts Location Product Volume (l) Cause Remediation National Ports Authority (Port of East London) 19 July 2016 Installation of bulk water • Water meters • Sustainable management Mariannhill, Crude oil Unknown Third party Complete R172 000 • Improved water accounting. Pinetown meters installed. of water. • Reduced water loss • Sustainable management Fixing water leaks R128 000 • Leaks fixed. • Reduced water costs. of water. Operating Divisions’ performance 2017 Installing ring main system • Reduced water loss • Sustainable management R150 000 • Valves replaced. and replacing valves • Reduced water costs. of water. Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts • Improved water • 150 employees Human management awareness, • Sustainable management Freight Rail Awareness and training trained in water resources facilitating behavioural of water. monitoring. change. • Sustainable waste • 32 752 absorbent Hydrocarbon Elimination • Reduced hydrocarbon management that R11 000 000 mats laid on Programme 1 contamination. minimises harm to staging areas. the environment. Waste management • 16 sites sampled • Sustainable waste Hydrocarbon Elimination and assessed • Reduced hydrocarbon management that Transnet’s day-to-day operations generate a variety of waste streams. It is important that this waste is managed in a manner that meets Programme 2 R1 500 000 for historical contamination. minimises harm to the requirements of the law and minimises harm to the environment. contamination. the environment. The material outcomes that Transnet aims to achieve are: • Reduced number of • Sustainable waste Asbestos Remediation and • 35 tons asbestos management that R1 139 095 asbestos contaminated Rehabilitation removed. minimises harm to sites. the environment. • Increase in waste diverted from landfill through waste reduction and recycling; • Increase revenue through waste recycling activities; and • 26 101,69 tons • Sustainable waste • Improve waste management practices. ferrous and • R67 010 652 revenue management that Scrap Metals Reclamation Management cost non-ferrous scrap generated. minimises harm to Transnet continues to manage the quality and quantity of effluent metal sold. the environment. Our management approach discharged by implementing effluent monitoring programmes at all effluent discharge points and treatment plants across the • Sustainable waste Waste optimisation drives Transnet’s management approach to • 1 200ℓ used oil management that business. The Company has acquired the relevant permits and Used Oil Reclamation Management cost • R631,58 revenue generated. waste. The Company strives to implement the principles of waste sold. minimises harm to licences, ensuring that discharge meets the compliance the environment. management, namely avoidance, reduction, recovery, reuse, requirements contained therein. recycling and disposal, if no other use can be found. • Sustainable waste Waste Recycling • 118,7 tons waste • Improved waste management that Our performance Management cost In accordance with the requirements of section 36 of the National (Inyanda Precinct) recycled. management practices. minimises harm to the environment. Environmental Management: Waste Act, No 59 of 2008, Transnet A total of R70 881 022 in revenue was generated mainly through has identified contaminated areas throughout our operations, National Ports Authority the recovery of scrap metal, oil and rubber. The revenue generated using scientific methods and visual assessment based on the is lower than the R87 775 002 reported in 2016 owing to the • Sustainable waste knowledge of site activities or historic information. Management • Reduced number of current operating environment and unfavourable economic Asbestos Remediation and • 2,3 tons asbestos management that plans have been developed for the hydrocarbon-contaminated R102 808 asbestos contaminated conditions. Transnet continues to investigate other waste Rehabilitation removed. minimises harm to areas, and Transnet has received remediation orders and sites. the environment. optimisation opportunities. instituted clean-up of the contaminated sites. • Sustainable waste Galley Waste Management • 149 tons galley • Improved waste management that Transnet acknowledges that historic asbestos contamination R1 452 651 (Port of Durban) waste removed. management practices. minimises harm to requires a more integrated, cohesive and collaborative approach. the environment. Transnet has initiated engagements with the Department of Mineral Resources for possible collaboration with respect to Industrial Waste • 1 647,4 tons • Sustainable waste • Improved waste management that asbestos remediation and rehabilitation. A Company-wide Management R1 903 035 industrial management practices. minimises harm to remediation and rehabilitation approach under this collaboration (Port of Durban) waste generated. the environment. is being developed and is planned for implementation from 2018. Transnet continues with ad hoc clean-up efforts of Port Terminals contaminated areas where the asbestos exposure risk interferes • 17 283,47 tons • Sustainable waste with operations, employees and the public. A total of 37,3 tons • R3 869 738 revenue Asbestos Remediation and waste generated management that of asbestos waste was removed in 2017. R11 093 321 generated Rehabilitation • 662 766,6 tons minimises harm to • Waste diverted from landfill. the environment. waste recycled. 76 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 77 Biodiversity enhancement Mainstreaming biodiversity into business Environmental legal compliance In 2014, Transnet invested R74 million in a joint venture with Transnet’s operations traverse diverse ecosystems. Transnet seeks to avoid, minimise and mitigate the impacts arising from its operations In order to effectively manage environmental legal compliance the Sol Plaatjie municipality to protect the flamingoes at and, where possible, restore the environment to maintain healthy ecosystem services for the future well-being of all South Africans. and reputational risk, Transnet established a bilateral relationship Kamfersdam, Kimberley. Flooding at Kamfersdam due to with the Department of Environmental Affairs to facilitate excess water from the Sol Plaatjie municipality wastewater environmental authorisations and closure of significant treatment plant was impacting the railway line, as well as Our management approach Our performance environmental incidents. To date, 73% of environmental impact threatening the breeding space of the Kamfersdam assessment applications are on track with no risk to delays flamingoes. The project involved upgrading the railway line Transnet’s approach to biodiversity is one of mainstreaming into Transnet continued to map biodiversity hotspots anticipated, while 76% of significant incidents have been closed. and constructing a pipeline from the municipality’s Langleg business operations. This is achieved by adopting designs and against existing and future operations to ensure ecological Pan to the Vaal River to pump the excess water. At the end methodologies with high potential to minimise impact on sustainability of our infrastructure during 2017. During 2016, In 2017, Transnet recorded 13 significant incidents, which are of March 2017, 3 718 913,36 kℓ of water was pumped from biodiversity at early stages of the capital infrastructure Transnet undertook a biodiversity enhancement risk and already being tracked under the bilateral agreement. These Langleg Pan into the Vaal River and the breeding space of programme and throughout the operational phases of each opportunity assessment which enabled the Company to identify incidents include spills from our pipeline and incidents occurring the flamingoes restored. project. Transnet also undertakes strategic impact assessments trends, risks and dependencies of biodiversity on our operations. due to derailments. This is a 13% improvement from 2016 where for its projects in order to inform implementation strategies, The mitigation measures and opportunities identified are being 15 significant incidents were reported, and 61% improvement more specifically, the design and prioritisation of developments investigated further. 13 CLIMATE ACTION Preserving the ports marine environment from 2015 where 26 such incidents were reported. Remediation in environmentally sensitive areas. Transnet has developed a marine water quality and ecological measures are under way. Transnet has not received any monitoring programme across all ports to maintain the section 24G fines under the National Environmental Management The material outcome that Transnet aims to achieve is: long-term ecological sustainability of marine life. The Act, No 107 of 1998, for the year under review and we continue to programme assists in better controls where pollution has engage with the relevant authorities to resolve historical legal • Improve protection and restoration of natural habitats. caused deterioration in marine life. There has been an increase contraventions. in recent years in pollution that emanates from urbanised catchment areas. Transnet has forged a working relationship Transnet also maintains an environmental regulatory universe with the Department of Environmental Affairs, and an to ensure compliance with relevant regulatory obligations and Operating Divisions’ performance 2017 Estuarine Management Plan for the Port of Durban was monitor regulatory changes that may impact the Company’s developed and gazetted in September 2016. Plans for business. Material activities Inputs Outputs Material outcomes Impacts developing such plans for all ports are currently under way. ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management Systems Freight Rail Transnet aims to implement best practice in the management of Climate change adaptation its operations. As such, the Company embarked on an ISO 14001: • 3 054,49 hectares Environmental Management System (EMS) certification process. Climate change impacts are beginning to be observed across Invasive Alien Plants land cleared of • Increased habitats • Preventing biodiversity To date, 95% of business operations have certification. The Port R5 546 394 South Africa. Increased frequency and severity of extreme Eradication Project alien invasive protected. loss. of Cape Town lost its certification, two of Freight Rail’s business vegetation. weather events, changes in rainfall patterns and increased units are awaiting re-certification, while the Port of Mossel Bay temperatures have been experienced in 2016. Transnet has begun is not certified. National Ports Authority assessing where, how and to what degree climate change will impact our operations, and what measures can be taken to limit In order to continually improve environmental performance, Port of Richards Bay • 335,5 hectares vulnerability. An adaptation roadmap has been developed and an Transnet has committed to transition from ISO 14001: 2004 EMS Invasive Alien Plants land cleared of • Increased habitats • Preventing biodiversity adaptation plan is being implemented. Adaptation measures to R435 239 to ISO 14001: 2015 EMS by September 2018. A gap analysis is Eradication Project alien invasive protected. loss. ensure resilience and provide incremental transitions are being vegetation. currently under way and all business units due for re-certification investigated, as well as assessments of upstream and downstream in 2017/18 will be certified in line with the requirements of the market risks and opportunities. The next phase will focus on • 9,7 hectares ISO 14001: 2015 EMS. Port of East London assessments of risks, impacts and vulnerabilities to current and land cleared of • Preventing biodiversity Invasive Alien Plants R321 929 • Reduced invasive species. planned operations, property and infrastructure. alien invasive loss. Eradication Project vegetation. Transnet is collaborating with the relevant authorities on aligning Pipelines with a National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy. • 150 indigenous Biodiversity trees planted in 25 • Improved biodiversity • Preventing biodiversity Enhancement R30 000 schools/day-care enhancement awareness. loss. Programme centres. 78 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 79 ANNEXURE A Assurance statement Skills development We refer to the above information as the “selected sustainability Summary of work performed • Total spend on skills development (Page 35); information for reasonable assurance” where reasonable Independent Assurance Report on Selected assurance will be obtained and “selected sustainability Reasonable assurance • Actual number of bursars on the Transnet training and Sustainability Information information for limited assurance” where limited assurance will Our work for reasonable assurance subject matter information engineering bursary programme (Page 35); and Independent assurance provider’s report to the Directors of be obtained and collectively as the “selected sustainability included examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the • Actual number of training participants per category Transnet on selected subject matter Information disclosed in the information”. selected sustainability information. It also included an for 2016/2017. (Page 35). Sustainability Report prepared in accordance with the Transnet assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by reporting criteria. We have not conducted any work outside of the agreed the directors in the preparation of the selected sustainability Industrial capability building aforementioned scope and therefore restrict our opinion to the information. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain • Research and Development Spend (Page 39); and selected sustainability information expressly mentioned above. all the information and explanations that we considered necessary Introduction • Transnet 1 064 locomotive contract value (Page 39). in order to provide us with sufficient evidence on which to base We (SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc.) have been engaged to perform our conclusion in respect of the selected sustainability an independent assurance engagement for Transnet SOC Ltd Transnet reporting criteria information. (Transnet) on selected subject matter information reported in Regional integration The subject matter information is measured or evaluated against Transnet’s Sustainability Report (SR) set out on pages 1 to 77 • Total cross-border revenue for 2016/2017 (Page 51). the Transnet reporting criteria. These criteria are available in the Our work included examination, on a test basis, of evidence for the year ended 31 March 2017 and express a conclusion on SR Annexure B on page 82. The Transnet reporting criteria are relevant to the selected sustainability information. It also the selected subject matter information. consistent with the prior period. included an assessment of the significant estimates and Transformation judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the We provided limited and reasonable assurance based on the • Employment equity: Black employees, women and people with selected sustainability information. We planned and performed nature of the sustainability subject matter outlined under “Subject disabilities as a percentage of the workforce for 2016/2017. Directors’ responsibilities our work so as to obtain all the information and explanations that matter and assurance” in this report. This report is produced in (Page 56); The directors are responsible for the selection, preparation and we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient accordance with the terms of engagement with Transnet. • Employment equity: Black employees per occupational level and presentation of the sustainability information in accordance with evidence on which to base our conclusion in respect of the female employees per occupational level actuals 2016/2017 the criteria set out on page 82 (Annexure B) of the Sustainability selected sustainability information. (Page 56); Report collectively referred to as the “Transnet reporting criteria”. Independence, expertise and quality control • Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Policy (Page 56); This responsibility includes the identification of the reporting Our procedures included the understanding of risk assessment We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional criteria and stakeholder requirements, determination of material and procedures, internal control, and the procedures performed in Accountants issued by the International Federation of issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability • Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Spend (Page 56). response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed Accountants (IFAC), which includes comprehensive independence performance and for the design, implementation and maintenance were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of of internal control systems from which the reported information observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, Health and safety is derived, to ensure that the preparation of the report is free analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our engagement was • Safety statistics – DIFR rate for Transnet (Page 59); from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. quantification methods and reporting policies, and agreeing conducted by a multi-disciplinary team of health, safety, social, • Safety statistics – DIFR rate per Operating Division (Page 59); or reconciling with underlying records. environmental and assurance specialists with extensive and experience in sustainability reporting. Our responsibility • Percentage change in unplanned absenteeism (Page 60). Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing Our responsibility is to form an independent conclusion, based on the procedures listed above we: We maintain a comprehensive system of quality control in terms our reasonable assurance procedures, on whether the selected • Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain of ISQC 1, including documented policies and procedures Community development sustainability information for reasonable assurance has been an understanding of the internal control environment, risk regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional • CSI Spend per programme. (Page 63); and prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the assessment process and information systems relevant to standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. reporting criteria. • Total CSI spend. (Page 63). the sustainability reporting process; • Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements We further have a responsibility to form an independent Subject matter and assurance obtained from management and senior executives in our Environmental stewardship conclusion, based on our limited assurance procedures, on interviews; Reasonable assurance • Total electricity consumption for the 2016/2017 year (MWh) whether anything has come to our attention to indicate that the selected sustainability information for limited assurance has not • Reviewed the process that Transnet has in place for determining The following selected sustainability subject matter in the SR (Page 70); been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the material selected key performance indicators to be included in was selected for an expression of reasonable assurance: • Electricity distribution (MWh) (Page 70); reporting criteria. the report; • Total fuel consumption (Litres) (Page 70); • Applying the assurance criteria in evaluating the data • Fuel distribution (Litres) (Page 70); Energy efficiencies. generation and reporting processes; Ethics We conducted our reasonable and limited assurance engagement (Efficiency rates) ( Page 71); • Reported incidents of irregularities: Investigations in progress, in accordance with International Standard on Assurance • Tested the processes and systems to generate, collate, • Scope 1 and 2 emissions (Page 71); and aggregate, monitor and report on the selected key performance total unfounded, total founded and total allegations (Number of Engagements: Assurance Engagements other than Audits and • Carbon emissions intensity for 2017 (Page 70). Reviews of Historical Financial Information Revised (ISAE 3000) indicators; allegations) (Page 25). and in respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International • Performed a controls walkthrough; Limited assurance Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410: Assurance • Inspected supporting documentation on a sample basis and Employment Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (ISAE3410), issued The following selected sustainability subject matter in the SR was performed analytical procedures to evaluate the data generation • Transnet total headcount of employees for 2016/2017 yearby the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. and reporting processes against the reporting criteria; selected for an expression of limited assurance: end (Number of employees) (Page 31); and These standards require that we comply with ethical requirements • Stakeholder Engagement Policy and Process Control Framework • Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of • Gross value-add from capital and operating expenditure (Page 31). and that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain significant estimates and judgements made by management in (Page 26). either reasonable or limited assurance on the selected the preparation of the key performance indicators; sustainability information as per the terms of our engagement. 80 ANNEXURE A continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 81 • Apart from Head Office, we undertook visits to Transnet Freight A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope Other matters Rail, Transnet Engineering, Transnet Pipelines, Transnet Port than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 Our report does not extend to any disclosures or assertions Terminals; and (Revised), hence the procedures performed in a limited assurance relating to future performance plans and/or strategies disclosed • Evaluated whether the selected key performance indicators engagement vary in nature, timing and extent from a reasonable in the SR. presented in the Report is consistent with our overall assurance engagement. The procedures for gathering sufficient knowledge and experience of sustainability management and appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a The maintenance and integrity of Transnet’s website is the performance at Transnet. reasonable assurance engagement and, therefore, less assurance responsibility of Transnet’s management. Our procedures did not is obtained with a limited assurance engagement than in respect involve consideration of these matters and accordingly we accept The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including the of a reasonable assurance engagement. no responsibility for any changes to either the information in the assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the selected SR or our independent assurance report that may have occurred sustainability information, whether due to fraud or error. In The procedures selected depend on our judgement, including since the initial date of presentation on the Transnet website. making those risk assessments we consider internal control the assessment of the risk of material misstatement of the relevant to the Company’s preparation of the selected selected sustainability information whether due to fraud or error. sustainability information in order to design procedures that are In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control Restriction of liability appropriate in the circumstances. relevant to the Company’s preparation of the selected Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the sustainability information in order to design procedures that conclusions on the selected sustainability information to We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and are appropriate in the circumstances. the Directors of Transnet in accordance with the terms of our appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. engagement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient permitted by law, we do not accept or assume liability to any and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusions. Limited assurance party other than Transnet, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have reached, save where terms are expressly Our work included examination, on a test basis, of evidence Inherent limitations agreed and with our prior consent in writing. relevant to the selected sustainability information. It also included an assessment of the significant judgement made by the Non-financial performance information is subject to more Collins Mashishi CA(SA) directors in the preparation of the selected sustainability inherent limitations than financial information, given the Director information. We planned and performed our work so as to obtain characteristics of the subject matter and the method used for Registered Auditor all the information and explanations that we considered necessary determining, calculating, sampling and estimating such SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc. in order to provide us with sufficient evidence on which to base information. The absence of a significant body of established Woodmead – Head Office our conclusion in respect of the selected sustainability practice on which to draw allows for the selection of certain 2191 information. different but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in materially different measurements and can impact 31 May 2017 Our procedures included the understanding of risk assessment comparability. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, procedures, internal control and the procedures performed in materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual response to the assessed risks. The procedures we performed assumptions and judgements; and the precision thereof may were based on our professional judgement and included inquiries, change over time. It is important to read the report in the context observation of processes performed, inspection of documents of the reporting criteria. and evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods, and reporting policies and agreeing with underlying records. In particular, where the information relies on the factors derived by independent third parties, our assurance work has not included Given the circumstances of the engagement, in performing the examination of the derivation of those factors and other thirdprocedures listed above, we: party information. • Interviewed management and senior executives to obtain an understanding of the internal control environment, risk assessment process and information systems relevant to Conclusions the sustainability reporting process; Reasonable assurance • Inspected documentation to corroborate the statements Based on the results of our reasonable assurance procedures, we obtained from management and senior executives in our have concluded that the selected sustainability information for interviews; the year ended 31 March 2017 has been prepared, in all material • Reviewed the process that Transnet has in place for determining respects, in accordance with the Transnet reporting criteria. material selected subject matter to be included in the report; • Applying the assurance criteria in evaluating the data generation and reporting processes; Limited assurance • Evaluated the reasonableness and appropriateness of Based on the results of our limited assurance procedures, judgements made by management in the preparation of the nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe subject matter information; and that the selected sustainability information for the year ended • Evaluated whether the subject matter information presented in 31 March 2017 has not been prepared, in all material respects, the SR is consistent with our overall knowledge and experience of in accordance with the Transnet reporting criteria. sustainability management and performance at Transnet. 82 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 83 ANNEXURE B ANNEXURE C Transnet’s sustainability reporting for 2017 is based on Transnet-specific reporting criteria. Global Reporting Initiative Sustainable Reporting General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Developmental Outcomes criteria Employment Transnet measures actual job creation by the year-on-year change in total headcount (comprised Strategy and analysis of permanent and fixed-term contract employees). Value-add is calculated as the financial value created by the activities of the business and its employees. G4-1 Skills development Training spend is calculated as a percentage of the wage bill spent on training, and the Rand value Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of Message from the Board of Directors, and Message from the 10 thereof. Training is listed by the intake number of artisans, technicians, engineers, sector-specific the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the Group Chief Executive. & trainees and leadership candidates. organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. 12 Industrial capability building Supplier development (SD) is determined by the value of SD obligations in the Rand value of a contract and as a percentage of total contract value. R&D is reported by total expenditure on R&D Organisational profile activities. G4-3 Investment leveraged Reporting on private-sector participation lists targeted opportunities and initiatives. Report the name of the organisation. Transnet SOC Ltd. 2 Regional integration Cross-border revenue is reported from Freight Rail and Engineering contracts involving services supplied in the region. G4-4 Transformation Employment equity is calculated as employee headcount by race, gender and disability as a Report the primary brands, products and services. About Transnet. 3–8 percentage of the total workforce and by category of employment. B-BBEE spend is measured as part of total measurable procurement spend on black-owned enterprises, black women-owned G4-5 enterprises, exempted micro-enterprises, qualifying small enterprises, black youth-owned enterprises and people with disabilities. Transnet’s annual B-BBEE score is measured and verified Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. Johannesburg, South Africa. 4 according to the DTI’s Codes of Good Practice. The following Charters apply to Transnet: Generic Transport Public Sector, Rail, Maritime and Property. G4-6 Health and safety Safety performance is measured by the disabling injury frequency rate, fatalities, loss-producing incidents, running line derailments and shunting derailments. Absenteeism refers to family Report the number of countries where the organisation About Transnet – Where we operate and what we do. 3 operates, and names of countries where either the organisation responsibility leave, special sick leave, sick leave paid and unpaid, hospitalisation, absence without has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to leave and determines the calculated cost of absenteeism. the sustainability topics covered in the report. Community development Transnet Foundation activities are reported on the total expenditure. G4-7 Environmental stewardship Transnet measures its electricity consumption, fuel consumption, energy efficiency and electricity Report the nature of ownership and legal form. About Transnet – Who we are. 3 regeneration. Transnet’s carbon emissions and carbon emissions intensity are reported in accordance with the GHG Protocol (a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard); the Intergovernmental G4-8 Panel on Climate Change guidelines for National GHG Inventories, 2006. Carbon emissions savings for the South African transport sector are reported on the top-five road-to-rail volume gains, using Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, About Transnet. 3–8 GHG Protocol measures for the relevant emission factors. sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries). Enablers of Reporting G4-9 sustainability criteria Report the scale of organisation, including: About Transnet. 3–8 Governance Reporting on governance reflects Transnet’s adherence to the King IV Report on Corporate Total number of employees Governance for South Africa, 2016; the Companies Act, No 71 of 2008; and the Public Finance • Total number of operations Management Act, No 1 of 1999, supported by relevant internal policies. • Net revenues (for public-sector organisations) Ethics Reporting on ethics reflects Transnet’s Fraud Risk Management Plan, supported by relevant internal • Quantity of products or services provided. policies. The total confirmed incidents of irregularities comprise the total reported incidents founded, unfounded and in progress. G4-10 Stakeholder engagement Reporting on stakeholder engagement reflects the internal records of Transnet’s engagements with Report employee profile and workforce profile. Sustainability Performance Review – Employment. 31 its stakeholders and an analysis of the material issues arising. Transnet’s Stakeholder Engagement Policy is informed by the AccountAbility 1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective Integrated Report. 12 bargaining agreements. 84 ANNEXURE C continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 85 Global Reporting Initiative continued General Standard Disclosures Reference Page General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Organisational profile (continued) Identified material aspects and boundaries (continued) G4-12 G4-20 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. About Transnet – Our supply chain. 8 For each material aspect, report the boundary within the Material issues – Material issues determination. 18 – 23 organisation. G4-13 G4-21 Report any significant changes during the reporting period Reporting approach – About this report. 2 regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or its For each material aspect, report the boundary outside the Material issues – Material issues determination. 18 – 23 supply chain. organisation. G4-14 G4-22 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or Transnet supports the precautionary approach to 68 – 77 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided Reporting approach – About this report. 2 principle is addressed by the organisation. environmental challenges as espoused in Principle 16 of the in the previous reports, and the reasons for such statements. Rio Declaration, 1992. See Sustainability Performance Review – Environmental G4-23 Stewardship. Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in Reporting approach – About this report. 2 G4-15 the scope and aspect boundaries. List externally developed economic, environmental and social Reporting Approach – About this report. 68 – 77 Stakeholder engagement charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-24 G4-16 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the Material issues – Stakeholder engagement. 20 organisation. List memberships of associations (such as industry UNGC (represented on the UNGC’s Local Network Advisory 2 associations) and national or international advocacy Committee); National Business Initiative; Energy Intensive G4-25 organisations in which the organisation: Users Group; Energy Efficiency Leadership Network; Industry • Holds a position on governance body; Task Team on Climate Change; and the National Biodiversity Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – 26 and Business Network. with whom to engage. Stakeholder engagement. • Participates in projects or committees; • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; G4-26 and • Views memberships as strategic. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – 26 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder Stakeholder engagement. Identified material aspects and boundaries group, and indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-17 G4-27 • List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Transnet SOC Ltd denotes the five Operating Divisions and 18 – 23 financial statements or equivalent documents. three Specialist Units. For a list of all entities included in the organisation’s financial statements, refer to the AFS for the Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through Transnet’s Material Sustainability Issues 2017 table, and 20, • Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has Sustainability Performance Review. 30 – 77 year ending 31 March 2017. responded to those key topics and concerns, including through consolidated financial statements or equivalent document is not covered by the report. its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-18 Report profile • Explain the process for defining the report content and the Material issues – Material issues determination. 18 – 23 aspect boundaries. G4-28 • Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) of information 1 April 2016 – 31 March 2017. 2 provided. G4-19 G4-29 List all the material aspects identified in the process for Material issues – Material issues determination. 18 – 23 Date of most recent, previous report. 31 March 2016. 2 defining report content. 86 ANNEXURE C continued TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 87 Global Reporting Initiative continued General Standard Disclosures Reference Page General Standard Disclosures Reference Page Report profile (continued) Ethics and integrity G4-30 G4-56 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biannual). Annual. 2 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – Ethics. 24 – 26 norms of behaviour, such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-31 ethics. Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or General Manager: Corporate Sustainability, N/A G4-58 its contents. Mapaseka.Lukhele@transnet.net G4-32 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – Ethics. 24 – 26 concerns about unethical/unlawful behaviour, such as escalation through whistle-blowing mechanisms or hotlines. • Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has Reporting approach – About this report, and Assurance. 2 chosen. Disclosure on management approach • Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. • Report the reference to the External Assurance Report. G4-DMA G4-33 • Report why the aspect is material. Sustainability Performance Review. 28 – 77 • Report how the organisation manages the material aspect. • Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with Reporting approach – Assurance; and Annexure A: 2 regard to seeking external assurance for the report. External Assurance Statement. • If not included in the Assurance Report accompanying the Sustainability Report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. • Report the relationship between the organisation and assurance providers. • Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s Sustainability Report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – 24 committees of the highest governance body. Identify any Governance. committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – 24 environmental and social (sustainability) topics from the highest Governance. governance body to senior executives and employees. G4-36 Report whether the organisation has appointed an executive The Chief Corporate and Regulatory Officer is appointed at 24 level position with responsibility for economic, environmental executive level for sustainability topics. and social (sustainability) topics. G4-48 Report the highest committee that formally reviews and Enablers of Sustainable Developmental Outcomes – 24 approves the organisation’s Sustainability Report and ensures Governance. that all material aspects are covered. 88 TRANSNET Sustainability Report 2017 89 ABBREVIATIONS CORPORATE AND ACRONYMS INFORMATION Transnet SOC Ltd Auditors ABET Adult Basic Education and Training PSL Platinum Safety Leagues 47th Floor, Carlton Centre SizweNtsalubaGobodo Inc. 150 Commissioner Street 20 Morris Street East AFS Annual Financial Statements PSP Private Sector Participation Johannesburg Woodmead Aids Acquired immune deficiency syndrome R&D Research and Development 2001 Johannesburg 2191 B-BBEE Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment REMSEC Remuneration, Social and Ethics Committee Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa. CDP Carbon Disclosure Project RFP Request for Proposals Registration number 1990/000900/30. The internal audit function has been outsourced to CEO Chief Executive Officer RSR Railway Safety Regulator SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd, Nkonki Inc and KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd. CNR/CSR In footnote, only used once SADC Southern Africa Development Community Executive directors SekelaXabiso (Pty) Ltd CSI corporate social investment SBU Shanduka Black Umbrellas SI Gama (Group Chief Executive) 1st Floor, Building 22B GJ Pita (Chief Financial Officer) The Woodlands Office Park CSR corporate social responsibility SD Supplier Development 20 Woodlands Drive DIFR disabling injury frequency rate SDG Sustainable Development Goal Woodmead Independent non-executive directors Johannesburg DPE Department of Public Enterprises SDO Sustainable Developmental Outcomes LC Mabaso (Chairperson), Y Forbes, GJ Mahlalela, PEB Mathekga, DTI Department of Trade and Industry SME small and medium enterprise ZA Nagdee, VM Nkonyane, SD Shane, BG Stagman, PG Williams Nkonki Inc EAP Employee Assistance Programme SNG SizweNtsalubaGobodo 3 Simba Road Sunninghill EBITDA earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation SOC State-owned company Group Company Secretary Johannesburg and amortisation SR Sustainability Report NE Khumalo ED Enterprise Development KPMG Services (Pty) Ltd SRMM Stakeholder Relationship Management Maturity 47th Floor, Carlton Centre 85 Empire Road EE Employment Equity SSI Statement of Strategic Intent 150 Commissioner Street Parktown EIT Engineer-in-Training Johannesburg TEU twenty-foot equivalent unit Johannesburg EMTN Euro Medium-Term Note 2001 TIT Technician-in-Training FINCO Financial Committee TMPS total measurable procurement spend PO Box 72501 FRMP Fraud Risk Management Plan Parkview UNGC United Nations Global Compact 2122 GDP Gross domestic product ZAR South African Rand South Africa GE General Electric GHG Greenhouse gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSL Golden Safety Leagues HIV Human immunodeficiency virus ICT information and communication technology IR Integrated Report iSCM integrated Supply Chain Management ISL Internal Safety Leagues ISO International Organisation for Standardisation JOC Joint Operating Centres KPIs key performance indicators MDS Market Demand Strategy MOU Memorandum of Understanding MTSF Medium-term Strategic Framework NDP National Development Plan NEAP National Economically Active Population Nersa National Energy Regulator of South Africa NGO non-governmental organisation NMPP New Multi-Product Pipeline OEM original equipment manufacturer MAGNIFIC GGD
