The Global Compact Standard Chartered Bank’s Activities and Engagements 2016 Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited is a registered member of the United Nations Global Compact and continues to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in their day-to day activities. About Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited is part of the Standard Chartered Bank Group whose mission is; “To bank the people and companies driving trade, investment and the creation of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.” Our mission as Standard Chartered Bank Uganda is “To bank the people and companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth in Uganda.” The Bank currently has a network of 11 branches in Kampala, Jinja, Mbarara and Gulu; 31 ATMs and over 600 staff. Standard Chartered’s core businesses in Uganda are Retail Banking, Commercial Banking and Global Banking products and services. Our success as a Bank over the last 104 years has been due to our focus on our customers in delivering superior customer service, prudent management of the risks in our operations, empowering and motivating our staff and ensuring we are an exemplary corporate citizen. In recognition of our leadership role in the banking industry in Uganda, Standard Chartered Bank Uganda won the following prestigious awards in 2016:  Best Corporate Bank in Uganda and East Africa 2016 The Banker Africa  Best Consumer Digital Bank 2016 – Global Finance Magazine  Best Digital Bank for Africa – 2016 Digital Impact Awards Africa  Best Cybersecurity Practice by Corporate 2016 Digital Impact Awards Africa  Best Online Banking 2016 Digital Impact Awards Africa Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability is embedded in our DNA as Standard Chartered Bank. It’s at the core of our brand promise – Here for Good. We continue to invest heavily in the communities focusing on four key pillars i.e. Health, Youth, Education & the Environment. We worked and partnered with Government Ministries and Non-Governmental organizations to address and alleviate the social, economic and environmental concerns of our communities. We remain committed to fighting avoidable blindness through our Seeing is Believing project. We have trained and empowered the youth through financial programs such as Education for Entrepreneurs and the GOAL project targeted at adolescent girls. In addition to the four pillars mentioned above, we are proud supporters of the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We also partnered with the Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) and Uganda Women Entrepreneurs’ Limited (UWEAL) to impart financial education to 79 youth (45 male & 43 female) and 164 women. Some of the modules covered were cash flow management and budgeting. In 2016 our employees took off 224 days to volunteer in more than 15 different community initiatives. In addition to the above programmes, we made sponsorships and donations towards several local initiatives that supported the good of masses in our community. Our employees continue to lead by example through the Employee Volunteering programme through which they support the less privileged communities by volunteering their time, resources and skills. Employees imparted skills, donated and shared best practice to improve the operations of the community. Our sustainability approach highlights the contribution of the non-financial aspects of our business and the linkage between the social and environmental factors in our business strategy. The Bank remains committed to building a sustainable business in the country, promoting and supporting fair and equitable business practices as well as adhering to the latest environmental standards and legislation. HIV/AIDS Awareness programs Standard Chartered Bank Uganda continued its HIV/AIDs programme which aims at sensitizing its staff and the community about the HIV/AIDS pandemic that has claimed many lives and is still claiming more in Uganda and the world over. Staff are encouraged to test for HIV/AIDs and when found positive, they receive free Anti-retroviral drugs. Furthermore, the Bank also distributes free condoms to its staff in a bid to curb the spread of the virus. Below are some of the partnerships we had; The Bank partnered with Pablo Live in the “Zip-Up” campaign and went to various schools and universities educating students about HIV/AIDS and fighting stigma as well as new infections. Working in partnership with “Reach a Hand Uganda” we have reached a staggering 2 million people with sexual health and rights using social media campaigns. We have also distributed over 90,000 condoms. Health: more than 10 years of sight restoration – “Seeing is Believing” program Under the ‘Seeing is Believing’ initiative (the fight against preventive blindness), we managed to undertake over 1,000 eye operations in an investment worth over Ugx 140 million in partnership with Sightsavers. Since the inception of this project in 2003, over 12,000 blind people have regained their sight through surgeries and over 120,000 screened and treated. We subsequently launched the next phase of the Seeing is Believing project which is the Child Eye Health project a regional project that will run in Uganda, Kenya and Tanzania worth USD 6.25m over a four year period (2013 – 2016) in partnership with the respective Governments and two consortia of NGOs. This particular project will directly benefit children between the ages of 0 15, and will indirectly benefit children through changes in national policies and improved coordination of child eye health delivery. The first objective was to raise funds to pay for 28,000 sight-restoring cataract operations; one for every member of staff employed at that time. The Bank achieved twice this initial target that year, raising enough money for 56,000 sight restorations. Since 2003, the ambition of SiB has grown significantly. Sightsavers and Brien Holden Vision Institute are our implementing partners. We also work in partnership with the Ministry of Health and hospitals around the country to screen, treat, and operate patients with cataracts and other eye ailments as well as create awareness. In 2016, we embarked on a new SiB project worth USD1 million that will run to June 2020 with a focus on both children and adults in Mubende district. The major goal is to contribute to the 2014 – 2019 World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Action Plan of reducing the prevalence of avoidable visual impairment by 25% by implementing a 4 year comprehensive eye care project in Mubende. Protecting Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and – The Bank ardently respects and promotes the right to equal protection by practicing fairness, for instance, all staff must go through a disciplinary hearing where they are given a fair hearing prior to dismissal. The Bank employees also have the right to appeal the decision of the hearing committee if they believe it is too harsh or unfair. All staff exercise their freedom to speech using the various forums like departmental meetings, one-onone meetings with managers and we promote this right through the Speak Up and open-door policies. We also respect the employees’ right to privacy, right to marry, right to property and support them to achieve them through provision of finance at discounted rates.  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Upholding Labor Standards Standard Chartered Bank also abides by the labor laws of Uganda and is in line with International Labor Organization standards.  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; The Bank allows Collective Bargaining in keeping with the spirit of the Constitution of Uganda wherein Right of Association is a Fundamental Right. Standard Chartered Bank respects the right for association of its employees at all times and further facilitates it by organizing staff events and allows staff to associate and discuss issues that affect them which are escalated and resolved through various forums. This is also done through Staff welfare committees; this is one of the avenues where representatives collect feedback from staff as regards anything that may be affecting them, the feedback is cascaded to the relevant forum for resolution. HR has representation on this committee to ensure follow through on staff issues / concerns. Furthermore, the Bank has a teamsite called The Bridge where all staff can directly connect with their global colleagues and share their views, opinions, feedback or comments on pertinent issues.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; The Bank employs staff after mutual agreement and signing off on the terms and conditions of work; job description and code of conduct thus eliminating forced labor. All appointment letters have a clause of staff consent where the staff signs to confirm they have read, understood and agreed to the terms and conditions of the job. The staff also individually set their objectives which are discussed with the manager and agreed upon.  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; The Bank only employs persons over 18 years of age as is stipulated by the law of Uganda. Furthermore, all employees of the Bank have to have a qualification from tertiary institution prior to getting employment / a job which ensures that the Bank is not employing anyone who is less than 18 years.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Standard Chartered, there is a written policy on non-discrimination and equal opportunity for Employment encased in “Diversity and Inclusion.” “As part of our Recruitment Process, Standard Chartered Bank ensures equal opportunity for all eligible applicants for employment without any discrimination against; gender, race, religion, caste, color, sex, ancestry or marital status. In line with this policy, Standard Chartered Bank employs disabled and blind persons. Opportunity for employment is solely based on eligibility and merit of the applicant. Career growth opportunities are also based entirely on individual merit.” th We took part in the 5 Annual Women Leadership Conference 2016, which was held under the theme Educate, inspire and empower the women to be the Architects of Change” and made a presentation about our experience with UN Women Empowerment Principles. 3 female staff graduated from the 7th intake of the Federation of Uganda Employers (FUE) Leadership Development Female Future Program (FFP). Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges;  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Protecting the environment remained a key agenda in our sustainability efforts. We continued to integrate our environment mitigation efforts into our business as well as enhancing energy use in our day to day operations. In 2016, we continued to register control over Energy Use Intensity (EUI) and Water Use Intensity with about 1% reduction in power consumption and 3% reduction in water consumption usage. An Ethos of Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Standard Chartered has a robust Anti bribery policy which impacts all staff regardless of their jurisdiction or nationality. The policy stipulates the Bank’s approach to handling gifts and entertainment, our code of conduct, outsourcing policy, sponsorships and donations among other aspects. The Bank also rolled out the anti bribery e-learning which is mandatory for all staff. The e-learning teaches staff how to mitigate bribery. As per the Standard Chartered Bank’s Code of Conduct, the Bank adheres to a strict policy against any corrupt practices and all forms of bribery are prohibited. Staff are called upon to remain committed to do the right thing, conduct themselves in an honest, open and professional manner and to live our brand promise; Here for Good. The policy on gifts & entertainment and sponsorships & donations, as explicitly mentioned in the terms & conditions clearly points out that “Standard Chartered Bank employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits that are intended to, or perceived to obtain business or uncompetitive favors for the conduct of its business.”
