SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015-2016 Our footprint Our impact THE GLOBAL GOALS For Sustainable Development 04 COMMUNICATION FROM OUR CEO 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION 07 OUR FOOTPRINT 21 OUR IMPACT 08 HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS 22 OUR PASSION FOR ENERGY 11 ENVIRONMENTAL CARBON FOOT24 CASES PRINT REPORT COMMUNICATION FROM OUR CEO Danish Energy Management & Esbensen is standard for business practice. In this way, very excited to be getting involved with the our membership to the Global Compact Global Compact, with the initiation of the builds upon more than a decade of work Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in that has been done to systematically ensure 2015, and looking towards the sustainabilthat human rights are respected, labor stanity targets for 2030. Our internal initiative dards are upheld, environmental impacts towards sustainability measurement was are minimized in all activities, and corrupspearheaded by our participation in the tion is combated in all forms. United Nations Sustainable Development As we move forward, participating in the Summit 2015, in New York. Global Compact and working with the However, the principals of the Global ComSDGs gives us a platform to take the Busipact have a long tradition in the organizaness Integrity Management System further, tion as a whole. In 2003 the Danish Manageby adopting a company vision and strategy ment Group adopted a Code of Ethics and that addresses sustainability directly. It is an Business Integrity Management System, opportunity to create a clear picture for all which was created following the ten (then of our employees and stakeholders regardnine) principals of the United Nations Globing our passion and purpose for working al Compact, and the OECD’s Guidelines for with energy, and how we can measure and Multinational Enterprises, using these as a benchmark our progress. 4 | At Danish Energy Management & Esbensen we are performing our daily work in a company that actually can and does make a difference toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals laid out by the United Nations. We work sustainably with Integrated Energy Design of new buildings and urban planning, Energy Policy, Energy Efficiency, Renewable Energy and Monitoring & Evaluation – in accordance with OECDDAC criteria – worldwide, and with specific support for SDG number: 7) affordable and clean energy, 11) sustainable cities and communities, 13) climate action and 17) partnerships. Working in full support of the Global Compact’s ten principals and Sustainable Development Goals is very important to us because we are now able to measure the impact of our daily work AND put it into perspective. This includes our domestic and international markets and all of our stakeholders globally. We are motivated to embark on this journey, and look forward to where it will lead us in the future. Yours sincerely Jørn Lykou CEO ”We are performing our daily work in a company that actually can and does make difference toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals laid out by the United Nations” 6 | OUR FOOTPRINT HUMAN AND LABOR RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS FOCUS ON EMPLOYEES: Danish Energy Management & Esbensen respects and WORK-LIFE BALANCE protects all internationally proclaimed human rights, At Danish Energy Management & Esbensen, a number and strives to prevent any discrimination practices. In of social arrangements provide employees with the addition, we are committed to ensuring equal opportuopportunity to socialize in different contexts, often innities. We respect cultural and religious differences and cluding exercise and outdoor activities. For all group see these differences as a strength that allows us to employee activities that promote health, Danish Enerachieve our vision and tailor our consultancy services gy Management & Esbensen sponsors the full cost of to the needs and requirements of our clients. participation, as well as sports clothes. And to ensure that there is plenty “hygge” in-house as well, Fridays LABOR STANDARDS offer bread rolls in the morning, and refreshments to end the day. Danish Energy Management & Esbensen respects all In terms of what is being planned for the future, in international declarations adopted by the International 2017 an employee association will be established at Labor Organization. Fair wages reflect the qualifications the headquarters in Aarhus, for the purpose of arrangof employees and the local average wage level. We do ing a wide range of activities that allow employees to not accept any form of forced labor and/or child labor relax and socialize outside of the office setting. Suggesunder any circumstances and include this as a paramtions proposed thus far include wine tasting, bowling, eter when choosing sub-suppliers and sub-contractors. trips to the cinema and arranging trips for employees In addition we respect the freedom of association and and their families to go to an amusement park. Family the right to collective bargaining. trips are a way to let families get to know one another, and for children to see who mom or dad work with We have developed and implemented structured plans every day. Having an employee association is a way for continued education for all groups of our employfor employees to gather around something other than ees and we support employee initiatives to upgrade work, and get to know each other on a more personal their qualifications. These standards are enforced in all level. Employees in Copenhagen and Sønderborg are of our activities including the solutions we provide to also encouraged to create their own associations with our clients as a result of our consultancy. common activities. Danish Energy Management & Esbensen also endeavors to secure the well-being of our employees and their families. We secure a balance between work and family and respect local traditions and needs. EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELL-BEING • Throughout 2015, employee health was in focus through providing daily fresh fruit for employees, and holding weekly badminton practice at a local sports hall in Aarhus. • In 2015 Danish Energy Management & Esbensen also participated once again in the DHL Relay Race. The DHL Relay Race is the world’s largest with more than 206,000 participants. The DHL Relay Race commits employeees to work together as a team, not only taking responsibility for one’s own task, but also having confidence in teammates. The DHL Relay Race is true Danish ”hygge” at its best. It combines a team running event with outdoor grilling, tiki lights and ending the evening with fireworks. • For a number of years, employees have participated in the Danish “We Bike to Work” initiative, where starting May 1st, employees compete in teams to see who can bike the largest number of kilometers in one month, to and from work. The winning team then receives prizes. • During the dark winters in Denmark, employees are also invited to participate in Night Trail, where small trails, steep hills, mud, water, sand and darkness are combined. This gives employees the opportunity to explore places that they have not been before. Employees participate in a 5 km run in the woods, where trails are well marked, but can only be seen with head lamps. The trails have been tested by some of the world’s best orienteering runners. • From the beginning of 2016, soccer matches have been arranged for employees once a month. Ongoing soccer matches are scheduled with employees’ workload taken into consideration. The purpose of these matches is, above all, to have a good time in addition to benefiting from fresh air and exercise. 10 | ENVIRONMENTAL CARBON FOOTPRINT REPORT INTRODUCTION INTRODUCTION Danish Energy Management & Esbensen (DEM-ESB) places major focus on energy projects worldwide within the Danish field Energy Management of renewable energy, energy & Esbensen (DEM-ESB) efficiency, places demand side management, on energy major focusclimate projects change, worldwide sustainable within the development, field energy/electrification, rural of renewable energy, energy energyefficiency, energy side policy anddemand management, climate change, sustainable development, legislation. ruralreport This energy/electrification, follows The Greenhouse energyGas policy andProtocol (GHG) energy legislation. This report Corporate Standard 1 follows , under TheDEM-ESB which Greenhouse Gas (GHG) is classified as a Protocol service Corporate Standard sector/office 1 , under which based organization. DEM-ESB of Preparation a service this reportaswas is classified sector/office also aided by the World organization. basedResources PreInstitute paration oftool calculation report was thisWorking 9 toalso 5 onaided by the Climate WorldAn Change: Resources Institute Office Guide 2 . calculation tool Working 9 to 5 on Climate Change: An Office Guide . 2 ORGANIZATIONAL AND OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES AND BASE YEAR This carbon footprint report estimates the GHG-emissions caused by DEM-ESB activities in the reporting year 2015 (May 1, 2015 April 30, 2016). The 2015 reporting year is also the base year for reporting on verifiable emissions data. This year has been chosen because it was during this time that the company Esbensen Consulting Engineers merged with Danish Energy Management, creating Danish Energy Management & Esbensen A/S. The operational boundary covers scope 1, scope 2, and part of scope 3 (business travel) with relation to all DEM-ESB offices in Denmark. Each scope is defined by the GHG protocol. The DEM-ESB offices included in the 2015 reporting year are: • Aarhus • Sønderborg • Copenhagen Activities related to scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 have been selected based on the operations of DEM-ESB, the accessibility to data, and the possibilities that exist for influencing emissions reduction. THE ACTIVITIES INCLUDED UNDER EACH SCOPE ARE: SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 • Use of company cars for • Electricity use in offices • Use of employee cars for busibusiness purposes – managers • District heating used in offices ness purposes (car allowance) • Use of company cars for • Transportation by train business purposes – employees • Domestic air transport • Continental air transport • International air transport 1 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/standards/corporate-standard 2 http://www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/tools/working9-5.pdf 12 | SCOPE 1: Direct emissions caused by fuel consumption SCOPE 2: Indirect emissions caused by consumption of collective energy supply SCOPE 3: Indirect emissions caused by consumption of products and services We do not include “employee commuting in non-comfrom the company’s consumption of energy products pany-owned vehicles to and from work” in our base and services, where the company does not own or conyear report. However, DEM-ESB does participate in trol the emissions source. the campaign “Vi Cykler til Arbejde,” which encouragFollowing the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, the es employees to ride their bikes to work, and includes direct and indirect emissions are divided into three an internal team contest and prizes. During this onescopes: month long campaign (May June 2015), the 34 participants biked a total of 4031 km, and saved a total of Scope 1 (mandatory): 657 kg CO₂. All direct emissions caused by the company, e.g. emisIn future reports, we may include additional activisions from company owned cars, or combustion of ties, old activities may be excluded, or new measurefossil fuels such as natural gas in company-owned ment systems and sources may be applied. In the case equipment. that these activities represent a combined 10 percent change in the base year emissions, DEM-ESB will conScope 2 (mandatory): duct a recalculation and back-cast these data points. All indirect emissions caused by the company’s purchase of energy, including electricity and district heating. RESULTS 2015 Scope 3 (optional): To calculate results, emissions are categorized as either Other indirect emissions caused by consumption of direct (Scope 1) or indirect (Scope 2 & Scope 3). Direct, products and services e.g. business travel in non-comScope 1, emissions are those that are directly caused pany-owned vehicles (car, plane, and train), waste proby a source that the company owns or controls. duced, outsourced activities, etc. Indirect, Scope 2 and Scope 3, emissions are derived TOTAL CO₂ EMISSIONS IN THE 2015 REPORTING YEAR 2015 ACTIVITIES CO₂ EMISSIONS (TON) % SHARE SCOPE 1 Use of company cars for business purposes 1.34 tCO2 0.68 % – managers Use of company cars for business purposes 3.68 tCO₂ 1.86 % – employees SCOPE 2 Electricity use in offices 41.82 tCO₂ 21.12 % District heating use in offices 29.74 tCO₂ 15.02 % SCOPE 3 Use of employee cars for business purposes 17.27 tCO₂ 8.72 % Transportation by train 2.00 tCO₂ 1.01 % Domestic ferry transport 2.70 tCO₂ 1.36 % Domestic air transport 2.95 tCO₂ 1.49 % Continental air transport 19.35 tCO₂ 9.77 % International air transport 77.17 tCO₂ 38.97 % Total 198.02 tCO₂ 100 % OFFSETS Middelgrundens Vindmøllelaug Electricity generated from DEM-ESB share 196 % of DEM-ESB (119 MWh) electricity (300 shares): 352 MWh that this represents (covering more than office use of electricity) Hvidebæk biomass district heating plant/ Heat generated from DEM-ESB share (49%): 4612 % of DEM-ESB (159 MWh) heat that solar thermal From straw bale: 5793 MWh this represents (covering much more than From solar heating: 1699 MWh office use of heat) Total: 7,492 MWh At DEM-ESB, there are no boilers etc. in buildings that could contribute to own oil/gas use. For this reason, our Scope 1 consists of “use of company cars for business purposes – managers” and “use of company cars for business purposes – employees.” The company cars used by managers as their personal car only registers the kilometers driven to and from work, and to and from clients for business purposes. 14 | ANTI-CORRUPTION BUSINESS INTEGRITY PLAN BUSINESS INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Danish Energy Management & Esbensen follows an On each assignment the nominated Business Integrity applied Code of Ethics and Business Integrity ManageManager and the Internal Project Director along with ment to prevent corruption, and encourage integrity, Team Leader will ensure that all activities within this social and ethic responsibility. Our Code of Ethics and project comply with Danish Energy Management & Business Integrity Management follows the United NaEsbensen’s Business Integrity Management System. tions Global Compact’s ten principles, and we are committed to following OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, using these as a standard for business CODE OF CONDUCT practice. Danish Energy Management & Esbensen is Danish Energy Management & Esbensen’s Code of committed to working towards sustainable developConduct is based on loyalty, impartiality and mutual rement with a systematic approach ensuring that human spect. Employees are aware of its contents and having rights are respected, labor standards are met and enworked for the EU on a number of occasions, are also vironmental impact is minimized in all aspects of our aware of the standard rules. We also take our anti-coractivities. In addition, we do not accept any kind of corruption strategy seriously. ruption, commission or bribery. Business integrity is also enforced when choosing our ANTI-CORRUPTION STRATEGY suppliers, subcontractors and external experts, and Danish Energy Management & Esbensen has a concrete we encourage our business partners to ensure human anti-corruption strategy/ policy and procedures that rights, labor standards and continuous improvement ensure that it is implemented. The strategy recognizes of their environmental impact. We fully respect all inthat individual perceptions of corruption vary and that ternational and national laws and regulations that are it can be complex to provide clear guidance to ensure relevant for our business in Denmark and other counthat our employees protect the integrity of the comtries where Danish Energy Management & Esbensen pany and that they are not placed in a compromising has activities. position. This policy also recognizes that corruption takes several forms: bribery and extortion, collusion, It is important for Danish Energy Management & Esbenother non-monetary incentives and other initiatives sen that all the services we provide are accomplished that provide the business with an improper advantage. with integrity. We ensure that throughout the design of projects, planning of services and implementation of projects, we allocate resources to this. Danish Energy Management & Esbensen’s anti-corruption policy ensures: • Client, staff and investor confidence in the company’s stability and performance • Limited Business disruption and that staff time is not distracted from core business • Prevention of the risk of litigation and prosecution • Accountability for all employees and agents of the company. The team leader is responsible for the daily implementation of the BIMS. Other experts will be responsible for following the guidelines laid out in the BIMS with respect to 16 | the objectives of each assignment. PROCEDURES TO SUPPORT OUR POLICY The implementation of the anti-corruption strategy incorporates six components: 1. Risk management 6. 2. Consequences Management for non-comcommitment pliance Anticorruption 5. 3. Compliance Inclusion of with legislation compliance mechanisms in 4. systems Control procedures and monitoring BUSINESS INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (BIMS) TASK ROLE RESPONSIBILITY AUTHORITY BIMS Define the BIMS BIMS Manager BIMS Manager approves Implement BIMS Ensure daily compliance Head of BIP task force BIMS Manager approves with BIMS (PD / Project Director) TL implements Team Leader (TL) PD/TL plan Develop BIMS guideline and Prepare and update all Head of BIP task force BIMS Manager approves procedures guideline and procedures (PD) PD implements and plans Training and awareness Identification of training Head of BIP task force BIMS Manager approves needs, training of (PD) BIMS Manager / PD employees implement and plan Communication – Internal communication Head of BIP task force PD approves – External communication (PD) TL/PD implement and plan BIMS document control Document control system QMS Manager (QM) TL approves QM implements and plans Monitoring of compliance Develop methods for Head of BIP task force BIMS Manager approves with BIMS monitoring and performing (PD) PD implements and plans monitoring TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS Progress: – Achieved – In progress – Delayed OBJECTIVE INITIATIVE DESCRIPTION TIME FRAME STATUS Sustainable energy & contributing to the Solar panel on the roof of HQ to cover a Solar panels 2 3 years achievement of 2030 percentage of the energy consumption objectives Reduction of CO₂ emissions As cars need to be replaced for offices & contributing to the Hybrid or electric in Denmark, replace them with electric 4 5 years achievement of 2030 car or hybrid cars objectives Environmental DEM-ESB participated in the GC Nordic Achieved sustainability and Become an active Network in 2016 contributing to member in the achievement of 2030 Global Compact DEM-ESB plans to present at the GC 1 year objectives Nordic Network in 2017 Starting May 1st of each year, CO₂ reduction and “We Bike To Work” employees create teams and compete employee health and Achieved initiative to see which team has biked the most well-being kilometers during the month CO₂ reduction and contributing to Separate and recycle paper as Paper recycling 1 2 years achievement of 2030 confidential material objectives Environmental Organic fruit and 1 2 years sustainability milk Environmental FSC certified paper Using only paper which is FSC certified Achieved sustainability Copenhagen Environmental Achieved LED lighting in the offices and motion sustainability and energy Lighting Aarhus & sensors savings Sønderborg 1 5 years Environmental Can substantially reduce the amount Power savings sustainability and energy of power used when combined with an 1 year strips savings awareness campaign Regulation of the existing ventilation Environmental and installation where it is needed, sustainability and employee Ventilation 4 5 years improving energy savings and employee health and safety health 18 | OBJECTIVE INITIATIVE DESCRIPTION TIME FRAME STATUS Environmental sustainability and Water saving taps, toilets, contribution to Water saving Ongoing dishwashers, etc. achievement of 2030 objectives Social activity where colleagues meet Employee well-being and Game nights after working hours to play board 1 year positive work environment games and socialize. Association that arranges activities for Employee well-being and Employee employees and their families at regular 1 year positive work environment association intervals. Three year project in connection with Employee well-being and Knowledge and the Danish Innovation Fund focusing 1 year positive work environment innovation project on DEM-ESB knowledge sharing and innovation processes Provide company safety vests and Employee health and safety Safety equipment 1 year helmets to be used for on-site visits Employee health, safety Workplace risk Screening to evaluate work 1 year and well-being assessment (APV) environment and improvement areas A guideline to handle stress on an Guideline for individual basis, together with their working, on an Employee health and nearest manager, including the individual basis, 1 year well-being opportunity to bring people back to with employees their jobs in a timeframe that meets effected by stress their needs Promoting good health by contributing Employee health and Private health to access to medicines and vaccination, 1 year well-being insurance and early detection of diseases Employees begin getting additional Employee health and Incorporate the 6th time for vacation in 2016, and the 6th 3 years well-being vacation week vacation week will be fully rolled out in 2018 Pre-existing pension is being improved Employee well-being Pension by automatic increase which will be 4 years fully rolled out in 2019 Month-long internship placement Human rights and Participation through participation in the Refugees contribution to the in Refugees Professional Program by IDA – providing 1 year achievement of 2030 Professional refugee engineers in Denmark with an objectives Program insight into the Danish job market Access to Employee health and employee shower For employees who bike to work 1 year well-being facilities 20 | OUR IMPACT THE GLOBAL GOALS For Sustainable Development OUR PASSION FOR ENERGY Based on a passion for energy, at Danish Energy Management At Danish Energy Management & Esbensen we have & Esbensen we strive to build a future where energy developed a model that translates energy-related UN global is applied efficiently and sustainably in an affordable way. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into business Our sustainability strategy reinforces this passion, directly opportunities. We offer a way to implement, measure, linking our services to the important work that we do both and report on progress being made towards sustainable in Denmark and abroad. development as an integrated part of business strategy. This model means that we are now able to: To obtain greater impact for scarce energy resources, and strengthen climate efforts, we continuously develop   ake our contribution towards global sustainability m innovative consulting approaches, methods and tools that tangible for our employees and stakeholders in the improve sustainability. We help our clients, partners & wider community stakeholders achieve sustainability – and measure it – in  show where action is being taken and emphasize the line with the United Nations Sustainable Development difference that is being made Goals (SDGs)!  identify current and future business opportunities Our passion for energy is most directly linked to four of the  measure progress towards achieving important 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals, namely: CO2 reduction targets  keep visibility for sustainability high  generate performance metrics that can complement official data Today, we are using the Sustainability Management & Measurement model as a tool for business development and business communication. Implementing this tool is helping our business to become even more sustainable in terms of people, planet and prosperity. This model also makes it easier to communicate work with sustainability within the organization, as well as to partners and all stakeholders. In this report, you can read about how our work is directly managed and measured in line with sustainable development. The following six cases provide an in-depth look at our work with sustainability, and the positive impact that is being made. 22 | OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY MINIMIZES ENERGY NEED AND CARBON EMISSIONS INTEGRATED ENERGY DESIGN LOW E/ENERGY+ PASSIVE BUILDINGS ENERGY DESIGN TECHNOLOGY DEMAND SIDE EFFICIENCY MANAGEMENT FAVORS THE REVITALIZATION OF EXISTING RESOURCES CAPACITY BUILDING AND CONTINUOUSLY MINIMIZES ENERGY USE TRAINING REDUCE DEEP ENERGY POLICY ADVICE AND RETROFITTING STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT USER INVOLVEMENT RENEWABLE ENERGY SUSTAIN SUSTAINABILITY REUSE ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES MANAGEMENT STRATEGY MONITORING AND EVALUATION DAYLIGHT UTILIZATION IMPROVED INDOOR RECYCLE CLIMATE CRADLE CLIMATE CHANGE TO ACTIONS CRADLE LIFE CYCLE COST ANALYSIS LIFE CYCLE ANALYSIS REDUCES RESOURCE INPUT THROUGH ENERGY AND MATERIAL RECYCLING Aa+: BUILDING ENERGY RENOVATION Sustainability Measurement Renewable Energy Energy Efficiency 150 GWh Initiatives for renewable energy 120 GWh = 35 90 GWh = Gigawatt Hours* Equivalent to 3,168 60 GWh solar PV plants 124 s* Increased heat att Hou & electricity from 30 GWh r households’ renewable energy Giga w energy *Calculated over 25 years lifetime *Calculated over 25 year lifetime 0 GWh Gigawatt hours savings from energy efficiency Services provided Services provided • 360° process planning • Advising on energy efficiency procurement • Holistic assessment of energy efficiency • Performing energy audits and feasibility studies and renewable energy investment potential • Providing energy management Renovated Buildings Climate Resilience Based on sustainable energy design 6,004 tons CO2 savings, Renewable Energy* 45,702 tons CO2 reduction, Energy Efficiency* 235 *Calculated over a 25 year lifetime Services provided Services provided • Development of information and communication strategies • Implementation of renewable energy and energy efficiency solutions as an integral part of the project • Training and capacity building Properties: 650 Time frame: 2013-2019 (kindergartens, schools, administrative building, etc.) Client: Aarhus Municipality M2: 1,400,000 24 | (2nd largest city in Denmark) Sustainability Management Aarhus Municipality is investing 450 million Danish kroner to same way, energy renovation is tailored to the needs of the users, achieve a CO2 reduction of 40 percent in municipal buildings. This incorporating their experiences, and providing plans which provide will be accomplished by conducting energy renovation for a buildbetter indoor climate and better overall building condition. Incoring area of 1.4 million square meters. With such a large amount of porating energy management strategies into energy renovation energy savings, the payback time for this large investment cost will projects like Aa+ helps to ensure return on investment, and helps be 15 years. to create a more conscientious and sustainable society at large. Another major aspect of this project that provides both sustainabilDanish Energy Management & Esbensen is providing a wide range ity and return on investment is the building-integrated design and of services that take user’s experiences and needs into considerinstallation of solar panels, which contribute with buildings’ own ation while conducting e.g. energy audits and feasibility studies. energy production. Because there are rarely two buildings that function in exactly the “Energy renovation is tailored to user needs and experiences, ensuring plans that provide better overall building condition.” LOW CARBON AREA IN HAIYAN CITY, CHINA Sustainability Measurement Renewable Energy Sustainability Assessment Land area: *GWh per year increase in heat and electricity Wind 60,000 = 1,508 35 energy m2 Indoor Gigawatt Hours* Renovated and from Renewable Energy. climate new buildings + natural ventilation Buildings are designed to meet the Danish 2020 building Waste treatment Ground heating Solar PV + regulation standard and goals and sorting and cooling Solar thermal (water heating) facilities included Services provided Services provided • Efficient use of natural resources • Enhancing the urban nature and environment • Integrated energy design & energy management • Identifying the sustainable architectural guidelines • Slow speed planning & joint facility planning Climate action Partnerships Climate Change measures Support for national plans and capacity A Sustainability Strategy was presented to the local government building for sustainable development in Haiyan, China This project delivered a feasibility study for Haiyan County to accelerate the development towards a sustainable society. In Awareness campaigns order to support China’s national plans for Haiyan, and build  Courses in sustainability for local sales staff in shops capacity for sustainable development, Danish Energy Management & Esbensen provided a comprehensive strategy that  Sustainability workshops for companies on how to includes frameworks and planning tools, e.g. design guidesave energy at the office lines for building design, material selection, mixed-use build Sustainability courses held by the new sustainability ing functionality, flexible design, renovation of existing buildoffice and manager ings, and sustainable landscape design.  Campaign for waste minimization Services provided Services provided • Providing sustainable elements both for residents of Haiyan & cooperation with local government • Minimizing the consumption of resources and environmental impact Properties: 35 buildings Time frame: 2015 2 Client: Haiyan County, China M : 60,000 26 | Sustainability Management The objective for the Danish Low Carbon Street in Haiyan, China and sunlight for solar PV cells and solar water heating on buildis to create a smart, lively, walkable, carbon-neutral city. A city that ings externally. Low carbon emissions are secured for the local through technological empowerment, social awareness, economic water supply, drainage system, waste treatment system and local insight and environmental action is sustainable in every way. This transportation within the area. Also, a new green line provides an cradle-to-cradle, passive design will secure the interests of future enjoyable walk or bike riding area that perpetuates the story of generations, while ensuring good quality of life for the city’s users sustainability by looping around the new energy facility and sustoday. tainability center. The planning of the area follows a Sustainability Strategy, which ensures that all initiatives work towards a smart city The design plan takes existing buildings into account, and new with low carbon emissions. buildings are planned to secure optimal natural daylight internally, 100 BUILDING ENVELOPE & 87 SOLAR CELLS Re-insulation and sealing of facade and roof and installation of solar cells VENTILATION Installation of new 60 ventilation units and SUSTAINABILITY 38 ventilators with optimization MANAGEMENT 59 & ENERGY EFFICIENT 51 BEHAVIOR Education in optimisation of energy consumption PLUMBING Installation of INDOOR LIGHTING 44 heating facility and Installation of cost-saving lighting water-saving ﬁxtures and ﬁxtures and optimization of 55 23 automatic control and CTS control 28 8 10 years > 15 years 10 15 years 6 8 years 2 8 years PROFIT INVESTMENT X >10% COST SAVINGS “The objective is to create a smart, lively, walkable, carbon-neutral city.” CLEAN DEVELOPMENT MECHANISM (CDM) PROGRAM, MALAYSIA Sustainability Measurement Renewable Energy Certifications/Waste Management = 798 Gigawatt Hours* 11 Projects with Certified  1 plant using landfill gas Emission Reductions  5 plants using co-composting (CERs) issued  3 plants using co-composting  6 biomass plants *GWh per year increase and waste water in heat and electricity  4 biogas plants from Renewable Energy  1 landfill gas plant Services provided Services provided • Portfolio management • Assistance in facilitating contracts between project owners and Danish companies. Climate Resilience Partnerships €37,740,186 18 300,000 tons Tons of CO2 saved as a result 240,000 tons 16 261,550* 180,000 tons Funds mobilized for Projects supporting sustainable development capacity building of Renewable Energy 120,000 tons Sustainable development technology sharing 60,000 tons Projects with climate  Monthly meetings with the Danish Embassy in Malaysia change measures to discuss project progress and plan activities 0 tons in national plans  Facilitating knowledge sharing for Danish technologies *Savings over 25 year lifetime in the Malaysian context through networking events Services provided Services provided • Support for development and implementation of monitoring • Project pipeline developed and project screening routines for individual projects and for verification of emission • Finalized Project Design Documents reductions. • Third party validation • General technical advice for the Danish Embassy Number of CDM projects: 18 Time frame: 2007-2016 Client: Danish Energy Agency, Number of data handling systems: 11 28 | Ministry of Climate and Energy Sustainability Management The Danish Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) program in MaReduction Purchase Agreement (ERPA) as well as participating in laysia has provided an important incentive for project owners to monitoring on-going CDM projects generating Certified Emission develop green and sustainable climate projects. This has led to Reductions (CERs) for Denmark. a greater focus on sustainable solutions in the business sector, which would otherwise have been neglected. Capacity building and awareness-raising also took place with regard to sustainability and the development of green projects by The first step in this process was to identify prospective CDM projgetting local consultants and project owners involved in the idenects in Malaysia with the potential to generate Certified Emission tification and preparation of the CDM projects. For the Danish Reductions (CERs) to be purchased by the Danish Ministry of ForEmbassy in Malaysia, Danish Energy Management & Esbensen eign Affairs. Then, specific documentation was developed for a provided relevant technical advice on climate change, including innumber of these projects, including Project Idea Note (PIN) and formation on market trends, methodology, developments etc. that Project Design Documents (PDDs). Next, a follow-up was provided would contribute to triple bottom line sustainability with relation to for approval of these selected projects by the designated national people, planet and profit. authority, and subsequent approval was then given by the CDM Executive Board. Once projects were designated, Danish Energy Management & Esbensen assisted and advised the Danish Embassy throughout their negotiations regarding their Letter of Intent (LoI) and Emissions “This program has led to a greater focus on sustainable solutions in the Malaysian business sector, which would otherwise have been neglected.” MINISTRY OF DEFENSE, DENMARK Sustainability Measurement Energy Efficiency Sustainability Assessment Savings from Energy Efficiency 15.0 GWh 12.5 GWh Buildings assessed 16 Electricity for sustainable 10 10.0 GWh savings energy renovation Initiatives heat and electricity 7.5 GWh Gigawatt Hours*  Indoor climate 5.0 GWh Heat savings 5 assessment from gas 2.5 GWh fired boilers  Energy Gigawatt Hours* screening In line with ISO 50001 Energy Management (section 4.4.2 – 0.0 GWh 4.4.5), a baseline was created for energy use, along with a map*Calculated over a 25 year lifetime ping of work routines that influence energy use. Based on this assessment, the Danish Ministry of Defense has a solid Services provided foundation for creating a complete energy management system. • Energy audit and development of baselines and Energy Performance Indicators (EnPIs) at building Services provided level • Detailed list of building energy saving measures • Analysis of technical and financial energy savings • Energy management Ministry of Defense, Climate Action Denmark Case 3,000 tons 2,500 tons Ministry of Defense, Denmark This assignment provided a thorough overview of one estabCO2 reduced 2,811* 2,000 tons lishment’s current situation with regard to energy. 1,500 tons 1,000 tons Major energy savings, which contribute to SDG 7, 11 & 13, were identified in a number of areas. One area where the es500 tons tablishment can achieve major energy savings is through the 0 tons optimization and replacement of ventilation systems with more *Calculated over a 25 year lifetime efficient technologies. This CO2 reduction is based on 7, out of the 39 identified, Another area where major savings can be achieved is through initiatives which can be calculated with relative certainty. heating optimization, where adjusting for the drop in nighttime This means that the actual energy savings, and subsequent temperatures can have a large impact not only on energy savCO2 reduction, will be considerably higher. ings, but also on the overall comfort and work environment related to daytime temperatures. Services provided • Minimizing the consumption of resources and environmental impact Properties: 16 buildings Time frame: 2015-2016 Client: Danish Defense Property Board M2: 50,000 30 | Sustainability Management Danish Energy Management & Esbensen provided an energy auEnergy audits were carried out with a particular focus on the idendit and review for one of the establishments under the Ministry tification of significant energy use, e.g. with relation to equipment of Defense which consumes a particularly high amount of energy and workflow. All audits were carried out with the guidance of a due to e.g. large open hangars and buildings with large ventilation building manager or a local employee who had detailed knowledge demand. This work provided the foundation for the Danish Ministry of the building, installations & workflow. An energy audit report was of Defense to become more sustainable and save energy-related provided for each building individually, with Energy Performance costs. Indicators (EnPIs) and an action list identifying proposed energy efficiency measures to be taken. The buildings inspected and analyzed have very different usage patterns, and represent a wide range of activities, which make it Based on a detailed understanding of the organizational structure particularly important to identify how energy is being used, and within the Danish Ministry of Defense, and positive relationships could be used more efficiently. To achieve this, a survey with folthat were built during this assignment, contracts have been signed low-up interviews was carried out for all properties in order to for similar assignments. identify users’ perception of the indoor climate as well as their knowledge about, and motivation for, contributing to energy saving measures. “This work provided the foundation for the Danish Ministry of Defense to become more sustainable and save energy-related costs.” JAMBOREE DENMARK 2017: ENERGY MASTERPLAN Sustainability Measurement Renewable Energy Waste Management Land area: 310 9 Number of days: hectares Solar PV Solar thermal Biomass (water heating) (generators on biofuel) Waste Management Initiatives for Energy Efficiency Reduction of food waste can be achieved through initiatives Energy management such as collecting excess food for distribution to homeless Services provided Services provided • Efficient use of natural resources such as sunlight • Minimizing the consumption of resources and protecting the urban and natural environment Jamboree Climate Resilience Denmark Case 80 tons CO2 savings as a result 60 tons Jamboree Denmark 2017 80* This project provided a comprehensive toolkit for creating of Renewable Energy 40 tons a CO2 neutral scout jamboree in the summer of 2017. 20 tons Further examples of the sustainability initiatives: 0 tons  Generators based on biofuel for power supplied *Calculation for total tons CO2 saved over 9 days to toilets and trailers  “Spinning bikes” for charging smartphones Awareness campaigns  Biodegradable disposable tableware  Awareness and use of organic and sustainable material  LED lighting with daylight control – e.g. general packaging, food products, etc.  Organic food  Campaign for waste minimization  Awareness and use of sustainable transport  Collecting rain water for e.g. dish-washing Services provided • Helping to create a CO2 neutral event Participants: 40,000 people Time frame: 2016-2017 32 | Client: Sønderborg Municipality M2: 3,100,000 Sustainability Management Danish Energy Management & Esbensen completed this project in involved with helping this Jamboree to send a signal to the greater cooperation with Sønderborg Municipality, which through its initiacommunity regarding CO2 neutrality. tive “Project Zero” has the vision of being Europe’s first CO2 neutral municipality. This vision also closely mirrors that of Jamboree 2017 After the event is concluded, an evaluation will be held to deterand the Danish scout’s work in general, which is characterized by mine if the event was CO2 neutral, which is a success criterion for its high regard for nature and sustainability. Because of these comthe event. This evaluation can also act as a lessons learned sesmon interests, Danish Energy Management & Esbensen has been sion for future festivals and events of a similar nature, highlighting the benefits of sustainability. Reduction of energy use and CO2 savings based on recommended initiatives CO2 emissions associated Electricity consumption with electricity consumption kWhe kWhe kg CO2 kg CO2 300.000 300.000 100.000 100.000 250.000 250.000 80.000 80.000 260.005 260.005 200.000 200.000 91.522 91.522 60.000 60.000 150.000 150.000 40.000 40.000 100.000 100.000 50.000 50.000 20.000 20.000 33.736 33.736 11.900 11.900 0 0 0 0 Before Before After After Before Before After After Photo: Jens Fjordside Riis, spejderneslejr2017.dk/in-english/ Photo: Jon Kristensen “Together with Project Zero, we are helping Jamboree Denmark 2017 send a signal to the greater community regarding the extreme importance of CO2 neutrality.” ACP-EU ENERGY FACILITY MONITORING Sustainability Measurement Access to Energy Renewable Energy Over 13 million people in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of States have gained access to energy supply or to improved energy services since monitoring began in 2009. 103 National Studies that include access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services 7 wind power Number of monitored In addition to finance infrastructure, the ACP-EU Energy Facility 70 solar PV + 24 hydro projects for renewable also includes capacity building in partner countries. To date, 50 + 1 geothermal energy strategies, national studies, legal acts or institutional roadmaps have been developed supporting access to energy as a result of Monitored projects that have been implemented thus far are prorenewable energy or energy efficiency projects. ducing a yearly output in electricity amounting to approximately 60,000,000 kWh. Services provided (Access to Energy) Services provided (Renewable Energy) • Providing recommendations in order to better reach • Monitoring 103 projects including initiatives objectives, monitor achievements, and gather results. for renewable energy. Energy Efficiency Partnerships Supporting national plans and capacity building 10 Knowledge sharing seminars have been carried out for the 15 purpose of capacity building for sustainable development, as well as supporting national electrification strategies. Strengthening systemic issues The ACP-EU Energy Facility projects database has been deEnergy Efficiency projects veloped by Danish Energy Management & Esbensen to prothrough the ACP-EU vide comprehensive data regarding 173 projects. Energy Facility 10 of the Energy Efficiency projects are related to imServices provided proved cooking methods • 6 ACP-EU Energy Facility knowledge sharing seminars • 1 seminar supporting national electrification strategies Services provided (Energy Efficiency) in Mauritania • Monitoring 15 energy efficiency projects in the African, • 1 ACP-EU Energy Facility database providing Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of states. comprehensive data on 173 projects Total project number: 173 Time frame: 2009-2019 Client: European Commission Total EC Commitment: € 402,206,563 34 | Sustainability Management Danish Energy Management & Esbensen performs energy facility Our main activities regarding Energy Facility monitoring include monitoring in order to help ensure that people in rural and peri-urban desk-based monitoring, site visits to gather results and lessons areas in African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries can improve learned, missions to projects with problems in implementation, thetheir access to affordable and sustainable energy services. Permatic fiches providing a picture of main policy themes relevant to forming Energy Facility monitoring also contributes to an increase boost investment, and seminars. Information and knowledge sharin global coherence, efficiency and visibility for projects which are ing is made possible through a website and a database which can being carried out, as well as ensuring verification of implementation generate automatic scorecards, graphics, tables and maps at differand results that contribute to sustainable development. ent levels (project, national, regional or global level) based on data. Improved Energy Access Energy Infrastructure Number of direct beneficiaries with access to grid elecIncrease in energy production and distribution. tricity and to non-grid electricity as a result of the project. Reading Light RES Generated Energy 250,813 households with access to reading light 59,789,748 kWh Grid Electricity Energy Capacity Added 739,507 beneficiaries 257,463 kW Transmission/distribution Non-Grid Electricity lines built or upgraded 4,702,091 beneficiaries 31,571 km The Database: database.energyfacilitymonitoring.eu “Energy facility monitoring helps to ensure improved access to affordable and sustainable energy services.” www.dem-esb.dk
