2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT according to the G4 Guidelines of the Global reporting Initiative (GRI), core option About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 2 4 Statement by the President of 54 Economy 57 Environment 70 Employment 85 Comparative table of GRI and the Management Board Global Compact indicators 58 Materials 74 Occupational health and 6 AD Plastik Group safety 87 Global Sustainable 59 Energy Development Goals 7 Corporation matrix 75 Education and training 61 Water 88 Tasks for 2016 accomplished 8 Ethics and integrity 77 Rewarding 62 Emissions 89 Tasks for 2017 10 Technologies 78 Diversity and equal 65 Waste waters and waste opportunities 90 Opinion of the HRPSOR 11 Research & development 67 Expenditures and investments commission 80 Human rights 13 Product examples into environmental protection 81 Society 16 Countries in which we operate 68 Supplier assessment with regard to their impact on the 17 Overview of the market and environment customers 19 Income from sales 20 Stakeholders 29 Ownership structure 30 Overview of the top 10 shareholders 31 Management 32 Management structure 38 Employees 41 Supply chain 43 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives 45 Significant events in 2016 51 Identified material aspects and limits 52 Report profile AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 3 We are pleased to present you with the fourth Sustainability Report of the AD Plastik Group for 2016, prepared under the G4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. The Sustainability Report is intended for all our stakeholders and persons interested in our company. About us AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 4 Statement by the President of the Management Board Dear stakeholders, Our company has been tenaciously developing and advanctowards the recognition of individual contributors to inspire number of additional activities to improve the communication ing in line with the changes on the market, especially those employees to achieve results that exceed expectations. and awareness of our employees, as well as other company within the automotive industry in which it operates. In order stakeholders. to remain being the ever more important and significant parIn the next short-term period, we plan to redesign the organiticipant in the global automotive market, as well as to continsation and key business processes to improve the company's We have closed several very important contracts in 2016, ue our development, we are resolved to achieve and maintain efficiency and flexibility, while human resource management thereby expanding our portfolio of customers and products, extremely high standards of quality, environmental protection functions will become the strategic partner of the Manageand strengthening the position of our group in the next period. and sustainable business. We are strategically focused on the ment Board and all management levels in successful employWe have concluded new deals with Maserati, Fiat, Volkswapromotion of knowledge and the professional and personal ee management. An optimum human resource management gen, Renault Clio and Ford, whose total value in full producdevelopment of each individual because the satisfaction and and organisation that contribute to the satisfaction of all emtion years exceeds EUR 20 million a year. We focused on the motivation of our employees represents the key to our compaployees represent prerequisites for our future growth and dedevelopment of products with greater strategic potential and ny's success. In addition, we have geared our reward systems velopment. During the observed period, we have launched a continue to move in that direction. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 1 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 5 Statement by the President of the Management Board (continued) We are recognized by the investing public thanks to successstakeholders by ensuring a mutual routine and transparent The Sustainability Report is intended for all our stakeholders fully realized negotiations and new contracts, in addition to communication. Improving the development and quality of and persons interested in our company. I believe our results the overall improvement of our business, as well as the comour products to the satisfaction of our customers, as well as and achievements will be widely recognized. Our goal is to inprehensive and improved reports on business operation, along our end users, is the basic premise for a successful future of clude all our stakeholders in the development and assessment with frequent and transparent communication with investors. our company. We therefore pay special attention to the selecof our Sustainability Report in order to make further advances We have accomplished great business results for the second tion of quality materials and reliable suppliers. and become an even better employer in the community we consecutive year by achieving our goal of strengthening the operate. We value your opinion because we can make the envicompany's financial stability and improving profitability. ronment in which we live and work more enjoyable and better only by mutual action. As customers are one of the most important stakeholders in The corporate social responsibility is one the AD Plastik Group, building and maintaining strong partnerof the most important components of our ships with them is of utmost importance. We are participating in all phases of developing new projects for our customers, company's development policy. In spite of which is additionally reinforced by mutual everyday communithe demanding economic environment, we cation and consultancy. have achieved the goals set from the ecoMarinko Došen Within the reporting period we have participated in multiple nomic and other aspects of sustainable deindustry and economic conferences and round tables, and velopment within the reporting period. The President of the continue to actively participate in the work of national and Management Board regional economic initiatives that represent strategic interobserved aspects are mostly presented as ests of the Croatian economy. We are ambitiously creating consolidated data at the Group level. In ora dynamic business environment with the aim of continuous der to better track and compare such data, development and progress of our company. We therefore not only pursue activities that will further reduce the Group’s loan their portion is shown for each member of liabilities and optimize cash flows, but also continue to invest the Group individually. in new technologies that will reduce our impact on the environment. Our key business objectives for 2017 include a growth on existing and new markets, a further increase in business efficiency, risk management and, ultimately, a further increase in We are pleased to present you with the fourth Sustainability the market value of the company, that is, the value of stocks. Report of the AD Plastik Group for 2016, prepared under the In order to guarantee a success in realizing our goals, we strive G4 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. to develop a successful and long-term cooperation with all our AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 GRI: G4 •• 11 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 6 AD Plastik Group The AD Plastik Group is the leading company for the develeach employee. Our cooperation with customers is based on opment and manufacture of car interior and exterior compotrust, reliability and quality from the early stage of developWho we are ? nents in Croatia, and one of the leading ones in Eastern Eument to the final product. A focus on customer needs, mainrope. It is a multinational company with more than thirty years taining high quality and competitiveness of products and •• a multinational company with more than 30 years of experience in the world of automotive industry, with seven services, as well as the continuous investment into the develof experience in the automotive industry manufacturing sites in four countries. opment and improvement of technology are prerequisites for •• 7 manufacturing sites in 4 countries The AD Plastik Group runs three factories in Croatia, namely the survival and development of the company. •• over 2100 employees (excluding JV) one in Solin and two in Zagreb, where it employs over 1,200 The AD Plastik Group is aware of its responsibility towards persons in total. Our factory in Serbia employs approximately the environment and the community in which it develops its 200 persons, while our two factories in Russia employ over business, and is, therefore, continuously working on the im700 persons. Moreover, AD Plastik has formed a Romanian provement of sustainable business. All automotive suppliers, joint venture company Euro APS with Faurecia. We export as well as car manufacturers themselves, are continuously a hundred percent of our products manufactured in Croatia, working on developing new materials and products to reduce where the company is seated, to the EU and Serbian markets, the impact of finished products on the environment. The eswhile factories in Russia mainly supply the Russian market. tablishment and reinforcement of environmental standards What we do ? and criteria in this industry is a priority without which it is impossible to survive. The AD Plastik Group is on the panel of •• one of the leading companies in the development and world-renowned manufacturers, which proves its quality, sucmanufacture of car components in Eastern Europe cess and focus on corporate social responsibility. The long-term strategy of the Group is to ensure a high-quality and stable business to the satisfaction of all its stakeholders. Where we are ? •• headquarters in Solin, Croatia A thirty-year history provides experience and considerable sophistication to our company, which builds its business on tradition, knowledge, exceptional expertise and dedication of AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 3 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 7 Corporation matrix AD Plastik d.d. Parent company Matoševa 8, 21 210 Solin, Republic of Croatia Daughter companies / subsidiary companies Percent of ownership: 100% AD Plastik d.d. AD Plastik d.o.o. Slovenia Belokranjska cesta 4, 8000 Novo Mesto, Republic of Slovenia Percent of ownership: 99,99% AD Plastik d.d. AO AD Plastik Samara oblast, Vintai, Samara, Russia Percent of ownership: 100% AD Plastik d.d. ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga 248016 Skladskaya ulica 6, Kaluga oblast, Kaluga, Russia Percent of ownership: 100% AD Plastik d.d. ADP d.o.o. Mladenovac Kralja Petra I, 334 Mladenovac, Republic of Serbia Joint Venture Percent of ownership: 50% AD Plastik d.d. 50% Faurecia Automotive Euro Auto Plastic Systems S.R.L. Strada Unizei 1, Mioveni, Romania Holdings S.A.S. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 7 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 8 Ethics and integrity Key values Reliability Responsibility We base our relationships with all our The responsibility is ours. It is an imporstakeholders on trust, and honest and tant prerequisite for the development, ADP Vision Statement frank communication. The continuous growth and results of the company. We establishment of long-term partnerexpress it daily in our relationship with To be the market leader in the developships with all our stakeholders is based each individual, work, partners, stakeon mutual respect. holders and our actions with regard to ment and manufacture of car components the society, nature and community in on the territory of Eastern Europe, and to Excellence which we operate. expand the business to new markets. In every business segment, we strive to meet the highest quality standards, be it Dedication products, working methods or employLoyalty, productivity and satisfaction ADP Mission Statement ee competences. are the indicators of the dedication that we wish to encourage with a conscienInnovation tious approach to the company. We To contribute to the quality of the fiWith our own ideas and creativity, we wish our employees to identify with the nal products and to the success of our are working to improve the development company and its values. customers with innovative and creative of the company and each individual segment within it daily, simultaneously Collective community solutions, as well as with constant adfollowing the developments and trends We encourage mutual cooperation on vancement of the product research & deon the global market. all levels, as well as team work, which velopment. We meet our goals by applying is necessary for the development and the principles of socially responsible and growth of not only the company, but also each individual person. Sharing ethical business to the satisfaction and ideas and knowledge, a multicultural enwelfare of all our stakeholders – employvironment, mutual respect and solidariees, business partners, customers and ty are the key principles of community that we are developing. shareholders. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 56 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 9 Ethics and integrity (continued) Code of Business Conduct and policies of the AD Plastik Group The AD Plastik Group Code of Business Conduct and policies In the reporting period, the AD Plastik Group has updated and The Code of Business Conduct and policies are published on define the rules that aim to ensure the avoidance of conflicts developed new policies: anti-corruption policy, anti-monopoly the company's website in three languages, as well as on the of interest and any form of corruption, as well as to assume policy, quality policy, policy of sustainable supplier manageIntranet website. Every employee familiar with a suspected obligations under international law to respect human rights. ment, energy management policy, human rights policy, envibreach of any provision of the Code of Business Conduct must The company bases its business activities on good corporate ronmental policy, occupational health and safety policy, and immediately inform relevant persons or departments specigovernance practices, while by implementing everyday busidiversity policy. fied in the Code. Where necessary, the procedures prescribed ness practices, strategies, policies and internal regulations by the internal procedure will be implemented and the measthe company aims to contribute to transparent and efficient ures prescribed by relevant laws applied. business operation and establish better relations in the environment where it opIn agreements with suppliers, we ask erates. that they respect the essential provisions of the Code of Business Contact, Global In order to keep abreast with changes on Compact initiative of the UN, and ILO conthe global market, the AD Plastik Group, ventions against child labour and forced as a multinational company, regularly relabour (ILO138, ILO29 and ILO105). vises and updates its internal acts, procedures and policies. Consequently, at the end of 2016, the company's Code of Business Conduct received its second edition. •• The mission statement The Code defines the rules of business conduct for the Group that must be ob•• Vision statement served in day-to-day business relationships within and outside the company. All •• Key company values employees are required to implement the Code's guidelines which explicitly empha•• Code of Business Conduct of size the personal responsibility of each inthe Group dividual. Namely, in order to preserve the company's reputation, it is an obligation Integral parts of materials that of each employee to act in a responsible each person receives upon recruitand conscientious manner in accordance ment to the AD Plastik Group. with company values. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 56 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 10 Technologies The technologies used by the AD Plastik Group in its business operation include the following: Kaluga, Russia Injection moulding, Painting, Non-woven textiles, thermoforming, extrusion and blow moulding. Injection moulding Thermoforming Zagreb I, Croatia Zagreb II, Croatia Vintai, Russia Injection Injection Injection Non-woven painting Thermoforming Extrusion moulding moulding moulding textiles Mladenovac, Serbia Injection Non-woven Blow textiles Thermoforming moulding moulding Solin, Croatia Injection Extrusion moulding AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 5 6 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 11 Research & development Research & development significance and activities Environmental Protection Car manufacturers focus on their core busiAlmost 4% of total revenues were invested A special attention should be paid to the ness, while research and development of in the research and development within the environmental aspects of the product from specific components are left to suppliers. AD Plastik Group in 2016, indicating the imthe product development phase, the design In accordance with the stated requirements portance of this area. The research and deplanning itself, the selection of material and of customers and the market that are in velopment department employs more than the required manufacturing process, to the constant pursuit of advanced technologies 100 engineers who have the state-of-the-art end of its life cycle. A good planning of each and products, the AD Plastik Group invests systems and tools at their disposal. process and procedure, as well as the design considerable resources in research and deof each component or system, and a contin4% velopment in order to track trends and offer of total revenue investuous improvement of manufacturing process the same quality or better solutions than the ed in Research and reduce the impact on environment. Harmful competition. There is an intense focus on development gas emissions are a global problem, so in the >100 new processes, technologies and materials recent years companies have been manufacthat will in the near future represent a step engineers turing cars with low harmful gas emissions, forward in the sense of development and while the reduction trend is rapidly moving manufacture-technology. As customers want toward zero emissions. Since it is necessary to receive complete solutions from suppliers, to reduce the weight of future cars in order the research and development department of to achieve the desired goal of reducing the the AD Plastik Group is focused on the develemission of harmful gases, the immediate opment of complete modules combining mulpriority is the choice of so-called lightweight tiple technologies. This requires the highest materials. Car weight can be reduced by level of competence in developmental sense modifying the weight of each individual comand flexible solutions that will demonstrate ponent, particularly as regards car interior the required aspects of cost and quality. or exterior. The AD Plastik Group is ready to respond to new market demands through As a result of continuous investment in reits research of new and lighter materials, as search and development in the AD Plastik well as the development of lighter compoGroup, the company became a reliable and nents, and the exploration of possibilities to stable partner for the majority of global auimplement natural materials. We are making to-motive manufacturers. continuous efforts to increase the proportion of basic recycled raw materials that are more environmentally friendly. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 12 Research & development (continued) Composite materials Because composite materials have an imporThe AD Plastik Group can, in the area of tant impact on the reduction of car weight, composite material development, offer its the AD Plastik Group experts have in the customers innovative solutions in line with reporting period devoted special attention global trends in the automotive industry. to the research and development of natural material applications in thermoformed interior products, all with a view to reduce their weight and possibly implement them in subsequent periods. Materials recycling In order to reduce the impact on the environproperties and characteristics required for ment after the end of the life cycle of a prodtheir functionality. uct, the AD Plastik Group, in cooperation with its customers, takes necessary measures to In 2016, we have implemented the use of maimprove the recycling potential of products terials with fifty percent recycled content of after their life cycle. When starting the prodnon-woven textiles. uct development phase and selecting the material itself, we give the priority to materials that contain a certain proportion of recycled material. We are exploring the possibility of using natural materials to ensure that each individual product is not only lighter, but also, to the greatest extent possible, recyclable at the end of its life cycle. It is important to emphasize that all products must retain the AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 13 Product examples Exterior Rear Hood fender protector Wheel Upper arch grille housing Rear Front bumper bumper extender Lower Rocker grille cladding Front Rear skirt bumper Front Diffuser fender Front Rear bumper skirt extender Front fender Deflector protector AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 14 Product examples Interior Grab Headliner handle Sunvisor Headliner Floor console carpet Door Parcel panel shelf Trunk Instrument side panel trim Trunk carpet AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 15 Product examples Sealing systems Roof moulding Windshield Glass run finisher channel Door Inner hidden belt frame Bellow Outer belt belt AD PLASTIK GRUPA GROUP • IZVJEŠTAJ REPORT 2016. O ODRŽIVOSTI SUSTAINABILITY 2016 GRI: G4 • 4 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 16 Countries in which we operate Organisation headquarters AD Plastik d.d., Matoševa 8, Solin AD Plastik Kaluga.... Kaluga, Russia •• employees...................................225 •• floor area of facilities........8 524 m2 AD Plastik..............Zagreb I, Croatia •• employees...................................413 •• floor area of facilities......24 136 m2 AD Plastik.................. Vintai, Russia •• employees...................................520 •• floor area of facilities......24 500 m2 AD Plastik.............Zagreb II, Croatia •• employees...................................152 •• floor area of facilities........7 336 m2 ADP...................Mladenovac, Serbia •• employees...................................169 •• floor area of facilities......13 952 m2 EAPS....................Mioveni, Romania •• Joint Venture •• AD Plastik...................................50% AD Plastik...................Solin, Croatia •• Headquarters •• employees.................................. 638 •• floor area of facilities......26 618 m2 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 5 6 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 17 Overview of the market and customers Argentina France India Germany Poland •• Naberezhnye Slovenia Turkey •• Córdoba •• Batilly •• Ranjangaon •• Bochum •• Gliwice Chelny •• Ljubljana •• Bursa •• Buenos Aires •• Douai •• Cologne •• Tychy •• Nizhny Novgorod •• Novo Mesto Italy UK •• Hambach •• Eisenach •• Saint Petersburg Brazil •• Cassino Romania Spain •• Ellesmere Port •• Mulhouse •• Kassel •• Togliatti •• Pernambuco •• Melfi •• Craiova •• Ulyanovsk •• Barcelona USA •• Porto Real •• Poissy •• Mirafiori •• Mosel •• Mioveni •• Madrid •• Rennes •• Regensburg Serbia •• Detroit Czech Republic Mexico Russia •• Palencia •• Sandouville •• Ruesselsheim •• Kragujevac •• Valencia Uzbekistan •• Kolín •• Sevelnord •• Cuautitlán •• Saarlouis •• Izhevsk •• Asaka Slovakia •• Valladolid •• Mladá Boleslav •• Sochaux •• Toluca •• Wolfsburg •• Kaluga •• Moscow •• Bratislava •• Vigo •• Trnava •• Zaragoza AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 8 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 18 Overview of the market and customers (continued) Europa + Serbia Customer Sales market FCA Serbia, Italy, Poland Ford Spain, Germany, Romania, Russia Grupo Antolin Slovenia Hella Slovenia France, Spain, Czech Republic, SlovaPSA kia, Argentina, Brazil, China, Russia Reydel Slovenia, France RSA Slovenia, France VW Germany Webasto Germany, Slovakia Euro APS, JV Romania Customer Sales market Dacia Romania Russia AvtoVaz Russia Ford Russia GM-VAZ Russia Nissan Russia PCMA Russia Renault Russia VAZ Russia VAZ Rusija AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 8 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 19 Income from sales As in previous years, AD Plastik Group’s plants in Croatia and Serbia sell their products mainly Income from sales by sites Income from sales by technology on the EU and Serbian markets, but also on new markets such as Mexico, Brazil and the United States. Russian companies from the AD Plastik Group sell their production assortment mostly on the market of the Russian Federation. The Group is strongly positioned in the market of automotive components manufacturers in Europe, especially with regard to the manufacture of grab handles. AD Plastik grab handles are installed in a wide range of vehicles of well-known car manufacturers such as Fiat, Jeep, Renault, PSA Group, and we should point out new grab handle manufacturing project for the VW Group. This increase in grab handle manufacture is specially visible thanks to the exceptional growth of manufacture in Serbia. The Edison project continues to have the greatest impact on production volume and realization EU + Serbia............................................ 75% Injection moulding + Blow moulding.. 65% in 2016, and we must highlight the transfer of console production which began at the end of the Russia..................................................... 25% Painting.................................................. 14% year. Thermoforming + Non-woven textile.. 12% Extrusion.................................................. 9% The Russian market was marked by stabilization if compared to the previous two years, and this has created a basis for further growth. Last year was marked by a series of inquiries and technical presentations, which are a good Income from sales by market foundation for implementing new business operations and plans. Other countries Italy France Germany Slovenia Russia AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 9 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 20 Stakeholders The AD Plastik Group regards the needs and understanding Through transparent and regular communication with all its sively involved in the preparation of the Sustainability Report of its stakeholders extremely important and therefore holds stakeholders, the AD Plastik Group seeks to achieve mutual as one of the key stakeholders. Since the company's report regular consultations and discussions with different groups understanding as the basis of its business development and must meet the standards for sustainable development set by of stakeholders, as well as works at improving mutual comprogress. individual customers, much of its content is based on regular munication and involvement. In this way, we are also trying to customer consultations. The AD Plastik Group has signed an include individual stakeholders in the preparation of the ComOccasional consultations and meetings are the most common agreement or guidelines on compliance with the rules of corpany Sustainability Report. Even though the stakeholders' reform of involvement for the majority of stakeholders. Moreoporate social responsibility in the automotive industry with the action in this area is somewhat slower, there is still plenty of ver, a part of them is also involved in public discussions within majority of customers. room for development and progress. the community. The AD Plastik Group customers were intenAccording to the AD Plastik Group business development strategy, the key stakeholders of the company are: •• customers, •• employees, •• unions, •• suppliers and partners, •• owners and shareholders, •• the financial public, •• local and national authorities, •• community (universities, associations, organisations) and •• media The key stakeholders at the same time constitute a part of the AD Plastik Group mission and vision. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 21 Stakeholders (continued) Customers Types of consultations and frequency Customers are one of the key stakeholders in the automotive industry. •• Visits/meetings (regularly) The AD Plastik Group builds partner•• Audits (where necessary) ships with its customers in all phases •• Written communication (where of cooperation, starting from the earnecessary) ly stages of development to the final •• Satisfaction survey (regularly via product. The aim is to contribute to specialised portals) the quality of finished products, and •• Official website (regularly) thus to the success of car manufac•• Sustainability Report (annually) turers and their customers, as well as the safety of end users. In order to In the reporting period, a total of 63 customer remain competitive and successful audits were conducted within the Group, of on the global market, the company which 31 at sites in Russia. The largest numis constantly making improvements, ber of audits was carried out by the Renault carrying out research and offering Group, which is expected since it is the larginnovative solutions to existing and est customer of the AD Plastik Group. Audits potential customers. were also carried out by Nissan, VW, VAZ, Ford, Hella, Fiat and Jaguar Land Rover. The number of customer audits in the reporting period was increased in order to maintain the expected quality, but also due to expansion of business cooperation and new nominations. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 22 Stakeholders (continued) Employees Types of consultations and frequency Employees are the most important stakeholders and the biggest value of •• Survey of the organisation climate and the AD Plastik Group. They are responsatisfaction (annually) sible for the achievement of ambitious •• E-mail announcements (where and dynamic development projects, necessary) and united in activities and projects, •• Bulletin board notices (where necessary) they showed flexibility and willing•• Internal newsletter (every two months) ness to change in order to achieve •• Intranet (regularly) long-term growth and development of •• Sustainability Report (annually) the company. Continuous monitoring •• .Informal gatherings (regularly) of the latest trends, strategic reflection and modern human resources In the reporting period, a number of additionThe project “Idea for Improvement” rewardmanagement processes enable the al activities were launched to improve the ing was implemented at the sites in Croatia, company to create a competitive adlevel of information and communication with as an example of good practice from our vantage through its employees. The employees on an individual, operational and Russian companies, with the aim to encouremployees of the AD Plastik Group recorporate level. The practice of employee inage creativity and engagement of all employspect the standards of excellence and volvement at all levels, areas and in all counees. In the reporting period, ADP Day was mutual cooperation, share knowledge tries in which the Group operates is applied, also celebrated for the first time at all sites of and experience, propose new ideas having in mind the importance of communithe Group. Team building and the Chatroom and solidarity, enabling creation of a cation as the best performance indicator in open days of the Management Board were community that constantly evolves. all business and measurement aspects. In also held for the first time, as well as corpo2016, external consultants carried out a surrate gatherings on Christmas and New Year vey of organisational climate and satisfaction holidays. Croatian employees officially reprefor the first time, in order to obtain a better sented the company at B2B races in Split and and more objective complete picture of the Zagreb. We also organized informal social company, all with a view to strengthen the functions for employees, as well as ceremoactivities to improve motivation and develop nial awards, humanitarian actions providing employee dedication. aid to vulnerable families in Vukovar, sports events, group visits to shows and various informal social employee events. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 23 Stakeholders (continued) Unions and Workers' Council Suppliers and partners Types of consultations and frequency Types of consultations and frequency Unions and the Workers’ Council are Suppliers and partners are imporpublic institutions that participate in •• Meetings/negotiations (where necessary) •• Supplier evaluation (monthly) tant stakeholders of the AD Plastik the decision-making process of the •• Internal newsletter (every two months) •• Quality criteria evaluation (monthly) Group, who can significantly affect company, especially regarding the po•• Intranet (regularly) •• Visits (where necessary) the company’s business. Contracting sition of workers. Unions participate •• Sustainability Report (annually) •• Sustainability Report (annually) commercial and other business rein collective bargaining decisions and, lations with suppliers and managing ultimately, in conclusion of collective In the reporting period, unions met with the Supplier performance monitoring is carried their quality, play a significant role in agreements with the company. The employer two times during collective negotiout regularly, in accordance with the preachieving the company's annual and Workers ‘Council represents the workations regarding the conclusion of a new Colscribed procedures and questionnaires. In medium-term goals. Business is largeers’ interests and regularly reports lective Agreement in Croatia. The Collective the reporting period, monthly supplier evaluly dependent on suppliers because on all matters related to the position Agreement signed in 2014 and effective for a ation was introduced, and the continuous cooffering customers a greater level of of the workers. One member of the period of three years was still in force during operation and consultancy with the suppliers product and service quality in order to Workers’ Council is also a member of 2016, and at the end of 2016, collective negocontinued for the purpose of improving their reduce costs and strengthen the posthe Supervisory Board, and thus partiations began regarding the new Collective business system, and meeting the required itive impact on both the environment ticipates in supervising the company's Agreement for 2017. Collective bargaining in standards of the car industry. and the society as a whole is achieved operations. Collective bargaining as a Russia was held and completed in Septemthrough our mutual cooperation. model of conducting business in the ber. company has proven to be very successful and effective. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 24 Stakeholders (continued) Owners and shareholders Types of consultations and frequency Owners and shareholders are an important part of the public whose •• Notifications (where necessary) trust we have been building for years. •• Financial reports (quarterly) By achieving good business results •• Shareholders’ Assembly (annually) aimed at increasing the company’s •• Official website (regularly) value and creating new value, regular •• E-mail communication (where and transparent reporting and internecessary) active communication, we have built •• Annual financial report (annually) partnerships to our mutual satisfac•• Sustainability Report (annually) tion. It is a long-term strategy of the AD Plastik Group to increase the satisImproving the financial reporting, continuous faction of the shareholders by increascommunication and regular notifications to ing the value of stocks and paying out shareholders were a priority in the observed attractive dividends. reporting period. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 25 Stakeholders (continued) Financial public Types of consultations and frequency The financial public includes investors and creditors, as important stake•• Notifications (where necessary) holders of the AD Plastik Group, with •• Financial reports (quarterly) which a partnership is realized based •• Official website (regularly) on timely and transparent reporting. •• Conferences (twice a year) The company’s objective is to inform •• Roadshow (annually) the stakeholders of all relevant events •• E-mail communication (where in the Group, so that they could make necessary) decisions based on accurate informa•• Annual financial report (annually) tion in real-time. •• Sustainability Report (annually) In addition to improving the financial reporting methods, in the reporting period we have continued the practice to regularly inform our stakeholders about quarterly reports and held meetings and presentations intended for the financial public that provided more detailed indicators and information by introducing new indicators and information. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 26 Stakeholders (continued) National and local administration bodies Types of consultations and frequency National and local administration bodies are a part of the public the •• Participation in specialised congresses company cooperates with regularly and conferences (where necessary) in all countries in which it operates, in •• Participation in consultations with state accordance with their demands and institutions (as appropriate) company policies. As a renowned and •• Memberships (regularly) respectable economic operator, the •• Visits (where necessary) Group has a responsibility to improve •• Sustainability Report (annually) the business environment in the communities it operates in. The Management Board of the AD Plastik Group responded positively and urgently to all inquiries and requests for consultations with the aim of defining certain national positions in the reporting period. For example, defining of interests in individual markets and removing trade barriers, redefining the export support model and programming of future development projects in automotive industry and 4.0 Industry. The representatives of the AD Plastik Group have participated in several conferences organised by the national and local administration bodies. In this way, our professional know-how and experience contributed to the development and improvement of the business conditions in the area, particularly in connection with exporters. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 27 Stakeholders (continued) Community Types of consultations and frequency The community (universities, associations, organisations...), in which mem•• Participation in conferences (where bers of the AD Plastik Group operate, necessary) is an important part of the public. Col•• Memberships (regularly) petitiveness growth” panel; the International Mechanical Engineering and Naval Architeclaboration and partnership with the •• Visits (where necessary) SEE Automotive Conference held in Novi Sad, ture, the Faculty of Chemistry and Technolcommunity are part of the corporate •• Sustainability Report (annually) Serbia, where our Sales Manager, Toni Štamogy and the Faculty of Economics in Split, culture of the company that wants buk, held the presentation of the AD Plastik even greater number of students got the opto build new business and economic In the reporting period, the representatives Group and participated in the round table disportunity to gain experience in the AD Plastik standards. Mutual recognition of valof the AD Plastik Group attended and particcussion; the “Corporate Governance in CroaGroup. Cooperation with the Faculty of Texues, exchange of knowledge, ideas, ipated in a number of economic events on tia” conference held in Zagreb, where Marinko tile Technology and the Aspira University Colprojects and initiatives are necessary competitiveness, investment promotion, exDošen, the President of the Management lege has also been formalised. In the reportto enhance the quality of business and port, socially responsible business, financial Board, participated as a winner of the Coring period, 27 students, especially from the community living. Representatives of and corporate governance, as well as specialporate Governance Excellence Award in the Faculty of Chemistry and Technology and the the Group regularly participate in doized car industry issues. The most prominent round table discussion “First-rate Corporate Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Mechanical mestic and international conferences, active participations in the observed period Governance in Croatia – Experience of the Engineering and Naval Architecture, completeconomic forums and round table were: the economic event “Business ExpecBest Joint-stock Companies”; expert confered their practice in the company's services. discussions. The AD Plastik Group tations for 2016”, where Katija Klepo, member ence of the Croatian Competitiveness Cluster Cooperation with higher education institudevelops regular cooperation with the of the Management Board, participated in for Automotive Sector “Development Potentions has continued on the implementation university community and promotes the round table discussion; the “Russian Autial of the Croatian Automotive Industry” held of projects of mutual interest in the area of employment of local residents, and tomotive Forum” in Moscow, where Marinko in Zagreb, where Assistant Director of Zagreb research and development, and in the field of supports various professional assoDošen, the President of the Management plant, Zoja Crnečki, held a presentation on study programs tailored to the needs of the ciations and citizens' associations. Board, held a presentation on “Supplier Development Potentials and Trends in PlasGroup, whereas one of the goals is early seLocal initiatives and associations are Strategy in the Automotive Industry How tic Parts Production . lection of talents and further development of supported through donations and to survive and succeed” and participated in business and professional cooperation. For sponsorships. the round table discussion; the Ciraz 2016: The company also supported the Private Secthe third year in a row, the AD Plastik Group Harnessing Innovation to Drive Economic tor Youth Initiative, launched by the Croatian has been involved in the “Experience is Gold” Growth the Ron Brown Legacy” conference Employers’ Association and the European initiative, a project aimed at sensitizing the held in Dubrovnik, where Marinko Došen, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development business community and the wider commuPresident of the Management Board, particand, through long-term good cooperation nity regarding employment of particularly ipated in the “Boosting the economic comwith the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, vulnerable people on the labour market. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 28 Stakeholders (continued) The Media Types of consultations and frequency The media are the stakeholders through which the company informs •• Press releases (regularly) In the reporting period, structured and reguand communicates with the general •• Press conferences (where necessary) lar communication with the media continued public, as well as all other stakehold•• Visits (where necessary) to improve the image of the company. ers, about all relevant issues and •• Statements (regularly) changes in the company. The aim is to inform all company’s stakeholders in a timely and transparent manner in order to maintain regular and successful cooperation. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 24 27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 29 Ownership structure AD Plastik d.d. (Parent company) is a joint-stock company founded in the Republic of Croatia The share capital of AD Plastik d.d. amounting to HRK 419,958,400 has been divided into and entered into the court register of the Commercial Court in Split under the company registra4,199,584 stocks with the nominal value of HRK 100.00 each. Its shareholders are legal and nattion number (MBS) 060007090, company identification number (OIB) 48351740621. ural entities from Croatia and abroad, who pursue their interests through the General Assembly and the Supervisory Committee in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. OAO Holding, Russia............................... 30.00% Pension funds........................................... 22.14% Small shareholders.................................. 17.90% Management and employees................. 15.96% 30.0% Other institutional investors....................13.33% OAO Holding, Russia Treasury shares..........................................0.67% Other institutional investors Management and employees Pension funds 13.3% 16.0% 22.1% Erste bank / Zbirni skrbnički račun.......... 2,51% ADP ESOP....................................................3.11% Raiffeisen OMF category B.......................6.42% PBZ d.d. / State street client..................... 2,21% Others........................................................12.85% Raiffeisen DMF...........................................3.54% Zaba / State street bank............................ 1,76% PBZ CO OMF category B............................2.85% PBZ d.d. / Skrbnički zbirni račun..............1,40% Capital fund.................................................2.78% ZABA / ZB Aktiv...........................................1,14% Erste Plavi category B...............................2.75% Others.......................................................... 4,31% Others..........................................................3.82% AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 7 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 30 Overview of the top 10 shareholders as of 31 December 2016 No. of No. of The Company has no majority shareholder, the largest shareNo Shareholder shares Share shares 31 Share Moveholder is the Open Joint Stock Company “Holding Autokom31 Decem(%) December (%) ment ponenti” from St. Petersburg, Russia, which owns 1,259,875 ber 2016 2015 shares representing a 30 percent share of Company equity 1 OAO HOLDING AUTOKOMPONENTI 1,259,875 30.00 1,259,875 30.00 ■ capital. •• RBA Voluntary Pension Fund became one of the ten larg2 RAIFFEISEN MANDATORY PENSION FUND category B 269,462 6.42 269,462 6.42 ■ est shareholders in 2016 (3.54 percent). •• Shares of other top ten shareholders were mostly un3 RAIFFEISEN VOLUNTARY PENSION FUND 148,645 3.54 ▲ changed compared to 2015, which indicates that large volumes of shares are not traded at the stock exchange 4 ADP-ESOP D.O.O. 130,532 3.11 212,776 5.07 ▼ despite the free float of 69.33 percent. 5 PBZ CO MANDATORY PENSION FUND category B 119,640 2.85 119,640 2.85 ■ 6 KAPITALNI FOND D.D. 116,541 2.78 116,541 2.78 ■ 7 ERSTE PLAVI category B 115,353 2.75 115.353 2.75 ■ ERSTE & STEIERMARKISCHE BANK D.D. Joint custodial 8 105,349 2.51 105,349 2.51 ■ account 9 AZ MANDATORY PENSION FUND category B 93,900 2.24 93,900 2.24 ■ 10 PBZ D.D. STATE STREET CLIENT ACCOUNT 92,948 2.21 111,366 2.65 ▼ TOTAL 2,452,245 58.39 2,491,039 59.32 ▼ AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 9 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 31 Management AD Plastik applies the Corporate Governance The AD Plastik Group bases its busiCode of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, as the ness activities on good corporate company’s stocks are listed on their official governance practices, while by implemarket. The regular completion of annual menting everyday business practices, questionnaire published on the official webstrategies, policies and internal regusite of the Zagreb Stock Exchange (www. lations the Group aims to contribute to zse.hr) and the company’s website (www. transparent and efficient business opadplastik.hr) directly reflects the dedication In 2016, we did not deviate from the legally AD Plastik is also a signatory of the Code of eration and establish better relations of AD Plastik to principles of corporate manprescribed and accepted Corporate GovernEthical Business of the Croatian Chamber of in the environment where it operates. agement and social responsibility. The Anance Code of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, Commerce, with the obligation of responsible All company employees must aim at nual Report of the AD Plastik Group, which except in parts stating that the majority of and ethical conduct as the necessary prereqhonest and frank relationships with all can also be found on the company’s website, Supervisory Board members are not indeuisite for an efficient functioning of the marstakeholders in order to ensure, above includes a Statement on the Application of pendent members and that Supervisory ket. Identification of ethical criteria contriball, respect for human rights, avoiding Corporate Governance Code signed by all Board committees are mostly composed of utes to a transparent and efficient business. conflicts of interest, and any form of members of the Management Board. its independent members. corruption. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 32 Management structure General Assembly Supervisory Board The corporate management structure of AD Plastik is Shareholders exercise their rights in joint stock company afThe Supervisory Board oversees the company operations, based on a dual system comprised of the Management fairs through the General Assembly, which is competent for including the examination of business accounts and docuBoard and the Supervisory Board. deciding on the following issues: election and dismissal of Suments, of which it reports to the General Assembly. The Supervisory Board members, use of profit, release from duty of pervisory Board gives prior consent for certain types of works The Management Board and the Supervisory Board, Management and Supervisory Board members, appointment that otherwise cannot be performed. The Supervisory Board together with the General Assembly and Audit Commitof auditors, amendments to the Statute, increase and reduccan convene the General Assembly, and all its members share tee, comprise the four key functions of the company. tion of capital stock, status changes and termination, listing of the responsibility of supervision, oversight and sustainable stocks on the regulated market for the purpose of trading and business. The Supervisory Board consists of seven members, withdrawal of stocks from such listings, and other matters of which four members are elected by the General Assembly that, in accordance with the provisions of the law, fall within for the mandate of four years, and these members are eligible its competence. for a re-appointment. One member is appointed by the WorkCommittees ers’ Council for the period of four years, while two members The extraordinary General Assembly held on 6 April 2016 has are appointed by the shareholder Holding Autokomponenti, in accordance with the Law and the Statute adopted a deciopen joint-stock company, Saint Petersburg, Russia, for the General Shareholsion on the payment of dividend advance from unallocated period of four years, eligible for a re-appointment. Supervisory Board (retained) profit and other reserves generated in 2014.. ders’ Assembly In 2016 five regular sessions of the Supervisory Board were The regular General Assembly held on 14 July 2016 has in acheld, in accordance with the previously published Calendar of cordance with the Law and the Statute adopted decisions on Sessions. The Supervisory Board has in accordance with the Management Board accepting the Annual Report on the status of the AD Plastik Rules on the Supervisory Board activities outside sessions Group for 2015, Supervisory Board reports on the completed met an additional five times outside regular sessions in order supervision of the Group’s conduct of business for 2015, the to finalize decisions. use of profit, a decision on the payment of dividend, a release from duty of Management and Supervisory Board members, Since the mandate of the President of the Supervisory Board an appointment of the Auditor, and a decision on the election Josip Boban and the member of the Supervisory Board Nikola of two Supervisory Board members. Zovko expired on 19 July 2016, in accordance with the Decision of the General Assembly, Ivica Tolić and Hrvoje Jurišić were elected new members for a four-year mandate as of 20 July 2016. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 33 Management structure (continued) Members of the Supervisory Board Dmitrij Leonidovič Drandin Ivica Tolić According to the Statute, members of the Supervisory Board President Vice President may be remunerated for their work in the amount determined by the General Assembly in its decision for the busi•• Current mandate from 15 October 2015 to 14 October •• Current mandate from 20 July 2016 to 19 July 2020 ness year in which the award will be paid, depending on the 2019 •• Elected by the General Assembly business results and the state of the company. The decision •• Appointed by the shareholder Holding Autokomponenti sets out the remuneration for the members of the Superviopen joint stock company sory Board as follows: 1.5 average monthly gross salary to the President for each session of the Supervisory Board, and 1 average monthly gross salary to other members for each session of the Supervisory Board. The amount of remunerHrvoje Jurišić Marijo Grgurinović ation is determined on the basis of gross average monthly Member Member salaries in AD Plastik achieved in the three months prior to the payment of such remuneration. Remuneration is paid af•• Current mandate from 20 July 2016 to 19 July 2020 •• Current mandate from 23 July 2015 to 22 July 2019 ter each meeting of the Supervisory Board. •• Elected by the General Assembly •• Elected by the General Assembly In the year 2016, the decision on the payment of remuneration to members of the Supervisory Board was not made. Igor Anatoljevič Solomatin Nadežda Anatoljevna Nikitina Member Member •• Current mandate from 23 July 2015 to 22 July 2019 •• Current mandate from 15 October 2015 to 14 October Committees •• Elected by the General Assembly 2019 •• Appointed by the shareholder Holding Autokomponenti open joint stock company General ShareholDolores Čerina Supervisory Board ders’ Assembly Member •• Current mandate from 2 June 2015 to 1 June 2019 Management Board •• Appointed by the Workers' Council AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 34 Management structure (continued) Supervisory Board Committees Audit Committee In accordance with the laws and rules of procedure, three committees have been appointed to support the The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the effiDuring the reporting period, four sessions of the Audit Comwork of the Supervisory Board by preparing decisions ciency of the internal control system, internal audit system mittee were held as follows: to be adopted by the Supervisory Board and overseeing and risk management system, supervising the implementatheir implementation. tion of the review of annual financial and consolidated reports, •• On 28 January 2016, the 15th session was held on which and discussing plans and the annual internal audit report, as the Report on the realisation of the Annual Internal AuThese committees are as follows: well as discussing significant issues connected with this area. dit Plan for 2015, the Report on the implementation of the policy regarding the provision of non-audit services •• Audit Committee President: for 2015 and the Annual Internal Audit Plan for 2016 were •• Remuneration Committee Nikola Zovko adopted. •• Appointments Committee •• On 24 May 2016, the 16th session on which the ConsoliMembers: dated Financial Statement of the Group for 2015 and the The Audit Committee consists of four members, while Nenad Škomrlj Auditor’s Report on the audit of the above financial statethe Remuneration Committee and the Appointments Dmitrij Leonidovič Drandin ments were reviewed, and recommendations to the SuperCommittee consist of three members each. Anatolij Janovskis visory Board were made regarding their approval. Proposals for decisions on profit use for 2015, dividend payment, appointment of auditors for 2016 and determination of the auditor’s remuneration were discussed. The Internal Audit Report for the first quarter of 2016 was adopted, and recCommittees ommendations to the Supervisory Board on the determination of the proposed resolutions were made. •• On 14 July 2016, the 17th Session was held on which the General ShareholInternal Audit Report of July 2016 was discussed and Supervisory Board ders’ Assembly adopted. •• On 24 November 2016, the 18th session was held on which the amendments to the Internal Audit Report of Management Board July 2016 and the Internal Audit Report of October 2016 were adopted. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 35 Management structure (continued) Supervisory Board Committees (continued) Remuneration Committee Appointments Committee The internal supervision is carried out by the controlling and internal audit services. Controlling informs The Remuneration Committee proposes to the Supervisory The Appointments Committee proposes candidates for the the Management, and internal audit informs the ManBoard the Management reward policy, rewards for the memManagement Board and Supervisory Board, considers the agement and Audit Committee of the supervision bers of the Supervisory Board decided on by the General AsManagement policy regarding the recruitment of senior mancarried out. The scope of the internal audit covers assembly, as well as the appropriate form and provisions of the agement, and evaluates the performance of the Supervisory sessments and recommendations for corporate managreements concluded with the members of the Management. Board and Management. agement process improvement, evaluation of adequacy and effectiveness of controls in organisation managePresident: President: ment, business operations and IT system, supervision Ana Luketin Nikola Zovko of the realisation of aims and compliance with the prescribed policies, procedures and work instructions, reMembers: Members: porting and giving opinions on applications by areas of Dmitrij Leonidovič Drandin Nenad Škomrlj activity, anticipating and managing risks, and protectNikola Zovko Dmitrij Leonidovič Drandin ing the company property. No session of the Remuneration Committee was held in the In the reporting period, the Appointments Committee held reporting period. a session on 24 May 2016, on which the President and Vice President of the said Committee were elected, and the Proposals for candidates for three members of the Audit Committee, Committees one member of the Remuneration Committee and proposals for candidates for the President and members of the Management Board were discussed and decided. General ShareholSupervisory Board ders’ Assembly Management Board AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 36 Management structure (continued) Management Board The Management Board of the AD Plastik Group is responpoint the Vice President. The mandate of the members of At the session of the Supervisory Board held on 19 July sible for conducting business, including defining corporate the Management Board is five years, with the possibility of 2016, new Management Board was appointed, as follows: functions and their tasks, representing the company indire-appointment with no restrictions on the number of manvidually; preparing draft decisions (economic, development, dates. The members of the Management Board have exec•• Marinko Došen President of the Management Board social and environmental), general acts and agreements utive status. Each member represents the company inde•• Katija Klepo Member of the Management Board for within the purview of the General Assembly; implementing pendently and individually, and is appointed on the basis of Sales and Strategic Procurement decisions adopted by the General Assembly within its purhis/her expertise and the necessary experience. •• Sanja Biočić Member of the Management Board for view, reporting to the Supervisory Board, submitting conFinance, Accounting, Controlling and IT solidated annual reports to the General Assembly, affairs In 2016, a special Diversity Policy of the AD Plastik Group •• Mladen Peroš Member of the Management Board for related to the management of subsidiaries, and participawas adopted, with the aim to establish the standards reResearch and Development tion in the management of affiliates. quired to ensure diversity in the aspects of gender, age, education, skills and other differences that may help in deciMandates of the members Ivica Tolić and Hrvoje Jurišić exThe Management Board consists of 3-8 members appointsion-making process in the company management. pired on 19 July 2016. ed and dismissed by the Supervisory Board. They deterDenis Fusek resigned as Member of the Management Board mine the number of members, and appoint one member The Management Board defines tasks of corporate funcon 30 April 2016, for personal reasons. President of the Management Board. They can also aptions, and each individual corporate function has a defined position on the executive level that corresponds In 2016, 24 sessions of the Management Board were held. to the highest management body or appropriate positions on the management level (directors, managers) that report directly to the Management Board on the plans, progress and task completion. The Management Board directly particiCommittees pates in the development, approval and updating of statements on the purpose, value and mission of the organisation, its strategies, policies and General Shareholgoals. It is responsible for quality management Supervisory Board ders’ Assembly of potential business risks, while the economic, environmental and social impacts and circumstances are discussed at regular sessions. Management Board AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 37 Management structure (continued) Corporate functions Corporate functions include: controlling, internal auditing, huPursuant to the Companies Act and without the consent of man resources, research and development, sales, strategic the Supervisory Board, a member of the Management Board procurement, central logistics, finance, legal function, cormay neither be a member of the management board nor a Committees porate communications, business organisation, information member of the supervisory board in another company whose technology, security and safety, quality system and producbusiness activities fall within the scope of the business action. tivities of the company. Furthermore, without the consent of General Shareholders’ the Supervisory Board, he/she may not participate in deciSupervisory Board Assembly The President of the Management Board of AD Plastik is the sion-making or conclusion of a legal transaction if the legal executive manager for the areas of human resources, quality representative, authorised signatory or the attorney-in-fact of system and executive committee management. The reason the other contracting party is his/her relative or spouse, extraManagement Board for the assignment of those management functions to the marital partner or relative by marriage, to the second degree. president of the highest body is the reduction of the informaA member of the Management Board may not participate in tion transfer level as regards human resources management decision-making related to any legal transaction in connection and strategic decision-making in connection with the quality which there is a conflict of interest between the member of Corporate functions system of the Group in the sense of the system, and developthe Management Board and the company. The member of the ment and manufacturing quality. Management Board is obliged to notify the other members of Internal Human Controlling the Management Board and the Supervisory Board of such ciraudit resources The Management Board occasionally organises consultations cumstances, regardless of whether he/she is involved in dewith individual stakeholders of the Group, while the regular cision-making or conclusion of the legal transaction. He/she Research and Strategic consultations with individual stakeholders are delegated to is obliged to state all the relevant facts about the nature of Sales development procurement the management, which is obliged to send feedback to the his/her relationship with the other contracting party, as well as Management Board. By adopting strategies and plans, the exhis/her assessment of whether there is a conflict of interest. isting management methods are analysed, and new advanced Central Finance Legal function ones are proposed, while the corporate functions routinely The Management Board of the AD Plastik Group, namely the logistics suggest improvements in individual areas. The Management President of the Management Board, is responsible for apBoard is continuously working on the advancement of the colproving the sustainability report of the Group. Corp. comBusiness Information lective knowledge on all relevant topics. munications organisation technology The performance of the Management Board is evaluated by the Supervisory Board at regular sessions. The evaluation is The total remuneration for the members of the SuperSecurity Quality visory Board, Management Board and executive direcProduction based on business success indicators, as well as the mainteand safety system tors for 2016 amounted to HRK 10,422,000. nance and creation of a positive company image in all relevant public spheres. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 34 53 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 38 Employees The AD Plastik Group is a multinational company that builds Number of employees by region and type of employment contract for 2016 a unique corporate culture, respecting diversity, promoting and encouraging cooperation at all levels, proactivity, taking As of 31.12.2016. Employees with a contract responsibility, rewarding performance, recognizing excellence, Temporary and developing collegiality, and respecting each individual's perTotal number of Proportion Country Site Indefinite term Fixed term occasional sonal integrity. This creates a synergy between various busiemployees 2016. employment ness segments and locations where the company operates. Croatia Solin, Zagreb 803 390 1193 56,25% Satisfied and motivated employees are responsible for the Serbia Mladenovac 172 0 42 172 8,11% company’s success, and therefore the company focuses on Slovenia Novo Mesto 5 1 6 0,28% promoting the knowledge and professional and personal development of each individual. Recognizing the importance Kaluga 229 0 0 229 10,80% and potential of its employees is the foundation of a human Russia Vintai 496 25 9 521 24,56% resource management strategy. Reward systems are focused on recognizing individual contributions, thus highlighting emTOTAL 1705 416 51 2121 ployees who achieve results above expectations. In the medium term, human resources management function Proportion of different types of employment contracts in 2016 will be the strategic partner of the Management Board and all levels of management in the successful management of key corporate resources people. Standards for all key processes will be build and defined in each domain of competence, Indefinite-term employment...................... 79% and such standards will be implemented at all plants, while Fixed-term employment............................. 19% respecting its specifics and by implementing the predefined Temporary and occasional employment.... 2% human resource management strategy. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 10 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 39 Employees (continued) In the short term, redesign of organisation and major business Proportion of employees by country in 2016 Proportion of employees by type of work in 2016 processes will be implemented in order to increase the efficiency, speed of decision making and staffing to make the organisation more efficient and more flexible. This ensures the preconditions for growth and development of the company Croatia................ 56,25% Management..............8% through optimum management of human resources and orRussia..................35,36% Indirect employees..37% ganisation, to the satisfaction of its employees. Serbia.....................8,11% Direct employees....55% Slovenia.................0,28% Age structure of the employees in 2019 The employee development plan in the company is based equally on external and internal processes (education, trainings, seminars, internal academy, mentoring, integration). At the same time, the company continuously makes efforts, through internal and external activities, to increase the visibility of AD Plastik Group as a desirable employer in the labour market. This is to ensure a quality data base of potential employees with which selection processes will be carried out. Men Women Total AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 10 11 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 40 Employees (continued) The ultimate goal of the AD Plastik Group’s human resources direct employees are employees engaged in manufacturing. management strategy is long-term successful organisational Most employees are contracted for an indefinite period of performance. These are the preconditions for achieving the time, and during the reporting period the proportion of fixeddesired incentive climate in which motivated employees are term employment contracts has been further reduced by 1%. competent and committed to achieving the company’s goals set for the satisfaction of all its stakeholders while respecting Collective agreements comprise 80.81% of employees of AD all elements of socially responsible business. Plastik Group, and collective agreements are applied in Croatia and at the Vintai plant. For other employees, rights and obligaEach year, according to the business plan of the company, a tions are governed by different regulations in accordance with recruitment plan is also drafted, which anticipates the needs the legal provisions. In the reporting period, collective bargainfor new employees. Young and innovative experts can find ing was carried out in Russia and commenced in Croatia. their place in the company, but life and work experience are Gender structure of the employees equally appreciated. The AD Plastik Group is ready to adapt to rapid changes and modifications, and to develop and acquire new knowledge that will enable attracting the most talented employees. In the reporting period, AD Plastik Group employs a total of 2,121 people, of which 1,193 in Croatia, 750 in Russia, 172 in Serbia and 6 in Slovenia. Compared with the previous reporting period, there were no significant changes in the age structure of employees, except that in 2016 the proportion of employees aged between 35 and 40 years increased. There were no significant changes in the overall gender structure for 2016, so 47.38% of employees are women, while 52.62% are men. The trend in the number of employees of AD Plastik Group for several consecutive years shows preservation of a stable number of employees. According to job descriptions, the employees of AD Plastik Group are divided into company management that includes the members of the Management Board, executive directors and directors, indirect employees are overhead workers and manufacturing overhead, while Men Women AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 10 11 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 41 Supply chain The supply chain and its performance greatly affect the comIn the reporting period, a regular evaluation of suppliers was ISO 14001 standard has been carried out on these new suppany's business and status in the automotive world, so it is carried out according to the prescribed criteria, namely the pliers. The suppliers possess the necessary certificates, as especially important when it comes to suppliers that directly monthly evaluation of material suppliers and the annual evalconfirmed by customer audits. affect the quality of AD Plastik Group's products. The princiuation of suppliers of equipment, tools and services. In addiThe AD Plastik Group aims to increase the proportion of loples of socially responsible business are built into the policy tion to regular evaluation, a survey was conducted in Croatia cal suppliers, primarily taking care of the quality requirements of supplier management and relate primarily to the obligation regarding the compliance with corporate social responsibility that must be met. Local suppliers are suppliers located in the to respect human and labour rights, environmental protection guidelines. Supplier evaluation is the responsibility of the Stracountries of the company’s individual manufacturing locaand fight against corruption. tegic Procurement Department, and is conducted in accordtions, which are paid in domestic currency. ance with the quality management and environmental criteria, Because of its global presence in the automotive industry, the in compliance with the provisions of socially responsible busiSince Croatia has no developed auto industry, it is quite hard AD Plastik Group is able to leverage other stakeholders in the ness. to find quality local suppliers at this location. In Solin, the total field of socially responsible business. Therefore, formalisation number of suppliers was reduced, but sales with local suppliof suppliers’ rules of conduct through procedures and evaluaRegarding significant changes in the supply chain structure ers were increased due to their increased engagement in diftion questionnaires allows the selection of suppliers who meet in 2016, which could have a major impact on the features of ferent services. Therefore, a number of activities focused on these criteria, their supervision and the promotion of complisocially responsible business, it is important to mention new localization of suppliers in Russian companies were conductance with the prescribed principles at all our sites. suppliers of chromed parts. The process of verification and ed during the reporting period. compliance with the standards of auto industry and with the The main criteria for the selection of new suppliers of materials and components are the possession of the certificate and the operation in accordance with the ISO TS 16949 and the ISO 14001 standard, and the completion of the Self-Assessment Questionnaire which clearly defines environmental standards and guidelines for corporate social responsibility. The questionnaire covers issues related to human rights, right to association of workers, prohibition of child labour and issues regarding combat against different forms of discrimination and corruption. All AD Plastik Group’s suppliers are obliged to work on improving their business systems with clearly defined objectives and deadlines, and compliance with the required standards and self-assessment questionnaire is carried out on regular supplier audits. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 12 13, EC9 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 42 Supply chain (continued) Total number of local and foreign suppliers by sites Local and foreign suppliers AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia •• 33 foreign suppliers •• 334 local suppliers AD Plastik, Russia AD Plastik, Solin, ADP, Mladenovac, AD Plastik, AD Plastik Vintai, •• 62 foreign suppliers Croatia Serbia Kaluga, Russia Russia •• 514 local suppliers local suppliers foreign suppliers ADP, Mladenovac, Serbia •• 83 foreign suppliers •• 352 local suppliers AD Plastik, Solin, Croatia •• 378 foreign suppliers •• 756 local suppliers AD Plastik, Solin, ADP, Mladenovac, AD Plastik, AD Plastik Vintai, Croatia Serbia Kaluga, Russia Russia local suppliers foreign suppliers AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 12 13 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 43 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives an effective platform for The AD Plastik Group contributes to the economic and social actively involved in the project of developing a sub-thematic promoting social responcommunity through active participation in the work of nationpriority area Production of high-value parts and systems for sibility in all segments of al and regional economic institutions which represent strateroad and rail vehicles initiated by the Ministry of Economy, Ensociety. gic interests of Croatian economy. In the reporting period, the trepreneurship and Crafts, the Centre for Industrial DevelopPresident of the Management Board Marinko Došen is still a ment and the World Bank. The aim of the project is to raise the They are signatories of the Code of Business Ethics of the member of the Assembly of the Croatian Chamber of Comcompetitiveness of Croatian Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which sets out the basic merce, while the member companies operating in the guidelines of ethical conduct of business entities within the of the Management Board mentioned sub-thematic priCroatian economy. Due to the self-assessment and improveMladen Peroš is Deputy ority area on a global scale. ment of good practices in the area of socially responsible Chairman of the Economic business, the AD Plastik Group is a member of the Community Council of the County ChamThe company actively contributes to the achievement of for Socially Responsible Business of the CCC, Community for ber in Split. smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and development, Environmental Protection in the Economy of the CCC, and the by advancing theory and industrial development policy and Community for the Development of Human Potential of the The company has a leading role in the work of the National support policies, with an CCC. Association of Plastics and Rubber Industry of the Croatian interdisciplinary approach Chamber of Commerce, and member of the Management through membership in the The company is a signatory of the United Nations initiative Board Mladen Peroš is the vice president of the Associathink tank organisation of called the Global Compact, whereby we undertook the obligation. Also, Slaven Raguž, from the AD Plasthe Institute for Industrial tion of promoting the ten principles in the areas of human and tik Group, is the President of the Regional Development. labour rights, environmental Professional Group of Plastics and Rubber protection, and eradicating Manufacturers of the Split Chamber of ComThe AD Plastik Group is one of the founders of the Centre of corruption in our business. merce. Competences for the Development of Car Parts for the Automotive Industry, focusing on R&D activities, and through its The AD Plastik Group is a member of the Croatian-Russian As a leading manufacturer of components in the Croatian aumembership in the Exporters Club, it promotes the imporbusiness club and the Association of European Business with tomotive industry, the AD Plastik Group is the founder of the tance of exports and raises headquarters in Moscow, AD Cluster, a cluster of car part manufacturers. The President awareness of the positive proving its activity and enof the AD Plastik Group, Marinko Došen, is also the Chairman influence of exporters on gagement in associations of the Assembly of AD Cluster, and the Director of the AD Clusthe Croatian economy as a outside Croatia. ter is also the President of whole. the Management Board of The AD Plastik Group applies the principle of precaution, the Croatian Cluster of AuFor the development of socially responsible business, it is avoiding any possible risk in the application of new technoltomotive Sector Competiimportant that the AD Plastik Group is a member of the Croogies until the complete knowledge or understanding of its tiveness. The company is atian Business Council for Sustainable Development, as it is impact on the environment and human health is gained. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 14 16 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 44 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives (continued) Audits in 2016 External audits and certification is carried out by an independent certification company Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC), as follows: •• ISO TS 16949 Quality Management System The following external audits of implemented standards were carried out in 2016 •• ISO 14001 Environmental Management System across the AD Plastik Group: •• OHSAS 18001 Environmental protection and occupational safety system •• Croatia – ISO TS 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 •• ISO 50001 Energy Management System •• Serbia – ISO TS 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 •• ISO 27001 Information Security Management •• Kaluga, Russia – ISO TS 16949, ISO 14001 System •• Vintai, Russia – ISO TS 16949, ISO 14001 ISO TS 16949:2009 ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 ISO 50001:2011 valid until valid until valid until valid until Solin, Croatia 14 September 2018 15 September 2018 9 October 2017 27 November 2019 Zagreb, Croatia 14 September 2018 15 September 2018 9 October 2017 27 November 2019 Samara, Russia 1 April 2017 18 October 2017 Kaluga, Russia 14 September 2018 15 September 2018 Mladenovac, Serbia 14 September 2018 15 June 2018 20 December 2018 14 February 2020 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 14 16 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 45 Significant events in 2016 Nominations (new deals) Renault Clio Volkswagen Maserati Levante AD Plastik won the nomination for the maAD Plastik won the nomination for the manFollowing the successful grab handles develMladenovac plant, and five injection moulded nufacture of painted front and rear bumpers ufacture of grabhandles for four Volkswagen opment project with Fiat Chrysler (FCA), AD components manufactured in Solin. and side covers for the rear bumper of the vehicles, namely Golf Variant, Golf SportsPlastik found itself in the role of a developRenault Clio which will be manufactured at van, Touran and Tiguan. Grabhandles will ment partner in the air ducts project for the Expected project revenue is valued at EUR 3 the Revoz site in Slovenia. Start of mass probe manufactured in Solin, and mass producluxury Maserati Levante. Eleven positions million. duction is planned for August 2017, with AD tion is planned for 2017. Grabhandles will be have been designed in total under this proPlastik doing injection moulding, painting and shipped from Solin to facilities in Germany ject, namely the central air ducts frame, cen“This is our first joint development project assembly of components under this project. (Wolfsburg and Sachsen) and Mexico (Puebtral air ducts, grill, connecting air duct and with the FCA Group, and Levante is categola). The cooperation with Volkswagen was front air ducts. rised as a luxury vehicle on which we have Expected revenue is valued at EUR 16.5 million signed for a minimum period of four years, AD Plastik won the nomination for the manunot often collaborated. This stands as proof in the two-year period. and in addition to income it will facilitate imfacture of air ducts intended for a new prodthat we have the knowledge, capacity and provements in terms of organization due to uct in Maserati’s product line which carries quality necessary to meet the challenges of the fact that Volkswagen is a customer who air for cooling/heating of passenger space most demanding customers and models in insists not only on the quality of products, from the instrument panel to the rear part the automotive market,” said Uroš Pavlović, but also the efficiency of all manufacturing of the vehicle. The project includes seven Deputy Director of Development for Injection processes. Considering the volumes procomponents produced using blow moulding Moulded, Painted and Blow Moulded prodduced by the Volkswagen Group, expanding technology that will be manufactured at ADP ucts. our cooperation is extremely important for company’s overall business operations. Expected annual revenue is valued at EUR 2.5 million. “We possess the necessary knowledge and experience for manufacturing grabhandles, and are certain that this project will have a very positive impact on the operations of AD Plastik in the long term”, said Kristijan Žaper, sales manager for VW and BMW. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 46 Significant events in 2016 (continued) Nominations (new deals) Edison Ford EcoSport AD Plastik won the nomination for EcoSport, Ford’s class B tion moulded interior lining for Ford EcoSport in Russia, with vehicle to be manufactured in Craiova, Romania. Start of manrespective parts manufactured at AD Plastik Group’s site ufacture is scheduled for October 2017 with the planned proin Vintai. According to current customer information, mass duction period of three and a half years. AD Plastik will manuproduction is planned for mid-2017 at the Ford Sollers plant, facture front wheel arch housing and rear wheel deflectors for Naberezhny Chelny, Russia. the new EcoSport model at its Solin plant. Expected annual revenue for a full production year is valued at Expected project revenue is valued at EUR 4.8 million. EUR 1.5 million. “AD Plastik become a supplier for another Ford production “Given the current decline in sales on the Russian market, site in Europe, thereby proving their quality and beating tough majority of Tier I suppliers have excess available capacity AD Plastik won the nomination for an additional job under the competition from manufacturers located in the vicinity of their meaning that the competition for winning this nomination was Edison project, namely the manufacture of the central conplant in Romania. EcoSport is the sixth Ford model in the portextremely strong. This nomination positions us back on the sole for Smartforfour (S4S) and Smartfortwo (S2S) vehicles. folio of AD Plastik, following the Fiesta, Mondeo, Galaxy, S-Max panel of strategic Ford suppliers in Russia, which is of great It involves a transfer of manufacture from the Reydel plant in and Vignale,” said Tonći Jakaša, Ford Program Manager. significance and provides us with more opportunities to comRougegoutte, France. These consoles will be manufactured at pete for other vehicle models of this customer,” said Mislav our sites in Zagreb and Solin, with first shipments starting in We have also won the nomination for manufacturing injecČelar, Sales Manager for Russia. early 2017. Expected revenue from this project is estimated at EUR 3 million annually. “I am very pleased that we are increasing the production share for vehicles under the Edison project. This project is not complex from a technological aspect, but the schedule is challenging and requires the preparation of the manufacture process for mass production and validation of products in short periods,” said Nino Kaćanski, Project Manager. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 47 Significant events in 2016 (continued) Nominations (new deals) Fiat AD Plastik won the nomination for the manufacture of painted instrument panel parts, bumpers, air duct connectors and steering wheel padding for Fiat 500. Parts included in this project will be manufactured in three AD Plastik Group’s sites: Solin, Zagreb and Mladenovac. According to current customer information, mass production is planned for 2017 at the FCA Kragujevac plant in Serbia. This is AD Plastik’s first painting operation for Fiat, which ensures a much better starting position for potential future nominations for painting multiple components, as well as other vehicle models of this renowned manufacturer. In addition to painting, bumper components will be injection moulded at the Zagreb site, blow moulded parts in Mladenovac, while some injection moulded parts will be manufactured in Solin. Expected annual revenue for a full production year is valued at EUR 6 million. “Winning this nomination has substantially increased our cooperation with Fiat, and the realization of said project would place Fiat in the second place in our customers portfolio with regard to overall value, just behind Renault. This job provides us with new opportunities, and the results we managed to achieve with Fiat are due to hard work invested on building our partnership,” said Toni Štambuk, Sales Manager for the European market. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 48 Significant events in 2016 (continued) Awards Top Price Gainer Golden Key Award AD Plastik stock was recognized as the Top Price Gainer for AD Plastik received two Golden Key Awards in the past year the first time at the Zagreb Stock Exchange Awards. Ceremofor the most innovative exporter and the best exporter to ny of the 5th Zagreb Stock Exchange Awards was held in ZaFrance in 2015. In addition to these awards, the Company also greb Awards were founded in 2012 with the aim of strengthcompeted in the category of “emerging markets” for the best ening the recognition of the capital market and its active exporter to Russia and the best exporter to Slovenia in 2015. participants among the financial and general public. MaintainThe awards were presented at the 11th Convention of Croatian ing that excellence deserves recognition, rewarding aimed at exporters held in Zagreb. garnering recognition and support for leading companies has become a tradition. “I am particularly pleased to receive the award the most innovative exporter because it shows that our exceptional work Awards Committee of the Zagreb Stock Exchange decided on and invested efforts have been duly recognized. Our Compathe awards across seven categories, taking into consideration ny’s mission is to create innovative and creative solutions and the objective, statistical criteria, and the overall contribution constantly improve research and development process to ultoward educating and developing the domestic capital martimately contribute to the quality of the final product and the ket. success of our customers. It is extremely important to follow the trends and innovations of the automotive industry in order “In these challenging times for our business operation, the to keep up or get ahead of competition. We’ve been awarded confidence of our shareholders is among the top priorities of the Golden Key for several consecutive years, which is a great the Company. We will press on with our designated business honour and validates the continuity of our successful busiplans, increasing operating efficiency and profitability and deness,” said Marinko Došen upon receiving the award. veloping business reporting quality, and will continue to enhance high transparency and reporting standards. This award is both an encouragement and a responsibility in our further business development towards creating added value for the Company, based on a relationship of harmony with all our stakeholders,” said Marinko Došen upon receiving the award on behalf of AD Plastik. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 49 Significant events in 2016 (continued) Awards Best progress award Award for excellence in corporate governance National Champion in the import/export category AD Plastik received the Best progress award according to the AD Plastik d.d. has been recognized as one of the most sucAD Plastik was awarded the National Champion for Croatia Corporate Social Responsibility Index for 2016. Based on the cessful companies in the field of corporate governance in certificate in the import/export category at the European Busiresults from questionnaires sent to numerous companies, CroCroatia and won the award for excellence in corporate govness Awards 2016/2017. European Business Awards is one of atian Chamber of Economy (HGK) and the Croatian Business ernance. At the second “Corporate governance in Croatia” the largest European competitions that promotes and rewards Council for Sustainable Development (HR BCSD) annually give business conference companies were awarded for the first excellence and best business practices in the European busiout the CSR Index Award for the successful implementation of time for the excellence in corporate governance according ness community. AD Plastik was chosen during the first stage corporate social responsibility in the category of small, medito the methodology developed as part of an international reof selection by an independent jury which evaluated key EBA um, large and public companies. search project initiated and performed by members of the values innovation, ethics and business success. South East Europe Corporate Governance Academic Network CSR Index uses a specific methodology for assessing respon(SEECGAN). sible practices in business operations of Croatian companies, modelled after similar global methodologies, primarily the Best medium manufacturing investment Business in the Community CR Index. The above method of assessing corporate social responsibility in Croatia is based AD Plastik won the award in the category of medium manuon a ranking system that enables an objective assessment facturing investments given out as part of the new Lider Inand comparison of socially responsible practices used by vest project aimed at finding best manufacturing investments companies. in Croatia for an investment of 141 million kunas made under the Edison project. Lider Invest is a new project with the aim of giving well-deserved social recognition to entrepreneurs who dared to invest in manufacture. Its intention is to encourage entrepreneurs who are considering making investments, but also highlight the importance of manufacture in the Croatian economy. All investments exceeding 150 million kunas were considered for the “100 percent Lider Invest” award for best large manufacturing investment, all investments between 10 million and 150 million kunas were competing for the best medium manufacturing investment, and investments with a value less than 10 million kunas qualified for the small manufacturing investment award. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 50 Significant events in 2016 (continued) Changes of Management and SB Exit from the Faurecia ADP Luga JV At its session held in July 2016, General AssemAD Plastik and Faurecia Automotive Holdings, bly of shareholders elected two new members to France, signed a Share Purchase Agreement acthe AD Plastik’s Supervisory Board, Ivica Tolić and cording to which AD Plastik sells, and Faurecia buys Hrvoje Jurišić, replacing former members Josip 278,136 shares (40 percent) of the Faurecia ADP Boban and Nikola Zovko whose mandate has exHolding s.a.s., France, which is the sole owner of the pired. OOO Faurecia ADP company from Luga. Transfer of shares pursuant to the Agreement was executed on New Management Board of AD Plastik was ap16 December 2016. Faurecia consequently become pointed at the Supervisory Board session held in the sole owner of Faurecia ADP Holding s.a.s, i.e. July, comprising of the Board’s President Marinko FADP plant in Luga, Russia. The aforementioned Došen, and members Katija Klepo, Sanja Biočić and sale of shares has no impact on the operating reMladen Peroš. Mandates of former members Ivica sults of AD Plastik Group and its scheduled activTolić and Hrvoje Jurišić have expired, while Denis ities in the Russian market. Cooperation between Fusek resigned in April for personal reasons. AD Plastik and Faurecia continues under the Euro Auto Plastic Systems s.r.l. JV company in Romania, without any changes. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 51 Identified material aspects and limits In the reporting period, the AD Plastik Group List of identified material aspects consists of the following business entities, which are all included in the consolidated fiEconomic aspects •• Diversity and equal nancial statements: •• Economic impact opportunities •• Presence on the market •• Equal pay for men and •• AD Plastik d.d., Croatia •• Indirect economic women •• ADP d.o.o., Serbia impacts •• Assessment of •• AD Plastik d.o.o., Slovenia •• Procurement practice suppliers as regard •• AO AD Plastik, Russia employment relations •• ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia Environmental aspects •• Employment dispute •• Materials resolution mechanisms More detailed business information for the •• Energy •• Investment past year can be found in the Annual Report •• Water •• Non-discrimination 2016, which is available on the company's •• Biodiversity •• Freedom of association website. In the reporting period, a working •• Emissions and collective group was set up to implement activities re•• Waste waters and bargaining lated to the socially responsible business of waste •• Human rights dispute the AD Plastik Group, which consists of eight •• Adherence to resolution mechanisms members. Working group members selectregulations •• Combating corruption ed material aspects and limitations based •• General •• Public policies on the estimated importance of individual •• Assessment of •• Conduct in violation of aspects to identified stakeholders, taking suppliers as regards the free competition into account the specifics of industry and impact on the principle business processes and the locations where environment •• Adherence to the company operates. The working group regulations meets once a month on consultations to imSocial aspects •• Health and safety of prove sustainable business and reporting in •• Zapošljavanje customers order to achieve better and more transparent •• Employment •• Product and service monitoring of the realization of objectives for •• Employer-Management labelling specific aspects. The material aspects of the relationship •• Marketing AD Plastik Group will adapt to changes in ex•• Health and safety at communications ternal and business impacts, in line with suswork •• Customer privacy tainability priorities. •• Education and training AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 17 23 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 52 Report profile The AD Plastik Group has produced the fourth Sustainability Report covering 2016. The previous report covered the year 2015, and was published in December 2016. This report was produced in accordance with the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines, and the core option was selected, as in the previous report. The AD Plastik Group gathers data for the Sustainability Report in all countries and at all sites of its operation. Business and calendar year in this case coincide, and AD Plastik Group reports in one-year cycles. The Croatian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CBCSD) was elected for the verification of the Report, since it is independent and most competent institution for verifying such reports in the Republic of Croatia. Contact person: Zoja Crnečki Working Group Leader Matoševa 8, 21 210 Solin informacije@adplastik.hr AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • 28 33 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 53 Notable business results were achieved in the reporting period, thus continuing the trend of successful operations of the AD Plastik Group. Operating revenues amounted to HRK 935.8 million, which is 9% less than the revenues realized in 2015, but by increasing the efficiency of operations and the rationalization of costs, EBITDA amounted to HRK 135.9 million, representing a growth of 18.3% compared to the previous year. Economy AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 54 Economy Notable business results were achieved in the reporting periSustained economic value in 2016 is 27% lower compared credit indebtedness decreased by HRK 38 million on 31 Deod, thus continuing the trend of successful operations of the to 2015. The main reason for this is payment of dividends to cember 2016, compared to the same date of the previous year. AD Plastik Group. Operating revenues amounted to HRK 935.8 shareholder in the amount of HRK 12 per stock, or a total of Liabilities to suppliers were also reduced by HRK 42.4 million, million, which is 9% less than the revenues realized in 2015, HRK 50 million. Despite the lower directly generated economwhile the indebtedness coefficient was reduced from 0.52 to but by increasing the efficiency of operations and the rationalic value, and due to the rationalization of operating costs, the 0.45. All indicators point to positive cash flows and good liization of costs, EBITDA amounted to HRK 135.9 million, repretained economic value would have been as much as 29% quidity of the AD Plastik Group. resenting a growth of 18.3% compared to the previous year. higher had there been no dividend payment in 2016. Such disNet profit of the AD Plastik Group in 2016 increased by 7.5% tributed economic value in 2016 makes up to 93% of generatThe results were stabilized throughout the year 2016 at higher compared to the previous year and amounted to HRK 49.7 miled economic value. levels, creating security for investors and trust in the Managelion, while the net profit margin increased to 5.3% compared ment Board and the value of the AD Plastik Group. The stock to 4.5% in 2015. In the observed period, the trend of improving the financial price of ADPL-R-A increased by 40.2% in the reporting period, position of AD Plastik that started in 2015 has continued. The so the stock price on 31 December 2016 amounted to HRK 138.00, while on the same day the previous year the price was HRK 98.46. Direct, generated and distributed 49.7 economic value in thousands of HRK 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net income (in million of HRK) Directly generated economic value 935,750 1,025,395 897,477 835,771 14.5% Income from sales 913,383 1,002,363 869,553 817,591 Other income 22,367 23,032 27,924 18,180 EBITDA margin Distributed economic value 869,253 934,820 896,847 822,856 Operating expenses 613,353 716,810 653,826 601,777 Employee wages and benefits 181,044 187,560 182,196 165,658 135.9 Payments to capital providers Payments to the state 74,018 652 29,653 647 59,106 1,484 53,561 1,746 EBITDA (in million of HRK) Investments into the community 186 150 235 114 Sustained economic value 66,497 90,575 630 12,915 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EC1 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 55 Economy (continued) In 2016, no financial aid from the Government was regions. Kaluga has a higher stipulated minimum salary Proportion of local suppliers in the total procurement value ceived in the form of tax relief or aid related to investthan Samara Region or Vintai. ment, capital or any other investment. The basic salary of employees in the AD Plastik Group is determined according to the workplace based on In accordance with the regulations of the Republic of the legal regulations and internal documents of the Croatia, all employees are registered and included in company that define other salaries, benefits and inthe national pension fund. The rate of pension concentives. There is no gender pay gap or differences tributions in Croatia is 20% of the contribution basis, regarding other employee characteristics. and the pension contributions are paid by employers Senior management of the company consists of on behalf of their employees and at their expense. In members of the Management Board, executive directhe Russian Federation, all employees are registered tors and directors, and 91% of senior management and included in the national pension fund. The rate employees come from the local community. The local of contributions is 22%, but no more than 796,000.00 community is considered to be the area of the county roubles for 2016, after which up to 10% is paid in. In or region in which individual members of the Group AD Plastik, Solin, ADP, Mladenovac, AD Plastik, AD Plastik Vintai, the Republic of Serbia, all employees are registered in operate. The AD Plastik Group supports employment Croatia Serbia Kaluga, Russia Russia the national Retirement and Disability Fund for which of local population, and the largest share of employlocal suppliers foreign suppliers it is mandatory to pay 14% at the expense of the emees comes from the local population at all sites. Employees and 12% at the expense of employers from ployees of the company have opportunities for interthe gross wage. Employees have an allowance on national growth, mobility and promotion within the years of service of 0.4% per full year of employment, Group. counting from employment at the existing employer. In the reporting period, there were no major indirect economic impacts on the business and stakeholders When we talk about the minimum initial salary within of the AD Plastik Group. the AD Plastik Group, it is at all sites higher than the minimum local guaranteed salary. The minimum initial salary in Mladenovac was by 5.6% higher, in Solin In Kaluga, apart from decrease in the number and Zagreb by 8.4%, in Kaluga 66.6%, while in Vintai of foreign suppliers, a significant increase in the minimum initial salary was higher by 100% comthe financial proportion of purchases from lopared to the minimum local salary. In Russia, each cal suppliers was also recorded. Thus, the firegion can set its own minimum salary that has to be nancial proportion of local suppliers in Kaluga AD Plastik, Solin, ADP, Mladenovac, AD Plastik, AD Plastik Vintai, higher than the prescribed national minimum salary and Mladenovac was almost equalized, while Croatia Serbia Kaluga, Russia Russia in accordance with the costs of living in particular rein Vintai it exceeded 50%. local suppliers foreign suppliers AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EC3 EC6, EC8 EC9, LA13 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 56 The AD Plastik Group has permanent responsibility and developed awareness of the impact of its activities on the environment and human health. During 2016, implementation of best practices and development in the areas of sustainable energy management, health and safety protection continued. In accordance with positive legal regulations, expert services conducting environmental, occupational safety and fire protection activities regularly monitor and improve the protection status. Environment AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 57 Environment The AD Plastik Group has permanent responsibility and developed awareness of the impact of its activities on the environment and human health. During 2016, implementation of best practices and development in the areas of sustainable energy management, health and safety protection continued. In accordance with positive legal regulations, expert services conducting environmental, occupational safety and fire protection activities regularly monitor and improve the protection status. Environmental orientation and environmental awareness of the company is evident from the business strategy of the Group, and the Environmental Policy, Occupational Health and Safety Policy, Energy Management Policy and Quality Policy, which are an integral part of environmental protection, have been updated and adopted in the reporting period. These policies are published on the company's Internet site and on the intranet. The AD Plastik Group regularly carries out monitoring and analysis to determine the achievement of the set strategic objectives, and in the event of their failure, additional measures and activities are implemented. At the end of each year, the annual activity plan is defined and adopted by the Management Board. By introducing an energy management system in 2016, the efficiency of energy use in the company is monitored through energy consumption indicators by kilogramme of spent material, and not by product unit, as in previous reports. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN1 EN2 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 58 Materials Polypropylene and polyethylene are the basic raw materials used in the Group’s technological processes whose share of purchased recycled raw materials in 2016 amounted to 16.42%. Other raw materials used in the technological processes are paints, varnishes, solvents and textiles. Consumption of raw materials in 2016 was slightly lower compared to the previous periods due to smaller customer orders. Materials used by weight or quantity Material Site 2014 2015 2016 Solin 3,045 3,379 3,048 Zagreb 5,269 5,965 5,140 Mladenovac 1,014 1,097 1,246 PP/PE/PES (t) Percentage of used material consisting of recycled Vintai 2,780 2,319 1,925 Recycled input materials (t) input material (%) Kaluga 1,850 1,239 1,403 Material Site 2014 2015 2016 Material Site 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 13,958 13,999 12,762 Solin 1,920 1,349 1,352 Solin 63 40 44.36 Zagreb 278 223 242 Zagreb 0 896 317 Zagreb 0 15 6.17 Mladenovac 324 394 231 Mladenovac 219 28 110 Mladenovac 22 3 8.83 Paints, PP/PE/PES (t) PP/PE/PES (t) varnishes, Vintai 0 10 6.8 Vintai 241 240 219 Vintai 9 4 11.38 solvents (t) Kaluga 0 1 0.2 Kaluga 167 128 97 Kaluga 9 10 6.92 TOTAL 602 628 480 TOTAL 2,547 2,641 2,095 TOTAL 18 15 16.42 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN1 EN2 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 59 Energy Energy Consumption within the organisation refers to consumption from non-renewable Total energy consumption within the organization (GJ) Energy consumption within the organization (GJ) energy sources and includes the consumpSite 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 tion of electricity, natural gas, fuel oil and liquefied petroleum gas. Electricity is the main Solin 34,123 35,371 34,382 ElectrIcity (GJ) 117,911 141,586 123,712 energy source in the company and its share Zagreb 69,951 72,605 70,077 Natural gas (GJ) 25,392 31,433 26,916 in total consumption is 86%. Although the share of electricity consumption increased Mladenovac 12,416 14,952 15,388 Liquefied natural gas (GJ) 10,553 5,152 5,805 by 7% compared to the previous reporting Vintai 38,170 43,073 24,151 Fuel oil (GJ) 804 246 101 period, the overall consumption decreased. Kaluga 0 12,416 12,536 TOTAL 154,660 178,417 156,534 TOTAL 154,660 178,417 156,534 Fuel Electricity The fuel consumed by vehicles, owned by the AD Plastik 86.0% Group, for business purposes represented the total energy consumption outside the organization. Udio u ukupnoj potrošnji Total energy consumption outside the organisation (GJ) Energy consumption Site 2014 2015 2016 Solin 2,476 2,354 2,159 -12.3% Zagreb Mladenovac 493 289 535 259 600 259 U odnosu na prethodno razdoblje Vintai 5,082 4,981 4,291 Kaluga 0 285 126 TOTAL 8,340 8,414 7,435 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN3 EN4, EN6 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 60 Energy (continued) The energy consumption ratio in kWh per kilogram of product the EnPi energy efficiency indicator. In the previous reporting Energy consumed within the organisation (kWh/kg) is shown in the energy intensity diagram. An energy period, the energy intensity diagram showed the ratio of total management system was introduced during the reporting peenergy consumption compared to the total number of proEnergy intensity (kWh/kg product) riod, and thus it changed the way of measuring according to duced products. Site 2014 2015 2016 Solin 3.40 2.82 2.69 Zagreb 3.86 3.32 3.14 Mladenovac 1.55 1.84 2.01 Vintai 2.24 3.21 2.27 Kaluga 0.00 1.97 1.64 TOTAL 2.91 2.86 2.56 Energy intensity in kJ/product AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN3, EN5 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 61 Water Water supply is provided from the local water supply system and, to a lesser extent, from own well located at the AD Plastik Water use by source ( m3) Zagreb plant, where the quantity drawn in the reporting period Water consumpt. from the public water supply (m3) Water consumption from own well (m3) amounted to 5.445 m3. The volume of water drawn from such sources is determined by the water meter. The manufacturSite 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ing plants do not recycle their waste water. At the Solin plant, Solin 23,095 27,184 33,705 0 0 0 water consumption in 2016 increased by about 25% when compared to the previous period, due to losses caused by old Zagreb 9,733 14,134 9,547 5,712 5,713 5,445 installations that have been repaired. On the other hand, water Mladenovac 8,671 11,975 11,584 0 0 0 consumption decreased by 25% at the Zagreb plant due to the Vintai 9,930 13,296 8,035 0 0 0 closure of old paintshop. Kaluga 0 4,269 3,074 0 0 0 TOTAL 51,429 70,858 65,945 5,712 5,713 5,445 The AD Plastik Group’s production plants have no negative Mladenovac the internal water supply system of the city of Kaluga, which impact on water and water ecosystem, and water supply is The supply of water to the Mladenovac plant is ensured by is supplied with water from underground and surface sources ensured through internal water supply systems. connection to the municipal water supply system of the pubwith a capacity of 180 m3/h. lic utility company Mladenovac, which receives water from art Solin tubing wells with a capacity of 2-5 l/s per one source. There AD Plastik Group The Solin plant is supplied with water from the river Jadro, are 55 wells which are designated as protected areas of naThe AD Plastik Group does not own, rent or administrate any whose upper stream is a designated protected area of nature ture, and their depth ranges from 5 to 200m. land in protected areas or in their immediate vicinity, nor in in the category of special Ichthyological Reserve. The average high-value areas with regard to the biodiversity outside the annual spring discharge of the river Jadro is 9.0 m3/s. Vintai protected areas, and thus its business activities do not proThe Vintai plant gets water from a well with the capacity of duce any impact on the protected areas. Furthermore, the Zagreb 1.5 m3/s, which is about 8km away from the river Volga. The plants have neither direct nor indirect impact on the biodiWater supply facilities at Zagreb plant were solved by connectdepth of well ranges from 270 to 275 m. versity in the protected areas or high-value areas with regard ing to the internal water supply system of the City of Zagreb to the biodiversity outside the protected areas; there are no with a capacity of 4.5 m3/s. Kaluga examples related to protected and renewed habitats, endanAt the Kaluga plant, water supply is ensured by connecting to gered species according to the IUCN’s red list and national list. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN8 EN14 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 62 Emissions Direct greenhouse gas emissions are the consequence of the combustion of energy sources used to fire furnaces. This Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ( t CO2* ) involves the combustion of fuel oil and natural gas. Indirect emissions come from the consumption of electric energy 2014 2015 2016 used to run machinery and equipment in the manufacturing Direct greenhouse Indirect greenhouDirect greenhouse Indirect greenhouDirect greenhouse Indirect greenhouplants, as well as the operation of the equipment designed to Site gas emissions by se gas emissions gas emissions by se gas emissions gas emissions by se gas emissions heat and cool the work premises. weight by weight weight by weight weight by weight Solin 327 2,456 276 2,594 243 2,542 Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight ( t CO2* ) Zagreb 1,120 3,548 1,425 3,796 1,445 3,505 2014 2015 2016 Mladenovac 287 591 250 833 219 916 Direct emissions of greenVintai 752 2,469 750 2,787 512 1,584 house gases by weight 2,486 2,722 2,429 Kaluga 0 0 21 954 10 964 Indirect emiss. of greenhouse gases by weight 9,064 10,964 9,511 TOTAL 2,486 9,064 2,722 10,964 2,429 9,511 TOTAL 11,550 13,686 11,940 * t CO2 Data on the emission amounts obtained using calculations according to the national standard AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN15 EN16 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 63 Emissions (continued) The greenhouse gas emission intensity diagram shows the The consumption of direct and indirect energy is variable beproportion of total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissicause it is directly related to the production volume. The AD ons per kilogram of product (kg CO2/kg). Plastik Group is regularly undertaking activities and initiatives aimed at more efficient and rational use of energy, all in order to reduce its consumption. Greenhouse gas emission intensity (kg CO2/product) In the reporting period, the following initiatives have been takSite 2014 2015 2016 en to reduce the energy consumption, i.e. reduce the greenSolin 1.00 0.82 0.78 house gas emissions: Zagreb 0.93 0.86 0.80 •• Replacement of old PCB batteries and installation of a Mladenovac 0.39 0.48 0.53 new reactive power compensation system Vintai 0.68 0.95 0.71 •• Installation of electricity consumption monitoring system to reduce peak power Kaluga 0.00 0.56 0.46 •• Reconstruction of heating substations TOTAL 0.78 0.79 0.70 •• Installation of the system for automatic room temperature control •• Procurement of new, more energy-efficient mills with crushers •• Procurement of thermovision camera •• Installation of high speed doors with automatic opening/ closing system •• Modification of the cooling plant •• Replacement of old lighting fixtures with new LED lighting AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN18 EN19 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 64 Emissions (continued) The AD Plastik Group did not emit ozone depleting substances from its production Refrigerant contained in the equipment (kg) processes in the reporting period. The manufacturing processes employed by the AD 2014 2015 2016 Plastik Group do not emit any substances R22 R407C R134A 227ea R22 R407C R134A 227ea R22 R407C R134A 227ea that damage the ozone layer. For the purpose Solin 240 32 133 40 240 32 133 40 128 23 127 40 of maintaining the necessary climate in its manufacturing and other working rooms, the Zagreb 120 863 0 0 120 863 0 0 120 853 0 0 company uses cooling and air conditioning Mladenovac 8 70 0 164 8 70 0 164 8 77 0 164 devices that operate using substances that affect the ozone layer. The maintenance of Vintai 0 1316 0 0 0 40 0 0 0 40 0 0 those devices and systems in operation is Kaluga 0 980 0 0 0 120 0 0 0 180 0 0 entrusted to authorised contractual partTOTAL 368 3261 133 204 368 1125 133 204 256 1173 127 204 ners whose duty, among other things, is to dispose of replaced working substances in an environmentally friendly manner. During the observed period, there were no cases of NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into the air by type and weight (t) uncontrolled leakage of ozone depleting substances. 2014 2015 2016 NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC NO2 SO2 CO VOC NOx, SOx, CO are generated due to the conSolin 0.073 0.800 0.002 0.000 0.095 1.000 0.080 0.000 0.005 0.015 0.000 0.000 sumption of energy sources used to heat the working rooms (fuel oil and natural gas) and Zagreb 1.335 0.000 0.134 55.740 1.255 0.000 0.950 17.060 1.004 0.000 0.000 5.200 due to the use of energy sources in manuMladenovac 0.176 0.000 0.008 0.000 0.050 0.000 0.030 0.000 0.825 0.000 0.614 0.000 facturing processes. VOC (volatile organic compound) is emitted from the paintshop Vintai 5.650 0.024 12.071 0.000 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 4.523 0.024 0.427 0.000 in Zagreb. VOC emissions were significantly Kaluga 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.000 0.018 0.009 5.191 0.000 0.001 0.000 0.266 0.000 reduced compared to the previous period, beTOTAL 7.234 0.824 12.215 55.740 5.941 1.033 6.678 17.060 6.358 0.039 1.307 5.200 cause the construction and commissioning of a new and modern paintshop in Za-greb ceased the need for production in the old * The data on the emission amounts have been obtained using calculations according to the national standard. manufacturing paintshop which was closed at the beginning of 2016. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN20 EN21 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 65 Waste waters and waste At all sites of the AD Plastik Group drainage systems are carried out separately. Sanitary, technological and atmospheric Total waste weight by type (t) waste water is discharged into a public drainage system. Technological waste water is pre-cleaned through the precipitator 2014 2015 2016 and the separator of fat and oil. Collected soils are regularly Site non-hazardous hazardous non-hazardous hazardous non-hazardous hazardous removed and waste water is regularly controlled. All waste Solin 126.13 25.58 219 20 172.89 29.38 waters comply with the maximum permitted concentration (MPC) for release into the public drainage system. Zagreb 213.56 301.01 301 237 300.90 268.80 Mladenovac 159.28 6.66 180 5 188.49 13.04 Quantity of water released ( m3) Vintai 1,055.69 8.60 1,099.00 334.00 337.50 2.20 Kaluga 450.00 0.50 62.00 7.00 249.60 6.40 Site 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL 2,004.66 342.35 1,861.00 603.00 1,249.38 319.82 Solin 18,645 27,184 33,705 Zagreb 4,050 5,336 4,346 Mladenovac 8,671 11,975 11,584 Vintai 9,930 13,296 8,035 Kaluga 0 4,269 3,074 TOTAL 41,296 62,060 60,744 Packaging waste (cardboard, plastic foil), wood packaging, waste plastics, waste metWaste is collected separately, disposed according to the regal and waste of recycled textile fibres are ulations, and delivered to authorised waste collectors for furdisposed in the non-hazardous waste, and ther disposal. Records of the generated waste delivered for waste paint and lacquers, stain from paints disposal are kept according to the documentation required by and varnishes, waste solvents, waste hylaw, while the data on the weight of the waste delivered for draulic oil, oily water, waste electrical and disposal are obtained by weighing prior to its delivery to auelectronic equipment, waste packaging conthorised collectors. They are used in reports to the competent taminated with hazardous substances, filters, national authorities. Reduction in the amount of waste in 2016 grease and absorbents are disposed in the in relation to the previous periods is the consequence of its hazardous waste. The total weight of waste more proper labelling and timely disposal. is determined by weighing. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN22 EN23 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 66 Waste waters and waste (continued) Waste weight (t) There were no significant spillages of hazardous substances that could have significant negaDisposal methods 2014 2015 2016 tive impact on the environment with possible harmful consequences for the soil, water, air, biodiversity and human health. Systematic efforts to avoid major spillages of hazardous materials Recycling 809.08 862.58 565.33 are directly connected with internal regulations and working instructions, while their implemenWaste warehousing prior to the application of any disposal tation is routinely monitored. process 298.42 275.31 271.73 Use of waste mostly as fuel or other energy source 12.55 27.68 0.00 Waste waters released from manufacturing plants have no negative impact on the biodiversity and connected habitats. These waters are not released into protected areas. Physical and chemical processing of waste 18.27 27.08 12.59 At manufacturing locations in Solin, Zagreb and Mladenovac, environmental protection inspecWaste incineration on land 35.83 55.66 130.25 tions are routinely carried out, once a year as a rule. There were no major pecuniary or non-pecuniary penalties for violations of the laws and regulations in the area of environmental protection. Waste disposal on landfills 1,172.86 1,215.69 589.30 In Vintai and Kaluga, there were no environmental protection inspections in the reporting period. TOTAL 2,347.01 2,464.00 1,569.20 Weigh of transported, imported, exported or processed waste considered hazardous according to the Basel Convention, Annexes I, II, III and VIII, and percentage of waste transported abroad 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of Percentage of Percentage of Weight of hazardous Weight of hazardous Weight of hazardous Hazardous hazardous waste Hazardous hazardous waste Hazardous hazardous waste Site waste weight (t) waste transported transported abroad waste weight (t) waste transported transported abroad waste weight (t) waste transported transported abroad abroad (t) abroad (t) abroad (t) (%) (%) (%) Solin 25.58 3.279 13 20 20 100 29.38 12.33 42 Zagreb 301.01 287.55 96 237 220 93 268.80 216.27 80 Mladenovac 6.66 5.5 83 5 0 0 13.04 0 0 Vintai 8.6 0 0 334 0 0 2.20 0 0 Kaluga 0.5 0.2 40 7 0 0 6.40 0 0 TOTAL 342.35 296.529 87 603 240 40 319.82 228.6 71 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN24 EN27, EN29 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 67 Expenditures and investments into environmental protection Expenditures for environmental protection for 2016 include the costs of hazardous and non-hazardous waste disposal, costs Total expenditures and investments into environmental protection (EUR) of emission testing, and costs of discharging and cleaning. The investments in 2016 include the purchase of energy-ef2014 2015 2016 ficient equipment, technological water purification filters, adSite Expenditures Investments Expenditures Investments Expenditures Investments aptation of the roof structure of the building in the part of fire Solin 38,200 13,300 29,200 10,360 38,567 113,000 damper and light fixture, decoration of the production space for reconstruction of the old painting line and expansion of the Zagreb 112,000 86,200 106,800 240,640 120,000 275,580 central supply of materials. Mladenovac 31,840 2,000 27,100 1,600 25,580 1,250 Vintai 90,448 5,727 60,102 3,218 53,691 2,726 Kaluga 28,000 0 22,000 0 14,416 0 300,488 107,227 245,202 255,818 252,254 392,556 TOTAL 407,715 501,020 644,810 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN31 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 68 Supplier assessment with regard to their impact on the environment Assessment of suppliers in connection with the environmental Proportion of suppliers checked according to the environmental impact criteria and impact are carried out by means of the Questionnaire on the those who possess an ISO 14001 certificate Compliance with the Quality Management System ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, Environmental Management System ISO AD Plastik, Solin, Croatia ADP, Mladenovac, Serbia 14001 and Corporate Social Responsibility Guidelines. In 2016, all new suppliers and all existing suppliers at the AD Plastik Group level were assessed. The results show a growing trend in the number of suppliers who have the ISO14001 certificate at the Solin plant, so that more than 74% of the total assessed suppliers comply with ISO 14001. The results of the assessment of suppliers at other sites also show a growth, but further improvement is still needed, especially at the sites in Russia. ISO 14001 Questionnaire ISO 14001 Questionnaire AD Plastik Kaluga, Russia AD Plastik, Vintai, Russia ISO 14001 Questionnaire ISO 14001 Questionnaire AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • EN32 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 69 The trend of the number of employees of the AD Plastik Group is the indicator of keeping a stable number of employees over the last two years. The number of new employees in the company, their age, gender, and region indicate the ability to attract employees of different qualifications, but also demonstrate the optimised use of available workforce and talent in different regions. Society AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 70 Employment The trend of the number of employees of the AD Plastik Group is Trend in the number of employees over the past five years the indicator of keeping a stable number of employees over the last two years. The number of new employees in the company, their age, gender, and region indicate the ability to attract employees of different qualifications, but also demonstrate the optimised use of available workforce and talent in different regions. The highest monthly fluctuation rate at Group level was 2.06% in the reporting period, a significant decrease compared to 4.7% in the previous period. This indicates the company's stability, as well as positive changes in the organisational climate. Fluctuation is lower for women than for men, and with respect to regions, the largest fluctuation in the reporting period was in Russia. According to the type of contract, the fluctuation is higher for employees with contracts for an indefinite period of time. In the observed period, the largest share of new employment was recorded in the Russian Federation. Although the percentage of Number of employees recruited and those who left the Group for 2016 by months newly-employed men is higher than that of women, it is important to note that the share of newly-employed women compared to the previous period increased by 5%. The share of employed women in the AD Plastik Group is still far above the European average of women employed in the automotive industry. The rates of arrival and departure of employees in the Group are influenced by the natural outflow of the workforce, planned and continuous employment of persons of all profiles, qualifications and age, depending on the introduction of new technologies and products, business activities, reorganisations, investments as well as optimization and improvement of individual segments of business and business processes. Recruited Left Full-time, part-time and fixed-term employees of the AD Plastik Group have the same privileges and rights. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA1 LA2 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 71 Employment (continued) Total rate of employee fluctuation for 2016 by months Departures of employees in 2016 by type of contract Fluctuation rate in 2016 by region total limited time contract contract for an indefinite period employees left Departures of employees in 2016 by gender Fluctuation rate Serbia Fluctuation rate Russia Fluctuation rate Croatia Fluctuation rate Slovenia Total departures Men Women AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA1 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 72 Employment (continued) turning from a maternity or parental leave, to return to the women, which is laid down by the Collective Agreement in a same or comparable workplace and encourages employees to separate provision. The Group’s internal documents, activities, Total recruitment of employees in 2016 by gender use such leave without jeopardizing their careers. The number encouragement of a positive climate and culture promotes the of fathers who use a paid parental leave is still increasing. equality of sexes and particularly the employees’ right to use The AD Plastik Group values the occupational health and safeof parental leave. ty of all its employees, particularly pregnant and breastfeeding Men.......................... 58% Women.....................42% Total number of employees who returned Total number of Total number of to work after the end employees who employees which reof maternity leave, Maternity and paternal leave Total number of emexercised the right to turned to work after who remained emin 2016 ployees by gender maternity and parenthe end of maternity ployed for the period Total recruitment of employees in 2016 by region tal leave by gender leave by gender of twelve months after returning to work, by gender men 694 2 0 1 Russia................. 60.79% AD Plastik, Croatia women 499 18 12 4 Croatia.................33.16% Serbia....................6.05% men 137 0 0 0 ADP, Mladenovac Slovenia.................0.26% women 35 1 0 1 men 89 1 1 1 AD Plastik Kaluga women 140 41 5 3 All employees of the AD Plastik Group have the right to maternity and parental leave in accordance with the regulations men 192 0 0 0 AD Plastik. Vintai of the country in which they are employed. In the reporting women 329 48 14 13 period, 108 female employees and 3 male employees used men 4 0 0 0 the right to maternity or parental leave. From the maternity or ADP Novo Mesto parental leave 31 female employees and one male employee women 2 0 0 0 returned to work in the same period. During the observed pemen 1116 3 1 2 riod, two male employees and 21 female employees remained employed for the period of twelve months after returning from AD Plastik Group women 1005 108 31 21 maternity or parental leave. This indicator was introduced in total 2121 111 32 23 2015. The AD Plastik Group enables its employees, upon reAD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA3 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 73 Employment (continued) Good relations and social dialogue with the employees continThey are not defined separately in the Collective Agreement. Collective agreements as formal agreements with unions ued uninterruptedly in the observed period. Employees are regDepending on the laws of the country in which the company cover topics in the area of health and safety, in accordance ularly and timely informed on all important business changes operates, the deadlines range from eight days to three months. with the laws and regulations and customary good business and are included in the timely manner. The deadlines for propractice. Employees have a representative in the Supervisory viding information to employees are defined in the provisions Communication with employees and their elected representaBoard of the AD Plastik Group, who is informed of any major of the laws on labour and employment relationships, as well tives on all matters related to changes in the business is more changes in the business that may have a significant impact on as in the provisions related to consultations and negotiations. frequent than what the law prescribes. employees prior to making the final decision. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA4, LA8 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 74 Occupational health and safety Rate of injuries, professional diseases, lost days or absences, and number of deaths connected with accidents at work 2014 2015 2016 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Number of Number of lost Number of Site injuries professional days deaths injuries professional days deaths injuries professional days deaths diseases diseases diseases Solin 7 0 303 0 6 0 278 0 6 0 329 0 Zagreb 7 0 245 0 6 0 159 0 7 0 29 0 Mladenovac 3 0 45 0 6 0 225 0 9 0 210 0 Vintai 1 0 49 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kaluga 1 0 11 0 3 0 19 0 1 0 35 0 TOTAL 19 0 653 0 21 0 681 0 23 0 603 0 Injury rate by gender (%) Parameter 2014 2015 2016 IR (injury rate) 0.87 0.99 1.09 ODR (occupational disease rate) 0.00 0.00 0.00 LDR (lost day rate) 0.11 0.12 0.11 AR (absentee rate) 0.00 0.00 0.00 Women % In 2016, 23 injuries at work were reported, of place. There were no occupational illnesses Men % which three were severe, but with no lasting and deaths related to work injuries. After the consequences for employees' health. Severe occurrence of each individual injury, analyses injuries occurred when workers fell on the were carried out and corrective actions were same level and by collision with the moving taken to avoid repeating. tool. Of the total number of injuries, five refer to injuries that occurred during the workers arrival to and departure from their work AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA6 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 75 Education and training In the reporting period, the average duration of training per Proportion of employees in training in 2015 by category employee was 21 hours. Last year’s trend in increased investment in managerial skills development programs, specific Significant education during 2016: customer requirements and technology deployment has continued. Raising awareness of safety and security at work as •• APQP/PPAP Advanced Product Quality Planning well as environmental protection and energy conservation is & Control Plan always the focus of our employee development programs. •• DOE Design of experiments •• Ford Robustness Workshop Statistical tool for Average number of training hours per employee category development in 2016 •• Moldflow expert level •• Engel robotics control Management Expert Other Direct •• Internal process auditors by VDA 6.3. method Average number of training hours per employee staff staff workers •• FESTO maintenance of motors and electromotor drives women men In line with global trends, the automotive industry continuManagement (senior and middle) 39 53 ously raises the product and process quality scale both in the development and in the serial delivery phase of the product. Engineers and highly educated Therefore, the key areas of employee education in AD Plastik 25 35 staff Group are divided into the development of products and proOther operators and staff 13 5 cesses, and technical and technological knowledge related to installed equipment, all in order to ensure their competence Production workers 20 18 and expertise. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA9 LA10 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 76 Education and training (continued) Upgrading knowledge and skills of employees is ensured through regular cooperation with consulting companies of customers and suppliers of equipment or authorized companies. In the reporting period, the Management Academy of the AD Plastik Group was organised within eight modules through interactive workshops for all company managers. All Group employees have the ability to learn and improve their foreign languages for easier communication with their business partners. At the end of 2016, the effectiveness of educational programs implemented in the observed period was tested and the good influence of education on business results, organisational climate, motivation, employee engagement, quality of work and the application of new knowledge in the work was noted. Proportion of different programmes in 2016 On-line training programs are regularly organised in the younger colleagues to provide additional contribution to the company’s internal training catalogue published on the indevelopment of the employees. tranet. The catalogue is produced and published annually. Training of production workers Depending on the competences and specific knowledge, Within the company, counselling and assistance is offered Occupational safety internal trainers and mentors are engaged from different regularly regarding termination of working life. Installed technologies sites of the Group. Installed business processes Introduction of new employees at work and the training of Specific customer requests Internal trainers and mentors are the leaders in the process employees at workplaces during lateral transfers or rotaManagerial knowledge of employee development that ensures competitiveness in tions of the workplace are regularly monitored. the market. As part of the mentoring programme, the retired workers of the company are frequently engaged by During 2016, 148 programmes of introduction of new emtransferring the acquired knowledge and experience to their ployees to work were launched, and 117 were concluded. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA10 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 77 Rewarding AD5 model excellence award Work performance monitoring Management Idea for Improvement rewarding through objectives As part of the “AD 5” reward model launched in 2015, through At the AD Plastik Group’s plants in Kaluga and Vintai, employIn October 2016, at Zagreb and Solin plants, a reward model which the recognition and rewarding of outstanding employee rewarding is implemented through a continuous process of was translated from Russian companies and launched as an ees is being carried out, 261 rewards were awarded at the management by objectives. example of good practice. It is the Idea for Improvement replants in Solin and Zagreb during the reporting period. AccordBy cascading the organisational objectives to the objectives wording model that aims to stimulate the creativity of all eming to the criteria of quality and quantity of work, initiatives, of employees, their greater engagement is achieved, resulting ployees who create added value to the company and ensure proactivity, adaptability, cooperation, communication, task oriin increased process efficiency and thus by awarding through market progress. entation, knowledge, skills and teamwork, the managers have bonuses. selected award-winning employees within their business areDuring the reporting period, there were no significant changes The idea for improvement is any useful novelty that, with its as. A large number of employees was rewarded, and it is necin the proportion of employees receiving regular feedback on application, raises the quality of conditions and ways of work essary to point out the employees who received the awards work performance and individual development. at a higher level, and can refer to all business segments (prodmany times, thus proving their continued excellence. Rewards uct, process, material, energy, layout, work organisation, safewere awarded to members of the Management Board on octy at work ...). ZAO AD Plastik Kaluga 82% casional gatherings, and this reward is currently being carried out only at the plants in Croatia. AO AD Plastik 54% Significant employee engagement was noted, and three work28% ers were awarded three months after the commencement of AD Plastik d.d. 9% the project. ADP d.o.o. 4% GRI: G4 • LA11 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 78 Diversity and equal opportunities In accordance with the Code of Business Conduct, the AD managerial positions, with the majority of women employed years of age in management positions is also significant, Plastik Group has committed to conduct its business operin line management, followed by the middle management, and which is 20.66%. ations with no discrimination in employment on any ground. the lowest number of women employed in top management. During the reporting period, a total of two disputes on the The company undertakes to recruit and promote employees Although the ratio of men and women in the total employment Group level have been initiated regarding labour relations that on the basis of their abilities and competences, and treats relationship is almost the same, there is somewhat lower rephave been processed and solved during this period. The two each individual with dignity and respect regardless of ethresentation of women in the management structures. There is disputes initiated earlier in Solin and Vintai were solved during nic, religious, linguistic, sexual, age or cultural affiliation. No a positive shift in the previous reporting period, and the prothe reporting period. The cycle of educating employees in the reports of cases of discrimination were received during the portion of women in the gender structure of the Management field of employment relations at the plants in Croatia was inireporting period. is 50% in 2016. In the next reporting periods, we will strive to tiated. The AD Plastik Group has been employing almost the same achieve a similar proportion of women in overall management In the reporting period, all suppliers of the AD Plastik Group number of women and men for a number of years, and so on structures. were checked according to the employment relationship cri31 December 2016, there were 47.38% female employees and In the observed period, employees in the category of 30 to 50 terion by means of the Questionnaire on the Compliance with 52.62% male employees in the Group. The basic wage of emyears of age are prevalent in the structure of managing and the Quality Management System ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, ployees on the Group level is determined exclusively according steering positions, their proportion by age is 69.48%. In the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and Corporate to the job. There are no differences between basic wages and top management, most of the employees are aged 45 to 60, Social Responsibility Guidelines. All tested suppliers comply remunerations between men and women. With regard to the while in middle and line management employees aged 30 to with the above-mentioned criteria. management structure, women occupy a total of 33.04% of 45 are also prevalent. The proportion of employees over 50 Gender structure of top and middle management Employee age structure in 2016 depending on the management line of ADP Group in 2016 Line management Men Women Middle management Men Women Top management AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA12, LA14 , LA16, HR3 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 79 Diversity and equal opportunities (continued) Age structure of steering/management positions in 2016 The AD Plastik Group is a component manufacturer for the automotive industry, therefore the largest number of employees are direct workers, which also affects the educational structure of employees. The AD Plastik Group employs primarily high school graduates who meet the requirements of positions in direct production. Direct workers are directly involved in the production process while indirect workers participate in the production process support and their number is proportional to the volume of production and production organisation. Men Women Men Women Men Women top management middle management line management Educational structure of employees in 2016 Management Board gender and age structure in 2016 Audit Committee gender and age structure in 2016 VŠS, VSS, MR...........23% SSS, KV, VKV.......... 57% NKV, PKV................. 20% Men Women Men Women Men Women 2015 2016 2016 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • LA12 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 80 Human rights Every employee of the AD Plastik Group enjoys the same right Employee trainings on policies and aspects of human rights teria of the freedom of association of workers and respect for to respect and dignity regardless of race, religion, gender, age, were carried out at the plants in Kaluga, Solin and Zagreb. In human rights by means of the Questionnaire (questions nos. 9 national origin, political beliefs, sexual orientation, marital sta2016 no discrimination complaints were received, nor have and 14) on the Compliance with the Quality Management Systus, disability or any other personal property. there been any disputes in connection with human rights. In tem ISO 9001 or ISO TS 16949, Environmental Management case of received complaint, a procedure is initiated to investiSystem ISO 14001 and Corporate Social Responsibility GuideThe AD Plastik Group does not employ persons under the age gate the circumstances of the reported occurrence, establish lines. of 15 nor persons under the age of 18, so that no contract of the justification of the complaint, and appropriate measures employment with persons under the age of 15 has been conare taken against the reported employee. Based on the Questionnaire, all the surveyed suppliers respect cluded in the reporting period or in previous periods. Special the human rights and the rights of the workers to free associattention is paid to the age of candidates during the selection In the reporting period, all suppliers of the AD Plastik Group, ation. process. including 21 new suppliers, were checked according to the criAD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • HR1 HR2, HR4, HR10, HR12 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 81 Society Anti-corruption Public policies In accordance with the Code of Business Conduct of the AD In 2016, there were no reports of workers in AD Plastik Group AD Plastik Group does not condone any material or financial Plastik Group, no employee may engage in corruption of any that would imply bribery and/or corruption. In Solin, a cycle support to political parties or political contributions. We prokind. Each employee who has been asked for or offered a bribe of workshops and education in the field of anti-corruption mote a transparent and public advocacy of different public is obliged to report the situation to Legal Affairs Department. was held, entitled “Business without Corruption and Bribery”, policies through business organisations and advocacy groups, to familiarize the management with corruption, corruption public appearances, expert discussions or direct suggestions In the reporting period, the Anti-Corruption Policy of the AD prevention, and the manner and importance of reporting any and comments submitted to the competent authority. Plastik Group was drafted and adopted as a separate docuirregularities. In the reporting period 23 persons, mostly manNo legal proceedings have been instituted due to conduct viment, and is available on the company's website. The Anagers, attended this anti-corruption training. A total of 12% of olating the principle of competition on the market, anti-trust ti-Corruption Policy was delivered to all members of the Manmanagers of the AD Plastik Group attended the anti-corrupand anti-monopoly practices and there were no significant agement Board and is available on the Intranet to all Group tion training in the observed period. pecuniary or non-pecuniary penalties due to breach of laws employees. and regulations on the level of the AD Plastik Group in the reporting period. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • SO4, SO6 SO7 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 82 Society (continued) Customer health and safety Labelling of products and services The AD Plastik Group develops its products of products and services on customer health The quality and characteristics of all AD PlasNo cases of non-compliance with the regulain accordance with the regulations and reand safety, and a regular assessment is cartik Group products are certified by the custions and voluntary codes regarding product quirements of customers, the legal proviried out to improve the impact of all products tomers as safe and acceptable for further use and service data and labelling, according to sions and the directives of the automotive inso as not to pose a risk to the health or safety in terms of health. Continuous care is taken the type of outcomes, were recorded in the dustry. By adhering to customer regulations of end users. of appropriate and useful labels, ensured disobserved period. and requirements, from the design planning During the reporting period, no cases of posal following the expiry of its working life in phase and product development through vernon-compliance with regulations and volunaccordance with the legal provisions, regulaification and validation, up to disposal of the tary codes were recorded relating to the imtions and standards of automotive industry. product and after termination of its use peripact of the product on health and safety, and For all products, the sources of components od, continuous efforts are made to improve all products were confirmed in compliance of the product and their content in respect of the final product and its impact on the health with this parameter by the buyer and meet the substances that can affect the environand safety of the customer. During all develthe specific tests of vehicle manufacturers ment or society are mentioned through the opment phases of certain products of the that are being carried out for complete prodIMDS system. Group, consideration is given to the impact uct safety for the end customer. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • PR1 PR4, EN27 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 83 Society (continued) Customers Marketing communications Supplier rating is a basic prerequisite for contracting new The AD Plastik Group adheres to the Croatian Advertising deals, and quality is one of the most important parameters Code, and has its own Advertising Code, which is applicable that are monitored in the business process with the customer. to all forms of marketing communications. In the reporting The quality of products and processes is extremely important period, there were no violations of regulations and voluntary for the preservation and enhancement of the competitive pocodes in connection with marketing communications. sition on the market and is regularly monitored by the customers on special IT portals. The company refrains from selling illegal or disputed products on all markets, and such products are not the subject of queThe quality system and corporate standards are updated on ries by stakeholders or public debates. a daily basis through the application of best practices, in line with high customer expectations and specific requirements of the automotive industry. Customer criteria and requirements apply to suppliers as well, and in cooperation with them we define and implement activities that provide end users with satisfaction and fulfilment of their expectations. In 2016, the emphasis was on the activities of strengthening the organisational structure of quality and standardization of working methods of all production locations of the Group. The objectives and expectations of customers are more pronounced and communicated through internal objectives and processes. Planned questionnaires for customer satisfaction surveys were not introduced during the reporting period, but preparations and consultations were performed. In the reporting period, there were no complaints in connection with customer privacy, violations of regulations and voluntary codes with regard to products and services. There were also no fines for violation of laws and regulations with regard to the offer and use of products and services. AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI: G4 • PR5 PR9 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 84 Annexes AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 85 Comparative table of GRI and Global Compact indicators UNGC principle Page UNGC principle Page Profile G4-EC6 Principle 6 55 Strategy and analysis G4-EC8 55 G4-1 Statement of the President of the Management Board 4-5 G4-EC9 41, 55 Organisational profile Environmental indicators G4-3 to G4-13 Principles 3 and 6 6-7, 10-19, 29-30, 38-42 G4-EN1 Principle 7, 8 57-58 Obligations with regard to foreign initiatives G4-EN2 Principle 8 and 9 57-58 G4-14 to G4-16 Principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 43-44 G4-EN3 Principle 7 and 8 59-60 Identified material aspects and limits G4-EN4 Principle 8 59 G4-17 to G4-23 51 G4-EN5 Principle 8 60 Involvement of stakeholders G4-EN6 Principle 8 and 9 59, 63 G4-24 to G4-27 20-28 G4-EN8 Principle 7 and 8 61 Report profile G4-EN9 Principle 8 61 G4-28 to G4-33 Principle 3 52 G4-EN10 Principle 8 and 9 61 Management G4-EN11 Principle 8 61 G4-34 to G4-53 31-37 G4-EN12 Principle 8 61 Ethics and integrity G4-EN13 Principle 8 61 G4-56 Principles 1 10 8-9 G4-EN14 Principle 8 61 Specific standard data G4-EN15 Principle 7 and 8 62 Economic indicators G4-EN16 Principle 7 and 8 62 G4-EC1 Principle 6 54 G4-EN18 Principle 7 and 8 63 G4-EC3 55 G4-EN19 Principle 8 and 9 63 G4-EC4 55 G4-EN20 Principle 7 and 8 64 G4-EC5 Principle 6 55 G4-EN21 Principle 7 and 8 64 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 86 Comparative table of GRI and Global Compact indicators (continued) UNGC principle Page UNGC principle Page G4-EN22 Principle 8 65 Subcategory: Human rights G4-EN23 Principle 8 65 G4-HR1 Principle 2 80 G4-EN24 Principle 8 66 G4-HR2 Principle 1 80 G4-EN25 Principle 8 66 G4-HR3 Principle 4 and 6 78 G4-EN26 Principle 8 66 G4-HR4 Principle 1, 2, 3 and 6 80 G4-EN27 Principle 8 82 G4-HR10 Principle 2 80 G4-EN29 Principle 8 66 G4-HR12 Principle 1, 2 80 G4-EN31 Principle 7, 8 and 9 67 Subcategory: Society G4-EN32 Principle 8 68 G4-SO4 Principle 10 81 Social indicators G4-SO6 Principle 10 81 G4-LA1 Principle 6 70-71 G4-SO7 Principle 10 81 G4-LA2 Principle 6 70 Subcategory: Customer health and safety G4-LA3 Principle 3 and 6 72 G4-PR1 Principle 1 82 G4-LA4 Principle 3 and 6 73 G4-PR2 Principle 1 82 G4-LA6 Principle 1 74 G4-PR3 Principle 8 82 G4-LA8 Principle 3 73 G4-PR4 Principle 8 82 G4-LA9 Principle 6 75 G4-PR5 83 G4-LA10 75-76 G4-PR6 83 G4-LA11 Principle 6 77 G4-PR7 Principle 2 83 G4-LA12 Principle 2 and 6 78-79 G4-PR8 83 G4-LA13 Principle 1 and 6 55 G4-PR9 83 G4-LA14 Principle 1 and 6 78 G4-LA16 78 AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 87 Global Sustainable Development Goals The AD Plastik Group in its work follows the Sustainable Development Goals 2030. This is the United Nations programme, within which seventeen global goals of sustainable development have been defined. The company is currently working on the evaluation of the company’s contribution to meeting the global goals of sustainable development. Through its business, the AD Plastik Group sonal development of each individual. Specontributes to the industrialisation of the cial attention is paid to environmental procountry, its technological advancement and tection, which protects biodiversity, avoids innovativeness. As a global company operadverse impacts on water, soil and air and ating in five countries, the group provides climate changes. Activities are carried out equal opportunities for employees and with the aim of saving drinking water and builds its unique corporate culture. Through energy efficiency, with particular attention continuous growth and sustainable develbeing paid to waste management. Resourcopment, the AD Plastik Group wants to keep es are used responsibly in the production the existing and open new work positions, process, and the Group takes care about taking care of gender and social equality at social responsibility in the supply chain. The all sites. The Group cares about the safety company maintains positive and affirmaand health protection of all its employees, tive relationships with the local community, promotes gender equality and the employstate institutions, business sector and civil ees’ rights, and focuses on the promotion society. of knowledge and the professional and perAD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 88 Tasks for 2016 accomplished •• ISO 14001 standard was implemented at AD Plastik Kaluga •• ISO 50001 standard (Energy Management System) for Solin and Zagreb plants was implemented •• Preparations of the implementation of ISO 50001 standard for the Mladenovac plant commenced •• ISO 9001 at the ADP Mladenovac plant was implemented •• Implementation of ISO 27001 standard (Information Security System) for Solin and Zagreb plant commenced •• Preparations of the implementation of OHSAS 18001 for AD Plastik Kaluga commenced •• Development of activities aimed at increasing employee motivation ADP Day (22 April), organisation of regular annual team building, open-door days of the Management Board Chatroom, launched “Ideas and Innovations” project, participation in B2B Run, Christmas and New Year’s Eve at all plants, ceremonial awards for employees, conducted research on motivation and employee satisfaction by foreign agency... •• Continuous work on better informing methods and engagement of other stakeholders •• The following policies have been drafted and adopted: Anti-corruption policy, antimonopoly policy, quality policy, policy of sustainable supplier management, energy management policy, human rights policy, environmental policy, occupational health and safety policy, and diversity policy. •• Code of Business Conduct of the AD Plastik Group was updated and amended •• Training on anti-corruption issues was held •• Assessments of suppliers for the sites in Russia and Serbia according to the Compliance Questionnaire were carried out AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 89 Tasks for 2017 •• Implementation of the ISO 50001 standard at the Mladenovac plant •• Implementation of ISO 27001 standard (Information Security System) for Solin and Zagreb plants •• Beginning of the implementation of ISO 207001 standard at the Mladenovac plant •• Implementation of OHSAS 18001 standard at AD Plastik Kaluga •• Printing and distribution of the Code of Business Conduct and Policy of the AD Plastik Group brochure to all employees in three languages and at all sites •• Implementation of the Idea for Improvement rewarding system at Mladenovac plant •• Preparation, production and distribution of the Guide for Internal Communication for all plants in three languages •• Preparation, production and distribution of Language Reference Book for the sites in Croatia •• Internal campaign to raise awareness of the importance of sustainable business •• Join the Section of Community for Environmental Protection in the Croatian economy •• On-line survey on the Company’s internet sites related to the Sustainability Report for all stakeholders AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 About us Economy Environment Society Annexes 90 Opinion of the HRPSOR commission An independent commission from the Governing Council of efforts invested by the Group in research and development. We support AD Plastik's efforts at continued development of the HR BCSD examined the new 2016 sustainability report of Very specific indicators reflecting progress arising from these stakeholder relations and creation of a partner relationship AD Plastik Group. This is the fourth report on sustainability of efforts should also be added at this point. AD Plastik has reand two-way communication which can only be a result of AD Plastik Group which brings together all the most important corded a drop of energy use in relation to consumption of long-term and committed efforts. AD Plastik exhibits progress business data as well as all the most important non-financial materials, as well as a decline of greenhouse gas emissions in this area, but additional room for improvement of these reimpacts presented using the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting per kilogram of its products. Also, a significant reduction of lations is also apparent. Guidelines. We hereby confirm that the report presented to us air emissions of pollutants was observed, especially NO2, SO2, complies with the Core option reporting requirements. The CO, VOC and others, and a decrease in generation of hazardWe would like to suggest to you to present further data and report represents a comprehensive and exhaustive source of ous and non-hazardous waste. information providing a more detailed review of protection of information about key impacts through its contents, quantity human rights and the policy of diversity in relation to the inof information and treatment of topics significant for achievIn addition to the efforts aimed at continuous technological formation on management. We are proposing you to present ing of company's objectives and management of its impacts. advancement and sustainability, the company is also investing policies and models actively providing mechanisms protecting in progress related to its social impacts. The report indicates a human rights and fostering diversity and equal opportunities This year's report surprised us once again in terms of progress good practice in proportion of local suppliers and foreign ones in the AD Plastik Group, especially being aware that there are found in AD Plastik Group. Structure of the report closely fol– which is constantly growing in all the countries and across specific features of protection of minority groups considering lows GRI guidelines – making the report well presented and all production sites encompassed by this report. Responsible diversity of the sites where the company operates. easy to read. In addition, its information is intelligible and formanagement and recognition of potentials present at all the mat accessible – making reading and obtaining information sites is also apparent in adoption and replication of good iniWe would like to commend the content of the report presentabout company's activities simple. tiatives which do not necessarily come from the central unit. ed to us because it demonstrates progress in the reporting In the last year, good practice introducing rewarding of good content and its format, but even more importantly, it shows In addition to the report's format, we are also monitoring proideas of AD Plastik Group employees was adopted in this manAD Plastik Group's progress in management of non-financial gress in AD Plastik Group´s business as well as in its sustainaner from Russia. impacts of the company. We hope this trend of progress will bility policy. We would like to especially point out investments be present in the years ahead of us. in research and development as one of the fundamental The good practice and efforts invested by AD Plastik in imprerequisites of sustainable development. Without ongoing provement of its impact as well as excellent business results efforts invested in product improvements and consumption were recognised by the wider professional and social commuof energy and materials, the company will not be capable of nity – which is attested by numerous awards received by the contributing adequately to sustainable development. We have company in the reporting period. recognised true commitment to sustainability precisely in the AD PLASTIK GROUP • SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Your needs. Our drive. Solin, July 2017 www.adplastik.hr
