UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2016 SEMIKRON International GmbH FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Company Name: SEMIKRON International GmbH Address: Sigmundstrasse 200, 90431 Nuremberg Country: Germany Membership date: 2012/05/04 Employees: Approximately 3000 Sector: Power Electronics Management: Harald Jäger, Chief Executive Officer & Chief Operating Officer Christian Müller, Chief Financial Officer Peter Sontheimer, Chief Sales Officer Website: www.semikron.com FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 Telephone: +49 911 6559-0 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Brief description of business SEMIKRON is a global leading manufacturer of power electronics, primarily in the mid-range power segment (2kW to 10MW). It offers a broad product portfolio, ranging from chips, discrete, diode, thyristor and IGBT power modules to systems and stacks. They are used in speed-controlled industrial drive units, automation technology, welding equipment and elevators. Applications also include uninterrupted power supply (UPS), renewable energies (wind, solar) as well as electrification of utility vehicles and urban transport equipment. The family-owned enterprise which was founded in 1951 has its headquarters in Nuremberg, Germany. It has around 3,000 employees worldwide. An international network of 25 subsidiaries with production sites in Germany, Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Korea, Slovakia as well as the USA ensures rapid and comprehensive services for local customers. FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Statement of continued support SEMIKRON joined the UN Initiative Global Compact in May 2012. Since then, our commitment to human rights and the environment, our compliance with anti-corruption principles, as well as our employment policy have been monitored by the UN Initiative Global Compact. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company’s strategy, culture and daily business. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. At the same time, SEMIKRON is involved in projects which help promote the more broadly defined development aims of the UN. The implementation of such projects calls for the invariable support from the management in the form of ongoing activities and partnerships, as well as the company's clear willingness to learn and to be proactive. We are pleased to confirm our continued support of the Ten Principles of the UN Initiative Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Harald Jäger Christian Müller Peter Sontheimer FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 CEO & COO CFO CSO www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide. Furthermore, we do not tolerate any discrimination related to gender, race, nationality, handicap, social background and sexual orientation and we promote equal opportunities. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2016: Competent contact partners for matters of gender equality have been named and communicated to all employees Introduction and implementation of the SEMIKRON Code of Conduct with a clear statement that respecting internationally recognized human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 Clarification and sensitization of the SEMIKRON Code of Conduct by formulation of various principles in a handbook www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We strictly condemn and reject child labour and abide by the laws and regulations regarding minimum age. Apart from that, we reject forced labour and physical punishment, threatening and harassing male and female employees. We respect the freedom of assembly and cooperate with employee representation organizations while maintaining a trustful relationship with them. Wages, social benefits and working hours at SEMIKRON completely fulfill the legal standards in the corresponding countries. We protect our employees from occupational hazards and support health promoting measures. These issues are binding for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide. The best possible maintaining of health and the creation of ergonomic and safe workplaces is a task that FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 remains with all employees. By means of preventive and corrective measures safety at work is constantly improved. www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2016: Introduction of a performance management system in Germany to ensure equal treatment for all employees Conclusion of employment agreements with the works council in Germany mainly ruling working hours for employees with on-call duties Full compliance with new German legislation related to minimum wage FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We protect the environment by economic use of energy, materials and resources, by keeping emissions as low as possible, by implementing a high degree of recyclability and by utilizing lowest possible amounts of harmful substances in our products and materials. Our products help save and generate energy in an environmentally sound manner without harming anybody. We comply with all valid and applicable laws regarding environmental protection and occupational safety. Thanks to our functional and integrated environment management, we are able to continuously improve our processes and to reduce ecological damage as far as possible. The most important production sites in Germany, Slovakia and Italy have already received the ISO 14001 certification. Our largest production site in Germany has also received the environmental management registration according to the European standard EMAS. FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 For our German production site all related measures and results are published annually in our environmental report. www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2016: Germany: Successful surveillance audit ISO 14001 and EMAS III Energy consumption for production equipment in relation to production volume decreased by 15.5% compared to reference year 2013 Energy consumption for facilities in relation to building area decreased by 20% compared to reference year 2013 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 Water consumption in relation to production volume decreased by 12.5% compared to reference year 2013; 51% of water consumption covered by recycling www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: Slovakia: Successful surveillance audit according to ISO 14001 and re-certification audit according to OHSAS 18001 Water consumption decreased by 12% compared to 2015 Discharged pollution from biological waste water treatment plant target under 85 % of legal limits was observed Electrical energy consumption in relation to production volume decreased by 6.5% compared to 2015 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 Targets for legislative paper and plastic packaging waste recycling were achieved Waste recycling increased by 12% compared to 2015 Municipal waste decreased by 50% due to more recycling and termination of diode production www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: Italy: Successful re-certification audit according to ISO 14001 Water consumption decreased by 10.5% due to optimization of demi-water production plant Waste water treatment sludge elimination due to changing of industrial purifying process Waste water treatment chemicals elimination due to changing of industrial purifying process FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures & Progress: Brazil Compliance with the Brazilian Environmental Laws regarding licensees, chemical products and residual waste Water consumption decreased by 11% compared to 2015 Waste waster treatment station in line with the local laws FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SEMIKRON does not tolerate corruption, bribery and extortion and actively works against it. We ensure a high level of abidance by the laws through our Internal Regulations for the Management of the SEMIKRON Group, our basic principles, our internal control system and yearly financial and quality audits. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to our principles. Together with our partners we continuously support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Measures & Progress: In addition to existing measures, following progress has been achieved in 2016: Establishment of a compliance committee in charge of a) overseeing the company’s implementation of compliance programs, policies and procedures; b) assisting the supervisory board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility for the company’s compliance and c) performing compliance audits. Implementation and roll-out of group-wide Code of Conduct which outlines the SEMIKRON corporate standards for responsible behavior toward business partners and the public, as well as for our FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 behavior within the company. Finalisation of a compliance handbook including compliance guidelines covering following aspects: compliance basics, anti-bribery and corruption issues, anti-trust/competition laws and behavior, handling of confidential information. www.semikron.com Communication on Progress Report 2016 FORMS.1014 / Rev. 06 www.semikron.com
