i Biometrics company Growing product portfolio with solutions for more markets. Best year Revenue increased by 129% to SEK 6,638 M and operating margin rose to 39%. Distinct value Security, convenience and efficiency. Annual Report 2016 CONTENTS Innovative biometrics company 1 The year in brief 2 “ Message from the CEO 4 Business concept, objectives and strategies 6 Sustainability work 12 Market 16 Fingerprints’ solutions 24 Research and development 30 Procurement and production 34 Business model 36 Biometrics: security, convenience Organization and personnel 40 Fingerprints’ investment case 44 and efficiency. The share 45 Message from the Chairman 48 Corporate governance report 49 Board of Directors 54 Executive Management 56 WITH A HUMAN TOUCH Administration report 58 Risks and risk management 62 BIOMETRICS Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 65 Consolidated statement of financial position 66 Bi’os (Life) and Me’tron (Measurement) Consolidated statement changes in equity, the Group 67 Biometrics identifies people through their unique physiological characteristics or Consolidated statement of cash flows, the Group 68 behaviors, such as a fingerprint, face, iris, voice, hand or vein pattern. Parent Company income statement 69 Fingerprints is a biometrics company whose solutions are based on the advantages of Parent Company balance sheet 69 biometrics: security, convenience and efficiency. In many ways, biometrics is the perfect way of identifying and authenticating a person. Biometric sensors can be constructed Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 70 to have improved security, but are still fast and easy to use – and the biometrics always Parent Company statement of cash flows 71 accompany the user; they are never forgotten or left at home. Notes to the financial statements 72 Assurance by the Board 90 Audit report 91 Ten-year Summary 93 Shareholder information 95 Glossary 96 FINGERPRINTS 1 FINGERPRINTS – INNOVATIVE MESSAGE FROM THE CEO A MULTIFACETED COMPANY BIOMETRICS COMPANY We intend to maintain our position in the mobile 4 ­segment and simultaneously develop into a biometric company with more technology platforms. Fingerprint Cards AB, Fingerprints, with its Swedish roots, is the leading global biometrics company, whose mission is to spearhead the development of biometric interaction that facilitates the convenience and integrity of the individual. Its value is proven daily by users in millions of devices, through billions of touches, who are their own key – quite simply, with a human touch. Fingerprints develops biometric systems comprising sensors, algorithms, software and packaging technologies. The success is based on product development at the cutting edge of technology, which results in world-leading products in terms of security, convenience and performance. The current BIOMETRICS – A PART product range consists largely of fingerprint sensors and customers are primarily manufacturers OF EVERYDAY LIFE of smartphones and tablets, where the company is market leading. As the use of biometric solutions Biometrics as a reliable and convenient authentication increases, Fingerprints is working to broaden its offering by using different biometric techniques, 16 solution is to date only just beginning to become or modalities, and to identify other market segments where the solutions can be used, such as smart significant as a broader application. cards, PCs, automotive and online devices (IoT). The Fingerprints share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm (FING B). The company has shown strong growth and sales totaled SEK 6,638 M in 2016, with an operating margin of 39 percent. Most of the more than 400 employees work in Sweden, but the company has offices worldwide, from Shanghai to Silicon Valley. FINGERPRINTS AROUND THE WORLD UNIQUE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Fingerprints is expanding its product portfolio by adding biometric system solutions that are suitable for more product segments. 24 Gothenburg HQ Stockholm Copenhagen Linköping Malmö San José Seoul Tokyo Shanghai New Delhi Shenzhen Taipei INCREASED INNOVATIVENESS Fingerprints continues to invest in proprietary development and acquisitions to establish itself as a biometrics company. 30 2 FINGERPRINTS The year in brief THE YEAR IN BRIEF Profitable growth SEK 6,638 M 55–60% Estimated market share of ­fingerprint sensors in smartphones (Android) revenues, 10 +129% Fingerprints’ products are used more than ten billion times daily 48% SEK 2,613 M No.1 Sweden’s Technology most innovative Fast 500TM operating profit, gross margin, company EMEA winner +187% (43%) 136 smartphone models equipped with Fingerprints’ touch sensors SEK 1,130 M SEK 6.40 20 cash flow from operating earnings per share, various sensor models in a activities, (910) +153% growing product portfolio FINGERPRINTS The year in brief 3 REVENUES AND OPERATING PROFIT FIRST QUARTER OF 2016 •T  ouch fingerprint sensor under glass is SEK M % • 26 smartphones featuring Fingerprints’ launched. touch sensors announced by, among • FPC increases fingerprint sensor security. others, the following manufacturers: • FPC provides fingerprint sensor tech7,000 60 360/QiKu, Coolpad, Gionee, Hisense, nology to the automotive industry. Huawei, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Oppo, Sony, 6,000 45 • The number of shares is increased by Vivo, Xiaomi. 1,300,000 Class B shares due to the • Zwipe and Fingerprints enter into exercise of warrants. 30 5,000 strategic partnership • Fingerprints joins Global Compact. 15 4,000 0 SECOND QUARTER OF 2016 •A  nnual General Meeting with changes in •4  2 smartphones featuring Fingerprints’ the Board of Directors. 3,000 touch sensor announced by, among • Share split implemented and decision to –15 others, the following manufacturers: 360/ buy back shares announced. 2,000 QiKu, Coolpad, Gionee, HTC, Huawei, ivvi, • Complete biometric module launched. –30 Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Nubia, Oneplus, Oppo, • Touch sensor for the low price segment Sharp, Sony, Vivo, Xiaomi, ZUK, ZTE. 1,000 –45 launched. • Improved algorithm for smartphones • Christian Fredrikson is appointed as introduced. new CEO. 0 –60 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 THIRD QUARTER OF 2016 •C  hristian Fredrikson took office as Revenues, SEK M Operating loss, SEK M Gross margin, % • 3  6 smartphones featuring Fingerprints’ President and CEO on August 1. touch sensors launched, announced by, • Buyback of own shares completed. among others, Coolpad, Huawei, Lenovo, Xiaomi, LG. FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY FOURTH QUARTER OF 2016 •F  ormer CEO, Johan Carlström, resigns •3  2 smartphones featuring the company’s from employment as business developer 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 touch sensors launched in, among other in the company. products, Google’s new Pixel phones, SK • Launch of Kona I smart cards, featuring Revenues, SEK M 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 95.4 10.3 Telecom’s Luna S smartphone, Huawei’s Fingerprints’ touch sensor. mate 9 equipped with Fingerprints’ touch • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Disciplinary Gross profit, SEK M 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 39.2 –5.7 sensor under glass. Committee orders the company to pay a • Fingerprints’ touch sensor is launched fine corresponding to two annual fees for Gross margin, % 48 43 31 41 –55 in Samsung’s new Notebook 9 high end inadequate information disclosure product series. • The company presented its view of Operating profit, SEK M 2,613.1 910.3 –145.2 –34 –38.7 • Fingerprints launched the ultrathin touch the market and strategy at the Capital sensor for smart cards. Markets Day. Operating margin, % 39 31 –62 –36 –375 • Revenue guidance for 2017 is presented. • Revenue guidance for 2016 is downgraded. EBITDA, SEK M 2,661.7 953.7 –83.6 –21.4 –27.9 Profit before tax 2,613.5 910.0 –143.6 –32.9 –38.1 NOTABLE EVENTS AFTER YEAR-END • L  ars Söderfjell leaves the company’s Board of Directors. Net profit for the year 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 –32.9 –38.1 • Fingerprints acquires iris recognition company Delta ID Inc. • Fingerprints’ CFO, Johan Wilsby, to leave the company in July 2017. Earnings per share, SEK 6.40 2.53 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 • Fingerprints is expecting a weaker first quarter and that the short-term challenges will persist in the second quarter. Consequently, the company has decided to refrain from Equity/asset ratio, % 64 60 71 87 87 making forecasts for the full year 2017. Proposed dividend announced in the year-end report is withdrawn. Number of employees 438 254 175 80 21 4 FINGERPRINTS Message from the CEO MESSAGE FROM THE CEO A multifaceted company We can look back upon a year of strong growth and profitability. Few companies have the privilege of experiencing such development. Our growth obviously has a price, and it is a result of the hard GROWING MARKET ENTRY INTO THE PC MARKET work of dedicated employees. The growth has been both chalWe continue to see healthy potential in the mobile segment, A clear sign that customers are using our solutions in more lenging and educational. We have progressed from offering the since the penetration rate for biometrics is continuing to products, is Samsung’s new Notebook 9, high-end production market only a couple of sensors to slightly more than 20 verincrease. Work on this strategic change is ongoing. We are series, comprising of portable computers featuring Windows sions. We have faced a number of challenges, such as finding developing our business to be a multifaceted company. We 10, which are now equipped with our FPC1025 touch sensor time for all the customizations and being able to deliver, which intend to maintain our strong lead in the mobile segment and and associated software that supports Windows Hello, requires creating flexibility in our supplier partners’ production simultaneously develop into a biometrics company with several Microsoft’s biometric security systems. capacity, based on the product mix and its varying volumes. technology platforms for an increasing number of market segments. Next in line is realizing the implementation into PCs, A YEAR OF EFFICIENCY AND INVESTMENTS MARKET MATURING AT A FAST PACE smart cards, the automotive market and a growing quantity 2017 will be a year for investment in research and developThe market maturity of a new technology is placing growing of online devices. ment. The aim is to develop more solutions that can be applied demands on the suppliers in the form of accelerating competo more products in more industries and with a broader geotition. One important factor is that some smartphone manuINCREASING SECURITY REQUIREMENTS graphic spread. We also believe that 2017 will mark the start of facturers use two or more suppliers, known as dual sourcing, Due to cloud services and an increasing number of online the smart card business. We will also focus on increasing the which is a common practice in the industry to secure delivery, devices via the WiFi networks of households, companies and ­efficiency of our processes and our organization. For that reason, while exposing suppliers to competition. Fingerprints is no organizations, the focus is being paced on the security aspect. we are enabelling our organization to focus on a number of parexception; however, as a result of constant innovation, I am Securing all entrances to the WiFi network is essential. The allel markets. Executive Management is being reinforced with convinced that we at Fingerprints has the capacity to maintain comparison can be made with your home; not just the front three new Vice Presidents for the Business Lines. We will conour strong position. door should be locked and the alarm activated, but also all the tinue to invest in employees and improve our efficiency, to sucIn a rapidly changing environment, planning ahead is another windows and other entrances must have the same security. ceed in driving innovation in all areas. challenge, something that applies particularly in this incredibly Against this background, our mission is obvious – to create dynamic, consumer-driven smartphone market. The expected, solutions that result in a user-friendly and reliable authenticaADDITIONAL BIOMETRIC MODALITIES strongly seasonal volume growth in the fourth quarter failed tion feature for the authorized user. In line with the aim of building a biometrics company, 2017 to materialize. At the same time, we were impacted by the started with a strategic acquisition of the biometrics company order situation of stockpiling throughout the supply chain Delta ID – an acquisition that in my view is a key step in our and that some of our customers experienced a shortage of business development. Delta ID’s world-leading technology for components, which affected their volumes of smartphones. iris recognition complements our current biometric technology platform for fingerprint sensors, strengthens our offering and is an important step in the building of a biometrics company. We will not only be able to offer another system solution, FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 5 “ We intend to maintain our strong position in the mobile market and simultaneously develop into a biometrics company with several technology platforms for additional market areas. but we will eventually also be able to offer a multimodal solution that further enhances security. The acquisition is subject to approval by the US Competition Authority, whose decision is expected during spring 2017. BUSINESS WITH SUSTAINABLE RESULTS Our business development is conducted within an ethical framework. A self-evident step for Fingerprints was joining the UN Global Compact in 2016, aligning with its principles concerning human rights, labor issues, environment and anti­corruption. Our framework for sustainability encompasses all ten principles of the Global Compact. We naturally intend to operate our business in a responsible way. It is therefore gratifying that the greatest difference we can make for our customers and primarily the end users is to provide our solutions, to enable security and thus integrity in an increasingly exposed digital environment. LEADING THE MARKET FOR BIOMETRIC SYSTEMS We aim to become the leader in biometric technology and solutions. We are currently at the beginning of the biometric era, driven by a growing volume of online devices. Our prerequisites are good; we’re experts in biometrics and we are continuously advancing. Nevertheless the feature that is the greatest enabler is all our members of staff, who are Smart, Brave, Open and United. I would like to direct my gratitude to all of you – our members of staff – for your commitment and hard work. Gothenburg, March 2017 Christian Fredrikson President and CEO 6 FINGERPRINTS Business concept, objectives and strategies BUSINESS CONCEPT, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES Leader in biometric technology and solutions By utilizing the unique properties of biometrics, Fingerprints’ solutions create an easier and more secure life. The value contribution is based on sensitivity to the needs of the market, employees with expertise, financial capital and good relations. VISION MISSION A secure and seamless To provide safe and universe, where you are ­convenient identification the key to everything. and authentication with a human touch. BUSINESS CONCEPT CORE VALUES Fingerprints develops and Smart sells biometric solutions Brave to companies globally that Open develop products and United services interfacing with people. FINGERPRINTS Business concept, objectives and strategies 7 FINGERPRINTS’ VALUE CREATION MODEL BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE AND MARKET Requirements of customers and end-users, and trends. Read more about Fingerprints’ markets starting on pages 16–23. RESOURCES CONTROL OF OPERATIONS EARNINGS Intellectual capital Business concept, vision, mission, core values, Biometric systems with increased 438 employees objectives and strategies pages 6–10 functionality and integration potential of whom 241 in R&D Corporate governance pages 49–53 Patent portfolio Financial Risk management pages 62–64 Stakeholders 2016 Finance capital Sustainability framework pages 12–15 Customers, sales SEK 6,638 M Cash and Suppliers, manufaccash equivalents 1,162 SEK M turing costs SEK 3,473 M Development costs 367 SEK M Employees, salaries SEK 300 M Sales costs 177 SEK M Public sector – taxes SEK 579 M Shareholders, Social and relational capital dividends SEK 1,053 M Customers RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Read more about development on pages 30–33 Social Employees For end users Shareholders Increased integrity and security, 136 Partners PROCUREMENT & PRODUCTION smartphone models launched with CUSTOMIZATION Suppliers Read more about procurement & production on page 34 Fingerprints’ solutions Users Regulators For society Local communities SALES & MARKETING Elevated security for people and NGOs Read more about the business models on pages 36–38 property, prevention of fraud and Academy identity theft, etc. DELIVERY For employees Read more about solutions on pages 24–29 184 new job opportunities. Good employee satisfaction, 80%. In addition, jobs are created at PRODUCTS IN USE Fingerprints’ sub-suppliers. Read more about market performance on pages 16–23 8 FINGERPRINTS Business concept, objectives and strategies FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES The company’s long-term financial objectives encompass three focus areas: growth, profitability and capital structure. The market for biometric solutions is growing rapidly and the factors of uncertainty are considerable. The company has therefore decided to formulate the objectives as ambitions over three-year rolling periods. The financial objectives pertain to the years 2017 to 2019. SEK M % Growth objectives 2017–2019 Outcome for 2016: 129%. 7,000 1,200 +20% The growth is attributable to the technological and market 6,000 1,000 leadership captured by Fingerprints. Demand for the 5,000 800 company’s products in the mobile phone market increased 4,000 600 constantly and followed the general penetration of finger3,000 400 print technology. 2,000 1,000 200 Revenues, SEK M average annual growth in revenues 0 0 Growth, % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 SEK M % Outcome for 2016: 39% >-30% Profitability targets 2017–2019 7,000 60 6,000 40 The favorable operating margin derived partly from a lower 5,000 20 share of fixed costs. Variable costs are passed on via sales. 0 4,000 –20 3,000 –40 2,000 –60 Revenues, SEK M 1,000 –80 Operating operating margin in average for the period 0 –100 margin, % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 SEK M % Capital structure 1,200 100 Financial Capital structure: Fingerprints wants to have a strong 1,000 80 balance sheet, with capital for financing acquisitions and 800 60 other major investments. Surplus capital is to be returned 600 strength the shareholders through the buyback of own shares and/ 40 Cash and cash 400 equivalents, SEK M or dividends. 20 200 Equity/asset 0 0 ratio, % 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FINGERPRINTS Business concept, objectives and strategies 9 Strategy for continued profitable growth Fingerprints aims to grow organically and through complementary acquisitions. Growth will be generated in a number of dimensions in order to broaden the business. This is done by adding solutions based on additional technology platforms for several market segments. 2 4 GROWTH STRATEGY New customer segments using cusNew solutions for new customer segtomized existing system solutions. OTHER SEGMENTS NEW PRODUCTS FOR NEW ments. Solutions based on a number Fingerprints predicts great potential to – PCs CUSTOMERS of different biometric methods adapted capitalize on the company’s economies of – Online devices – Secure connection via for secure connection via cloud – Automotive sector cloud services. scale by selling its fingerprint sensors in services. The company continuously – Industrial and medical NEW other customer segments. The market for applications evaluates complementary acquisitions smart cards and the PC market are next that would add value to its product in line. Fingerprints also sees potential in: development and/or market presence. SMART CARDS the Internet of Things, i.e. online devices, Adaptation of sensors and the automotive industry, the access and CUSTOMER SEGMENT leveraging benefits of scale time reporting industry, as well as the from smartphones. healthcare sector. With existing system solutions for ­existing customer segments. Fingerprints sees potential to expand its volume and customer base as fingerprint technology continues to penetrate the market. EXISTING 1 3 SMARTPHONE AND TABLETS Grow with both existing customer base and new customers MORE BIOMETRIC APPLICATIONS – Trackpads – Improved security NEW SOLUTIONS – Other biometric sensors – Acquired solutions New solutions, technologies and features for existing customers. Increasing development with the potential to create new features in the customers’ offerings through continued technology advances. PRODUCTS EXISTING NEW 10 FINGERPRINTS Business concept, objectives and strategies ACQUISITION STRATEGY and other system providers. Read more about Fingerprints’ During 2017, Fingerprints will broaden its customer base Feasible acquisitions are companies that possess compledevelopment activities on pages 30–33. by adding more OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers; mentary technologies and companies characterized by a companies that manufacture the final product) and module high d­ egree of innovation; i.e. expertise that complements Patents houses covering all price levels in the smartphone segment. Fingerprints’ core competencies. The assessment also includes Fingerprints safeguards its intellectual property rights by Marketing and sales will be intensified with a focus on smart an evaluation of compatibility with the corporate culture. ­continuously registering new patents. The company monitors cards, PCs and embedded systems for the automotive industry the market to evaluate new opportunities for capitalizing on and the Internet of Things, among other areas. FOCUS AREAS IN THE VALUE CHAIN patents and identifying and taking actions to counter any Sales are conducted directly or via distributors to the supply A prerequisite for a structured operation that generates growth infringements of the company’s existing patents. The patent chain. Geographically, market cultivation is under way in and achieves objectives is to focus on all links in the value portfolio may also be strengthened through patents acquired Europe, US and Asia; China, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore chain and the resources required, not least human resources. from a third party. and Japan, but also in such emerging markets as India and Indonesia. Read more about Fingerprints’ business models High value-adding biometric systems Active industry collaborations on pages 36–38. Fingerprints aims to be a high-value-adding supplier of bioFingerprints cooperates with other players in the ecosystem metric systems in the form of hardware and software. Systems of fingerprint technology. The company is represented on the Financing with own funds are to be broadened with additional biometric methods on top board of the collaboration alliance FIDO (Fast IDentity Online). The company uses its own profits for its ongoing financing of capacitive fingerprint sensors. Fingerprints also partners with Google and the Chinese needs. Major one-off investments, such as acquisitions, may Fingerprints’ offering is vertically integrated, meaning it company Alipay to customize its fingerprint technology and be supplemented with primarily loans and secondarily new represents a complete integration of hardware and software, its function in payment systems. share issues. sensors with market-leading system performance and algorithms, and software for system integration and greater Production with business partners Employees – foundation of the business advantages for end-users. This results in increased value for Fingerprints sources all production from external partners. The Fingerprints’ business requires an organization commanding end users in terms of both security and convenience. company applies dual sourcing, where all volume products are a high level of skills in all of its specializations. New recruitRead more about Fingerprints’ solutions on pages 24–29. to be manufactured in two different plants. All manufacturing ment focuses on qualified engineers with cutting-edge skills, is conducted according to forecasts based on information but with different levels of experience. A favorable demographic Development of more technologies from customers. Read more about production and sourcing mix ensures Fingerprints’ future provision of skills and talents. Fingerprints aims for solutions that increase security and on page 34. The company strives to be an organization characterized by improve the end-user’s experience. The company is focusing continuous learning combined with diversity. Employees are on development of current capacitive fingerprint sensor techMarket-oriented organization encouraged to accept new challenges as they work and to take nology, but is also dedicating resources to identify and develop Fingerprints’ organization consists of three business lines, substantial personal responsibility for the company’s developother biometric technology platforms. Software is of vital to safeguard the focus on markets for “Mobile” (smartphones ment. Fingerprints applies both employment and contracting of importance to the expansion of biometrics, both in respect of and tablets), “Smart cards” and “PC and Embedded” (PCs consultants. Consultants are retained for assignments that are additional applications and to secure Internet communication and embedded systems as well as the automotive industry). limited in duration and/or in cases where consultants are the via the biometrically equipped device, defined as cloud-based These are supported by five cross-functional units: Research primary source for the skills the company is looking for. biometrics. & Development, Operations & Quality, Strategy & Corporate Read more about Fingerprints’ organization on pages 40–43. System customizations, such as implementation in a Development, Marketing & Communication and Finance & smart­phone, take place in close collaboration with customers Administration. FINGERPRINTS Sustainability Chapter section efforts 11 SECURE AND CONVENIENT USE Fingerprints’ convenient solutions help secure authentication where the user can get access to Internet and cloud services. Security will be the core in Fingerprints’ offerings. 12 FINGERPRINTS Sustainability work SUSTAINABILITY WORK Increased sustainability efforts Fingerprints became a proud member of the UN Global Compact in 2016. By supporting the Global Compact Fingerprints demonstrates its ambition to actively contribute to a sustainable society, both locally and globally. Fingerprints’ solutions contribute to sustainability by enabling a more secure and comfortable life for users by, for example, countering fraud and ID theft. FRAMEWORK FOR SUSTAINABILITY The framework is divided into four areas, which have been SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 Fingerprints has created a sustainability framework to ensure developed by taking into account international guidelines and During 2016, Fingerprints formulated objectives in the sustainaa strategic and systematic approach to the sustainability conventions, and have been adapted according to relevance bility area based on an analysis of where the company has its efforts. The framework, combined with the company’s vision to Fingerprints’ business. The framework, which has been greatest impact, while considering factors that are significant and mission, the Code of Conduct and the core values, form formulated in a dialog with the Board of Directors and external for Fingerprints’ operations and the company’s continued sucthe foundation for all operations. stakeholders, was communicated to all members of staff cess. Fingerprints has analyzed how the company can contriThe company aims to conduct its operations in a sustainable through workshops 2016. All of the company’s policies are bute to achieving the UN’s global goals (SDGs, Sustainable manner, based on the sustainability framework. The sustainlinked to the framework. Development Goals) and what is relevant in terms of the comability objectives formulated during the year are based on an pany’s position viewed from an industry comparison. Dialog conanalysis of where the company has its greatest impact, and cerning target areas has occurred with external stakeholders. H O L DE R D I A LO which factors that are significant for continued success. AKE G ST S T RU TION ST LU BU E D SMARTER AND SAFER SOLUTIONS SO SIN AN TRUSTED AND TRANSPARENT ER ES AF S BUSINESS CONDUCT ENT S AR D Guidelines for ensuring development of solutions at the AN SP cutting edge of biometric identification through determined AN CT Legal requirements and guidelines for business ethics SMA T R DU competency provision and with the focus on the end user. RTE D CON including anti-corruption, protection of assets and a R whistle­blower process. VISION & MISSION CORE VALUES RESPECTING AND REWARDING PEOPLE D CODE OF CONDUCT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND AN A SE L P EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES NG OF ROT CTI Description of how the company will be an attractive RESPE RE ECTIO ­workplace, with a safe working environment, while creating SO N The company’s environmental policy and environmental U RC favorable social conditions in the company’s supply chain. R EW T ES requirements for suppliers. AR EN U D ING O NM NT IR E PEO PL E ENV FICI EF A ND FINGERPRINTS Sustainability work 13 FINGERPRINTS’ SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES FOR 2017 STATUS 2016 TRUSTED AND TRANSPARENT BUSINESS CONDUCT Acknowledgement of and compliance with the Code of Conduct • All members of staff (with a few exceptions) trained in the Code of Conduct. • Annual acknowledgement of the Code of Conduct by all members of staff1). • Implementation of individual in-depth courses. • Annual in-depth training programs in, for example, anticorruption for selected target groups. • Internal audits of the Code of Conduct implemented in selected areas in accordance with an ­established schedule. Acknowledgement of and compliance with the Code of Conduct among suppliers • All suppliers of direct material have read the Code of Conduct with the requirement • 100% of suppliers of direct material2) must have accepted the Code of Conduct for suppliers. of confirming adherence to it during the first quarter of 2017. • Audits of compliance will be conducted on one third of the company’s suppliers of direct material • Since 2016, new suppliers are assessed based on the Code of Conduct and acceptance in 2017. of it is part of the contractual process. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND EFFICIENT USE OF RESOURCES Reduce carbon emissions • Implemented data collection in respect to the company’s emissions. • Continuously reduce directly generated carbon emissions. • Investments have been made in a videoconferencing system, • Achieve Level C in CDP. which will reduce the need of travel between the company’s various sites. • Achieved Level C (Awareness) in CDP. Materials used in production • An average of 97.4% were functioning during 2016. • At least 95% of produced sensors should be functioning3). RESPECTING AND REWARDING PEOPLE Strengthen Fingerprints’ position as an attractive employer. • Engagement index: 80 (benchmark of 77). • Maintain or improve the ratings in the employee-satisfaction survey for the Engagement • Net promotor score: 43 (benchmark of 7). index (total employee satisfaction). • Maintain or improve the ratings for the net promotor score (recommending one’s workplace to friends and acquaintances). Equal opportunities • Women account for 20% of all employees. •R  each a level whereby women account for 25% of all employees4) in the company at all levels • 13% in management positions. by 2020. • No women in the Executive Management Team. Occupational health and safety • No serious occupational injuries. • No serious occupational injuries. • 1% occupational long-term sick leave. • Not more than 1% of the employees4) on occupational long-term sick leave5). • No perceived stress: 61 (benchmark 53), according to employee-satisfaction survey. • Perceived stress levels at the same, or an improved, level in relation to the benchmark6), • Perceived stress: 15 (benchmark 24), according to employee-satisfaction survey. baseline 2016. Conflict minerals • An improved process for monitoring the origin of minerals has been introduced. • All products must be free from conflict minerals. SMARTER AND SAFER SOLUTIONS Customer satisfaction • Strengthened physical presence where the customers are located. • A customer satisfaction survey will be performed in 2017, and methods for identifying the needs of customers and end users will be developed. 1) Members of staff are defined as all employees and consultants who have a consulting assignment for 4) Employee is defined as everyone with a direct and existing employment contract with Fingerprints. Fingerprints that fills 50 percent or more of their total working hours. 5) Data on sick leave only covers employees in Sweden. 2) Direct material is defined as materials incorporated into the product Fingerprints delivers to its customers. 6) Benchmark data is produced by Netsurvey. 3) Recycling refers to Wafers. 14 FINGERPRINTS Chapter section SOLUTIONS FOR INCREASED SECURITY Fingerprints’ solutions can be applied in a multitude of areas where users need to identify themselves. The individual is always accompanied by his/her biometrical characteristics and identification can occur at any time, without the need of pin codes or other ID documents. The company pursues determined sustainability efforts when developing its products and by conducting its operations in a sustainable manner from a business ethics, social, environmental and economic perspective. FINGERPRINTS Sustainability work 15 INTEGRATION INTO OPERATIONS CLEAR CODE OF CONDUCT The code of conduct describe areas related to: The cross-functional sustainability forum, in which the comFingerprints’ suppliers of direct material are subject to the • The business ethics program, which includes combating pany’s CEO, CFO, HR manager, Operations and Environment EICC’s Code of Conduct. The internal Code of Conduct is bribery and corruption and protecting the company’s assets manager, Communications manager and the General Counsel addressed to all employees and consultants who work for and information. are members, devotes special attention to sustainability. The Fingerprints. • Quality efforts and focus on the end user in product primary mission of the forum is to agree on goals and control The Code of Conduct is based on the company’s sustaindevelopment. and follow up action plans. ability framework, and it clarifies what rules and regulations that • Efforts to reduce the company’s direct and indirect Responsibility for the different areas is allocated to various should be applied, including describing how employees and conenvironmental impact. roles in the line organization and is a part of every­day duties, sultants are expected to behave and work. Not complying to the • Work environment and safety issues concerning where the sustainability forum is accounted for monitoring and code of conduct is considered serious and could lead to disciFingerprints employees and efforts to follow up these coordination. plinary actions. issues with the company’s suppliers. To further strengthen the focus in this area in 2017, a Head of Sustainability has been appointed. JOINING THE GLOBAL COMPACT LINK TO GLOBAL OBJECTIVES and its products can contribute to solutions to the global In April 2016, Fingerprints joined the UN Global Compact, As part of the company’s sustainability forum, work has been challenges. This will both guide and give input to Fingerprints’ aligning with principles concerning human rights, labor isinitiated to link the sustainability efforts to link the UN’s future sustainability initiatives and UN’s global goals. The sues, environment and anti-corruption. Fingerprints’ frameSustainability Development Goals. The stakeholder dialog will following five SDGs have been identified as areas where the work for sustainability encompasses all ten principles of the continue during 2017 to further determine how the company company can contribute and have a clear impact. Global Compact. • Fingerprints’ products enable more • The company actively promotes health • Fingerprints’ ambition is to reduce the direct secure transactions. This helps to fight and safety for Fingerprints’ employees, negative impact of its offices and travel. crime, such as fraud and theft, which consultants and contracted suppliers. • The company’s ambition is to reduce the could in turn finance illegal activities. • By applying the EICC’s Code of Conduct environmental impact connected to the • The company works against corruption, for suppliers, Fingerprints works to avoid supply chain, such as transportation. avoid anti-competitive actions and facilchild labor and forced labor in the supply • Fingerprints calculates and reports itate correct business by applying Code chain for the electronics industry. emissions to the CDP. of Conduct and target-group-­oriented training. • The company is working actively to avoid • Fingerprints strives for an equal and • The company also focus on reducing waste that conflict mineral are used in their inclusive workplace, where an ambitious from production. products, by following processes and target is set to have 25 percent women of • Fingerprints also have environmental corresponding policies. the company’s staffing at all levels. requirements on its suppliers, including • By having English as corporate language, requirements to comply with ISO 14001 opportunities are opened to recruit certificate. employees with different mother tongues. • Fingerprints works consciously to avoid potentially hazardous substances in products and production. 16 FINGERPRINTS Market MARKET Biometrics – an increasing part of everyday life Fingerprints operates in markets with distinct growth potential. In terms of volume, smartphones and tablets continue to grow. The company also focuses on new markets such as smart cards, PCs, online devices and the automotive industry. Fingerprints regards biometrics as a reliable and convenient FIRST ERA SECOND ERA THIRD ERA authentication solution that is currently just beginning to Everywhere become significant as a broader application. Growth can be Proven viability More applications Broad-based adoption divided into three eras: on a large scale • Increased trust in • Multiple platforms • Single platform mobile usage (for pay• Sensor fusion The first era is where biometrics is established in a platform, • Single-use case ments, for example) • Combined device the mass-market product smartphones. Functionality has • Second-device applicaexperiences initially comprised unlocking and other security features tions, such as smart in the phone. cards. The success of biometric technology also depends on the balance between The second era is characterized by increased confidence in security level, convenience and risk biometric technology and more applications are added, such level. The right balance means greater as secure payments. Application of biometrics in additional acceptance of its use. devices such as smart cards. The third era is when biometrics is a natural part of every­day Convenience life. Here biometrics is used on a broad scale in multiple applications, in several devices with more applications and with a number of interacting biometric systems for satisfying more Friction stringent security requirements. Market Market experiment experiment Security Risk 2014–2016 2017–2018 2019–2025 FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 17 BIOMETRICS – SOON TAKEN FOR GRANTED The application of biometrics has already been proven on a large scale in smartphones. Trust in the functionality creates a platform for applications in more devices, such as smart cards, in the PC, in the car and as a natural part of our everyday lives. The ecosystem for wireless payments is being established rapidly. This trend is primarily driven by demand for secure and convenient authentication. 18 FINGERPRINTS Market Trends that impact everyone Biometrics can be considered as a disruptive technology that enables new business models and areas of use. Its emergence is being affected by both distinct immediate drivers and broader trends. REPEATED TECHNOLOGICAL LAUNCHES The technological penetration of fingerprint sensors in a smartphone is expected to follow the same pattern as other earlier technologies with a rapid impact over the course of a few years. Technological penetration 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Time GSM Camera in mobile phone 3G WiFi Fingerprint sensors FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 19 TRENDS Adaptation to biometrics Users are increasingly becoming accustomed to the use of biometrics and the number of users will grow sharply. Security and convenience The need for strong authentication is increasing in pace with digitalization. At the same time, recognized that increased security should not be a threshold for smooth use, as convenience is equally important. The cloud Storage of data and access to services via the cloud is impacting the business models in many operations and increasing the security demands, as more end-users are utilizing cloud based services. Online payments Transactions over the Internet are continuing to increase and are spreading to new users. Security becomes a prerequisite to increase the willingness of using online payment features. Digitalization and internet – more online devices As online devices requiring logins increase, so does the need for a multitude of pin codes and passwords. 20 FINGERPRINTS Chapter section BIOMETRICS – MORE TECHNOLOGIES Fingerprints bases its current biometric technology on reading the fingerprint by using capacitive sensors. The company FINGERPRINTS believes that other biometric technologies, modalities, will be introduced in future. The fingerprint can also be scanned IN SAFE CUSTODY using other methods whereby optical sensors are being further developed and ultrasound will be introduced. Eye recognition, which is considered to offer great security, is another opporData from the scanning of a fingerprint ends up, via the tunity. By combining several modalities such as fingerprint sensor, in a separate processor memory called TEE sensor and eye recognition, double authentication systems, – Trusted Execution Environment – which guarantees multi-modalities, are created with further enhanced security. that code and data that have been loaded are protected in terms of confidentiality and privacy. This is a secure area EYE RECOGNITION NEW FOR CONSUMERS of a smartphone’s main processor, where data cannot Eye-recognition is based on the unique patterns of the eye, be accessed by the operating system or the software either the iris, the blood vessel pattern in the retina or the vein under­lying apps. A user’s fingerprint is thereby protected pattern in the sclera. from being disseminated. Eye-recognition biometrics is beginning to be introduced in A fingerprint does not leave the device and cannot be smartphones. Initially, it is the vein recognition of the sclera disseminated from, for example, a smartphone. The that is applied. This method uses the smartphone’s existing collaboration alliance FIDO (Fast IDentity Online) is camera. The level of reliability is unclear, however. Iris recogcooperating with the Global Platform organization to nition is considered to have a higher reliability. It has initially standardize the protection. been used by governmental institutions and is now being introduced in smartphones. Authentication is divided into three steps: The application of eye recognition is expected to increase in 1. Reading/registration of a fingerprint where a three-­ smartphones over the coming two to five years. The method dimensional image is generated. This three-dimensiis also believed to have the potential to be part of combined onal image is used to create a template containing biometric solutions together with a fingerprint sensor for unique properties, from which it is not possible to improved convenience and higher security. recreate an image of a fingerprint. 2. The template is stored on the TEE unit for comparison BIOMETRICS CREATES NEW BUSINESS MODELS during verification. Smooth authentication and payment features enhance both 3. A matching feature compares a fingerprint image with security and convenience and are becoming a prerequisite, the template in connection with a new reading/ not only a differentiating feature, for the business models of fingerprint verification. platform and e-commerce operators. To pursue the advancement of biometrics, Google, Microsoft and Amazon, among others, are developing their own ready-touse concepts, including hardware, in which their services can be demonstrated. FINGERPRINTS Market 21 INTERACTION BETWEEN THREE PLAYERS INCREASING PENETRATION RATE FOR PCs Access cards closer in time The biometrics market for such products as smartphones and The PC market is also driven by secure authentication, in According to Fingerprints, the market for access cards will smart cards is based on interaction between three players: particular for logins and payments. The addressable market emerge closer in time, since these are not subject to the •M anufacturers of smartphones and smart cards amounted to 40 million devices in 2016. Here too the penetrasame standardized security requirements. In the near future, •P latform/operating system players – Google (Android) and tion rate is expected to increase and to exceed the addressable Fingerprints therefore intends to address this market. The Microsoft (Windows) and market of slightly more than 200 million PCs by 2020. market is being driven by a need to use biometrics to replace •S tandardization bodies, both state-operated and industry the pin code feature and/or only the signal from a card, in order associations, as well as private players, are cooperating to SMART CARDS A COMING MASS MARKET to enhance security and ensure that it is the right person who create joint standards – such as ISO, Fido, Global platform, Fingerprints’ definition of the smart card market is all plastic gets access. EMVCo and AADHAAR. cards equipped with a chip. In 2015, the volume of newly produced cards totaled approximately four billion, of which MARKET INCREASED PENETRATION RATE FOR SMARTPHONES charge cards accounted for three billion. Half of the newly MILLION UNITS Fingerprints’ addressable smartphone market, excluding produced cards feature a dual interface. The other volume Apple, consists of smartphones and tablets, based on Android largely consists of access cards, to open doors and logging 3 000 and Windows operating systems. This market is estimated in etc. The total volume of charge/credit cards in circulation to grow, in terms of the number of devices, in pace with the in 2015 was slightly more than 10 billion. increase of the penetration rate for fingerprint sensors, from slightly more than 600 million devices in 2016 to 1.5 billion Four main players 2 250 devices in 2020. Total growth in produced smartphones is Card manufacturing is dominated by three major manufacturers expected to rise from 1.27 billion in 2016 to approximately that account for 70% – Gemalto from the Netherlands, Oberthur 1.6 billion in 2020, with a diminishing growth rate during this Technologies (Safran/Morphy) from France, and Giesecke & 1 500 period. At the end of 2016, the penetration rate in Fingerprints Devrient from Germany, addressable market was nearly 50% and it is estimated to Charge cards are issued by the banks which have agreeamount to nearly 95% by 2020. All newly produced Apple ments with credit companies as transaction mediators. Visa, IPhones and IPads will have fingerprint sensors as the Mastercard and China UnionPay account for 97% of the market. 750 standard by the end of 2016. A fourth player is the chip suppliers to the cards. This market By comparison, the addressable tablet market has sigis also dominated by a few players: NXP, Infineon and ST, nificantly lower volumes, 10 million devices in 2016, but is which jointly account for 90% of the market. 0 estimated to grow to approximately 100 million by 2020. Standardization of charge/credit cards 2015 2016 2017* 2018* 2019* 2020* Although the market value is difficult to estimate, Fingerprints assesses that the average sales price (ASP) per Standardization and certification of charge/credit cards ­featuring fingerprint sensors are mainly driven by the certificaSmartphones/tablets sensor will continue to decline. This is a result of the general pricing pattern for solutions featuring new technologies, which tion body EMVCo. Standardization is a prerequisite for enabling Smart cards show declining pricing over time as the supply and competition the market for smart cards with a payment function and PC increase. The assessment is that the ASP will decline by about biometric verification to gain momentum. IoT/Vehicles 15–20% in 2017. Sources: Strategy Analytices, IHS, Fingerprints’ assessment * Estimated volume per Dec 31, 2016, based on the above sources. Fingerprints may update the estimates. 22 FINGERPRINTS Market ONLINE DEVICES STRONG MARKET POSITION WITH INCREASED Fingerprints faces competition primarily from the following The market for Fingerprints’ embedded system solutions COMPETITION companies that mass produce proprietary products: for online devices, also called IoT – Internet of Things – During 2016, Fingerprints was the market leader for fingerencompasses a growing range of applications. It consists of print sensors in smartphones (Android), with a market share Goodix, which was listed on the Shanghai stock exchange in everything from smart watches to smart homes and other of 55–60%, followed by Goodix and Synaptics, which jointly 2016, a Chinese manufacturer of touchscreen and fingerprint devices should be able to communicate via the Internet. accounted for some 35%. Fingerprints assesses that the solutions, with some 800 employees. This company’s sales in Vehicles partly belong to this category but can also have local company will continue to be the market leader with a market 2016 amounted to nearly RMB 2 billion. applications for customizing driver comfort and for entershare exceeding 50%. tainment. Accordingly, it is anticipated that vehicles will have Fingerprints foresees increasing competition in fingerprint Synaptics, listed on the NASDAQ stock exchange, an American several different biometric sensors for various purposes. The biometrics. Customers are increasingly applying dual sourcing, manufacturer of touchscreen and fingerprint solutions for introduction of biometrics into vehicles is expected to start in the use of at least two suppliers to safeguard production. In PCs and smartphones/tablets. Samsung’s main supplier with the upper price segment, which in 2016 represented approxithe company’s opinion, competition will remain intense and a approximately 1,100 employees. This company’s sales in 2016 mately 5 million of a total of 80 million vehicles. number of minor competitors will be eliminated. A comparison amounted to USD 1,667 M. Although it is difficult to predict the market volume for oncan be made with the market for smartphone cameras, where line devices, the company estimates that this is a coming mass three main manufacturers remain after the new technology In addition to these companies, a number of sensor producers market that could eventually reach levels of 3–4 billion units. has been fully established. are attempting to penetrate the market, although with volumes that are much lower than those of Fingerprints, Goodix and Synaptics. Market share, smartphone manufacturers at the end of 2016 % 25 20 15 The bars show the 10 respective smartphone manufacturers’ share 5 of the total smart­ 0 phone market ple ng aw ei PO vivo ZT E L M en m i LG Al TC e ne ei zu he rs Ap Sa OP ot ov ao ca LGi M msu Hu or oXi te o Ot ol a l In-house manufacturer Not launched with Launched phone with or competitor fingerprint sensors FPC sensor FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 23 55-60% During 2016, Fingerprints was the market leader for fingerprint sensors in smartphones (Android), with a market share of 55–60%. 24 FINGERPRINTS Fingerprints’ solutions FINGERPRINTS’ SOLUTIONS Unique product portfolio Fingerprints offers a strong product portfolio with biometric systems that, in addition to smartphones, are also suitable for product segments such as smart cards, PCs, online devices and turnkey modules. The portfolio comprises in excess of 20 different products. Fingerprints offers a biometric system solution based on and surface type. For products such as smartphones, the fingerprint verification, surrounded by considerable patent sensors can be positioned on the front, back and side, with protection. color-adapted surfaces or adapted for placement under glass or ceramic surfaces. DISTINCT SALES ARGUMENTS Fingerprints’ strong market position is based on a broad CUSTOMER-UNIQUE ADAPTATIONS product portfolio of complete system solutions with high quality Prior to delivering most of the fingerprint sensors to cusand cutting-edge innovation, in addition to the company’s tomers, both the software and the hardware are customized. product-adaptation and delivery capacity. The sales arguments Fingerprints has a dedicated department which assists the for hardware performance are excellent image quality, low end customer, for example, smartphone manufacturers, in power consumption, robustness (handles more than 10 million adapting the design. This value-adding stage enables the end fingerprints) and flexible product design. The sales arguments customer to produce differentiating features. for software performance are secure algorithms and software-­ related integration possibilities that provide differentiation DEVELOPMENT, PRODUCTION AND TESTING TOOLS opportunities with unique functions for end users. Customers are offered development tools for software The company’s robust patent portfolio combined with its development and production. To facilitate the evaluation of and domicile in Sweden also contribute to high confidence and potential for proprietary production of prototypes/pilot series, global sales opportunities for OEM players (Original Equipment a software development and pilot kit featuring Fingerprints’ Manufacturers; companies that manufacture the final product). components, DevKit, can be used. FLEXIBLE PRODUCT DESIGN The fingerprint sensors can be delivered in a large range of sizes, with different surfaces for simple and industrial application in the end product. The multitude of designs generates flexibility, thus facilitating placement in the actual sensor in the product design. The formulations are based on positioning FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 25 ONLINE DEVICES Applications include access control systems, industrial and medical technology as well as everyday technology in the home. SOLUTIONS FOR ALL PRICE SEGMENTS The product portfolio of smartphones/tablets segment is versatile and wide with solutions for all price levels, from budget to premium. Solutions for the low price segment are highly standardized, in contrast to premium segments where the solutions are usually supplied with higher customization and unique system solutions. VEHICLES Solutions for vehicles, based on the FPC-BM (plug and play module) can be applied in several places, such as a door key or dashboard. The features are multiple access, personal settings, such as driver’s position, infotainment or users of the driver’s log, leasing, connection to insurance coverage, etc. PC Fingerprints’ fingerprint sensors are also available for PCs. Proprietary software ensures encrypted communication from the fingerprint SMART CARD SOLUTIONS sensor to the computer’s CPU core. Initially, it Fingerprints offers the FPC1300 series of touch sensors specifically designed for was developed for PCs with Intel-based prointegration into smart cards that have high demands concerning thickness and power cessor families that use Microsoft’s operating consumption. The solutions work for both contact contact-less cards. system Windows 10, but solutions for additional configurations are emerging here. 26 FINGERPRINTS Fingerprints’ solutions THE IDEAL IDENTIFICATION METHOD throughout a person’s life. The fingerprint pattern can be read Generation 1: The first generation of touch sensors replaced In many ways, biometrics is the perfect way of identifying using different technologies, such as optical, capacitive or Fingerprints’ swipe sensor, by providing greater convenience and authenticating a person. Biometric sensors can ultrasound. and reliability, and were made to be color-coated to enable be made very secure but are still fast and easy to use simple design integration into smartphones. – and the biometrics always accompany the user; they CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF CAPACITIVE Generation 2: The touch sensors have improved performance are never forgotten or left at home. There are several TECHNOLOGY and can be placed under glass for additional simplicity in biometric methods, or modalities, including facial The active capacitive technology applied by Fingerprints has design integration. The positioning of the sensor further from recognition and recognition of the iris, voice, vein pattern proven to be the most reliable and cost-effective one for the finger results in a weaker signal that is more difficult to and fingerprints. ­mass-market applications. Thanks to their small size, low detect, which is compensated by algorithms and software. The fingerprint has a number of advantages and has thus power consumption and a high degree of integration flexibility, The second generation was launched in 2016. taken the lead in driving the consumers’ use and accepactive capacitive sensors are also easily applied in other products, whether they are PCs, smart cards or online devices, Generation 3: Fingerprints is now developing the third-­ tance of biometrics, such as in mobile devices, including all of which are volume products. generation touch sensors for placement under thicker glass. smartphones. Fingerprint identification depends on the unique pattern of ridges and valleys on the surface of the The capacitive technology is continuously being developed. fingertip, a pattern that normally remains unchanged BIOMETRIC MODALITIES TECHNOLOGIES TOUCH SENSORS Capacitive 1st generation Spray coated 2nd generation Facial Iris Voice Ultrasonic Under glass 3rd generation Under thicker glass Optical Palm vein Finger vein Fingerprint FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 27 SOFTWARE THAT INCREASES CONVENIENCE On top of secure fingerprint reading, Fingerprints has added several software-directed functions that improve the end-user experience, which also allows smartphone manufacturers to stand out from the competition. FPC SenseTouch™ – Senses the pressure from your finger. Another feature is added to the sensor when it detects how hard your pressure is. An easy way to start activities and you can access apps in a new way. FPC OneTouch® – Low power consumption. One touch is enough to unlock your device. FPC QuickTouch™ – It only takes 0.15 seconds to verify your fingerprint and start such activities as unlocking the device, activating apps or confirming a payment. FPC SafeTouch® – This feature increase security in ­payment situations, through protection against tampering. FPC MoveTouch® – This biometric sensor is not only used for identification. The function also enables navigation, scrolling and fingertip swiping. FPC 360TouchTM – A sensor that is able to match the ­fingerprint from all angles, with equal accuracy, precision and performance. FPC TouchNroll™ – Quick and easy start. With a minimum of touches you can use the touch sensor to unlock your device and identify yourself. FPC EvoTouch™ – Every touch enables the self-learning algorithm to learn more about you. It adapts to changes in your fingers, the length of your nails or changing temperature. 28 FINGERPRINTS Fingerprints’ solutions NEW PRODUCTS 2016 SMART CARDS PC Ultrathin touch sensors enable the Samsung’s new line of PCs, Notebook 9, integration of fingerprint sensors in is equipped with the FPC1025 touch sensor cases where the sensor’s thinness is and associated software that supports crucial, such as in smart cards. Windows Hello, Microsoft’s biometric security system. ENTRY SEGMENT FPC SAFETOUCH The FPC1028 has been developed, FPC SafeTouch® – verification of living fingers, without sacrificing performance, to prevents registration of false fingerprints. facilitate integration of touch sensors Identifies “spoofs,” i.e. attempted in the low price segment for smartidentification theft. phones to enable secure and simple user verification. The lower manufacturing cost is possible thanks to a smaller sensor surface area and a system solution for integrating the touch sensor in a fingerprint area sensor module. FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 29 HUAWEI MATE 9 PRO The first smartphone launched with Fingerprints’ sensor under glass. The touch sensor in Huawei Mate Pro 9 is placed on the front and used as the home button, covered by glass. As an alternative, the sensor can be hidden completely in the mobile’s display glass, outside the active screen, which allows fingerprint scanning without a separate button. 30 FINGERPRINTS Research and development RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Improved innovation capacity Fingerprints conduct its own research and development to create intuitive, convenient solutions that ensure security based on advanced technology. The development is focused on both existing technology and new biometric platforms. Fingerprints continues to invest in product development in order to establish a position as a more complete biometric company. The company is investing in both staff and acquisitions. It is strategically important to continuously enhance the company’s innovativeness to continue the development of technology, platforms, performance and system solutions. Development activities include the development of technology platforms in addition to the capacitive technology. The intensifying competition is a driving force that will stimulate the company to maintain and strengthen its technological lead. FOCUS ON THE END USER Development activities focus on making security simple and convenient. Fingerprints’ development also enable differentiation for our customers, so that they can offer unique properties and functions to their end users. The focus is on the end-user experience, from user-friendly ergonomics to functions that are simple and versatile. CUSTOMER-SPECIFIC SOLUTIONS Fingerprints’ sales are based on customer-unique solutions, and the R&D organization works close to the company’s customer projects. In addition, Fingerprints has strengthened its local presence in Asia, with its own customer projects staff who account for the contact in respect of the customization of biometric system solutions. This staff has a local background, speak the local language and have the same cultural roots as the customers. This type of collaboration is set up for the vast majority of Fingerprints’ customers. Ongoing contact with Juliane Junesch, customers strengthens the customer relationship and provides Module Design Engineer unique insights into customer needs and requirements. FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 31 AN ORGANIZATION WITH HIGH COMPETENCE developed system solutions and protect them from compeR&D experienced significant growth in 2015–2016 from 140 to tition. The purpose of patents is to protect the entire system 241 employees by the end of 2016. A larger workforce increases solution, including the algorithm and other essential parts of the company’s ability to focus on multiple application areas sithe system. multaneously, in parallel to managing customer-specific development projects. The company also devotes dedicated resources to research in order to guarantee long-term development. DEVELOPMENT COST SEK M R&D primarily takes place in four locations: Gothenburg, Malmö, Copenhagen and Linköping. The foundation for Finger­ prints’ success is a strong corporate culture characterized 400 by innovation, entrepreneurship and customizing. When the workforce grows and the need for shared processes and control increases, it is important to preserve the strength 300 of the corporate culture. The workforce is highly skilled, with the majority having engineering degrees and a significant share having PhDs. 200 The company’s expertise is also based on the fact that many employees have vast telecommunications and industrialization experience. Recruitment of new staff continues to focus on 100 cutting-edge expertise. The R&D organization has very low staff turnover thanks to a positive team environment, challenging job duties in state-of0 the-art biometric technology development, international work and dedicated colleagues. During the year, further reinforcement will be made in key areas of expertise in parallel with 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 ­developing working processes, to increase efficiency. WORKING CLOSELY ON PATENTS Fingerprints has made significant investments in development, which are mainly recognized as development costs Fingerprints’ proactive patent protection process is an and are charged in their entirety against net profit for the integrated part of product development. Development here year. The remaining part is amortized over their varying is monitored continuously in order to quickly identify newly economic lifespans. TEAM ALGO 32 FINGERPRINTS Chapter section EVERYONE IS KEEPING THEIR EYES ON THE BALL Fingerprints Algorithm team belongs to one of the four focus areas within the R&D organization. The team develops the algorithms and software that optimize image quality, perform image processing and recognize fingerprints. The team is led by Niels Mørch, and its members are primarily located in Copenhagen, but also in Gothenburg. At the end of 2016, the team consisted of 40 highly skilled employees and consultants, about 60 percent of them with PhDs, from countries all over the world. Niels, what is your view of Fingerprints’ core values? They are easy to relate to, since they are a very good reflection of our culture and beliefs. How would you describe the corporate culture? Our corporate culture is definitely one of our greatest strengths. Our working environment is very collaborative, with everyone taking responsibility for achieving our common goals. Everyone understands the benefits of sharing information. To use a soccer metaphor, everyone is keeping their eyes on the ball, not the player. That’s how you win the game. How do you view your role as team leader? Leading the organization isn’t the job of one person, but rather a management team. My role is to be a facilitator so that everyone can do their work. You’re still recruiting – what sort of candidates are you Is it hard to find people like that? looking for? There’s a lot of interest in working here – we get We’re looking for three things in a candidate: first, they applications from all over the world. People are need to have the theoretical knowledge, ideally at PhD level; prepared to move here to the Nordic region in second, they need the ability to utilize their scientific skills as order to work for us. They have the skills, and the engineers; and last but not least, they need to have the right decisive element in our recruitment is the attitude. attitude, the ability to look at the big picture and a genuine willingness to collaborate. FINGERPRINTS Research and development 33 System development in four dimensions Fingerprints’ development is conducted on an integrated basis in four focus areas: algorithms, software development, hardware development of biometric sensors and 12 3 4 packaging. Algorithm Software development Development of fingerprint sensors Packaging reading of the unique biometric pattern improved end-user experience the hub physical integration The algorithm is the software that optimizes Software development focuses on Finger­ Hardware development of fingerprint senPackaging focuses on the sensor’s integration image quality and performs the image prints’ biometric systems in, for example, sors focuses on functionality and solutions with other materials, as well as complete system processing that locates the information in the smartphones. Development manages the in the design of the sensor. In the case of solutions involving processors for plug-and-play fingerprint images coming from the chip, in sensor’s communication with the mobile fingerprint sensors, this means the chip’s functionality. Complete system solutions of this the case of the fingerprint sensor. There is platform for verification in a secure platform, surface area and thickness, power contype are developed primarily for applications/ an ongoing trend to increase the information and adds further value in end-user functions. sumption, and the ability to read images industry segments other than smartphones and utilization of even smaller chips in different through various types of materials. smart cards. packaging environments, i.e. sensor location and embedded solutions beneath different materials. The proprietary expertise in algorithms facilitates partnerships with customers and thus satisfies their demands for biometric development. 34 FINGERPRINTS Procurement and production PROCUREMENT AND PRODUCTION Flexible production capacity All hardware production uses external suppliers. The management of and relationships with manufacturing partners are thus decisive to the company’s delivery quality and capabilities. The Fingerprints Operations team is divided into three units: The sensors are manufactured in wafers, which come in a high-quality hardware, with a high yield, i.e. a low degree sourcing/purchasing, which qualifies suppliers; production particular size so that smaller sensors provides significantly of scrapping. planning, which creates forecasts and suborders production more sensors per wafer. In order to ensure delivery reliability at higher volumes, volumes; and quality assurance, which tests and assures the several hardware variants apply Fingerprint’s dual sourcing quality of the production. NOT JUST CHIPS for each chip series, i.e. two different plants are used. All planning is cross-functional, with the sales and operations In addition to purchasing from semiconductor manufacturers, teams working together. there is also reprocessing by suppliers known by the industry CODE OF CONDUCT term OSAT (Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test), Procurement and production are covered by the Code of THE CHIP MANUFACTURER – A GLOBAL PLAYER that encapsulate chips for further assembly. Conduct, in other words the business ethics program, in order Fingerprints’ largest purchase in terms of volume is the silicon to combat bribery and corruption as well as protecting the comchip, which is primarily made using two of the world’s four DELIVERY RELIABILITY AND FLEXIBILITY pany’s assets. The Code of Conduct is also intended to reduce largest foundries, i.e. semiconductor manufacturers. One of Wafer manufacturing is comparable to a process industry, where the company’s direct and indirect environmental impact, as them is the Chinese firm SMIC, which is listed on the NYSE and a production flow is continuous once it has been started and well as regulating working environment and safety issues for Hong Kong Stock exchanges. In 2016, Fingerprints also began ­requires a minimum volume to take advantage of production Fingerprints’ staff and efforts to follow up these issues with the to work with with one of the world’s largest semiconductor ­capacity. The cost is kept at the lowest possible unit price thanks company’s suppliers. “ manufacturers, the Taiwanese firm TCMC, which is listed on to the large scale. Therefore semiconductor manufacturers Since 2016, the Code of Conduct is included when contracts the NYSE and Taiwan Stock exchanges. prefer customers who can fill their capacity. This means not only are signed. Existing suppliers have been informed about the existing capacity, but the motivation to invest in new capacity. Code and Fingerprints’ expectations about compliance. As a Thanks to high volumes and good advance planning, the comresult, Fingerprints has also begun updating r­ equirements and An increased product pany has formed very good relationships with semiconductor processes for approval of new suppliers. The code is based manufacturers. The possibility to manufacture a broader on the EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of mix and variable product mix at varying volume levels has increased. Conduct. volumes require Additional production capacity is preceded by the quali­ fication of the production unit according to the JEDEC Fingerprints’ conflict minerals policy also prohibits suppliers that purchase minerals in the “Conflict minerals” category flexible production. industry-standard, where durability tests are performed from purchasing minerals that were mined in conflict areas. on components in order to approve production quality. This step is important in order to maintain consistency and PACKAGING TEAM FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 35 OPENNESS Fingerprints’ Packaging Team belongs to one of the four focus areas within the R&D organization. To put it simply, the team develops packaging solutions for the sensor up to application in an end product, in order to guarantee its functionality and durability. The team does its own development work, which is then implemented with partners such as OSAT (Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test, suppliers that encapsulate chips) and module suppliers. The packaging team is led by Mats Slottner in Gothenburg. In addition to Gothenburg, team members are located in Malmö, Seoul, Manilla, Taipei and Shanghai. The team had nearly 30 members at the end of 2016, evenly divided between men and women of multiple nationalities. Mats, what type of people are you looking for? When we hire people, we don’t just look at their theoretical qualifications such as a Master of Science or the equivalent as a minimum requirement. Attitude is equally important – willingness to take responsibility and being self-propelled. Since we work in a team, good com­munication skills are equally important. How would you describe Fingerprints’ corporate culture? We have a flat and permissive organization, whose primary characteristic is daring to try new ideas. That is how we learn and evolve: pick up the problem, discuss it and find a solution together. How do you view your own role as team leader? I see myself as a mentor. I’m available for everyone to whom I’ve delegated both responsibility and authority. What is your view of Fingerprints’ core values? They have a strong correlation to who we are as an organization, above all we are open — everyone can speak with anyone. 36 FINGERPRINTS Business models BUSINESS MODEL Business relationships at several levels Fingerprints’ business is based on sales of complex biometric systems that combine sophisticated hardware and software. The company forms business relationships with several parties in its supply chain. The strength of Fingerprints’ business also lies in its close are used in more types of devices. The company considers the Fingerprints has subsidiaries in Sweden, Denmark, Shanghai, relationship with the end customer (the OEM company), from smart card market to be the next high-volume market in the Seoul, Taipei and San José. Fingerprints’ local presence sales and customer-specific customizations to continued short-term perspective. contributes to strengthening its customer relationships and software updates. helps the company clarify and satisfy customer requirements. DEDICATED SALES FORCE AND Several functions are involved in sales and ongoing customer SCALABLE BUSINESS MODEL REGIONAL CUSTOMER SUPPORT relationships. The sales force works closely with the Customer Fingerprint sensors can be marketed to a number of market Marketing and sales are both handled on a proprietary basis, Project department, and the number of sales staff increased segments, of which the smartphone market represents the as well as via distributors and resellers. In addition to direct substantially in 2016, with several dedicated KAMs (Key Account largest in the short and medium terms. The market is growing contact with customers, major global trade fairs are an Managers) out in Fingerprints’ main markets. and more customer categories are being formed as biometrics important channel. “ The market is growing as biometrics are ­applied in more types of devices. FINGERPRINTS Business models 37 BUSINESS MODEL FOR SMARTPHONES/TABLETS The distributor – an important link in the delivery chain Distributors are an established link in the electronics industry and Two-way marketing they are the party to whom Fingerprints delivers hardware and are Several parties are targets in the smartphone market. Some then invoiced. marketing and sales targets are: • Smartphone/tablet manufacturers (OEMs and ODMs; the Revenue model – the distributor is the middleman that latter, Original Design Manufacturers, manufacture products pays Fingerprints sold under other brands) that decide on and specify the units Fingerprints receives revenues when its hardware – in the form of that will be incorporated into their technical specifications, wafers (sensors in continuous format) or packaged sensors – is decisions that result in a design win. The OEMs also state delivered to the distributor or module supplier. Software developwhich modifications must be made to adapt to Fingerprints’ ment is normally part of the contract. Software development/cusbiometrics systems. tomization may also be charged to an OEM separately, as part of • Module suppliers, who are able to strengthen their businesses the software license. Fingerprints only reports one type of revenue with Fingerprints’ strategic system solutions. in its financial statements. Given that Fingerprints has qualified a biometric system solution for smartphone/tablet manufacturers (OEMs), it is natural for the customer relationship to continue as the manufacturers develop new products. This established partnership with the OEMs’ module suppliers and distributors strengthens Fingerprints’ continued partnerships and relationships. Software customization OEM/ODM The module supplier is an important partner for two parties and integration Product design, Like many other advanced products, smartphones/tablets are integration and produced by assembling modules from several sub suppliers. In ­customization for the the mobile industry this is largely performed by module suppliers, end user experience and every OEM has its preferred module partner. The module Hardware design/support supplier is responsible for the assembly and packaging of module customization Module suppliers components. Among its many end customer contacts, Fingerprints works Packaging design and closely with a dozen module suppliers, notable among which module manufacturing are CrucialTec and O-film. The module suppliers may be viewed as both partners and Sensor delivery customers, since they set specifications while also being a partner Distributors in Fingerprints’ product customization. Storage and logistics 38 FINGERPRINTS Business models 1. SALES PROCESS SMARTPHONE Sales process for smartphones 1. The process of selling to a smartphone manufacturer begins with an evaluation of Fingerprints’ solution, which will lead to a design win at the next stage. The next step is 2. COMMERCIAL LIFE hardware and software customization, which results in delivery of a large array of sensors for production and functionality Volume sales testing, to be followed by mass production. 2. The commercial life of a smartphone model is 12–18 Launch months with most of the volume sold in the first 12 months. The commercial life of tablets is somewhat longer, about three years. At the same time, manufacturers of smartphones/tablets First First deliveries deliveries maintain a fast pace of development and launching of new models. First Design Win orders/tests Project start Months 1–3 Months 5–6 Months 7–9 Months 10–12 Months 13–15 Months 16–18 BUSINESS MODELS FOR SMART CARDS Marketing within smart cards is directed towards several parties. • Smart card manufacturers such as Oberthur Technologies Smart card module • Transaction brokers such as MasterCard, Visa and China UnionPay, who cooperate with the banks that issue cards Algorithm Agreements are made directly with the smart card manufacturer, which integrates Fingerprints smart card solutions. Software The business model for smart cards is more direct, since Partners Issuer Cardholders Fingerprints accounts for distribution of packaged and software (10–15) (thousands) (millions) customized sensors. Smart card Banks Users manufacturers FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 39 A SCALABLE BUSINESS MODEL Fingerprint sensors can be marketed to a number of market segments, of which the smartphone market represents the largest in the short and medium terms. The market is growing and more customer categories are being formed as biometrics are used in more types of devices. The company considers the smart card market to be the next high-volume market in the short term. 40 FINGERPRINTS Organization and personnel ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL An organization with high competence Fingerprints is an advanced value-added company whose success depends on its employees’ competence, ambition, attitude and willingness to work as a team. AN ENTREPRENEURIAL CULTURE STRONG SUPPORT FOR CORE VALUES Smart Fingerprints’ culture is characterized by entrepreneurship and The company’s four core values were developed during workWith our highly skilled and competent people, we deliver smart innovation, motivated and solution-oriented employees and an shops, together with the employees. The core values are based and user-friendly products and solutions to the global market. open environment. on our corporate culture, giving them strong support: We encourage smart working by promoting a good work-life balance. Brave We are encouraged to take initiatives and bravely take on challenges. Our people make a difference every day, with individual contributions as the key to our success. We demonstrate integrity in our decisions, and stand up for our values. Open We communicate openly with compassion and integrity. We are open to new ideas, markets and products and continuously refine our ways of working. We build trust by communicating openly and transparently with stakeholders. United We work together towards common goals. We build trust to create long-lasting relationships. We care for each other and treat each other with respect. We help each other and share our knowledge for continuous development. We have fun together! The values guide corporate decisions and permeate the entire organization. They are taken into account when recruiting, included in training programs and in the introduction program for new members of staff, as well as in target and development discussions. FINGERPRINTS Organization and Personnel 41 Erik Svensson, Senior Engineer, Hanna Nilsson, Engineer, Technical Programs, and Bahar Fingerprints has a matrix organization with three Business Packaging Development Motlagh, Senior Engineer, Packaging Development Lines, supported by five operational units – Research & Development, Operations & Quality, Strategy & Corporate Development, Marketing & Communication and Finance & Administration. President and CEO Mobile Smart PC & cards Embedded Research & Development Operations & Quality Strategy & Corporate Development Marketing & Communication Finance & Administration Fingerprints has a matrix organization with three Martin Axelsson and Mattias Landgren, visiting students from Chalmers Business Lines supported by five cross-functional units. 42 FINGERPRINTS Organization and Personnel GREAT OPPORTUNITIES FOR EMPLOYEES GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION specialist expertise creates a natural environment for a learning Fingerprints continues to be a growing company that strives Fingerprints’ diverse organization is close to the market with organization. to be an attractive employer and looks for the right employees a wide international distribution of employees and partners In addition, the company develops the competence of its using a global recruitment base. in Sweden, Denmark, Japan, the Netherlands, South Korea, work­force through participation in international conferences and The company can offer a workplace where employees have China, Taiwan, India and the US. meetings, as well as supplementary external training programs. the opportunity to develop and offer technologies that will make people’s lives easier. Fingerprints has a non-hierarchical MORE EMPLOYEES CLOSER TO CUSTOMERS ENSURING A SUPPLY OF LEADERS corporate culture that offers diversity and the chance to make Fingerprints’ success also depends on being close to its cusFingerprints primarily ensures its supply of leaders internally, a difference. tomers, linguistically and culturally. The number of employees and continually offers individual leadership programs for new working on customer projects and customizing biometric managers, designed to develop mature and confident leaders. A HIGHLY SPECIALIZED ORGANIZATION systems to end customers’ specifications was thus increased An external leadership coach offers support during the eightThe company has specialists in biometrics, electronics, matein Asia and the US in 2016. month program. The program also includes group meetings rials science, programming, production technology, marketing Fingerprints has established subsidiaries in Shanghai in across organizational boundaries to exchange experiences and and sales. The educational level is high, with a high percentage China, Seoul in South Korea, Taipei in Taiwan and San José build networks. of engineers. A large percentage of the employees working in in California in the US. In addition to focusing on customer development hold PhDs in engineering. In addition to technical projects, the local companies also have sales and marketing HIGHLY RECOMMENDED WORKPLACE knowledge, the company’s employees have considerable experidepartments. An initial employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2016 ence from industries such as telecommunications, banking, card using Netsurvey’s survey methodology. The results were the industry, point-of-sale systems and transaction market. INDUCTION PROGRAM IN GOTHENBURG basis for establishing employee-related targets. All new employees participate in an induction program held at The result of the employee satisfaction Engagement Index the headquarters in Gothenburg, regardless of the employee’s was 77, compared to the benchmark of 72 (for all of the place of residence. The program consists of one universal Nordic countries using Netsurvey). The result for employees’ part and one part that is customized depending on function. willingness to recommend their workplace to friends and This induction has been greatly appreciated by employees and acquaintances, or ENPS (Employee Net Promoter Score), was enables a faster phase-in, as well as building up a network 43, compared with the benchmark of 7. This is a score where that allows employees to participate fully in each function and Fingerprints clearly stands out. promote cooperation. The result is used as a reference point in the company’s ­objective to at least maintain or preferably to increase CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETENCE employee satisfaction in the next survey in 2017. Every employee works with his or her manager to evaluate the past year and develop a competence development plan for the CLOSER TO ACADEMIA year to come. The development of competence, for individuals Fingerprints has initiated cooperation with academic instituand customer project teams, is intimately connected with tions in many areas: several master theses are conducted at product development. Through many years of R&D work, Fingerprints every year and the company also participates in Fingerprints and its employees have acquired specialized different career days at technical universities. CEO Christian Fredrikson greet new employees knowledge in the company’s defined core areas – biometrics, at the induction training electronics and production processes. This high level of FINGERPRINTS Chapter section 43 SHANGHAI TEAM A GROWING ORGANIZATION Fingerprints continued to strengthen its workforce during 2016 in respect to both employment and insourcing of consultants during various periods. At year-end, the company had 306 (150) employees. At the end of 2016, the company also had 132 consultants (104). In total, the company had 438 (254) members of staff at the end of the year. SIGNIFICANTLY STRENGTHENED R&D The largest increase in headcount was in R&D, in order to stay at the cutting edge while managing multiple development projects and product launches. The number of employees active CUSTOMER LOYALTY in R&D increased during the year, amounting to 241 (140) at year-end. Fingerprints currently conducts development in four IN PARTNERSHIPS locations: Gothenburg, Linköping, Malmö and Copenhagen. Fingerprints has a subsidiary in Shanghai China, which is 2016 2015 the company’s single largest regional market. The subHow would you describe Fingerprints’ Employees 306 150 sidiary is a growing organization with all of the company’s corporate culture? expertise represented locally: engineers for development We’re a subsidiary in China with substantially local Number of women 62 33 and customization, sales people and customer support, staffing. Of course the culture is influenced by the Consultants 132 104 as well as administrative support. The Shanghai team country. The work ethic and customer loyalty are is led by Ted Hansson. At the end of 2016 there were 60 incredibly high. We know that we can make a difference, Total number of employees 438 254 people in the team, and it is expected to grow in 2017. and we always have to give 110% for our customers. At the same time, we have a Swedish influence. The Average age of employee 41 years 41 years Ted, what type of people are you looking for? office is furnished with Swedish furniture. We cooperate Staff turnover, % 3,1 0.03 There are an incredible number of highly qualified and help each other, and we have Friday fika (coffee people here in Shanghai. The challenge is finding the break) with Swedish coffee. Sickness absence, % 1,01) 0.8 people who fit in with our corporate culture. You should 1) Data cover only employees in Sweden. be business-driven, have empathy and enjoy discussions. What’s your style as a team leader? Above all you need to be a real team player. Both clear, and encouraging more creative thinking. At year-end, there were 53 managers in the company. During the year, the total share of women in the company was 20%. Are you succeeding? What is your view of Fingerprints’ core values? The company’s objective is for women to make up 25 percent Definitely – we have a great team and excellent collabI was involved in their development, and I had a Shanghai of all employees, on every level, by 2020. oration. One sign that everyone is happy is that no one perspective at that time. The company’s core values are has chosen to leave so far, and this is an industry that clearly relevant and alive here. otherwise has an almost 20% annual staff turnover rate. 44 FINGERPRINTS Chapter section Why Fingerprints is attractive to investors Fingerprints has experienced rapid growth since it was founded, and it has seen strong revenue growth while maintaining profitability. The prospects are considered good for the company’s continued growth. A GROWING MARKET Fingerprints has a strong position in a volume market with an increasing share of smartphones equipped with fingerprint sensors. These sensors can be used in a number of other market segments, such as PCs, smart cards, automotive industry and other online devices. In addition, the use of biometrics is increasing on a broad scale in society and other modalities. MARKET-LEADING Fingerprints is the market-leading company in biometrics. The company’s innovative capacity is considerable and it has an extensive product portfolio with strong patent protection. SCALABLE BUSINESS MODEL Fingerprints’ business model can be applied to additional market segments. The company has proven its scalability by demonstrating profitable growth and has established relationships with two of the globally leading semiconductor manufacturers. Production capacity is flexible, with access to more production units. FINGERPRINTS The share 45 The share Fingerprints’ Class B shares have been listed on A ­ dditional exercises of warrants from the TO6 proDIVIDEND adapt the company’s capital structure and thus Nasdaq OMX Stockholm since 2000 and were gram at the end of the year corresponded to an inThe Board of Directors proposes that no dividend be able to contribute to increased shareholder moved from the Midcap to the Large Cap list in crease of SEK 34,800 in the share capital. These be paid for the 2016 fiscal year. value. The Board of Directors’ complete motions 2016. Fingerprints was initially introduced on the exercises were registered on January 3, 2017. concerning the share split and the authorizations “New Markets” list of the Stockholm Stock ExSHARE BUYBACK will be presented in connection with the official change in 1998. The ISIN code of the share is SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors will propose to the AGM ­notice of the AGM. 0000422107 (the IT, Electronic Equipment & InstruDuring 2016, the price of the Fingerprints Class B that the Board is empowered on one or ­several ments sector). The company is a CSD-registered share declined by 47% to close at SEK 62.8 (118.2). occasions during the period up to the following INFORMATION DISCLOSURE company, which entails that the company’s share During the same period, the OMX Industrial Goods AGM (2017) to make decisions on the buyback of Fingerprints will not provide any guidance for register is maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. & Services index increased by 26%. The highest the company’s shares, although subject to the 2017. Share capital in Fingerprints at December 31, closing price for Fingerprints’ Class B share limit that the number of new shares will not ex2016 amounted to SEK 12,975,667 (of which during the year was SEK 117.5 and the lowest was ceed 10% of all of the shares in the company. ANALYSTS 34.800 SEK intends redemptions registered on SEK 58.0. At the end of 2016, Fingerprints’ market The shares are to be acquired on Nasdaq StockFingerprints is monitored by the following analysts: January 3, 2017 accounted for SEK 34,800) discapitalization was about SEK 19,733 M (36,665). holm. In addition, the Board will propose that Arctic Securirties, Oscar Semb Fredricsson tributed among 6,000,000 Class A shares and during the period up to the following AGM it be Carnegie Investment Bank, Håvard Nilsson 307,967,675 Class B shares, each with a quotient HIGH SHARE TURNOVER ­empowered on one or several occasions to make Handelsbanken Markets, Daniel Djurberg value of SEK 0.04 (including 870,000 shares that During the year, 2,454 million (692 million) Class decisions on the transfer of the company’s Class Pareto Securities AS, Fredrik Steinslien and were registered on January 3, 2017). Class A B shares were traded. On average, 9.7 million B treasury shares. The shares are to be transEspen Klette Redeye, Joel Westerström, SEB, shares carry ten voting rights each, while Class (2.8) Class B shares were traded per day. ferred via Nasdaq Stockholm. The purpose of Victor Höglund and Johanna Ahlqvist B shares carry one vote, and the total number of the authorizations is to enable the Board to UBS, Francois Bouvignies. voting rights is 367,967,675. All shares provide INCREASED NUMBER OF SHAREHOLDERS equal participation in ­equity but carry different The number of shareholders was 63 467 (36,542) at voting rights and are freely transferrable. Class A the end of 2016, up 74% year-on-year. In terms of shares represent 16.3% of the voting rights and percentage shareholdings, legal entities accounted SHAREHOLDING BY CATEGORY, 10 LARGEST Class A Class B 1.9% of the capital in Finger­prints. for 15.3% (29.9), Swedish private shareholders for Dec 31, 2016 shares shares Holdings Votes At year-end, the ten largest owners had total 56.3% (39.2), other shareholders for 14.3% (30.9) and anonymous shareholders for 14.1%. Avanza Pension Försäkringsaktiebolaget 30,716,637 9.78% 8.35% holdings corresponding to 35.3% of the voting rights. Foreign shareholders accounted for 14.3% Clearstream Banking S.A. 13,255,600 4.22% 3.60% of the share capital. For ­additional shareholder inWARRANTS PROGRAM Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB 6,399,312 2.04% 1.74% formation, see pages 45–47 of the A ­ nnual Report. Fingerprints had no options programs outstanding at the end of the year. Sunfloro AB 6,000,000 1.91% 16.31% EXERCISE OF WARRANTS Magnus Unger 4,195,000 1.34% 1.14% Redemption of stock options from the TO5 program DIVIDEND POLICY Oppenheimer Glob Opportunity Fund 4,000,000 1.27% 1.09% increased Fingerprint Cards’ share capital by SEK The Board of Directors’ primary priority is to 260,000.The number of shares increased by 1.3 ­ensure that Fingerprints has a financial position Danica Pension 3,177,731 1.01% 0.86% million B shares. At a subscription price of SEK that is sufficient to support both organic growth Thomas Rex 2,981,000 0.95% 0.81% 51.43 this corresponded to a gross contribution of and selective acquisitions. Fingerprints also wants to maintain a strong balance sheet. Swedbank Försäkring 2,784,046 0.89% 0.76% SEK 66,871,768. Warrants from the TO6 program increased Fingerprint Cards’ share capital by SEK The payment of capital to the shareholders Cbldn-Saxo Bank A/s 2,411,975 0.77% 0.66% 33,040. The number of Class B shares increased must be aligned with the earnings trend and cash Other 238,046,374 75.82% 64.69% 826,000. An exercise price of SEK 18.02 repreflow, while taking into account the company’s growth opportunities and financial position. Total 6,000,000 307,967,675 100% 100% sented a gross contribution of SEK 14,884,520. 46 FINGERPRINTS The share COMPOSITION OF SHARE CAPITAL AT DEC 31, 2016 SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2016 Number Share of Class of share Votes of shares No. of votes No. of votes votes, % SEK Total share turnover, 000s Class A 10 6,000,000 60,000,000 1.9 16.3 160 45,000 140 40,000 Class B 1 307,967,675 307,967,675 98.1 83.7 35,000 Total 313,967,675 367,967,675 100 100 120 30,000 100 25,000 80 OWNER DISTRIBUTION BY HOLDING 20,000 60 Number 15,000 of known Number 40 Owner distribution by holding shareholders of shares Holdings Votes 10,000 20 5,000 1 – 5000 49,259 12,313,709 3.92% 3.34% 0 0 1,001 – 5,000 9,700 23,278,502 7.41% 6.33% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 5,001 – 10,000 2,014 14,874,360 4.74% 4,04% Total share turnover, 000s Class B Fingerprints share OMX Stockholm Industrials GI 10,001 – 20,000 1,107 15,924,806 5.07% 4.33% 20,001 – 1,387 203,270,572 64.74% 69.92% Anonymous shareholders n/a 44,305,726 14.11% 12.04% Total 63,467 313,967,675 100.00% 100.00% SHARE PRICE DEVELOPMENT 2012–2016 SEK Total share turnover, 000s TYPE OF OWNERSHIP 160 120,000 Number 140 Dec 31, 2016 of shares Holdings Votes 100,000 120 Swedish private individuals 176,643,367 56.26% 48.01% 80,000 100 Other shareholders 43,414,895 13.83% 26,47% – Other foreign shareholders 26,045,220 8.30% 7.07% 80 60,000 – Other Swedish shareholders 17,369,675 5.53% 19.40% 60 40,000 40 20,000 Swedish institutional shareholders 30,763,956 9.80% 8.36% 20 – Fund companies 19,767,286 6.30% 5.37% 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 – Pension & Insurance 10,208,906 3.25% 2.77% Total share turnover, 000s Class B Fingerprints share OMX Stockholm Industrials GI – Foundations 404,294 0.13% 0.11% – Investment & asset management 290,332 0.09% 0.08% – State, municipalities & county councils 93,138 0.03% 0.03% Foreign institutional shareholders 18,839,731 6.00% 5.12% Anonymous shareholders 44,305,726 14.11% 12.04% Total 313,967,675 100.00% 100.00% FINGERPRINTS The share 47 SHARE CAPITAL TREND, 2016 Quotient value, Change in no. Total no. of Increase in Total share Year Event SEK of shares shares share capital capital 1997 Split 500-for-1 0.2 249,500 250,000 0 50,000 1997 Rights issue 0.2 250,000 500,000 50,000 100,000 1997 New share issue 0.2 2,000,000 2,500,000 400,000 500,000 1997 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 370,000 2,870,000 74,000 574,000 1998 New share issue 0.2 2,000,000 4,870,000 400,000 974,000 2000 New share issue 0.2 540,000 5,410,000 108,000 1,082,000 2000 New share issue 0.2 938,258 6,348,258 187,651 1,269,651 2005 New share issue 0.2 3,000,000 9,348,258 600,000 1,869,651 2006 New share issue 0.2 2,804,475 12,152,733 560,895 2,430,546 2009 New share issue 0.2 7,682,060 19,834,793 1,536,412 3,966,958 2009 New share issue 0.2 19,834,793 39,669,586 3,966,959 7,933,916 2011 New share issue 0.2 3,940,000 43,609,586 788,000 8,721,917 2012 New share issue 0.2 4,198,549 47,808,135 839,710 9,561,927 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 95,485 47,903,620 19,097 9,581,024 2013 New share issue 0.2 1,400,000 49,303,620 280,000 9,861,024 2013 New share issue 0.2 1,600,000 50,903,620 320,000 10,180,724 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 335,407 51,239,027 67,081 10,247,805 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 263,500 51,502,527 52,700 10,300,505 2013 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 158,608 51,661,135 31,722 10,332,227 2013 New share issue 0.2 2,500,000 54,161,135 500,000 10,832,227 2014 New share issue 0.2 2,500,000 56,661,135 500,000 11,332,227 2014 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 1,760,000 58,421,135 352,000 11,684,227 2015 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 4,818,000 63,239,135 963,600 12,647,827 2016 New issue, exercise of warrants 0.2 1,300,000 64,539,135 260,000 12,907,827 2016 Pro forma Split 5-for-1 0.04 0 322,695,675 0 12,907,827 2016 Repurchase of own shares 0.04 -10,424,000 312,271,675 0 12 907 827 2016 New share issue, exercise of warrants 0.04 826,000 313,097,675 33,040 12,940,867 2016 New share issue, exercise of warrants, registered on Jan 3, 2017 0.04 870,000 313,967,675 34,800 12,975,667 48 FINGERPRINTS Message from the Chairman MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN Continuing to develop Fingerprints’ business In a short time, Fingerprints has advanced from being a development company into a leading global operator that is traded on the Stockholm Stock Exchange’s large cap list. This is of course extremely rewarding for all of those who have worked so hard to achieve success but it has also been accompanied by many challenges. The fact that the company has succeeded in company with many stakeholders. The sustaina­ work from the Board compared with a company an organization filled with skilled people. I am retaining its strong innovativeness and entreprebility perspective in the continued development active in a mature industry. The Board held 20 really looking forward to Fingerprints’ continued neurial spirit in its latest phase of development, forms an integral part of the Board’s agenda. It is meetings in 2016. We experienced extremely journey. The Board will continue to work intensely, and also attracted competent new employees, then also a given to take into account the expectastrong growth in the smartphone segment in in close cooperation with the company’s Execuhas been and will be crucial to the successes of tions and requirements that our stakeholders 2015 and it remained strong in 2016. Since a tive Management, we all take the task of contribthe years ahead. place on us in this area. I also see that Finger­market under such growth naturally attracts uting to the company’s positive development very The composition and size of the Board of Direcprints can contribute to a safer and more secure more players, the focus of the Board has been on seriously and with considerable enthusiasm. tors reflect the need for broader expertise during world for the end user with our biometrics. Deepadapting the company’s strategy towards broadthe advancement from a development and singleening and maintaining confidence in the company ening the business into three well-defined prodJan Wäreby market company into an industrial player serving a as a transparent and responsible listed company uct application areas. Positioning the company as Chairman of the Board number of markets. The Board’s mission is both to thus becomes the core task for the Board, not a fully fledged biometrics company with offerings support management in the strategic development least considering the radical change the company in a number of different biometric ­technologies “ of Fingerprints’ business and to ensure that the has undergone over the past two years. has been equally important. company shoulders its responsibility as a large The company’s future direction is also reAn important step in this process was the flected in the recruitment of Christian Fredrikson strategic acquisition of Delta ID in early 2017, as President and CEO. Christian has extensive which matches the objective of building a bioTaking part in Fingerexperience from a number of markets that we aim metric company. This has been an important to expand into, while also being deeply rooted in addition to the product portfolio and will eventuprints’ strong devedigitization and in the mobile world. After having ally form a part of biometric system solutions lopment is both exciworked together for more than six months, the based on a number of biometric technologies. Board has great confidence in Christian and I am Taking part in Fingerprints’ strong developting and challenging, convinced that the Fingerprints organization ment is both exciting and challenging, and I feel and I feel incredibly agrees. It has been satisfying to see how quickly incredibly proud over what the company has he has adapted to his new assignment, and also achieved and at the same time I am quietly confiproud over what the how confidently and firmly he acts. dent about the future. Few people are graced company has Fingerprints continues to experience growth and favorable development, combined with many with the opportunity to participate as Chairman during such a strong expansion. All of which is achieved to date. uncertainties, which requires significantly more the r­ esult of Swedish innovation implemented by FINGERPRINTS Corporate governance report 49 Corporate governance report prior to the Meeting. Notification of any other Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) is a Swedish limited SHAREHOLDERS Post-och Inrikes tidningar and on the company’s liability company, with its registered office in website. The fact that notification has been sent EGMs must be issued no earlier than six and Fingerprint Cards is a CSD-registered company, Västra Götaland, Gothenburg, and with its shares is to be announced in Svenska Dagbladet. no later than three weeks ahead of the Meeting. which entails that the company’s share register listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. The official notification of the AGM is disAll shareholders who are listed in the share is maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB. Corporate governance in Fingerprint Cards is patched no earlier than six and no later than four register on a given record day, which usually falls The company had 63,467 shareholders at yearbased on legislation and other regulations: the weeks prior to the Meeting. The notice is to inone week before the date of the meeting, and end 2016, up 74% year-on-year. Registered share Swedish Companies Act, the Articles of Associaclude information regarding the procedure for who have notified the company of their intention capital amounted to SEK 12,975,667 (including the tion, the rules and regulations for issuers as registering for the AGM and the final date for to participate in the AGM within the allotted time 34,800 shares that were registered as share capipublished by Nasdaq Stockholm (the Exchange), ­notification of attendance, the right to participate period, are entitled to participate in the AGM and tal on January 3, 2017), distributed among the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and vote at the Meeting, a numbered agenda exercise voting rights equal to the number of 6,000,000 Class A shares and 307,967,675 Class B (www.bolagsstyrning.se) (“the Code”) and other showing the matters to be addressed, informashares registered at the meeting. Shareholders shares. Class A shares carry ten votes per share applicable laws and regulations, as well as intertion on the appropriation of earnings and the may be represented by proxy according to a and Class B shares one vote each. Class A and nal regulations. main content of other proposals. power-­of-attorney. However, the shares must be Class B shares provide entitlement to the same Fingerprints Cards endeavors to generate Notice of an Extraordinary General Meeting registered at the meeting, including details of the equity share in the company and to an equally long-term value for shareholders and other (EGM) convened to address amendments to the proxy, as well as the issuance of a power-of-­ large dividend. At year-end, the ten largest ownstakeholders. This entails ensuring efficient orArticles of Association will be issued not earlier attorney. ers had total holdings corresponding to 35.4% of ganizational structures, systems of internal conthe voting rights. Foreign shareholders outside than six weeks and not later than four weeks trol and risk management, as well as transparSweden accounted for 26.9% of the share capital. ent internal and external reporting. For additional shareholder information, see pages This Corporate Governance Report has been 45–47 of the Annual Report. SHAREHOLDERS prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code of Corporate GoverANNUAL GENERAL MEETING nance. Its primary purpose is to describe corpoThe AGM adopts the income statement and balProposal rate governance within Fingerprint Cards. For ance sheet for the Parent Company and the Group NOMINATION COMMITTEE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING this reason, the report will therefore address infor the preceding fiscal year, passes resolutions formation pursuant to applicable rules and reguregarding dividends and the discharge of Board Election Election Information lations to a lesser extent. members and the CEO from personal liability, Fingerprint Cards’ auditors have examined the elects Members and the Chairman of the Board BOARD, REMUNERATION AND AUDIT COMMITTEE report and an auditor’s opinion is attached to it. and approves their fees, elects auditors and apInformation AUDITORS Responsible for control of the entire proves their fees, deals with other statutory matObjectives and strategies Reports and control operation. Reports to the Board DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITY ters and passes resolutions on the Nomination and the shareholders. Shareholders exercise their influence over Committee and guidelines for remuneration of PRESIDENT AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Information Finger­print Cards at General Meetings of Sharesenior executives and on other proposals submitholders, the company’s highest decision-making ted by the Board of Directors and shareholders. body. Responsibility for the company’s organizaAccording to the Articles of Association, g ­ eneral INTERNAL CONTROLS EXTERNAL CONTROLS tion and the management of the company’s meetings of shareholders may also be held in Business concept and objectives, Articles of Swedish Companies Act, Association, Rules of Procedure for the Board Swedish Annual Accounts Act, other applicable ­affairs rests with the Board of Directors and the Stockholm, but to date only extraordi­nary shareof Directors, Instructions to the President, laws, Rule Book for Issuers and Swedish CEO, in accordance applicable laws and regulaholders meetings have been held in Stockholm. strategies, policies, insider policy, Code of Corporate Governance Code. tions and the Board of Directors’ internal control Notice of a general meeting of shareholders Conduct and core values. instruments. shall be made in the form of an announcement in 50 FINGERPRINTS Corporate governance report To be able to exercise their voting rights at the In addition, resolutions were passed authopany. The shares are to be acquired on Nasdaq sought among the shareholders who are the AGM, shareholders whose shares are trustee-­ rizing the Board during the period up until the Stockholm. In addition, the Board will propose second and the third largest in terms of owner-­ registered must temporarily re-register their next AGM to make decisions regarding the issuthat during the period up to the following AGM it registered votes or in some other known manner shares in their own name in accordance with ance of up to 25,000,000 Class B shares, with be empowered on one or several occasions to as per September 1, 2016. If these have no obthe terms in the notification of the AGM. preferential rights for the shareholders. make decisions on the transfer of the company’s jection, the proposal of the largest shareholder Proposals for matters to be addressed at the Additional information on the 2016 AGM Class B treasury shares. The shares are to be in terms of voting rights shall prevail. Should the Meeting must be submitted to the Board well in is available on Fingerprints Cards’ website: transferred via Nasdaq Stockholm. The purpose three largest shareholders in terms of votes be advance of the issuance of the official notice of www.fingerprints.com of the authorizations is to enable the Board to unable to reach agreement on the composition of the meeting. adapt the company’s capital structure and thus be the Nomination Committee, they shall instead Most resolutions at a general meeting are 2017 AGM able to contribute to increased shareholder value. appoint one member each. The Nomination passed by a simple majority. In certain cases, The 2017 AGM will be held at 3:00 p.m. on April The Board of Directors’ complete motions conCommittee will comprise the members aphowever, the Swedish Companies Act states that 20, 2017 at Hotel Gothia Towers in Gothenburg. cerning the dividend, the share cancelations and pointed in the aforementioned manner. Should a resolutions must be passed by a qualified majorFor further information on the 2017 AGM, the authorizations will be available at the time shareholder who has appointed one of the memity, for example, resolutions regarding amendsee page 95, or visit Fingerprints’ website that the official notice of the AGM is distributed. bers of the Nomination Committee cease to bements of the Articles of Association, which rewww.fingerprints.com, where the necessary long to the three largest shareholders in the quire the support of at least two-thirds of documents ahead of the AGM are also available. NOMINATION COMMITTEE company in terms of voting power, or should a shareholders in terms both of the votes cast and The Board of Directors proposes that no diviThe 2016 AGM resolved that a new Nomination member of the Nomination Committee step the shares represented at the meeting. Motions dend be paid. The Board also proposes that the Committee be appointed prior to the 2017 AGM down from the Committee prior to the 2017 AGM involving incentive programs require an even AGM resolve to reduce the share capital through by having the Chairman of the Board contact the for some other reason, the members of the larger majority to be passed, namely 90% of the the cancelation of the bought back shares, as largest shareholder in terms of the votes regis­Nomination Committee in consultation with the votes represented at the meeting. well as a bonus issue. The Board will also protered as owned or the largest shareholder in three largest shareholders in terms of voting pose to the AGM that the Board be empowered some other known manner as per September 1, rights are to be entitled to appoint another repre2016 AGM on one or several occasions during the period up 2016 and to urge this shareholder to appoint sentative of the three largest shareholders in The AGM for the 2016 fiscal year was held in to the ­following AGM to make decisions on the three members to the Nomination Committee. terms of voting rights to replace such a member. ­Gothenburg on May 4, 2016. Notification of the buyback of the company’s shares, although subThereafter, support for the proposal by the largThe names of the members of the Nomination Meeting was published on April 4, 2016. ject to limit that the number of new shares will est shareholder’s in terms of voting rights conCommittee and information on the person apA total of 822 shareholders attended the AGM, not exceed 10% of all of the shares in the comcerning a new Nomination Committee is to be pointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee representing 37.3% of the number of votes and Independent 26.9% of the number of shares. vis-à-vis Meeting RESOLUTIONS PASSED BY THE MEETING INCLUDED: Meeting Annual attenDirector Committee • Adoption of the income statement and balance Stepped attenfee dance fees 2016 fees 2016 sheet for the 2016 fiscal year. Name Function Elected down Committees (1) dance (SEK) 2016 SEK 000s SEK 000s • Adoption of the appropriation of profit where Chairman of the Board profit was brought forward to the next fiscal year. (As of May 4, 2016) • Discharge of liability for the Board and the CEO Jan Wäreby Member 2015-06-03 — Remuneration Committee Yes Yes 19 850 80 for the 2016 fiscal year. Member • Amendments of the Articles of Association: Chairman of the Board number of Board members, limits for share Urban Fagerstedt (Up to May 4, 2016) 2009-06-04 — Remuneration Committee Yes No 20 400 40 capital and shares. Katarina Bonde Member 2015-06-03 — Audit Committee Yes Yes 19 400 150 • That the number of Board members is to be Carl-Johan von Plomgren Member 2015-06-03 — Audit Committee Yes Yes 19 400 75 nine. • Election of members of the Board, Chairman Audit Committee Lars Söderfjell Member 2015-06-03 2017-01-23 (replaced by Michael Hallén) Yes No 19 300 57 of the Board and the auditor. • Determination of director fees. Audit Committee Michael Hallén Member 2016-05-04 — (replacing Lars Söderfjell) Yes Yes 15 400 18 • Election of members of the Nomination Committee. Tomas Mikaelson Member 2016-05-04 — — No Yes 15 400 — • Guidelines for senior executives. Peter Carlsson Member 2016-05-04 — — Yes Yes 15 400 — • Resolution concerning share split. Åsa Hedin Member 2016-05-04 — Remuneration Committee Yes Yes 15 400 40 •Resolution concerning authorization of the Board of Directors to buy back shares. Alexander Kotsinas Member 2013-11-26 2016-05-04 — Yes Yes 4 — — FINGERPRINTS Corporate governance report 51 shall be announced no later than six months NOMINATION COMMITTEE’S WORK AHEAD The Board currently comprises two women and that Fingerprint Cards is organized so that bookprior to the 2017 AGM. The Nomination CommitOF THE 2017 AGM six men, since Lars Söderfjell stepped down as keeping, management of funds and the compatee shall appoint from among its numbers a Prior to the 2017 AGM, the Nomination CommitBoard member in January 2017. The Nomination ny’s financial situation in general are controlled chairman, who may not be the Chairman of the tee held four minuted meetings and, between Committee is striving to achieve an even gender in a satisfactory manner. The Board appoints the Board. The Nomination Committee is to draft these meetings, had continuous contact concerndistribution on the Board. The Nomination ComCEO and makes decisions concerning matters proposals to be presented to the 2017 AGM reing various nomination matters, as well as meetmittee has applied Item 4.1 of the Swedish Corinvolving the strategic direction of operations and garding election of Chairman of the Meeting, ing with prospective Board members. An assessporate Governance Code (“the Code”) as its diverthe company’s overall organization. membership of the Board of D ­ irectors, Chairman ment was made of the Board’s performance, sity policy and continuously endeavors to fulfill The Board of Directors establishes written rules of the Board, auditors and remuneration of Board whereby the Board Members had to answer a the Code’s requirements for versatility, breadth of procedure every year that regulate the Board’s members, as well as proposals concerning the number of questions concerning the work of the and gender distribution on the Board. The Nomiwork agenda and its internal division of duties, Nomination Committee ahead of the 2018 AGM. Board. The responses were then compiled, renation C ­ ommittee also had a number of contacts ­decision-making priorities within the Board, the The Nomination Committee’s duties also inported by Chairman of the Board and discussed with the Audit Committee concerning the Audit Board’s meeting procedures and the Chairman’s clude evaluating the composition of and the work by the Board of Directors. Subsequently, in order Committee’s recommendations about the elecduties. The Board has also issued, inter alia, writperformed by the Board. to make correct assessments of the composition tion of auditors. ten instructions regarding the allocation of responof the Board of Directors, the Nomination Comsibilities between the Board and the CEO. The Nomination Committee of Fingerprint Cards mittee familiarized itself with and, together with BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND CEO The Board also sets corporate policy and in 2016 consisted of: the Chairman of the Board, reviewed the evaluaIn accordance with the Articles of Association, ­instructions for ongoing operations. These are • Dimitrij Titov: Chairman of the Nomination tion of the Board and of its work, as well as the Fingerprint Cards’ Board of Directors is to conheaded by the CEO. The CEO provides the Board Committee, independent in relation to the report from the Chairman of the Board on the sist of ten members, with a maximum of five with a regular flow of information about events company. company’s operations, objectives and strategies. deputy members, elected by the AGM for the pethat are of significance for the Group’s develop• Tommy Trollborg: Independent in relation to The Nomination Committee also analyzed the exriod extending to the next AGM. The Board and ment, financial results, position, liquidity or the company. pertise and experience represented by the Board the Chairman of the Board are elected by the other important matters about which the Board • Johan Carlström: Representing the sharemembers as well as the gender distribution, in shareholders at each AGM for the period until should be kept informed. The Board members holder Sunfloro AB. relation to the needs that have been identified. the following AGM, meaning for a term of office are presented separately on pages 54–55 of the The Nomination Committee’s assessment is that of one year. ­Annual Report. Shareholders may submit proposals to the the Board members represent a wide range of Changes to the Board can be made at the ­Nomination Committee: The proposals are to be expertise and possess considerable experience AGM, but also through a resolution of an Extra­ WORK BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2016 e-mailed to: investrel@fingerprints.com of, inter alia, business operations, technology and ordinary General Meeting, or by a member In accordance with the applicable rules of procethe financial market, as well as telecommunicachoosing to resign prematurely from his/her dure, the Board is to hold at least four scheduled tions, IT and the semiconductor industry. ­assignment. meetings and one statutory meeting per year. The 2016 AGM resolved to expand the number Whenever required, unscheduled meetings are of Fingerprint Cards Board members from six to held to address special items. A total of 20 Board The work of the Board of Directors nine. Urban Fagerstedt, Jan Wäreby, Katarina meetings were held in 2016. Bonde, Lars Söderfjell and Carl-Johan von 2016 continued to be characterized by powerful December Plomgren were re-elected as Board Members. sales growth and expansion of the business, thus Budget February Jan Wäreby was elected new Chairman of the requiring the Board to engage in consultation Year-end report Board. Åsa Hedin, Tomas Mikaelson, Peter and to make decisions, in part concerning the October/November Q4 Dec Jan Q1 Carlsson and Michael Hallén were elected new choice and appointment of a new Chief Executive Interim report 3 Nov Feb March Board members. Officer, a share split and share buybacks, as well Strategy and objectives The Nomination Committee has concluded as work on an Extraordinary General Meeting. follow up September/October that eight members are independent in relation to Recurring items on the agenda for Board meetOct Mar Strategy Day the company and Executive Management. Seven of ings during the year included debriefings by the April/May the members are independent in relation to major Group’s Executive Management as regards busiSep Apr Annual General Meeting and shareholders. Accordingly, the Board complies ness conditions, operations, organization, finanStatutory Board meeting with the independence requirements imposed in cial results, position and cash and cash equivaJuly Interim report 1 the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. lents. The budget and business plan for the next Interim report 2 Aug May The Board is responsible for Fingerprint year are dealt with by the Board in the autumn Q3 Jul Jun Q2 Card’s organization and management being in and prior to Christmas. In addition to the recurthe interest of both the company and the sharering items, Board meetings were also held due holders. The Board continuously assesses to more extraordinary events. Finger­print Cards’ financial situation and ensures At all meetings – CEO status report, investment decisions 52 FINGERPRINTS Corporate governance report In conjunction with the end of the quarter, Katarina Bonde (Chairman), Carl-Johan von p ­ roviding protection for the company’s assets CONTROL ACTIVITIES meetings are held to make decisions regarding Plomgren and ­Michael Hallén. (Michael Hallén and thus the investments of shareholders. Control activities are designed to manage the the publication of quarterly, six-month and yearreplaced Lars Söderfjell after he stepped down The Board has established attestation instrucrisks that the Board and Group management end reports. Ahead of the AGM, meetings are from the Board of Directors in January 2017.) tions, a financial policy and other governing docassess as essential for the internal control of held to make decisions regarding the notificauments containing instructions and procedures the financial reports. tion, annual report, corporate governance docuAUDITOR for the operations that are to be monitored and Control activities aimed at preventing, identiments and other matters for the AGM. According to the Articles of Association, Fingerreported on regularly. The attestation instructions fying and correcting errors and deviations are When required, senior Fingerprint Cards print Cards is to have one or two auditors, with contain regulations governing signing on behalf evaluated. Assignment of responsibility and orga­executives also attended Board meetings in or without deputies, or one or two registered of the company and authorizations concerning nization comprise the structure for the control. order to report on specific issues. firms of accountants. At the 2016 AGM, KPMG decisions about and the approval of agreements, Follow-up is performed in each respective area of AB was elected as the company’s audit firm for investments, costs and other outlays. responsibility and for the entire business. AllocaREMUNERATION COMMITTEE a term of office of one year. Authorized Public The financial policy, which was updated in tion of attestation rights and authority is part of The Remuneration Committee evaluates and Accountant Johan Kratz is auditor-in-charge. 2011, includes frameworks for investments, cash the structure for control activities as are clear prepares matters regarding remuneration and Johan Kratz is also the auditor of other compamanagement, currency hedging and the granting rules for decisions regarding investment, sales, employment terms for Executive Management, nies including IAC Group Sweden AB, Sector of credit in connection with sales. Sales are procurement and contracts. Control activities are and draws up guidelines for the remuneration of Alarm AB, SP Sveriges Tekniska Forsknings­ ­covered to the largest possible extent credit also based on the business concept, strategies the CEO and senior executives for approval by institut AB and Swedish Match Industries AB. by hedges when this is feasible and credit is and goals, and on issues that are critical for the AGM. The Remuneration Committee ensures The auditor, on the behalf of the shareholdgranted only if there is good reason to assume ­operations. A high degree of IT security is a that remuneration matches the prevailing marers, is responsible for examining the Annual that the credit recipients will meet their obliga­prerequisite for favorable internal control of the ket terms for comparable positions in other ­Report and accounting records, as well as the tions. Fingerprint Cards seeks to ensure the financial reporting. The IT strategy focuses on companies and that the company’s pay offering administration of the Board and the CEO. The ­continuance of its historically low customer ­security and functionality, where security is the is thus competitive. The Board sets the Presiauditor also reviews one quarterly report, and ­bad-debt losses, thereby upholding its favorable most important since no security usually results dent’s remuneration. ­issues statements regarding the Board’s reports profitability and solid financial position. in weakened functionality. Remuneration of other senior executives is in conjunction with, inter alia, decisions about External financial reporting with accompanydecided by the CEO following consultation with new share issues and warrant programs. Each CONTROL ENVIRONMENT ing controls is performed on a quarterly basis the Remuneration Committee. The Remunerayear, the Board meets with the auditor to receive The fundamental platform in the control environand internal financial reporting is performed tion Committee comprises the Board Members the auditor’s report as to whether the company’s ment for financial reporting consists of the monthly. Financial control is performed on the Jan Wäreby (Chairman of the Board), Urban organization is appropriately configured to enguidelines and controlling documents, including basis of a business plan that is broken down to Fagerstedt and Åsa Hedin. sure that accounting, management of funds and the Board’s working procedures and instruction an annual budget. The budget is revised during conditions in general are controlled satisfactorily. to the President, as well as the allocation of rethe year and is utilized to produce forecasts and AUDIT COMMITTEE The company’s auditor reported to the Board on sponsibility and authority that is adapted to the forms the basis for the follow-up of actual The task of the Audit Committee is to support the one occasion and to the Audit Committee on two business organization. It is primarily the Presi­results. In reporting, analysis and comments work of the Board by ensuring high-quality and occasions in the 2016 fiscal year. During 2016, dent’s responsibility as part of daily operations to are reported on trends in relation to the set efficient internal control, financial reporting and the auditor attended the AGM on May 4. In 2017, maintain the control environment as designated goals. Control of development projects is perexternal auditing. Among other responsibilities, Authorized Public Accountant Johan Kratz will by the Board. The President reports regularly to formed through ongoing project monitoring and this involves examining interim and year-end rehave performed the duties of auditor-in-charge the Board in line with set procedures. The comreporting of subprojects. Performance and costs ports ahead of publication and dealing with all for seven years. Pursuant to the Swedish Company’s auditor also submits reports from impleexpended are related to plans and budgets and critical accounting issues and risk assessments. panies Act, the term of office should not exceed mented examinations. the anticipated remaining project expenses for The Audit Committee meets the external auditor seven years and, for that reason, a new Audiproject completion are reported. at least once annually and examines and monitor-inCharge will have to be elected at the RISK ASSESSMENT The operative control is supplemented by tors the auditors’ impartiality and independence 2017 AGM. Risk assessment is performed on a continuous monitoring quality and performance from suppliwhile particularly paying attention to whether the basis and comprises the identification and maners, customers and internal processes. auditor assists the company by providing serINTERNAL CONTROL AND agement of any risks that could impact business Liquidity and cash flow are followed up vices outside the scope of his/her audit, and also RISK MANAGEMENT activities and financial reporting. The primary risk ­regularly with the updating of forecasts and the assists in drafting proposals concerning the The Annual Accounts Act stipulates that the within the framework of financial reporting is the ­resultant liquidity planning. The continuous AGM’s resolution on and election of auditors. Board must annually submit a description of the risk of significant errors in the financial reporting. ­analysis of the financial reporting on various The Committee makes decisions on the need of principal elements of the company’s system for Risk management comprises part of the business ­levels is central to ensure that the financial an internal audit and, in line with this work, a internal control and risk management with activities’ processes and various methods are uti­reporting does not contain substancial errors. ­decision has been made to recruit a role respon­regard to financial reporting. lized to ensure that risks are managed in compliControl activities and distribution among various sible for internal control during 2017. In 2016, The Board is responsible for the company’s ance with regulations, instructions and procedures functions are integrated features throughout the the Audit Committee comprised Board Members internal control, with the overall intention of with the aim of providing correct information. ­financial reporting process. FINGERPRINTS Corporate governance report 53 GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION OF and other senior executives may not exceed FOLLOW-UP once a week, and regularly follows up business BOARD MEMBERS 100% of their fixed annual salary. Pensions are Compliance with the Board’s rules of procedure, developments, financial trends, the company’s The 2016 AGM resolved that the Board of Directo be based on defined-contribution pension instructions, policies and procedures is followed up position and influential events. The Board meets tors should be paid fees totaling SEK 4,050,000, of schemes. The period of notice from the company by the Board and Executive Management. The curwith the auditor during the year to review the which SEK 850,000 to the Chairman of the Board is not to exceed six months. During the period of rent state of the business and the company’s finanaudit of internal control and other assignments. and SEK 400,000 to each other Board member. notice of no longer than six months, full salary cial situation are addressed at Board meetings. Continuous work is conducted on forecasts and It was resolved that fees for work on commitand employment benefits are payable. If employThe financial situation and business outlook are budgets, with rolling prospective forecasts based tees should be payable in an amount of of SEK ment is terminated by the company, severance dealt with at Board meetings. The Board reviews fion updated information about sales, material ac460,000, to be distributed as follows: pay is payable in an amount corresponding to no nancial reports and decides on publication prior to quisitions, operating costs and the progress of Audit Committee: SEK 150,000 to the Chairmore than 12 monthly salaries. Resolutions the publication of financial reports. The Board evalproduct and technology development. man and SEK 75,000 to each other member. ­regarding share and share-price-based incentive uates its own work and that of the CEO annually. Fingerprint Cards AB had no internal audit in Remuneration Committee: SEK 80,000 to the programs are to be made by the AGM. The Board The auditor reviews at least one of the interim 2016 but intends to establish such a function in Chairman and SEK 40,000 to each other member. of Directors is to be entitled to disapply the guidand six-month reports, and always audits the anthe company during coming years to additionally If tax-related prerequisites for invoicing exist, ing principles if, in an individual case, there are nual financial statements, with accompanying fienhance control and the reliability of financial and on condition that it is cost-neutral for the special reasons for doing so. nancial reports. Reports covering all operational and other information. company, the invoicing of director fees from the functions are submitted by the CEO to the Board member’s own company was permissible. If a ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION on a monthly basis. The Executive Management Board of Directors Board member invoices his/her director fee via a The Articles of Association stipulate the compaGroup meets at a high frequency, in principle Gothenburg, March 29, 2017 company, the fee will be increased by an amount ny’s business operations, the number of Board corresponding to social security contributions members and auditors, instructions for the and statutory VAT. ­official notification of the AGM, business for disBoard members who receive salary from cussion at the AGM and where the AGM should Finger­print Cards do not receive director fees. be held, as well as classes of shares, preferenBoard members appointed during the year tial rights and the post-sale purchase of the AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT receive fees in relation to the remaining period company’s Class A shares. The current Articles To the general meeting of the shareholders in Fingerprint Cards AB (publ), corporate identity until the next AGM. of Association are available on Fingerprint Cards’ website, www.fingerprints.com. number 556154-2381. GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION OF ­SENIOR EXECUTIVES INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Engagement and responsibility The 2016 AGM resolved that the Remuneration Fingerprint Cards’ policies and guidelines are of It is the board of directors that is responsible for the corporate governance statement for the year Committee, which is appointed from among particular importance for correct accounting, 2016 on pages 49-53 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Board members, should prepare guidelines in ­reporting and information. During 2016, Fingerrespect of pay and other employment terms for print Cards’ investment relations unit was exThe scope of the audit the CEO and senior executives and present the panded with additional resources. The company’s Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 16 The Board with proposals in respect of these ­issues. collaboration with news agencies, investment auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means that our examination The Board decides on pay and other remunera­relations advisors and communication consulof the corporate governance statement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit tion of the CEO. The CEO is to determine the tants regarding external communication and conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted ­salary and other remuneration payable to other ­information disclosure was also expanded. auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient senior executives in accordance with the Board’s The information is intended to increase basis for our opinions. guiding principles. The term “other senior execawareness of Fingerprint Cards and increase utives” refers to the individuals who, in addition confidence in Fingerprint Cards, its management and employees, while promoting business activiOpinions to the CEO, constitute ­Executive Management. The remuneration levels are to be market-based. ties. A communication policy is in place that A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in accordance with chapter Remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary, ­provides guidelines governing the company’s 6 section 6 second paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 variable remuneration calculated according to ­internal and external communication. second paragraph of the same law are consistent with the annual accounts and the consolidapredetermined targets, other benefits, pension Fingerprint Cards communication policy ted accounts and are in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. and financial instruments in the form of warrants. is presented on the company’s website, The distribution between fixed salary and www.fingerprints.com. Gothenburg, March 29 2017 variable remuneration is to be proportionate to KPMG AB, Johan Kratz, Authorized Public Accountant the executive’s responsibilities and authorities. The variable remuneration payable to the CEO 54 FINGERPRINTS Board of Directors Board of Directors  ars Söderfjell stepped down from the L Board at his own request in February 2017. JAN WÄREBY KATARINA BONDE PETER CARLSSON URBAN FAGERSTEDT Chairman of the Board since 2016. Board Board member since 2015. Born: 1958. Board member since 2016. Born 1970. Board member since 2009. Born 1953. member since 2015. Born 1956. Committees Remuneration Committee, Chairman Audit Committee, Chairman Remuneration Committee Employment and other Board Chairman of the Board of RISE AB, Chairman of the Board of Propellerhead Entrepreneur, investor and advisor. Board Vice President R&D, Huawei Technologies assignments: Obelixus AB. Board member of Tobii AB, Software AB and Opus Group AB, Board member of Metso, Rosti, Orbital-systems and Sweden AB. Agapi Boating AB. member of Micro Systemation AB (publ), Ketra Lightning and member of the Advisory Mycronic AB (publ), Avega Group AB, Nordax board at Clean Motion, Oden Tech and Owner and Chairman of the Board of Bank AB (publ) and Jarl Securities AB. Elementum. Also Member of the Board Fagerstedt Dynamics Radio AB, Fagerstedt of the Swedish-American Chamber of Finance AB and Fagerstedt Dynamics UK Ltd. Commerce in San Francisco. Board member of Netcom Consultants AB, Cuptronic AB, Crowdsoft AB och Atollic AB. Education: Master of Science degree from the Chalmers Master of Science in Engineering from the Majored in quality & production control Master of Science in Electronics Engineering, Institute of Technology. Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. at Luleå University of Technology, Master Lund Institute of Engineering. of Science. Background: SVP and Head of Group Function Sales at Directorships in Sweden and the US as, Senior executive positions in the fields of Vice President and General Manager of Ericsson 2015-2016. SVP and Head of Group for example, Chairman of DIBS Payment procurement and logistics (Tesla Motors), Design unit Radio Networks in Ericsson AB. Function Sales & Marketing at Ericsson Services Sverige and Netreflector, Inc. procurement and outsourcing (NXP 2011–2015. Formerly, SVP and Head of Senior executive positions, such as CEO Semiconductors) and global procurement Business Unit Multimedia, and Executive of Programator Industri AB, Executive VP (Sony Ericsson). Vice President and Head of Sales and Timeline Inc., Director, Business Development Marketing at Sony Ericsson Mobile Dun & Bradstreet Software, CEO of Captura Communications. International and CEO of Unisite Software Inc. During 2006-2010, member of the Swedish government’s council for the sale of stateowned companies. Shareholding in Fingerprint Cards 116,950 Class B shares. 0 0 0 February 28, 2017: Independent in relation to major shareIndependent in relation to major ­­shareIndependent in relation to major shareUrban Fagerstedt was in 2016 dependent as a holders and the company and executive holders and the company and executive holders and the company and executive major shareholder. management. management. management. FINGERPRINTS Board of Directors 55 MICHAEL HALLÉN ÅSA HEDIN TOMAS MIKAELSSON CARL-JOHAN VON PLOMGREN Board member since 2016. Born 1964. Board member since 2016. Born 1962. Board member since 2016. Born in 1956. Board member since 2015. Born 1961. Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Employment and other Board CEO, Vizrt Group AS. Chairman of the Board Member of the Board of Nolato AB, Tobii Member of the Board and CEO of Zetiq AB Sales Director Northern Europe & Chief assignments: of Paxport AB. AB, Immunova AB, Cellavision AB and E. and Member of the Board of Sourcingprovider Compliance Officer, Villeroy & Boch Öhman J:or Fonder AB. Industrial Advisor Sweden AB. Gustavsberg, co-opted Board member of to the Department of Microtechnology and Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg AB, Villeroy & Nanoscience at Chalmers AB. Boch Gustavsberg AS (Norway), Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg AS (Denmark) and Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg OY. Education: Master of Science in Engineering Physics Master of Science in biophysics from the IHM Business School, Stockholm. Graduate in Law, Stockholm University. from Chalmers University of Technology in University of Minnesota and a bachelor’s degree Gothenburg. in physics from Gustavus Adolphus College. Background: Longstanding experience of senior executive Longstanding experience of senior executive Experience in marketing and sales. Extensive Considerable professional experience from positions in technology and software compositions in the field of medical equipment, knowledge of the telecom and mobile senior positions in the IT industry during panies, such as former positions as CEO of from such global companies as Elekta, communications industry, senior executive 1987–2001, gained from such IT companies Qmatic, Boss Media and IFS, and a number Gambro and Siemens Healthcare and has positions in such companies as Omnipoint as Dell, Compaq and WM-data, and subseof Board assignments for technology and in-depth microtechnology expertise. (T-Mobile) and Affinity Internet, as well as quently, as of 2001, from industrial and finance software companies. broad experience of marketing and sales in companies, such as General Electric, Havells Europe. Sylvania and Villeroy & Boch Gustavsberg. Member of various sector boards such as Belysningsbranschen (industry association for lighting companies) in Sweden, and its equivalents in Denmark, LWF, and Finland, FLIP, as well as Ecogaisma of Latvia. Shareholding in Fingerprint Cards 4,500 Class B shares. 0 0 110,825 Class B shares. February 28, 2017: Independent in relation to major shareIndependent in relation to major shareDependent in relation to the company and Independent in relation to major shareholders and the company and executive holders and the company and executive independent in relation to major shareholders and the company and executive management. management. holders. management. 56 FINGERPRINTS Executive Management Executive Management CHRISTIAN FREDRIKSON JOHAN WILSBY HEIDI BERGER TED HANSSON President and CEO since 2016. CFO since 2015. Senior VP Marketing and Communication since 2017. Senior VP Business Line Mobile since 2017. Born: 1964 Born: 1966. Born: 1978. Born: 1976. Education: Master of Science in Engineering, Turku Education: Bachelor’s degree in Business Education: B.A. degree in Media and Communication Education: Masters degree in Electrical Engineering, University. Administration, Stockholm School of Economics. Science, Jönköping University. Blekinge Institute of Technology. Previous assignments: CEO of F-Secure, 2012–2016, Previous assignments: CFO of Transmode, 2013–2015. Previous assignments: A number of senior executive Previous assignments: Country Manager Fingerprint prior to that active in a number of senior executive CFO of Hewlett-Packard in the Nordic and Baltic positions within communication and marketing in such Cards China, 2013–2016, Marketing Director/China positions in Nokia Networks. countries from 2008–2013. Prior to that, employed listed companies as Saab AB, SSAB AB and OMX Nordic Country Manager Nanoradio AB China, 2010–2013, by Microsoft in positions including CFO for Western Exchange AB as well as Norrköping Municipality. Customer Engineering Director ST-Ericsson Korea, Europe, 2004–2007. 2007–2010, Software Manager Ericsson Mobile Platforms Taiwan, 2006–2007, Software Consultant Ericsson Mobile Platforms China, 2003–2006. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 21,750 Class B shares Shareholding in Fingerprints: 47,500 Class B shares Shareholding in Fingerprints: 0 Shareholding in Fingerprints: 0 Management’s share holding on February 28, 2017. FINGERPRINTS Executive Management 57 JAN JOHANNESSON PONTUS JÄGEMALM JONAS SPANNEL NIKLAS STRID Senior VP Strategy & Corporate Development since 2013. Senior VP Research & Development since 2009. Senior VP Operations & Quality since 2013. Senior VP Business Line PC & Embedded since 2017. Born: 1969. Born: 1971. Born: 1963. Born: 1972. Education: Master of Science Electronics Engineering, Education: Master of Science and PhD in Engineering Education: Military training at the former Officers’ Education: Master of Science in Electronics Lund Institute of Engineering, MSCEE. Consumer Physics, Chalmers University of Technology, College, War College and the Swedish Armed Forces Engineering, Lund Institute of Engineering, MSCEE. ­Marketing Strategy, Kellogg School of Management Gothenburg. Staff. Business Administration at Örebro University. at Northwestern University. Previous assignments: VP, Head of Strategic Previous assignments: Extensive international Previous assignments: Director of Electronics Previous assignments: Senior project manager, Planning ST-Ericsson, Director Portfolio ­experience, including Technical Lead and Head Sourcing and VP Strategic Sourcing at Sony Mobile. Program Manager Ericsson BU Modems, ST-Ericsson. Management Ericsson Mobile Platforms. of System Design at Displaytech Inc, USA Senior Advisor Northstream. Shareholding in Fingerprints: 26,250 Class B shares Shareholding in Fingerprints: 800,125 Class B shares Shareholding in Fingerprints: 50,000 Class B shares Shareholding in Fingerprints: 5,000 Class B shares Management’s share holding on February 28, 2017. 58 FINGERPRINTS Administration report Administration report FINGERPRINTS’ OPERATIONS Götaland, Sweden. The company’s share has registered with the Swedish Companies Registra• Fingerprints launches complete biometric Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) is a leading highbeen listed on Nasdaq OMX Nordic since 1998 tion Office (Bolagsverket) on January 3, 2017. module. tech company that develops, produces and and as of 2015 the share is quoted on this marThe Fingerprint Cards Class B continued to • Fingerprints launches touch sensor for the low ­markets biometric technology that through the ket’s Large Cap list. be one of the most traded shares on ­Nasdaq price segment. analysis and matching of an individual’s unique (OMX) Stockholm during 2016. • Fingerprints appoints Christian Fredrikson as biometric properties verifies the person’s idenSIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR Other significant events were communicated new President and CEO. tity. A secure and convenient user experience During 2016, Fingerprints’ powerful growth conregularly in press releases during 2016: made this possible, beyond keys and pins. tinued. Sales increased 129% compared with THIRD QUARTER 2016 Finger­prints’ technology offers world-class per2015 to SEK 6,638 M and this growth occurred FIRST QUARTER 2016 • Christian Fredrikson takes office as President formance, advantages including unique image while maintaining profitability. The operating • 26 mobile devices fitted with Fingerprints’ and CEO on August 1. quality, ­extreme robustness and low power conmargin rose to 39% from 31% in 2015. touch sensor were announced by the following • 36 mobile units equipped with Fingerprints’ sumption and complete biometric systems. With The number of product launches containing the manufacturers: 360/QiKu, Coolpad, Gionee, sensors were launched by 16 different OEM these advantages, in combination with very low company’s technology in the consumer market Hisense, Huawei, Lenovo, LG, Meizu, Oppo, customers production costs, the technology can be implecontinued to increase. 136 mobile phone models Sony, Vivo, Xiaomi. • Fingerprints completed buyback of own shares. mented in large volume products, such as containing Fingerprints’ fingerprint technology • Zwipe and Fingerprints enter into strategic smartphones, tablets and smart cards where were launched during 2016, including products partnership. FOURTH QUARTER 2016 demands for these characteristics are extremely from the world’s largest and best known brands of • Fingerprints launches a touch sensor under • Fingerprints’ touch sensor included in Google’s high. Fingerprints technology has been tested smartphones, smart cards, PCs and embedded glass. new Pixel phones. thoroughly in several fields of application. solutions: ­Samsung and Google are two examples. • Fingerprints increases fingerprint sensor • Johan Carlström, former CEO, resigns from Fingerprints continued to invest in developing ­security. his employment at Fingerprints. GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY new products, partnerships with relevant partners • Fingerprints provides fingerprint sensor tech• The Nomination Committee at Fingerprints The Annual Report encompasses the fiscal year in high-priority business segments and a strengthnology to the automotive industry. ahead of the 2016 Annual General Meeting is January 1 – December 31, 2016. ening of the offering of biometric and fingerprint • The number of shares is increased by 1,300,000 appointed. Fingerprint Cards AB (publ), (Corporate Registechnology to the market. The portfolio of products Class B shares due to the exercise of warrants • First product launch of Fingerprints’ sensors tration Number 556154-2381), is the Parent Combecame both broader and deeper in respect of (after split 6,500,000). under glass. pany of a Group that includes seven subsidiaries: areas of use, technical performance and function• Fingerprints cancels Extraordinary ­General The entire workforce in Sweden is employed by ality; for example, ultrathin sensors for smart SECOND QUARTER 2016 Meeting. the Parent Company. During 2016, new subsidiarcards and technology for sensors under glass. • 42 mobile devices fitted with Fingerprints’ touch • Fingerprints launches ultrathin fingerprint ies were established in China and Taiwan. The At the end of 2016, Fingerprints was Sweden’s sensor were announced by the following manusensors for smart cards. operations of these companies consist of marketmost innovative company in terms of the number facturers: 360/QiKu, Coolpad, Gionee, HTC, • Nasdaq Stockholm Disciplinary Committee ing and customer support. of patent applications in relation to sales. Huawei, ivvi, Lenovo, LG, Meitu, Nubia, Oneplus, orders Fingerprints to pay fine. In 2016, all external business operations were The Group continued to be attractive and Oppo, Sharp, Sony, Vivo, Xiaomi, ZUK, ZTE. • Fingerprints adjusts its revenue guidance conducted in the Parent Company, Fingerprint approximately 200 new employees were • Fingerprints introduces improved algorithm for for 2016. Cards AB, which is also where all decisive decirecruited. smartphones. • Fingerprints communicates its revenue sions are taken, such as about transactions, In 2016, all warrants from the TO5 and TO6 • Fingerprints holds Annual General Meeting ­guidance for 2017. financing, the product portfolio, research and programs were exercised. TO5 led to subscription and makes changes to the Board of Directors. • Fingerprints FPC1025 touch sensor included development, intellectual property rights and of 6.5 million shares and TO6 to 1.7 million shares. • Fingerprints presents long-term financial in Samsung’s new Notebook 9 PC line. strategies. This contributed SEK 97 M to the Parent Company ­objectives. • 32 mobile units equipped with Fingerprints The Parent Company’s registered office is in in the form of shareholders’ equity. 870,000 shares • Fingerprints implements share split and sensors launched. the municipality of Gothenburg, County of Västra were redeemed at December 27, 2016 but were ­announces decision to buy back shares. FINGERPRINTS Administration report 59 EARNINGS TREND (60), because shareholders’ equity increased TREND IN CASH FLOW Each warrant entitled the holder to subscribe Consolidated revenues for 2016 increased to SEK more than total assets. Cash flow from operations continued to improve for one new Class B share for SEK 18.03. Exer6,638 M (2,900), up 129%. The profit for the year Fixed assets increased to SEK 101 M (71), considerably during 2016. The sharply increasing cise of the warrants resulted in share capital amounted to SEK 2,035 M in 2016 (798). primarily because of capitalization of developoperating profit generated a positive contribution rising by SEK 67,840. This trend is attributable to the technological ment expenditure. The share of fixed assets in of SEK 2,614 M (910) to cash flow. Cash flow from The Annual General Meeting in May 2016 and market position captured by Fingerprints. relation to total assets declined as a result of the components of changes in working capital ­resolved to implement a five-for-one share split Gross profit for the year increased to SEK the expanding balance sheet. were affected by an increase in capital tied up in and to implement a buyback of Class B shares. 3,165 M (1,255) and the gross margin rose to 48% The growth in business volume and a larger current receivables, which had a negative impact The share buybacks were implemented during the (43). The higher gross profit derived directly from product portfolio at various processing rates reof SEK 913 M (neg: 519), as a direct result of the second and third quarters. The number of bought the increase in sales. In combination, efforts to sulted in increased levels of both accounts receivsharply increased sales, the need of increased back shares totaled 10,424,000 for SEK 1,053, M. optimize production and distribution, the content able outstanding and inventories. Inventories inventories, which had a negative effect of SEK Following the exercise of warrants, compleof the product mix and a relative decrease in the increased to SEK 673 M (153.0) and outstanding 520 M (neg: 54), due to a larger product portfolio, tion of the share split and the share buybacks, portion of fixed costs in the cost of goods sold accounts receivable rose to SEK 1,132 M (618). as well as the need to be able to supply goods to the number of Class A shares at year-end totaled contributed to the higher gross margin. The At the same time, current liabilities inmatch the increasing sales. This negative impact 6,000,000 and the number of Class B shares was portion of fixed costs in relation to the cost of creased, resulting in accounts payable at yearon cash was partly offset by an increase of SEK 307,967,675. The number of shares repurchased goods sold declined because the percentage end amounting to SEK 822 M (548) and other 433 M (530) in current liabilities. Following these shares in treasury accounted for 10,424,000 of materials costs accounted for an ever-larger current liabilities to SEK 319 M (215). changes in working capital, the cash flow conthe total of shares outstanding amounting to share of the cost of goods sold, thus favorably The Annual General Meeting in May 2016 tributed by operating activities increased to SEK 313,967,675 and the total number of voting rights affecting the gross margin. resolved to implement a buyback of Class B 1,130 M (910). amounting to 367,967,675. Operating profit for the year increased to shares from the market. During June to SeptemCash flow from investing activities amounted SEK 2,613 M (910) and the operating margin ber 2016, 10,424,000 Class B shares were bought to a negative SEK 78 M (neg: 26) and cash flow FINANCE POLICY rose to 39% (31). back for SEK 1,052 M. The buybacks had an from financing activities to a negative SEK 956 M Fingerprints’ financial policy regulates and clariThe expanded organization resulted in an equivalent negative impact on the company’s (pos: 47), including the buyback of shares, but a fies responsibilities and provides guidelines increase in operating costs. By far the largest liquidity. positive SEK 97 M (47) excluding the buyback of relating to specific areas in financing, the grantincrease occurred in technology development, However, despite the share buybacks, cash shares. The buybacks of shares resulted in an ing of credit, investment and currency manageas well as sales, but these components’ percentand bank balances increased and amounted to outflow of cash and cash equivalents by SEK ment in an effort to support the operations, age of sales still remained lower than in 2015 SEK 1,162 M (1,031) at year end. 1,053 M (–). manage financial risk and control its impact on because in relative terms sales increased more, Otherwise, the increase in other current In 2016, warrants were exercised from the the company’s financial position, earnings and whereby the operating margin also improved ­receivables and liabilities was related to the TO5 incentive program in the first quarter and cash flow. year-on-year. Exchange-rate effects are recoggrowing business volume. from the TO6 in the fourth quarter, resulting in The principal net currency flow is from USD nized in operating profit under the item Other SEK 97 M (48) being contributed to the Group. to SEK, whereby a key aspect of Fingerprints’ external income and expenses. TREND IN NET INVESTMENTS, DEPRECIATION/­ Combined, the net change in cash and cash financial work has been to formulate a strategy Profit after financial items for the year inAMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT LOSSES equivalents for the whole of 2016 amounted to for sales in USD and purchasing in SEK. Due to creased to SEK 2,614 M (910), since financial During 2016, investments totaled 78 MSEK (26). SEK 96 M (932). the increasing net surplus from sales denomiitems had no significant impact. The increase in Of these, investments in capitalized development nated in USD and the rising operating expenses profit before tax also resulted in a rise in income and intangible fixed assets accounted for SEK TREND IN SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND FINANCING that are primarily denominated in SEK, there is tax, which amounted to a cost of SEK 579 M in 63 M (17), tangible fixed assets for SEK 22 M (8) In 2016, warrants from the TO5 and TO6 proa continuous need to convert USD to SEK. Pur2016 (cost: 112). and financial fixed assets SEK M (1.0). grams were exercised to subscribe for a total of chasing, manufacturing and sales are essentially In total, the Group’s net profit for the year was Total depreciation/amortization according 8,196,000 new Class B shares. The subscription conducted in USD. Fluctuations in other exSEK 2,035 M (798). to plan increased during 2016 to an expense period for both programs expired in 2016 and change rates have a limited impact on earnings. The quarterly trend for profit was also positive of SEK 49 M (expense: 43). Of this, amortization since there were no additional programs at the To a very great extent, cash assets are deposited and a profit was reported for all quarters. Conaccording to plan of intangible fixed assets end of 2016, all decided warrants programs had in banks in Sweden. Fluctuations in other exsolidated earnings per share for the whole of ­accounted for an expense of SEK 41 M (37) and thus been completed. change rates have a minor impact on earnings. 2016 increased to SEK 6.40 (2.53). tangible fixed assets for an expense of SEK 7 M The TO5 warrants program contributed SEK According to the financial policy, currency hedging (expense: 6). 67 M to the Parent Company. using derivative instruments is not permissible. FINANCIAL POSITION Accordingly, the total amounts recognized Each warrant entitled the holder to subscribe See Note 24, for further information about finanAs a result of the favorable profitability during for intangible fixed assets in 2016 increased for one new Class B share for SEK 52.35. Exercial risks. 2016, Fingerprints’ financial position ­improved to SEK 71 M (50) and tangible fixed assets to cise of the warrants resulted in share capital significantly. The higher sales, which resulted in SEK 29 M (21) while financial fixed assets rising by SEK 260,000. a net profit, increased equity to SEK 2,226 M ­declined to SEK M (1.0). The TO6 warrants program contributed SEK (1,147). The equity/assets ratio increased to 64% 30 M to the Parent Company. 60 FINGERPRINTS Administration report ORGANIZATION AND PERSONNEL Expenditure in technological development is Shares Votes at EXPECTATIONS REGARDING FUTURE During 2016, the organization continued to grow recognized partly by being expensed in the ConShareand capital, % year-end ­PERFORMANCE sharply. The total number of employees, includsolidated statement of comprehensive income holder 2016* 2015* 2016* 2015* Fingerprints will not issue any guidance for 2017. ing both employees and consultants, increased (the income statement for the Parent Company) Sunfloro AB 1.91 1.90 16.31 16.21 The first quarter is the seasonally weakest to 438 at year-end from 254 at the beginning of under the heading Development costs, and in period for sales of smartphones. As a result of the year. Since the start of 2013 until the end of part by being capitalized in the Consolidated Class of the high penetration of fingerprint sensors, the share Number of shares Number of votes 2016, the number of employees has risen from statement of financial position (the balance seasonal pattern for the company is becoming 28 to 438. sheet for the Parent Company) Capitalized develA 6,000,000 6,000,000 60,000,000 60,000,000 more like the pattern for the smartphone market. The number of employees on December 31, opment expenditure within intangible fixed asAs previously communicated, revenues in the first B 307,967,675 310,195,675 307,967,675 310,195,675 2016 was 306 (150), of whom 244 (117) were men sets. Capitalization occurs following assessment quarter of 2017 will be impacted by the stock­ and 62 (33) women. Accordingly, including emof the project’s commercial, economic and techTotal 313,967,675 316,195,675 367,967,675 370,195,675 piling that the company has seen throughout the ployees and consultants, Fingerprints had 438 nical potential, the future value for the Group, Shareholdings of at least one-tenth of the voting supply chain. Although underlying demand for the (254) employees on December 31, 2016. Incontrol over the product/solution, the ability to rights for all shares at December 31, 2016 company’s fingerprint sensors remains favorable, creases have occurred in all countries where complete the development and the existence of it will be affected in the short term in part by the Fingerprints has established its own operations. a market for the product. Depreciation rates are Sunfloro AB 16.31% inventories accumulated in the supply chain and Ahead of 2017, an organizational change was determined on the basis of the technical and in part naturally also by the successes achieved launched in late 2016. The new organization comcommercial lifetime of the product/solution re*Five-for-one split implemented during 2016 by the company’s various OEM customers in the prises three organizational units to ensure the lated to the existing market. As a result, the The table above includes 870,000 B shares smartphone market. Finger­prints’ assessment focus on the market segments “­Mobile” (smartperiod of amortization varies among products ­registered on January 3, 2017. is that a number of these factors will adversely phones and tablets), “Smart cards” and “PC and and projects. impact revenues in the first quarter of 2017, Embedded” (PCs and embedded systems in the In 2016, the Group’s expenses for technologiINCENTIVE PROGRAMS which will therefore be significantly weaker than Internet of Things). The company is retaining and cal development and patents increased to SEK In 2016, warrants from the TO5 and TO6 programs in the first quarter of 2016. further developing the joint R&D organization, 367 M (195), of which SEK 63 M (17) has been were exercised: with a focus on supporting these three business capitalized in the Consolidated statement of fiTO5, with a term until March 5, 2016, was SEASONAL FLUCTUATIONS lines by developing new innovative products and nancial position and the remaining SEK 304 M approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting As the penetration of fingerprint sensors in the building competencies in new technology areas. (177) has been expensed in the Consolidated (EGM) on March 4, 2013. All of the program’s smartphone segment has increased, the compaSales and product management are being coordistatement of comprehensive income. In 2016, remaining 1,300,000 warrants were exercised ny’s market has increasingly displayed the same nated along the business lines, a companythe portion of expenditure related to technological to subscribe for Class B shares. pattern and seasonal fluctuations as the other wide communications department is being credevelopment and patents as a proportion of total Exercise occurred in the first quarter at a rate parts of the mobile phone industry, albeit subject ated and other company-wide functions will be operating expenses, excluding the cost of materiof one Class B share for each warrant and, folto a certain time lag. retained to maximize ­efficiency. als but including capitalized development expenlowing the share split implemented in June 2016, The fourth quarter tends to account for a large diture, increased in the Group to SEK 367 M (195) this corresponded to 6,500,000 shares. The price share of the annual volume of mobile phones and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS of a total SEK 610 M (394), representing 60% (49). per warrant was SEK 1.79 at the time of issue the first quarter is usually the weakest. Fingerprints has achieved a leading position Correspondingly for the Parent Company in and the future subscription price was set at SEK in fingerprint technology, through continuous 2016, expenses for technological development 52.35. The corresponding amounts after the GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION OF initiatives aimed at further developing biometric increased to SEK 367 M (198), of which SEK 63 M implemented share split were SEK 0.36 and BOARD MEMBERS technology. (17) has been capitalized in the Parent Company’s SEK 10.47. The 2016 AGM resolved that the Board of DirecAt the end of 2016, more than 55% (55) of the balance sheet, and the remaining SEK 304 M TO6, with a term until December 27, 2016, tors should be paid fixed director fees totaling resources in the Group’s organization were fo(181) has been expensed in the Parent Company’s was approved by an EGM on November 6, 2013. SEK 4,050,000, of which SEK 850,000 to the cused on technological development activities income statement. In the Parent Company, the All of the program’s remaining 339,200 warrants Chairman of the Board and SEK 400,000 to each and, together with the engineers in the customer equivalent portion in 2016 amounted to SEK 367 M were exercised to subscribe for Class B shares. other Board member. Fees for work on commitsupport organization, these two departments (198) of a total SEK 622 M (393), or 59% (50). The price per warrant was SEK 4.53 at the tees will be payable in an amount of SEK accounted for 71% (71) of all employees. time of issue and the future subscription price 460,000, to be distributed as follows: OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE was set at SEK 90.16. Exercise occurred followAudit Committee: SEK 150,000 to the ChairDuring 2016, the number of shareholders ining the share split implemented in June, whereby man and SEK 75,000 to each other member. creased to 63,467 from 36,541 at the beginning each warrant was exercised for five Class B Remuneration Committee: SEK 80,000 to the of the year. No change occurred in ownership shares at an exercise price of SEK 18.03 per Chairman and SEK 40,000 to each other member. representing at least one-tenth of the voting share and a total of 1,696,000 Class B shares. If tax-related prerequisites for invoicing exist, rights. At the end of 2016, Sunfloro AB continued There were no long-term incentive programs and on condition that it is cost-neutral for the to hold all Class A shares, which after the split at the end of 2016. in 2016 amounted to 6,000,000 shares (1,200,000). FINGERPRINTS Administration report 61 company, the invoicing of director fees from the DIVIDEND AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES concerning such factors as market growth, comDESCRIPTION OF THE WORK OF THE BOARD member’s own company will be permissible. If a Board of Directors’ proposal to 2017 AGM: petition and average sales prices. OF DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR Board member invoices his/her director fee via a The Board proposes that no dividend be paid Growth: Fingerprints’ objective is that its reveThe Board’s work follows an annual cycle that company, the fee will be increased by an amount for the 2016 fiscal year. In addition, the Board nues will show an average annual growth rate of starts with the statutory Board meeting after the corresponding to social security contributions proposes that the AGM resolve to reduce the approximately 20 percent from 2017 to 2019. AGM. 2016 continued to be characterized by a and statutory VAT. share capital through the cancelation of the Profitability: Fingerprints’ objective is to high level of activity that required Board decisions bought back shares. The Board also proposes that achieve an operating margin of between 30 and and consultation: continuous decisions regarding GUIDELINES FOR REMUNERATION OF the AGM resolve to implement a bonus issue. 35 percent during the period from 2017 to 2019. sales and the market, development projects, SENIOR EXECUTIVES The Board will also propose to the AGM that Capital structure: Fingerprints’ objective is to general meetings and incentive programs as well The 2016 AGM resolved that the Remuneration the Board be authorized on one or several occahave a strong balance sheet. Surplus capital is to as the official appointment of Christian Fredrikson Committee, which is appointed from among sions during the period up to the following AGM to be returned the shareholders through the buyas the new President and CEO. The Board conBoard members, should prepare guidelines in make decisions on the buyback of the company’s back of own shares and/or dividends. vened 20 meetings during 2016. A more detailed respect of pay and other employment terms for B shares, although subject to limit that the numdescription of corporate governance in 2016, the President and senior executives, and present ber of new shares will not exceed 10% of all of the EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE-SHEET DATE including regulations, General Meetings, the the Board with proposals in respect of these shares in the company. The shares are to be acJanuary–March 21, 2017 Nomination Committee, the composition and issues. The Board decides on pay and other required on Nasdaq Stockholm. In addition, the • All of Fingerprints’ touch sensors are now work of the Board and internal governance promuneration of the President. The President is Board will propose that during the period up to the available for PCs. cesses and internal control, is presented in the to determine the salary and other remuneration following AGM it be authorizes on one or several • Lars Söderfjell steps down from the Fingerseparate Corporate Governance Report. payable to other senior executives in accordance occasions to make decisions on the transfer of the prints Board. with the Board’s guiding principles. The term company’s Class B treasury shares. The shares • Fingerprints acquires Delta ID. Annual General Meeting (AGM) “other senior executives” refers to the individuals are to be transferred via Nasdaq Stockholm. • Fingerprints CFO, Johan Wilsby, to leave the The AGM will be held at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, who, in addition to the President, constitute The purpose of the authorizations is to enable company in July 2017. April 20, 2017 at the hotel Gothia Towers, ­Executive Management. The remuneration levels the Board to adapt the company’s capital struc• Fingerprints is expecting a weaker first quarter ­Gothenburg. are to be market-based. Remuneration comprises ture and thus be able to contribute to increased and that the short-term challenges will persist Proposed treatment of the company’s accua fixed basic salary, variable remuneration calcushareholder value. The Board of Directors’ commulated profit. in the second quarter. Consequently, the comlated according to predetermined targets, other plete motions concerning the dividend, the share The following amounts are at the disposal of pany has decided to refrain from making forebenefits, pension and financial instruments in the cancelations and the authorizations will be availthe AGM (SEK): casts for the full year 2017. The dividend proform of warrants. able at the time that the official notice of the The breakdown between fixed salary and variAGM is distributed. posal that was previously communicated in the year-end report has been withdrawn. Share premium reserve 79,453,248 able remuneration is to be proportionate to the The company’s long-term financial objectives executive’s responsibilities and authorities. The encompass three areas of focus: growth, profitRetained earnings brought variable remuneration payable to the President ability and capital structure. The objectives are SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS forward 0 and other senior executives may not exceed 100% being communicated to ensure that shareholdFingerprints is affected by various factors and the Net profit for the year 1,518,408,207 of their fixed annual salary. Pensions are to be ers, analysts and other external stakeholders following effects on pretax profit arise in the event based on defined-contribution pension schemes. receive information about the ambitions of the of a 1% change in different variables (SEK M): Total 1,597,861,455 The period of notice from the company is not to Board of Directors and company management 2016 2015 exceed six months. During the period of terminabeyond the current fiscal year. The Board proposes that the net profit for the tion of no longer than six months, full salary and Since the market for biometric solutions is Change in prices +/– 66 +/– 29 year, as well as unrestricted funds and the profit employment benefits are payable. If employment growing rapidly, the factors of uncertainty are brought forward, be treated as follows: SEK/USD exchange rate +/– 32 +/– 13 is terminated by the company, severance pay is considerable. The company has therefore decided To be carried forward: SEK 1,597,861,455. payable in an amount corresponding to no more to continue to formulate the objectives as ambiFor more information regarding the compaThis analysis has been conducted in a static than 12 monthly salaries. Resolutions regarding tions over three-year rolling periods. Accordingly, ny’s earnings and financial position, refer to the environment, but in reality, the situation is more share and share-price-based incentive programs the financial objectives pertain to the years 2017 following financial statements and the accompacomplex. Any change in the SEK/USD exchange are to be made by the AGM. The Board of Directo 2019. nying notes. rate could also affect the retail price, as well as tors is to be entitled to disapply the guiding princiIt is important to emphasize that the financial the fact that there are time-delaying effects in ples if, in an individual case, there are special objectives do not constitute forecasts but a level any changes. reasons for doing so. of ambition that the Board and company management regard as corresponding to reasonable expectations for the company. When establishing the objectives, assumptions have been made 62 FINGERPRINTS Risks and risk management Fingerprints’ risks and risk management In common with all business operations, Fingerprints’ business is exposed to To anticipate risks and minimize their impact, Fingerprints has processes for risks. Such risks involve incorrect management by Fingerprints, and events continuously identifying and managing risks that could impact the operaor decisions that are beyond the company’s control and can lead to disruptions. These processes includes probability and consequence assessments tions to the operations, damage or loss with a material impact on the comof operational risks, market risks, financial risks and legal and other risks. pany. Fingerprints’ risk management is decisive to the company’s success. Operational risks 1 Delivery capacity of contracted suppliers IMPACT 2 Insufficient competence sourcing 3 Loss of key competencies 4 Reduced technological lead 1. 9. 5 Leaks of corporate secrets 14. Market risks High 18. 4. 6 Geopolitical instability 15. 7 Supplier costs 13. 10. 8 Economic fluctuations 9 Currency risk 10 Loss of customers and price pressure due to increased competition 19. 11. Financial risks 7. 2. 16. 5. Medium 11 Credit risk 6. 3. 12 Financing 12. 8. 20. Legal risks 13 Product defects and product liability 14 Competitors’ IP 15 Value of proprietary IP 16 Corruption 17. Low Other risks 21. 17 Conflict minerals 18 Limitations on planned business development PROBABILITY 19 Biometrics and integrity Low Medium High 20 Internal scalability 21 Discrimination and limited diversity Operational risks Market risks Financial risks Legal risks Other risks FINGERPRINTS Risks and risk management 63 HOW FINGERPRINTS RISK IS IMPACTED RISK CONTROL PROBABILITY IMPACT TREND Operational risks Insufficient delivery capacity • Financial damage as a result of • Maintaining several suppliers of hardware and input materials. Low High 1. among contracted suppliers delivery disruption Insufficient competence • Planned growth is delayed • Maintain attractiveness as an employer Medium Medium 2. sourcing • Impact on competitiveness • Distinct requirement profiles and professional recruitment process • Use of all available channels to secure the right expertise for all areas of business, incl. acquisitions Loss of key competencies • Impact on competitiveness • Create and maintain a strong corporate culture and a learning Medium Medium 3. organization. • Offer development opportunities and market-based terms of employment • Improved internal communication Reduced technological lead • Loss of competitiveness • Continuous product development High High 4. • Expanded investments in research and development Leaks and trespass in respect • Economic consequences, and • IT and information policy High Medium of corporate secrets impact of rumor mongering in • Secure storage, communication and traceability of sensitive corporate 5. connection with leaks of developinformation ment information • Background checks when employing staff and hiring consultants • Application of Code of Conduct Market risks Geopolitical instability • Loss of business opportunities for • Minimize exposure to political instability through an attractive product Medium Medium 6. local/regional political reasons mix and a broader customer base in terms of the number of customers and geographic spread Increase in supplier costs • Reduced margins due to increase • Ensure market-aligned pricing by using several suppliers Medium Medium 7. in supplier costs • Continuous reviews of the suppliers’ pricing, and market analyses Economic fluctuations • Demand fluctuations impact the • Reduce cyclicality through broad product portfolio and customer base Medium Medium 8. company’s revenues • Systematized business intelligence Currency risk • Negative financial impact from • Fingerprints has elected not to hedge its net exposure in USD, since Medium High 9. currency fluctuations hedging may itself be viewed as speculation on the direction of the exchange rate Loss of customers and price • Sales revenues and market shares • Maintain the faith and satisfaction of customers High High pressure due to increased decline due to price pressure • Continue to develop highly refined systems featuring differentiating 10. competition and customer requirements for a software number • Maintain direct customer contacts of suppliers • Cultivate new potential customers in various segments 64 FINGERPRINTS Risks and risk management HOW FINGERPRINTS RISK IS IMPACTED RISK CONTROL PROBABILITY IMPACT TREND Financing Credit risk • The counterparty does not fulfill • Compliance with credit policy and established process for credit assessLow Medium 11. his/her payment obligations ment and setting limits • Use of credit insurance Insufficient capacity to finance • Limited growth in operations, • Primary source of financing is to generate a positive cash flow Low Medium 12. development and production • Maintain satisfactory communications with the capital market to secure • Loss of competitiveness financing via shareholders Legal risks Product defects and product • Financial consequences and impact • Ensure the right product design and that all of Fingerprints’ hardware Medium High liability on customer satisfaction products are tested prior to delivery. 13. • Procedures for managing deviations and product returns • Deviations and product returns are managed by the product portfolio manager and are investigated by the quality organization Inhibited by competitors’ IP • Patents held by others impede • Patent strategy and active patent monitoring High High 14. the application of Fingerprints’ • Close cooperation between patent manager and development department technology • Complementary acquisitions of patents from third parties Value of proprietary IP • Loss of competitiveness due • Maintain well-protected patents and work actively to leverage Low High 15. to patent infringements ­proprietary IP Corruption • Financial consequences and loss of • Apply Fingerprints’ Code of Conduct Medium Medium reputation • Monitor customers, intermediaries and other stakeholders 16. • Targeted training activities • Regular internal audits • Enhance a good culture through tone at the top Other risks Conflict minerals • Impact of rumors, and financial • Annual inspections of our suppliers Low Low consequences should conflict • Only source from EICC-GeSI suppliers 17. minerals find their way into the company’s products Limitations on planned • Entrance barriers, laws and regula• Structured analytical work on documenting demands on our products Medium High 18. business development tions place impediments in the way from various relevant interest groups of creating new segment Biometrics and integrity • Impact on demand if public • Application of TEE (Trusted Execution Environment) to ensure that data Low Medium 19. confidence in biometric solutions cannot be accessed through operating systems and apps. diminishes • Continuous technology development • Increased communication about the security of the company’s products Internal scalability • Growing pains as the company’s in• Creation of scalable solutions regarding organization, processes and High Medium 20. frastructure and working methods IT support have not evolved at the same rate as the numerical development. Discrimination and limited • Positive effects of being a diversi• Determined recruitment process Low Low 21. diversity fied company diminish • Developed relations with universities and colleges, and target-group• Negative impact on attractiveness oriented employer-branding activities as an employer FINGERPRINTS Consolidated financial statements 65 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK M Note 2016 2015 COMMENTS ON THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Revenues 2, 4 6,638.3 2,900.5 Fingerprints’ revenues increased by slightly more than i­ncreasing at a faster rate than costs, thus resulting in 129%. The number of product launches in the market a higher operating margin. Exchange-rate effects are Cost of goods sold 3.9 –3,473.0 –1,645.2 containing the company’s technology continued to rise. recognized in operating profit under the item other Gross profit 3,165.3 1,255.3 Gross profit for the year increased to SEK 3,165.3 external costs and other external income. ExchangeM (1,255.3) and the gross margin rose to 48% (43). rate effects in 2016 were a gain of SEK 45.2 M Selling costs 9 –176.6 –107.8 The improved gross margin was mainly attributable (loss: 3.8). Administrative expenses 8.9 –117.2 –56.8 to changes in product mix and modes of distribution. Operating profit for the year increased to SEK Fixed costs consist of production expenses, and 2,613.1 M (910.3) and the operating margin rose to Development costs 34.9 –304.2 –176.6 amortization of capitalized development expenditure. 39% (31). Above all, investments in research and deOther operating revenues 5 45.8 0.0 A growing share of total development expenditure velopment, sales resources and business development was recognized as development costs in the stateare increasing in line with the growth ambitions and Other operating expenses 6 0.0 –3.8 ment of income and comprehensive income. the focus on innovation. Net profit for the year was Operating profit 4, 7, 9, 25, 26 2,613.1 910.3 While operating expenses increased, due to the SEK 2,034.7 M (798.3). Earnings per share pertain to expanding organization, primarily in technology net profit for the year in relation to the average numFinancial income 10 1.4 0.1 ­development and sales, the share of costs in relation ber of shares outstanding. Financial expenses 10 –1.0 –0.4 to revenues was reduced, because revenues are Profit before tax 4 2,613.5 910.0 Tax 11 –578.8 –111.7 REVENUE, OPERATING RESULT AND GROSS MARGIN Net profit for the year 2,034.7 798.3 SEK M % Earnings per share 12 7,000 60 before dilution (SEK) 6.40 2.53 6,000 45 after dilution (SEK) 6.33 2.48 30 5,000 15 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 4,000 Net profit/loss for the year 2,034.7 798.3 0 3,000 Items that may subsequently be reclassified as profit for the year: –15 Translation differences pertaining to foreign operations. 0.3 –0.2 2,000 Other comprehensive income 0.3 –0.2 –30 Comprehensive income/loss for the year 2,035.0 798.1 1,000 –45 Attributable: Parent Company shareholders 2,035.0 798.1 0 –60 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2,035.0 798.1 Revenue, SEK M Operating result, SEK M Gross margin % 66 FINGERPRINTS Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of financial position SEK M Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 COMMENTS ON THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Assets Fingerprints’ financial position improved sharply Inventories increased to SEK 672.7 M (153.0) and during 2016. The higher revenues, which resulted in accounts receivable to SEK 1,132.1 M (617.9), as a Intangible fixed assets 13 71.4 49.7 a net profit, increased equity. Shares were bought ­result of the increased revenues. Tangible fixed assets 14 29.2 20.6 back in the amount of SEK 1,053 M, which is not Due to the growing business volume, with accounts assigned a value in the balance sheet. Shareholders’ payable and other current liabilities increasing to Financial fixed assets 15 0.0 1.0 equity increased to SEK 2,226.1 M (1,146.8). The SEK 821.6 M (548.5) and SEK 6.7 M (4.0), respectively, Total fixed assets 100.6 71.3 equity/assets ratio rose to 64% (60). the proportion of equity in relation to total assets The share of fixed assets in relation to total assets ­declined. Current assets amounted to SEK 100.6 M (71.3), corresponding to The increase in other current receivables and 2.9% (3.7), primarily due to capitalization of develop­liabilities was due to the growing business. Other Inventories 17 672.7 153.0 ment costs. current receivables include the balance on the tax Accounts receivable 16, 18 1,132.1 617.9 ­account of SEK 369.9 M (0). Other current receivables 413.7 28.6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 21.7 8.0 Cash and cash equivalents 16, 20 1,162.2 1,031.3 Total current assets 3,402.4 1,838.8 Total assets 3,503.0 1,910.1 WORKING CAPITAL SEK M % Shareholders´ equity 21 2,500 700 Share capital 12.9 12.6 Other paid-in capital 854.8 757.7 600 2,000 Translation reserve 0.3 –0.1 500 Retained earnings, including profit for the year 1,358.1 376.6 1,500 Total Shareholders´ equity 2,226.1 1,146.8 400 Provisions 300 1,000 Deferred tax liability 11 136.3 0.0 200 Total provisions 136.3 0.0 500 100 Current liabilities Accounts payable 16 821.6 548.5 0 0 Current tax liability 11 54.1 109.6 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Other current liabilities 22 6.7 4.0 Working capital SEK M % of revenue Prepaid expenses and accrued income 23 258.2 101.2 Total current liabilities 1,140.6 763.3 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 3,503.0 1,910.1 FINGERPRINTS Consolidated financial statements 67 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Retained earnings Total COMMENTS ON CHANGES IN paid-in Translation incl. net profit for shareholders’ ­SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY SEK M Share capital capital reserve the year equity In 2016, all warrants from the TO5 program were Retained earnings incl profit for the year exercised to subscribe for 1,300,000 new Class B Opening shareholders’ equity, Jan 1, 2015 11.7 711.1 0.1 –421.7 301.2 shares. Following a five-for-one split, each existing share was converted into five new shares. An Net profit for the year 798.3 798.3 additional buyback of 10,424,000 own shares was Comprehensive income for the year –0.2 –0.2 implemented during the autumn at a buyback price of SEK 1,053.2 M. At the end of the year, a further Exercise of warrants 0.9 46.6 47.5 1,596,000 Class B shares were subscribed for in the Closing shareholders’ equity, Dec 31, 2015 12.6 757.7 –0.1 376.6 1,146.8 TO6 program. Exercise of warrants contributed SEK 97.4 M to the Parent Company. Opening shareholders’ equity, Jan 1, 2016 12.6 757.7 –0.1 376.6 1,146.8 Net profit for the year 2,034.7 2,034.7 Comprehensive income for the year 0.4 0.4 Buybacks of own shares –1,053.2 –1,053.2 Exercise of warrants * 0.3 97.1 97.4 Closing shareholders’ equity, Dec 31, 2016 12.9 854.8 0.3 1,358.1 2,226.1 * As per December 31 2016 there was issued, but not registred share capital equivalent to 34 SEK thousand (870,000 B-shares). 68 FINGERPRINTS Consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows SEK M Note 2016 2015 COMMENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Operating activities 28 The increased profit for the year generated a positive Of this amount, investments in intangible cash flow from operating activities of SEK 1,130.3 M fixed ­assets accounted for a negative SEK 62.8 M Profit before tax 2,613.5 910.0 (910.4). (neg: 17.2) and tangible fixed assets for a negative Adjustment for non-cash items 14.6 45.6 Cash flow from changes in working capital comSEK 22.1 M (7.8). ponents was negative because of an increase in inTotal depreciation/amortization according to plan, Income tax paid –498.0 –2.1 ventories amounting to a negative SEK 519.7 M (neg: including impairment losses, increased during 2016 Cash flow from operating activities before changes 54.2) and an increase in current receivables amountto an expense of SEK 48.6 M (expense: 43.3). in working capital 2,130.1 953.5 ing to a negative SEK 913.0 M (neg: 519.2) but was offOf this amount, amortization according to plan of set to some extent by an increase in current liabilities intangible fixed assets accounted for SEK 41.1 M Cash flow from changes in working capital by SEK 432.9 M (530.2). (37.3) and depreciation of tangible fixed assets for Cash flow from investing activities increased to a SEK 7.4 M (6.0). Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories –519.7 –54.2 negative SEK 78.3 M (neg: 26.0), with cash flow from fiOverall, this meant that intangible fixed assets Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –913.0 –519.2 nancing activities rising to a negative SEK 955.7 M (pos: ­increased to SEK 71.4 M (49.7), tangible fixed assets 47.4). Buybacks of own shares were charged against fiincreased to SEK 29.2 M (20.6) and financial fixed Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in operating liabilities 432.9 530.3 nancing in an amount of SEK 1,053.2 M (0). Combined, ­assets declined to SEK 0 M (1.0). Cash flow from operating activities 4 1,130.3 910.4 the net change in cash and cash equivalents for the whole of 2016 amounted to SEK 96.3 M (931.8). Investing activities Acquisition of, and in-house developed, intangible fixed assets 13 –62.8 –17.2 CASH AND CASH EQIVALENTS AND CASH FLOW Acquisition of subsidiaries 35 – – SEK M SEK M Acquisition of financial fixed assets – –1.0 1,400 1,200 Sales of tangible fixed assets 14 6.6 – Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14 –22.1 –7.8 1,200 1,000 Cash flow to investing activities 4 –78.3 –26.0 1,000 800 Financing activities 800 600 Repayment of loans 0.0 –0.2 Exercise of warrants 97.5 47.6 600 400 Buybacks of own shares –1,053.2 0.0 400 200 Cash flow from financing activities 4 –955.7 47.4 Cash flow for the year 96.3 931.8 200 0 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 1,031.3 101.9 0 –200 Impact from translation differences on 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 34.6 –2.4 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 28 1,162.2 1,031.3 Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow from operating activities FINGERPRINTS Parent Company financial statements 69 Parent Company income statement Parent company balance sheet SEK M Note 2016 2015 SEK M Note Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Revenues 2, 4 6,638.3 2,900.2 Assets Cost of goods sold 3 –3,473.0 –1,645.2 Fixed assets Gross profit 3,165.3 1,255.0 Intangible fixed assets 13 69.8 47.0 Selling costs –176.6 –108.6 Tangible fixed assets 14 25.9 18.6 Administrative expenses –129.0 –56.8 Financial fixed assets 15 11.8 3.5 Development costs 34 –304.2 –181.4 Total fixed assets 107.5 69.1 Other operating revenues 5 45.9 0.0 Current assets Other operating expenses 6 0.0 –3.4 Inventories 17 672.7 153.0 Operating profit 4, 7, 8, 9, 25, 26 2,601.4 904.8 Receivables from Group companies 2.5 4.2 Result from financial items: 4, 10 Accounts receivable 16, 18 1,132.1 617.9 Interest income and other financial income 1.4 0.1 Other receivables 412.8 28.4 Interest expenses and other financial expenses –0.8 –0.4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 16, 19 19.1 6.8 Profit after financial items 2,602.0 904.5 Cash and bank deposits 16, 20 1,142.3 1,018.0 Appropriations –650.0 0.0 Total current assets 3,381.5 1,828.3 Profit before tax 1,952.0 904.5 Total assets 3,489.0 1,897.4 Tax 11 –433.7 –111.0 Shareholders' equity 21 Net income for the year 1,518.3 793.5 Restricted shareholders' equity Share capital 12.9 12.6 Statutory reserve 41.5 41.5 Fund for development expenses 46.7 0.0 Unrestricted shareholders’ equity Share premium reserve 79.6 525.8 Loss carried forward 0.0 –236.9 Net profit for the year 1,518.3 793.5 Total shareholders’ equity 1,699.0 1,136.5 Untaxed reserves Tax allocation fund 650.0 0.0 Current liabilities Accounts payable 16 820.7 548.2 Liabilities to Group companies 9.2 3.7 Tax liability 11 53.9 109.9 Other current liabilities 22 4.4 2.4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 16, 23 251.8 96.7 Total liabilities and current liabilities 1,140.0 760.9 Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities 3,489.0 1,897.4 70 FINGERPRINTS Parent Company financial statements Total shareholders’ equity and liabilities Restricted shareholders’ equity Unrestricted shareholders’ equity Fund for Total Statutory ­development Share premium Retained Net profit shareholders´ SEK M Share capital reserve ­expenses reserve earnings for the year equity Opening shareholders’ equity, Jan 1, 2015 11.7 41.5 — 481.6 –90.2 –146.7 297.9 Net profit 793.5 793.5 Appropriation of profits –146.7 146.7 0.0 Paid-in warrant premiums ** 0.9 44.2 45.1 Closing shareholders’ equity, Dec. 31, 2015 12.6 41.5 — 525.8 –236.9 793.5 1,136.5 Opening shareholders’ equity, Jan 1, 2016 12.6 41.5 — 525.8 –236.9 793.5 1,136.5 Net profit 1,518.3 1,518.3 Fund for capitalized development expenses 62.3 –62.3 Amortization of revalued assets and capitalized development expenses –15.6 15.6 Purchase of own shares –543.3 –509.9 –1,053.2 Appropriation of profits 793.5 –793.5 0.0 Paid-in warrant premiums *** 0.3 97.1 97.4 Closing shareholders’ equity, Dec. 31, 2016 12.9 41.5 46.7 79.6 0.0 1,518.3 1,699.0 * As per December 31, 2016 there was issued, but not registered share capital equivalent to SEK 34,000 (870,000 B shares). ** Transaction costs for contributed capital amount to SEK 1.4 M ( 1.6). FINGERPRINTS Parent Company financial statements 71 Parent Company statement of cash flows SEK M Note 2016 2015 Operating activities 28 Profit before tax 1,952.0 904.5 Adjustment for non-cash items 661.0 43.2 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,613.0 947.7 Income tax paid –495.3 –1.1 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in inventories –519.7 –54.2 Increase (-)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –909.0 –515.2 Increase (+)/Decrease (-) in operating liabilities 435.0 531.6 Cash flow from operating activities 1,124.0 908.8 Investing activities Acquisition of, and in-house developed, intangible fixed assets 13 –62.8 –17.2 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets 14 –19.9 –7.7 Acquisition of financial fixed assets 15 –2.4 –1.7 Sales of tangible fixed assets 14 6.6 — Cash flow to investing activities –78.5 –26.6 Financing activities Exercise of warrants 97.3 45.2 Purchase of own shares –1,053.2 —­­ Cash flow from financing activities –955.9 45.2 Cash flow for the year 89.6 927.4 Cash and cash equivalents, January 1 1,018.0 93.0 Impact from translation differences on cash and cash equivalents 34.7 –2.4 Cash and cash equivalents, December 31 28 1,142.3 1,018.0 72 FINGERPRINTS Notes Notes to the financial statements NOTE 1 Significant accounting policies rates prevailing on the transaction date. Receivables Amendment to IFRS 11: Recognition of Acquisitions how ­financial instruments are classified and measured. All amounts are in SEK M unless otherwise indicated. and liabilities in foreign currency are measured using of Interests in Joint Operations. The amendment IFRS 9 also introduces a new model for how financial the exchange rates prevailing on the balance-sheet ­entails that IFRS 3 Business Combinations is to be instruments are to be impairment tested, which will The consolidated financial statements comprise date. Exchange-rate gains and losses are recognized ­applied when an acquisition of joint operations consti­ultimately affect our handling of the recognition and Finger­print Cards AB (Publ) (Parent Company) and its in profit or loss. Exchange-rate differences on current tutes a business. Common control transactions are measurement of accounts receivable. IFRS 9 introduces subsidiaries (the Group). The consolidated financial receivables and current liabilities are recognized in excluded. a new model that attaches importance to the expected statements have been prepared in accordance with operating profit and exchange-rate differences on Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28: Investloan losses in a portfolio rather than to the losses that ­International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS/IAS) ­financial receivables and financial liabilities are­ ment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception. have already occurred. The standard is to be applied for issued by the International Accounting Standards ­recognized in net financial items. The update addresses the circumstances under which fiscal years starting on 1 January 2018. We will not be Board (IASB) as adopted by the EU. The Swedish Subsidiaries prepare their financial statements using it is permissible for an investment entity not to consolapplying IFRS 9 retrospectively; instead we will make ­Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 1 the functional currency of the particular company. In idate its subsidiaries and instead recognize them as necessary adjustments at ­January 1, 2018. (Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups) has the consolidated financial statements, the earnings ­financial investments. ­also been applied. and financial position of subsidiaries are restated in Amendment to IAS 27: The update makes it possiIFRS 15 Recognition of Revenue from The Parent Company applies recommendation Swedish kronor. Income and expenses in profit or loss ble to recognize subsidiaries, associated companies Contracts with Customers RFR 2 (Accounting in Legal Entities) issued by the are restated using the average exchange rates for the and joint operations in an entity’s separate financial The standard governs how revenue is to be recog­Financial Reporting Board, whereby the Parent Comparticular year, assets and liabilities are restated statements in accordance with the equity method. nized. IFRS 15 replaces all previously issued standards pany applies the same accounting policies as the ­using the exchange rates prevailing on the balanceAmended IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Stateand interpretations pertaining to revenue recognition Group; i.e. IFRS to the extent possible under Swedish sheet date. Estimated translation differences are recogments. Disclosure Initiative. The amendment entails and becomes effective on January 1, 2018. The princilegislation. nized as a separate item in other comprehensive income. that disclosures need not be submitted should the ples upon which IFRS 15 is based are designed to reThe annual report and the consolidated financial content of the disclosure be considered immaterial, sult in more useful and transparent information about statements were approved for publication by the Board JUDGMENTS AND ESTIMATES even if there is an expressed requirement formulated the company’s revenues. Fingerprints is currently and the President on March 29, 2017. The consolidated IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in a standard. The notes need not be presented in any working to analyze the company’s business model and statement of comprehensive income and statement of Preparing the financial statements in accordance with special order. The lines in the financial statements can associated contracts in order to assess whether IFRS financial position and the Parent Company’s income IFRS requires that Executive Management make judgbe specified additionally if this can be considered 15 will impact future revenue recognition in any way. statement and balance sheet will be adopted by the ments and estimates that can impact the carrying ­appropriate on the basis of the company’s operations. Since in the final analysis Fingerprints delivers goods, Annual General Meeting (AGM) on April 20, 2017. amounts of recognized assets, liabilities, income and The lines in the balance sheet may be aggregated this issue primarily concerns any variable payments The applied accounting policies correspond to those expenses. Judgments and estimates made by Execushould these not be considered material. that could impact revenue recognition connected to an applied in 2015. None of the amendments and intertive Management in the application of IFRS that have The changes and updates described above have ­individual contract. pretations of existing standards that are to be applied a material impact on the financial statements are not impacted the prepared financial statements. The as of fiscal years beginning on January 1, 2016 have a ­described in greater detail in Note 29. update of IAS 1 continuously impacts the content of IFRS 16 Leases material impact on the prepared financial statements. ­financial statements. IFRS 16 will replace IAS 17 and associated interpretaSIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES tions. The standard requires, with some exceptions, MEASUREMENT BASIS APPLIED ­APPLIED NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS THAT that all leased assets be recognized in the balance TO THE PREPARATION OF THE Except for those polices described in more detail, the BECOME EFFECTIVE IN 2017 OR LATER sheet. Accordingly, all leasing contracts will be recogFINANCIAL STATEMENTS accounting policies presented below have been applied A number of new and amended IFRSs have been nized as if they were “financial” in accordance with IAS Assets and liabilities are recognized at cost, except consistently to all of the periods presented in the con­issued but not yet become effective. The IFRSs that 17. The standard is to be applied for fiscal years startfor certain financial assets and liabilities measured solidated financial statements. The Group’s accounting could impact the consolidated financial statements ing on January 1, 2019 or later. Prospective application at fair real value. policies have also been applied consistently by the are described below. Fingerprints has not decided ­­to is permitted on condition that IFRS 15 is also applied. Group companies. introduce any of these prospectively. The standard has not yet been adopted by the EU. Work FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY AND to identify the potential impact that IFRS 16 will have ­PRESENTATION CURRENCY AMENDED ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has not yet been initiated. The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish NEW AND AMENDED IFRS EFFECTIVE IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 with the kronor (SEK), which is also the presentation currency JANUARY 1, 2016 same name. IFRS 9 is divided into three components: CLASSIFICATION, ETC. for the Parent Company and the Group. Accordingly, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: The updates clarify classification and measurement, impairment losses Fixed assets and long-term liabilities essentially the financial statements are presented in SEK. Unless that depreciation/amortization based on revenue genon financial instruments and hedge accounting. The comprise amounts that are expected to be recovered otherwise specified, all amounts are stated in millions eration is not an acceptable method. Similarly, reveimplementation of IFRS 9 will not give rise to any or paid twelve months or more after the balanceof Swedish kronor (SEK M). nues are generally considered to be an unsuitable ­effects on the financial statements. The categories sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities Transactions in foreign currency are translated to point of departure for measuring consumption of that are currently applied in accordance with IAS 39 ­essentially comprise amounts that are expected to the functional currency according to the exchange ­financial benefits connected to intangible assets. will be replaced by new categories that could impact be recovered or paid within twelve months from the balance-sheet date. FINGERPRINTS Notes 73 SEGMENT REPORTING which the companies conduct their operations. MoneFinancial expenses comprise interest expense, purpose of being sold in the short term or has been An operating segment is a part of the Group that contary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translosses on changes in value of financial assets meaclassified as such by Executive Management. Derivative ducts operations from which it can generate income and lated to the functional currency at the exchange rate sured at fair value in profit or loss and impairment instruments are also classified in this category. Assets incur costs and for which separate financial information prevailing on the balance-sheet date. Exchange-rate diflosses on financial assets. and liabilities in this category are classified as current is available. Furthermore, the results of an operating ferences are recognized in profit or loss. Non-monetary asset if they are held for sale or are ­expected to be sold segment can be reviewed by the company’s chief operassets and liabilities recognized at their respective hisTAXES within 12 months of the balance-sheet date. ating decision maker to evaluate the outcomes and to toric cost are translated according to the exchange rate Consolidated tax comprises current tax and deferred allocate resources to the operating segment. Refer to prevailing on the transaction date. Non-monetary assets tax. Current tax assets and liabilities for the current 2. Loan receivables and accounts receivable Note 4 for a more detailed description of the division and and liabilities measured at fair value are translated to and prior periods are measured at the amount expectFinancial assets and liabilities that are not classified as presentation of the company’s operating segments. the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing ed to be paid to or by the tax authorities based on the derivative instruments and that are subject to fixed payon the date of fair value measurement. tax rates and the tax legislation that are adopted or ment and are not quoted on an active market. ClassifiCONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES have been adopted on the balance sheet date. cation as a current asset occurs if the due date arises (i) Subsidiaries INCOME Current tax is tax pertaining to taxable profit for later than 12 months after the balance-sheet date, folSubsidiaries are companies that are subject to a Income for the sale of goods is recognized in profit or the period. Deferred tax arises due to temporary diflowing which non-current assets is the classification. ­controlling influence from the Parent Company. Conloss when the material risks and benefits associated ferences between the taxable value and the carrying trolling influence is achieved when the Parent Compawith ownership of the product have been transferred amount of an asset or liability. (ii) Classification and measurement ny has control over the investment object, is exposed to the purchaser. Income is not recognized if it is unCurrent and deferred tax is recognized in profit or A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in or entitled to a variable return from its holding in the likely that the economic benefits will accrue to the loss with the exception of transactions recognized in the statement of financial position when the Group company and can exercise control over the investment Group. Revenue is not recognized if substantial uncerother comprehensive income and in shareholders’ ­becomes a contractual party under conditions with the to influence the return. tainty exists concerning payment, associated costs or ­equity. Tax attributable to items recognized in other terms of the instrument’s contract. A receivable is The acquisition method is applied, which means that the risk of returns or if the seller retains a commitcomprehensive income is also recognized in other ­entered when the company has performed and the an acquisition of a subsidiary is considered to be a ment to the ongoing management that is usually ascomprehensive income and tax accruing on transaccounterparty has a contractual obligation to pay, even transaction through which the Group indirectly acsociated with ownership. Income is recognized at the tions recognized in shareholders’ equity is recognized if the invoice has not been sent. quires the subsidiary’s assets and assumes its liabilifair value of the amount received, or expected to be in shareholders’ equity. Deferred tax assets are recogAccounts receivable are recognized in the statement ties and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is ­received, less discounts provided. nized in the balance sheet insofar as it is probable that of financial position when an invoice is sent. Liabilities determined by performing an acquisition analysis in they can be utilized to offset future taxable surpluses. are recognized when the counterparty has performed conjunction with the acquisition. The analysis deterLEASING When calculating the Group’s deferred tax assets and and there is a contractual obligation for the company mines the cost for the participations or the operations (i) Operating leases tax liability, the tax rate applicable in the country conto make a payment without an invoice having yet and the fair value of the acquired identifiable assets Expenses pertaining to operating leases are recogcerned is used. been received. Accounts payable are recognized when and the assumed liabilities and contingent liabilities nized in profit for the year straight-line over the lease the invoice has been received. A financial asset is on the acquisition date. The cost of the subsidiaries’ term. Benefits received from signing a lease agreeCLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS derecognized from the statement of financial position shares and operations comprises the sum of the fair ment are recognized in profit or loss as a decrease in Financial instruments recognized in the statement of when the contractual rights have been realized, expire value of the paid assets or liabilities arising or asleasing fees straight-line over the term of the lease ­financial position include, on the assets side, cash and or the Group loses control of them. sumed on the acquisition date. For business combinaagreement. Variable fees are expensed in the periods cash equivalents, accounts receivable and financial inThe equivalent applies to a portion of a financial tions whereby the cost exceeds the fair value of the in which they arise. vestments, and on the liabilities side, accounts payable. ­asset. A financial liability is derecognized from the ­acquired assets and assumed liabilities and contingent statement of financial position when a contractual liabilities that are recognized separately, the difference (ii) Financial leases (i) Classification ­obligation has been received or otherwise extinis recognized as goodwill. Subsidiaries are consolidatThe minimum lease fees are distributed between interThe Group’s financial instruments are classified in the guished. A financial asset and a financial liability are ed as of the acquisition date until the date on which the est expense and amortization of the outstanding liabilifollowing four categories. The purpose of the acquisioffset and recognized in a net amount in the statecontrolling influence ceases. ty. The interest expense is distributed over the lease tion of financial instruments constitutes the basis for ment of financial position only when a legal right to term so that each accounting period is charged with classification. Classification is made by Executive offset the amounts exists and it is intended that the (ii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation an amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for Management in connection with the first recognition items be settled at net amount or to simultaneously Inter-company receivables and liabilities, income or the liability recognized in each period. Variable fees are occasion. The classification determines how the finanrealize the asset and settle the liability. Acquisitions expenses and unrealized gains or losses arising from expensed in the periods in which they arise. An asset cial instrument is to be measured after the first recogand divestments of financial assets are recognized on inter-company transactions between the Group is recognized in accordance with the rules applying for nition occasion, in the manner shown below. the trade date which is the date on which the Group ­companies are eliminated in their entirety when the corresponding assets; for example, in terms of depreundertakes to acquire or ­divest the asset. consolidated financial statements are prepared. ciation/amortization. 1. Financial assets measured at fair value A financial instrument that is not a derivative is inivia profit or loss tially recognized at cost corresponding to the fair value (iii) Foreign currency FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES This category comprises two subgroups: financial of the instrument plus transaction costs for all finanTransactions in foreign currency are translated to the Financial income comprises interest income on ­assets and liabilities held for sale and those that on the cial instruments, except for those belonging to the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing on ­deposited funds and gains from changes in value date of acquisition were classified as being measured at category of financial assets measured at fair value in the date of the transaction. The functional currency is of financial assets measured at fair value in profit. fair value via profit or loss. A financial asset or liability is profit or loss, which are measured at fair value excludthe currency in the primary economic environments in entered in this category if it has been acquired with the ing transaction costs. 74 FINGERPRINTS Notes Derivative instruments are recognized initially at under financial leases are recognized as fixed assets ment expenditure is recognized in profit or loss as an (i) Impairment of tangible and intangible assets fair value, whereby transaction costs are charged in the statement of financial position and are initially expense when it arises. Development expenditure recIf there is an indication of impairment, the asset’s against profit or loss. Changes in the value of derivameasured at the lower of the leased item’s fair value ognized in the statement of financial position is recog­recoverable amount is calculated. The recoverable tive instruments are recognized in either operating and the current value of the minimum leasing fees nized at cost less accumulated amortization and any amount of intangible assets is also calculated annualprofit or net financial items. Cash and cash equivawhen the contract is signed. impairment losses. ly. If it is not possible to determine significant indepenlents comprise cash funds and immediately available The obligation to pay future leasing fees is recogResearch expenses aimed at obtaining new scientific dent cash flows to an individual asset, and the asset’s balances with banks and similar institutions, as well nized as a long-term and a current liability. The leased or technical knowledge are recognized as an expense fair value less selling expenses cannot be used, the as current liquid investments, which are exposed to assets are depreciation over their respective useful when they arise. Since all research originates from assets are grouped when tested for impairment at the only an insignificant risk of currency fluctuations. lives while leasing payments are recognized as interproducts and market demand, no research arises. lowest level from which it is possible to identify signifi­Exchange-rate fluctuations pertaining to operating est and amortization of liabilities. Assets rented under cant independent cash flows, known as a cash-gener­receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating operating leasing are not usually recognized in the (ii) Amortization principles ating unit. An impairment loss is recognized when an loss, while exchange-rate fluctuations pertaining to statement of financial position. Operating leases do Amortization is recognized in profit or loss straightasset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable ­financial receivables and liabilities are recognized in not give rise to liabilities. line over the estimated useful lives of the intangible amount. An impairment loss is recognized as an net financial items. assets, unless the useful lives are indeterminable. ­expense in profit or loss. Accounts receivable are financial assets that are (iii) Additional costs The useful lives are reassessed at least once a year. not derivatives, that have determined or determinable Additional costs are added to a cost only if it is probaIntangible assets with an indeterminable useful life (ii) Impairment of financial assets payments and which are not listed on an active marble that the future economic benefits associated with or that are not ready for use are tested for impairOn each reporting occasion, the company tests whether ket. These assets are measured at amortized cost. the asset will accrue to the company and the cost can ment every year and as soon as there is an indication there is objective evidence that a financial asset or Amortized cost is determined based on the effective be calculated reliably. Other additional costs are recsuggesting that the asset has declined in value. group of assets requires impairment. Objective evirate that is calculated on the acquisition date. Accounts ognized as an expense in the period in which they ­I­ntangible assets with determinable useful lives are dence comprises observable circumstances that have receivable are recognized in the amounts expected to arise. amortized from the date on which they became availoccurred and that have a negative impact on the posbe received, meaning less any doubtful receivables. An additional cost is added to cost if the expense able for use. sibility of recovering costs and significant or protracted Loans and other financial liabilities, such as accounts pertains to the exchange of identified components or decreases in the fair value of an investment in a payable, are measured at amortized cost. This does not portions thereof. An expense is also added to cost if a The estimated useful lives are as follows: ­financial investment classified as an available-for-sale apply to derivative liabilities, which are instead meanew component is created. Any non-depreciated carProducts 1.5 – 4.0 years financial asset. sured at fair value. rying amounts for exchanged components, or portions Platform 1.5 – 5.0 years Impairment testing of accounts receivable is deterof components, are scrapped and expensed in conUseful lives are reassessed annually. mined based on historical experience of customer TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS junction with the exchange. Repairs are expensed losses from similar receivables. Accounts receivable (i) Owned assets continuously. INVENTORIES that require impairment are recognized at the present Tangible fixed assets are recognized in the Group at Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and the value of future cash flows. However, receivables with cost less accumulated depreciation and any impair(iv) Depreciation principles net selling price. The cost of the inventories is calcushort terms are not discounted. Impairment losses on ment. Cost includes the purchase price and any exDepreciation takes place on a straight-line basis in lated by applying the first-in, first-out method (FIFU) available-for-sale financial assets are recognized in penses that are directly attributable to the asset to put ­relation to the estimated useful life of the asset. and includes expenses arising in conjunction with the profit or loss in net financial items. it in place and in the condition to be utilized for the Leased assets are depreciated over their estimated acquisition of inventory items and the transportation purpose for which it was acquired. Accounting policies useful lives or their contractual lease term, if shorter. to their current location and condition. (iii) Reversal of impairment for impairment are described below. The carrying Impairment losses on assets encompassed by the amount of a tangible fixed asset is derecognized from THE ESTIMATED USEFUL LIVES ARE AS FOLLOWS: IMPAIRMENT scope of IAS 36 can be reversed if there is an indicathe statement of financial position when the asset is Plant and machinery The Group’s recognized assets are tested on every tion suggesting that impairment no longer exists and disposed or divested or no more future economic benEquipment 5 years balance-sheet date to determine whether there are a change has been made to the assumptions that efits are expected to be derived from the use or disTools, fixtures and fittings 3–5 years any indications of impairment. IAS 36 is applied to the formed the basis of the calculation of the recoverable posal/divestment of the asset. Gains or losses arising impairment of assets that are not financial assets recamount. A reversal only takes place to the extent that in conjunction with the divestment or disposal of an INTANGIBLE ASSETS ognized in accordance with IAS 39, assets for sale and the asset’s carrying amount following reversal does asset comprise the difference between the sales price (i) Research and development divestment groups recognized in accordance with­­ not exceed the carrying amount that would have been and carrying amount of the asset, less direct selling Development expenditure, aimed at achieving new or IFRS 5, inventories and deferred tax assets. The carryrecognized, less depreciation/amortization where necexpenses. Gains and losses are recognized as other improved products or processes, is recognized as an ing amounts of the exempted assets stated above are essary, had the impairment loss not been recognized. ­operating income/expenses. asset in the statement of financial position, if the proddetermined in accordance with the respective Impairment losses on accounts receivable recognized uct or process is technically and commercially viable ­standard. at amortized cost are reversed if the previous reasons (ii) Leased assets and the company has sufficient resources to complete for recognizing an impairment loss no longer exist and Lease agreements are classified as either financial or the development process and subsequently use or sell full payment can be expected from the customer. operating leasing. Financial leasing exists when the the intangible asset. The carrying amount includes economic risks and benefits associated with ownership ­directly attributable expenses, such as materials and have been essentially transferred to the lessee. If this services used and consumed in connection with p­rois not the case, it is operating leasing. Assets rented cessing and registration of legal rights. Other developFINGERPRINTS Notes 75 EARNINGS PER SHARE PROVISIONS (i) Amended accounting policies (vii) Group contributions and shareholders’ The calculation of earnings per share is based on the A provision differs from other types of liabilities since The year’s changes in RFR 2 Accounting for legal enti­contributions for legal entities consolidated net profit for the year attributable to the there is uncertainty surrounding the point in time that ties were due in part to changes in the Annual Accounts Group contributions are recognized according to Parent Company’s owners and on the average number payment will be received or the amount of payment reAct, although updates have also been effected due to a the main rule. of shares outstanding during the year. In calculating quired to settle the provision. A provision is recognized number of amended standards. earnings per share after dilution, earnings and the in the statement of financial position when there is an Changes in RFR 2 due to changes in the Annual Changes in Swedish regulatory framework; ­average number of shares outstanding are adjusted to existing legal or informal obligation as a result of an ­Accounts Act. the Financial Reporting Board take into account the potential dilution effects, which event that has occurred and it is probable that an outIAS 21 – Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange arise during recognized periods from warrants issued flow of economic resources will be required to settle the • If the period in use for a proprietarily developed Rates. to employees. The dilution of warrants outstanding only obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. ­intangible asset cannot be determined definitively, Exchange-rate differences on monetary assets affects the number of shares in the calculation when Provisions are established in the amount correspondit is to be set at five years. that constitute part of a net investment in foreign the redemption price is lower than the share price. ing to the best estimate of the amount ­required to set• If the company recognizes a proprietarily developed ­operations were previously recognized in a fair value Bought back shares held in treasury are not included tle the existing obligation on the balance-sheet date. intangible asset, the same amount is to be transreserve. The update of RFR 2 entails that exchangeas outstanding. Since the effect of the point in time at which payment is ferred from unrestricted shareholders’ equity to rate differences on these monetary items are to be made is of importance, provisions are calculated by ­restricted shareholders’ equity, where it is to be recognized in profit or loss. REMUNERATION OF EMPLOYEES discounting the expected future cash flow using an called the Fund for development expenditure. The Group has defined-contribution pension plans. ­interest rate before tax that reflect the current market IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 39 Defined-contribution pension plans are classified as assessment of the time value of money and, if applicaFor the 2016 fiscal year, corresponding amounts that Financial Instruments: Recognition and measurement. the plans whereby the company’s obligation is limited ble, the risks associated with the liability. are carried as capitalized development expenditure If the Parent Company recognizes financial instruto the contributions it has undertaken to pay. In such have been transferred from unrestricted equity ments at their respective cost, additional disclosures cases, the amount of the employee’s pension depends CONTINGENT LIABILITIES to restricted equity are required. The expanded disclosure requirements on the contribution that the company pays to the plan A contingent liability is recognized when there is a entail that the accounting policies that were applied or to an insurance company and the return on capital ­potential commitment deriving from an event that has (ii) Classification and presentation format for financial instruments, the policies for hedge generated by the contributions. Consequently, the occurred and the existence of which is confirmed by Earnings for the Group are recognized in the statement ­accounting and the policies for derecognition from the ­employee bears the actuarial risk and investment risk. only one or more uncertain future events or when of comprehensive income and for the Parent Company balance sheet have to be described as part of the The company’s obligation regarding contributions to there is a commitment that is not recognized as a liain the income statement. In addition, the Parent Com­section accounting policies. defined contribution plans is recognized as an expense bility or a provision since it is not probable that an outpany uses the terms “balance sheet” and “cash-flow in profit or loss in line with contributions being vested flow of resources will be required. statement” for the statements that the Group refers to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements by the employee performing the services for the comas “statement of financial position” and “statement of The Financial Reporting Board has reviewed the expany over a period of time. PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES cash flows,” respectively. ceptions in RFR 2 in respect of IAS 1. In view of this, The Parent Company’s Annual Report is prepared The balance sheet for the Parent Company has been the Reporting Board has decided to implement a more (i) Severance pay in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts presented according to the format stipulated in the general regulation entailing that guidance in IAS 1 is An expense for severance pay when employees leave Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Reporting ­Annual Accounts Act, while the statement of compreto be applied insofar as it is within the framework of the company is recognized only if the company is Board’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal hensive income, the statement of changes in share­ what is permissible under the Annual Accounts Act. ­demonstrably obligated, without a realistic possibility Entities. Under RFR 2, the Parent Company, in its holders’ equity and the cash-flow statement are based The changes have not had any impact on the prepared of withdrawing, by a formal detailed plan to terminate ­Annual Report, is to apply all IFRSs and statements on IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 7 financial statements. employment before the normal point in time. ­adopted by the EU as far as possible within the frameStatement of Cash Flows. work of the Annual Accounts Act, the Pension ObligaIAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (ii) Short-term remuneration tions Vesting Act and with respect to the relationship (iii) Subsidiaries IAS 27 has been updated to enable recognition of Short-term remuneration to employees is calculated between accounting and taxation. The recommendation Participations in subsidiaries are recognized in the ­subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures without discounting and is recognized as an expense stipulates the exception and additions to IFRS that are Parent Company in accordance with the cost method. ­according to the equity method in the company’s sepawhen the related services are received. A provision is to be made. rate financial statements. In accordance with the recognized for the expected cost of the profit-sharing (iv) Tangible fixed assets ­Annual Accounts Act, the equity method may only be and bonus payments when the Group becomes subDIFFERENCES BETWEEN CONSOLIDATED Tangible fixed assets in the Parent Company are recapplied in respect of associated companies. ject to a legal or constructive obligation to make such AND PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING ognized at cost less accumulated depreciation and any payments as a result of the services performed by POLICIES impairment in the same manner as for the Group, employees and the obligation can be measured The differences between the consolidated and Parent with the addition of any revaluations. ­reliably. Company accounting policies are presented below. The accounting policies for the Parent Company described (v) Leased assets below were applied consistently to all periods presented All lease agreements in the Parent Company are in the Parent Company’s financial statements. ­recognized as operating leasing. 76 FINGERPRINTS Notes NOTE 2 Distribution of income Assets /Liabilities and Cash flow per Fingerprint Total and continuing segment sensors operations Income per significant type of income Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Assets 3,503.0 1,910.1 3,503.0 1,884.1 Revenues Liabilities –1,140.6 –763.3 –1,140.7 –763.3 Sale of goods 6,638.3 2,900.5 6,638.3 2,900.2 Cash flow from operating activities 1,130.3 910.4 1,130.4 910.4 FPC receives revenues when its hardware – in the form of wafers (sensors in continuous format) or packaged Cash flow to investing activities –78.3 –26.0 –78.3 –26.0 sensors (LGA) – is delivered to the distributor or module supplier. Software development is ordinarily part of the contract. Software development/customization may also be charged to an OEM separately as part of the Cash flow from financing activities –955.7 47.4 –955.7 47.4 software license. Income from Fixed Geographical areas external customers assets SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 NOTE 3 Cost of goods sold Sweden 0.6 0.3 97.3 60.6 Opening costs in Cost of goods sold Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Asia 6,627.3 2,887.9 0.5 9.0 Materials –3,414.8 –1,596.6 –3,414.8 –1,596.6 Europe, Middle East and Africa 3.9 3.3 2.3 1.7 Depreciation/amortization and impairment South and North America 6.5 9.0 0.4 0.0 losses on capitalized development –34.1 –29.3 –34.1 –29.3 Total 6,638.3 2,900.5 100.6 71.3 Purchasing and production expenses –24.1 –19.3 –24.1 –19.3 Cost of goods sold –3,473.0 –1,645.2 –3,473.0 –1,645.2 Income from external customers was attributed to geographical areas according to the country in which the ­customer is domiciled. Information regarding major customers NOTE 4 Operating segments In 2016, FPC generated revenues from one group in a total amount of SEK 3,812.6 M (1,239.1), as well as in order of size a group totaling SEK 2,013.1 M (428.5) and a group totaling SEK 350.3 M (391.4). This income The Group’s business activities are divided into operating segments based on the divisions of the operations was recognized in the Fingerprint sensors operating segment and the geographical area of Asia. reviewed by the company’s chief operating decision-maker. Since Group management reviews the results of the Parent Company operations and decides on the allocation of resources based on the products manufactured and sold by the The Parent Company´s division into operating segments is presented above. Group, these comprise the Group’s operating segments. Accordingly, the Group’s internal reporting is structured to enable Group management to review performance and results. The Group’s segments have been identified based on this internal reporting structure. Fingerprints reports one operating segment, which comprises NOTE 5 Other operating expenses Fingerprint sensors, primarily for mobile phones. The remaining part of the operations is so small that no Group Parent Company monitoring is conducted. SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Exchange-rate gains, operating receivables The Group´s operating Fingerprint Total and continuing and liabilities 45.2 — 45.3 — segments sensors operations Gains from sales of tangible fixed assets 0.6 — 0.6 — SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 45.8 — 45.9 — Income from external customers 6,638.3 2,900.5 6,638.3 2,900.5 Operating profit 2,613.1 910.3 2,613.1 910.3 Profit before tax 2,613.5 910.0 2,613.5 910.0 NOTE 6 Other operating expenses Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Exchange-rate losses, operating receivables and liabilities ­— –3.8 — –3.4 — –3.8 — –3.4 FINGERPRINTS Notes 77 NOTE 7 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration of senior executives Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Expenses for remuneration of employees 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Gender distribution in Proportion Proportion Proportion Proportion Salaries and remuneration, etc. 209.2 113.6 136.6 83.4 company management woman woman woman woman Pension expenses, defined-contribution plans 41.4 16.0 35.3 12.7 Board of Directors 25% 14% 25% 14% Other social security contributions 49.8 29.1 47.2 27.8 Other senior executives 0% 0% 0% 0% 300.5 158.7 219.1 123.9 If employment is terminated by the company, severance pay is payable in an amount corresponding to no more than 12 monthly salaries. The maximum period of notice for the CEO is six months. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Group Parent Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 115 45 160 66 29 95 115 45 160 60 29 89 China 19 4 23 — — 0 1 — 1 — — — Denmark 27 4 31 20 3 23 — — — — — — Korea 9 — 9 — — — — — — — — — Taiwan 7 1 8 5 1 6 5 1 6 6 — 6 USA 6 — 6 2 — 2 — — — — — — Group total 183 54 237 93 33 126 121 46 167 66 29 95 The number of employees at December 31, 2016 was 306 (150), including 244 (117) men and 62 (33) women. SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION SPECIFIED BY SENIOR EXECUTIVES AND OTHER EMPLOYEES, AND SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS Group Parent Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other Senior Other SEK M executives employees Total executives employees Total executives employees Total executives employees Total Salaries and other remuneration 32.9 176.3 209.2 24.6 89.0 113.6 32.9 103.7 136.6 24.6 58.8 83.4 Of which, President 14.4 0.0 14.4 5.2 — 5.2 14.4 — 14.4 5.2 — 5.2 Of which, Sweden 32.9 100.1 133.0 24.6 58.7 83.3 32.9 100.1 133.0 24.6 55.2 79.8 Of which, other countries — 76.3 76.3 — 30.3 30.3 — 3.6 3.6 — 3.6 3.6 Total 32.9 176.3 209.2 24.6 89.0 113.6 32.9 103.7 136.6 24.6 58.8 83.4 (of which, bonus, etc.) 3.2 6.3 9.5 10.9 10.2 21.1 3.2 6.2 9.4 10.9 8.8 19.7 Total social security contributions 16.4 74.8 91.3 14.1 31.0 45.1 16.4 66.2 82.6 14.1 26.4 40.5 Of which pension costs, President 1.6 — 1.6 0.8 — 0.8 1.6 — 1.6 0.8 — 0.8 Of which pension costs, others 4.2 35.6 39.8 2.7 12.5 15.2 4.2 31.0 35.3 2.7 9.2 11.9 The above includes termination benefits of SEK 6.5 M that were paid to senior executives. 78 FINGERPRINTS Notes SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES 2016 2015 Basic Variable Pension Basic Variable Pension Group and Parent Company salary remuneration expense Total salary remuneration expense Total Chairman of the Board Jan Wäreby, Board member through May 2016 0.5 — — 0.5 0.3 — — 0.3 Urban Fagerstedt, Board member as of May 2016 0.4 — — 0.4 0.4 — — 0.4 Board member Alexander Kotsinas, through May 2016 0.1 — — 0.1 0.3 — — 0.3 Carl Johan von Plomgren, as of June 2015 0.3 — — 0.3 0.3 — — 0.3 Christer Bergman, through June 2015 — — — — 0.1 — — 0.1 Katarina Bonde, as of June 2015 0.3 — — 0.3 0.3 — — 0.3 Lars Söderfjell, as of June 2015 0.3 — — 0.3 0.3 — — 0.3 Micahel Hallén, as of May 2016 0.2 — — 0.2 — — — — Peter Carlsson, as of May 2016 0.2 — — 0.2 — — — — Tomas Mikaelsson, as of May 2016 0.2 — — 0.2 — — — — Tord Wingren, through June 2015 — — — — 0.1 — — 0.1 Åsa Hedin, as of May 2016 0.2 — — 0.2 — — — — President Christian Fredrikson, as of August 2016 5.1 — 0.8 5.9 — — — — Jörgen Lantto, through July 2016 8.0 1.3 0.9 10.2 2.8 2.4 0.8 6.0 Other senior executives (8/8.5 pers) 15.2 1.9 4.2 21.3 10.9 8.5 2.8 22.2 Total for the Parent Company 31.0 3.2 5.9 40.1 15.8 10.9 3.6 30.3 Variable salary pertains to the company’s costs for bonus payments, which are paid on achievement of predetermined performance targets. FINGERPRINTS Notes 79 NOTE 8 Fees and remuneration to auditors NOTE 11 Taxes Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Audit KPMG –1.4 –1.0 –1.3 –1.0 Current tax expense Other fees –0.2 –0.2 –0.2 –0.2 Deferred tax –137.3 1.0 5.7 1.0 Total fees –1.6 –1.2 –1.5 –1.2 Tax expense for the period –441.5 –112.7 –439.4 –112.0 Total recognized tax expense –578.8 –111.7 –433.7 –111.0 NOTE 9 Operating expenses specified by type RECONCILIATION OF EFFECTIVE TAX Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Group Parent Company Cost of materials –3,414.7 –1,596.6 –3,414.7 –1,596.6 The Group, SEK M 2016 % 2015 % 2016 % 2015 % Personnel costs –300.5 –157.6 –219.1 –123.9 Profit before tax 2,613.5 910.0 1,952.1 904.4 Depreciation, amortization and impairment –48.6 –46.3 –46.5 –40.8 Tax according to applicable tax rate for Parent Company –575.0 –22.0% –200.2 –22.0% –429.5 –22.0% –199.0 –22.0% Other operating expenses –261.4 –189.7 –356.5 –234.2 Non-deductible expenses –4.8 –0.2% –0.2 0.1% –4.8 –0.2% –0.2 –0.1% Operating expenses –4,025.2 –1,990.2 –4,036.8 –1,995.5 Non-taxable revenues 0.6 0.0% 0.3 0.0% 0.6 0.0% 0.3 0.1% Differences due to different tax rates in NOTE 10 Net financial items ­foreign subsidiaries 0.4 0.1% –0.2 –0.1% 0.0 0.0% 0.0 0.0% Group Parent Company Loss carryforwards utilized without SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 capitalizing deferred tax 0.0 0.0% 88.6 9.8% 0.0 0.0% 87.9 9.7% Interest income 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 Recognized effective tax –578.8 –22.1% –111.7 12.3% –433.7 –22.2% –111.0 12.3% Financial income 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 The tax effect on items recognized in shareholders’ equity amounted to SEK 0,3 M (0,4) and pertains to the cost of Other interest and financial expenses –1.0 –0.4 –0.8 –0.4 new share issues. Financial expenses –1.0 –0.4 –0.8 –0.4 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS Deductible temporary differences and taxable loss carryforwards for which deferred tax assets were not recognized in the statement of financial position: Group Parent Company SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Tax loss carryforwards 12.6 13.1 — — According to applicable tax regulations, deductible temporary differences do not expire. Deferred tax assets are not recognized. When there is less uncertainty about the profit or loss in the next year, the company will determine the amount to be capitalized as deferred tax assets. 80 FINGERPRINTS Notes DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY ARE DIVIDED AS FOLLOWS: NOTE 12 Earnings per share Before dilution After dilution Deferred tax assets Group Parent Company SEK 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Earnings/loss per share 6.40 2.53 6.33 2.48 Deferred tax assets that are due within 12 months 6.7 1.0 6.7 1.0 Profit per share in 2015 has been adjusted to comply with the five-for-one share split. Total deferred tax assets 6.7 1.0 6.7 1.0 EARNINGS FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO PARENT COMPANY’S COMMON SHAREHOLDERS BEFORE DILUTION Deferred tax liabilities Group Parent Company SEK M 2016 2015 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net profit for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 2,034.7 798.3 Deferred tax liabilities that are due in more than 12 months 143.0 — — — WEIGHTED AVERAGE NUMBER OF OUTSTANDING COMMON SHARES BEFORE AND AFTER DILUTION Total deferred tax liablities 143.0 — — — Number of shares 2016 2015 Changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year. Without considering the netting that has been made Total of shares, January 1 63,239,135 58,421,135 within the same fiscal entity. New share issue 1,300,000 4,818,000 GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY Share split 5:1 258,156,540 63,239,135 Deferred tax assets Number of treasury shares –10,424,000 0 SEK M Current assets Total New share issue 1,696,000 0 As per January 1 2015 0.0 0.0 Total number of shares outstanding, December 31 313,967,675 63,239,135 Recognized in profit/loss 1.0 1.0 Total number of shares outstanding for the year before dilution 317,726,761 63,069,830 As per December 31 2015 1.0 1.0 Average weighted number of common shares during the year after dilution 321,408,761 64,274,459 Recognized in profit/loss 5.7 5.7 The amounts used in the calculation are presented below. The redemption of warrants is expected to incur costs, As per December 31 2016 6.7 6.7 of which the effects have no material significance. When calculating the number of common shares after dilution, the exercise price of outstanding in relation to GROUP the share price has been taken into account, whereby those warrants that valued below market value have impacted the calculation and thus given rise to dilution. Deferred tax liability Weighted average number of common shares during the year is calculated as a weighted average of the numSEK M Other * Total ber of common shares outstanding after considering changes that have occurred in the number due to new share As per January 1 2015 0.0 0.0 issues. Dilution of warrants is calculated by considering the average share price for the period and thus including the number of shares from the programs for which the exercise price is below the average share price. Recognized in profit/loss 0.0 0.0 In 2016, warrants from the TO5 and TO6 programs were exercised: As per December 31 2015 0.0 0.0 TO5, with a term until March 5, 2013, was approved by an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) on March 4, 2016. All of the program’s remaining 1,300,000 warrants were exercised to subscribe for Class B shares. Recognized in profit/loss 143.0 143.0 Exercise occurred in the first quarter at a rate of one Class B share for each warrant and, following the share As per December 31 2016 143.0 143.0 split implemented in June 2016, this corresponded to 6,500,000 shares. The price per warrant was SEK 1.79 at the time of issue and the future subscription price was set at SEK 52.35. The corresponding amounts after the imple*Deferred tax liability in the Group refers to the Profit Allocation Fund in the parent company. mented share split were SEK 0.36 and SEK 10.47. TO6, with a term until December 27, 2016, was approved by an EGM on November 6, 2013. All of the program’s remaining 339,200 warrants were exercised to subscribe for Class B shares. The price per warrant was SEK 4.53 at the time of issue and the future subscription price was set at SEK 90.16. Exercise occurred following the share split implemented in June, whereby each warrant was exercised for five Class B shares at an exercise price of SEK 18.03 per share and a total of 1,696,000 Class B shares (including 870,000 Class B shares registered on January 3, 2017). There were no incentive programs at the end of 2016. . FINGERPRINTS Notes 81 NOTE 13 Intangible fixed assets Group Parent Company Capitalized Intangible Capitalized Intangible development expenditure Patents fixed assets development expenditure Patents fixed assets SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Accumulated cost Opening balance 135.5 118.3 28.0 28.0 163.5 146.3 129.7 112.5 28.0 28.0 157.7 140.5 Acquisitions — — — — — — — — — — Internally developed assets and acquisitions 62.8 17.2 — — 62.8 17.2 62.8 17.2 — — 62.8 17.2 Closing balance 198.3 135.5 28.0 28.0 226.3 163.5 192.5 129.7 28.0 28.0 220.5 157.7 Accumulated amortization Opening balance –85.7 –57.0 –9.1 –3.1 –94.8 –60.1 –82.5 –55.8 –9.2 –3.2 –91.7 –59.0 Acquisitions — — — — — — — — — Amortization for the year –35.2 –28.7 –5.9 –6.0 –41.1 –34.7 –34.1 –26.7 –5.9 –6.0 –40.0 –32.7 Closing balance –120.9 –85.7 –15.0 –9.1 –135.9 –94.8 –116.6 –82.5 –15.1 –9.2 –131.7 –91.7 Accumulated impairment Opening balance –19.0 –16.4 — — –19.0 –16.4 –19.0 –16.4 — — –19.0 –16.4 Impairment for the year — –2.6 — — — –2.6 — –2.6 — — — –2.6 Closing balance –19.0 –19.0 — — –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 –19.0 — — –19.0 –19.0 Carrying amounts At the beginning of the year 30.8 45.0 18.9 24.9 49.7 69.8 28.2 40.2 18.8 24.9 47.0 65.1 At end of year 58.4 30.8 13.0 18.9 71.4 49.7 56.9 28.2 12.9 18.8 69.8 47.0 Amortization is included in the following rows of the statement of comprehensive income 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cost of goods sold –34.1 –26.7 — –34.1 –26.7 –34.1 –26.7 — — –34.1 –26.7 Development costs –1.1 –2.0 –5.9 –6.0 –7.0 –8.0 — — –5.9 –6.0 –5.9 –6.0 Amortization is included in the following rows of the statement of comprehensive income 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Development costs — –2.6 — — — –2.6 — –2.6 — — — –2.6 Intangible fixed assets pertain to internally generated capitalized expenditure for the development of fingercommercial deliverables to customers coming earlier in the project. This has resulted in the proportion of print-sensor technology and for acquired patents. The useful life is determinable based on the expected capitalized expenses in a project in 2015 and 2016 becoming smaller when viewed overall compared with the past, commercial potential, earnings, and the patent’s remaining validity and technical significance. Testing for and a larger proportion in the beginning and end of the product being recognized directly in the statement of impairment losses are performed after assessing the commercial potential of each project. During 2015, the comprehensive income in the Group and in the income statement in the Parent Company. Expenses for developamortization periods were reduced as a result of the increasingly shorter economic useful lives for developed ment are thus recognized, over time, proportionally earlier. Impairment testing of expenditure for intangible fixed products. At the same time, the period when a project’s expenses are capitalized in the statement of financial assets is performed continuously. No assets were impaired in 2016. position in the Group, as well as the Parent Company’s balance sheet have become shorter as a result of 82 FINGERPRINTS Notes NOTE 14 Tangible fixed assets NOTE 15 Financial fixed assets Group Parent Company Parent Company SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Shares in subsidiaries Shares in subsidiaries Accumulated cost Machinery and equipment Machinery and equipment SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Opening balance 34.7 26.9 31.2 23.5 Opening balance 31.5 30.7 Sales and scrapping –8.8 — –9.0 — Other investments 2.5 0.8 Acquisitions 22.1 7.8 19.9 7.7 Carrying amounts 34.0 31.5 Closing balance 48.0 34.7 42.1 31.2 Accumulated impairment Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –28.8 –28.8 Opening balance –14.1 –8.0 –12.6 –7.2 Closing balance –28.8 –28.8 Reversed depreciation of sold and scrapped assets 2.7 — 2.8 — Carrying amounts Depreciation for the year –7.4 –6.1 –6.4 –5.4 At the beginning of the year 2.6 1.8 Closing balance –18.8 –14.1 –16.2 –12.6 At end of year 5.2 2.6 The increase in shares in subsidiaries refers to the establishment of a subsidiary in Taiwan and to the increase of Carrying amounts 29.2 20.6 25.9 18.6 the equity in the subsidiary in China. Depreciation is included in the following Group Parent Company rows of the statement of comprehensive income 2016 2015 2016 2015 Cost of goods sold –1.5 –3.0 –1.5 –3.0 Administration –0.8 –0.3 –0.6 –0.3 Market –1.3 –0.6 –1.2 –0.5 Technology –3.8 –2.2 –3.1 –1.6 Total –7.4 –6.1 –6.4 –5.4 FINGERPRINTS Notes 83 NOTE 16 Financial instruments Market capitalization of financial instruments was conducted using the most reliable market prices available. This means that all instruments that are market listed are valued using current spot prices. Conversion to SEK is made using the closing rate on the balance sheet date. The carrying amount less impairments comprises an approximate fair value for accounts receivable and accounts payable. FAIR VALUE AND CARRYING AMOUNT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES BY BALANCE SHEET ITEM AND CATEGORY Group Parent Company Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 SEK M Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Financial assets Current financial assets Accounts receivables 1,132.1 1,132.1 617.9 617.9 1,132.1 1,132.1 617.9 617.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1,162.2 1,162.2 1,031.3 1,031.3 1,142.3 1,142.3 1,018.0 1,018.0 Total financial assets 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,649.2 1,649.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 1,635.9 1,635.9 Financial liabilities Accounts payable 821.6 821.6 548.5 548.5 820.7 820.7 548.5 548.5 Total financial liabilities 821.6 821.6 548.5 548.5 820.7 820.7 548.5 548.5 By category Loan receivables and accounts receivable 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,649.2 1,649.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 1,635.9 1,635.9 Total financial assets 2,294.3 2,294.3 1,649.2 1,649.2 2,274.4 2,274.4 1 635.9 1,635.9 Financial liabilities at amortized cost 821.6 821.6 548.5 548.5 820.7 820.7 548.5 548.5 Total financial liabilities 821.6 821.6 548.5 548.5 820.7 820.7 548.5 548.5 84 FINGERPRINTS Notes NOTE 17 Inventories NOTE 21 Number of shares Group Parent Company PARENT COMPANY SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Number of share Number of share Commodity stocks 560.8 106.5 560.8 106.5 Classes of shares 2016 2015 Products in process 48.1 21.5 48.1 21.5 Number of shares issued on January 1 Finished products 63.8 25.0 63.8 25.0 Class A shares at beginning of the year 1,200,000 1,200,000 Total 672.7 153.0 672.7 153.0 Share split (5:1) 4,800,000 — Inventories are valued at the lower of net realizable value and cost. The provision for obsolescence of SEK 51.8 M Total Class A shares 6,000,000 1,200,000 (9.3) is based on individual assessment of the inventory items and the possibility of disposing of the products. Class B shares at beginning of the year 62,039,135 57,221,135 New share issue, Class B shares 1,300,000 4,818,000 NOTE 18 Accounts receivable Share split (5:1) 253,356,540 Accounts receivables in the Group and the Parent company are presented based on an individual assessment. New share issue, Class B shares 1,696,000 Group Parent Company Total Class B shares 318,391,675 62,039,135 SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Number of treasury shares –10,424,000 0 Total accounts receivable 1,134.1 619.4 1,134.1 619.4 Total shares outstanding 313,967,675 63,239,135 Provision for bad debt –2.0 –1.5 –2.0 –1.5 Quotient value per share 0.04 0.20 Carrying amount 1,132.1 617.9 1,132.1 617.9 As of December 31, 2016, the registered share capital amounted to 313,967,675 common shares (63,239,135). Cost for bad debt amounted to SEK 0.7 M (1.5). There were also 870,000 common shares are under registration. Holders of common shares are entitled to receive dividends that will be determined in the future and the shareholding entitles the holder to vote at General Meetings. In the first quarter of 2016, 1,300,000 warrants from the TO5 incentive program were exercised in return for a correNOTE 19 Prepaid expenses and accrued income sponding number of Class B shares, whereupon the company’s registered share capital increased by SEK 260,000. Group Parent Company During the second quarter, FPC implemented a five-for-one share split, meaning that every share was divided into SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 five shares. The first day of trading after the split was May 27, 2016 and the record date for dividing the shares was May 30, 2016. Premises 3.8 2.6 3.6 2.1 During the fourth quarter of 2016, 339,240 warrants from the TO6 incentive program were exercised. 826,000 Class Insurance expenses 4.6 1.3 4.6 1.3 B shares were registered, whereupon the company’s registered share capital increased by SEK 33,040 to SEK 12,940,867 at December 31, 2016. On the balance sheet date, 870,000 Class B shares, representing share capital of License costs 5.0 0.7 5.0 — SEK 34,800, had also been subscribed for but these were not registered until January 3, 2017. Other operating expenses 8.3 3.4 5.9 3.4 Accordingly, the number of shares registered at the end of the fourth quarter amounted to 6,000,000 Class A shares and 318,391,675 Class B shares, making a total of 324,391,675 shares, of which 10,424,000 shares were held in 21.7 8.0 19.1 6.8 treasury. The number of voting rights outstanding was 367,967,675. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT NOTE 20 Cash and cash equivalents Shareholders’ equity at year-end amounted to SEK 2,226.1 M (1,146.8). As a result of the increase in shareholders’ equity, the Board’s objective of having a solid financial position has been achieved. The Board of Directors’ Group Parent Company proposal to the AGM 2016 is that no dividend be paid. SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Cash and bank balances 1,162.2 1,031.3 1,142.3 1,018.0 Consolidated shareholders’ equity A reconciliation of opening and closing balances for the components of consolidated shareholders’ equity is Total in accordance with the statement of presented above in a separate statement after the Parent Company’s balance sheet and which shows changes in financial position 1,162.2 1,031.3 1,142.3 1,018.0 shareholders’ equity. Description of the type and purpose of reserves included in shareholders’ equity: FINGERPRINTS Notes 85 Other paid-in capital BUYBACK OF SHARES HELD AS TREASURY SHARES AND THAT IS Other paid-in capital pertains to funds provided through new share issues and the portion that has not been INCLUDED IN RETAINED EARNINGS INCLUDING NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR. allocated to share capital. Impact on Shareholder´s Number of shares equity Translation reserve SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Translation difference pertains to differences that arise from translation of the subsidiaries’ balance sheets in cases where different exchange rates have been used when translating balance-sheet items at different points in time. Opening balance, treasury ,shares — — — — Buyback during the year 10,424,000 — 1,053 — Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise the preceding year’s retained earnings less the shares bought back during the year. Sold shares — — — — Closing balance, treasury, shares 10,424,000 — 1,053 — Parent Company’s shareholders’ equity The reconciliation of opening and closing balances for the Parent Company’s components of shareholders’ equity is presented above in a separate statement of changes in shareholders’ equity after the Parent Company’s balance sheet. NOTE 22 Other current liabilities DESCRIPTION OF THE TYPE AND PURPOSE OF RESERVES UNDER SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY: GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY Restricted funds Restricted funds may not be reduced by profit distribution. Group Parent Company SEK M Dec 31. 2016 Dec 31. 2015 Dec 31. 2016 Dec 31. 2015 Statutory reserve The aim of the statutory reserve is to save a portion of any net profit that is not utilized to cover losses brought Employee withholding taxes 4.9 2.4 4.4 2.4 forward. Amounts that were contributed to the share premium reserve before January 1, 2006 were transferred to Software — 0.9 — — and are included in the statutory reserve. In accordance with the transition rules of the amendments to the Annual Accounts Act, funds contributed to the share premium reserve before January 1, 2006 are to be transOther 1.8 0.7 — — ferred to the statutory reserve in the first annual report prepared after January 1, 2006. For the companies whose Total 6.7 4.0 4.4 2.4 fiscal year is the calendar year, the share premium reserve was transferred to the statutory reserve in the 2005 Annual Report. The statutory reserve continues to comprise restricted shareholders’ equity in the Parent Company. Share premium reserves arising after January 1, 2006 are recognized as unrestricted shareholders’ NOTE 23 Accrued expenses and deferred income equity in the Parent Company. GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY Reserve for development expenditure The amount capitalized in respect of proprietarily developed development expenditure will be transferred Group Parent Company from unrestricted shareholders’ equity to a reserve for development expenditure in restricted equity. The SEK M Dec 31. 2016 Dec 31. 2015 Dec 31. 2016 Dec 31. 2015 reserve will diminish at the same pace as the capitalized expenditure is amortized or impaired. It will be Salaries 26.6 35.0 24.9 30.7 managed in the same way as the write-up reserve. Social-security contributions 18.5 8.2 18.5 8.2 Unrestricted shareholders’ equity Material and production expenses 10.9 17.7 10.8 17.7 The following funds, combined with the net loss for the year, comprise unrestricted shareholders’ equity, which is also available for dividends. Director fees and company expenses 4.4 2.2 4.4 2.2 Selling costs 185.1 35.2 185.1 35.2 Share premium reserve When shares are issued at a premium, meaning that a higher amount is to be paid for the shares than their Audit 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.5 quotient value, an amount corresponding to the amount received in addition to the quotient value of the share is Other costs 11.9 2.4 7.3 2.2 transferred to the share premium reserve. Amounts added to the share premium reserve from January 1, 2006 are included in unrestricted shareholders’ equity. Total 258.2 101.2 251.8 96.7 Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise the preceding year’s retained earnings and earnings less profits distributed during the year. 86 FINGERPRINTS Notes NOTE 24 Financial risks and risk management TRANSACTION EXPOSURE The Group’s transaction exposure pertaining to sales and material on the balance-sheet date was in the GROUP AND PARENT COMPANY following currencies. The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks. SEK M Net flows 2016 Financial risk refers to fluctuations in the company’s earnings and cash flow due to changes in exchange rates, interest rates and risks relating to refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s financial policy for managing financial USD exposure expressed in SEK and Total 532.4 risks has been prepared by the Board and compromises a framework of guidelines and rules in the form of risk 2015 mandates and limits for financial operations. Financial transactions and risks are managed by the Parent USD exposure expressed in SEK and Total 510.7 ­Company´s finance function. The objective is to: • Manage and control financial risks. Transaction exposure has not been hedged. • Minimize the negative earnings impact of market changes in currencies and interest rates. •Plan and ensure adequate liquidity for business activities. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS • Optimize use of capital and cash flows. A 10% appreciation of the SEK against other currencies on December 31, 2016 would have entailed a change of SEK 41.5 M (39.8) in shareholders’ equity and in profit. The sensitivity analysis is based on all other factors FUNDING RISK remaining unchanged. The funding risk comprises the risk that adverse variables impact the availability of funds and the cost of capital in the form of unfavorable terms. COMMODITY PRICE RISK The raw-material cost of products could be impacted by price fluctuations, mainly for silicon. Silicon is the main LIQUIDITY RISK component in the products. Historically, the price of silicon has not fluctuated to any significant degree and supply Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group encounters problems meeting its obligations associated with financial is favorable. Should supplies of silicon in the world market decrease, there is a risk of price increases. The price liabilities. The Group has rolling liquidity planning, which is updated every month. per unit of the company’s purchases from external suppliers could thereby increase. There is no guarantee that The Group’s forecasts cover a minimum of six months of rolling liquidity planning over the medium-term. FPC can subsequently pass on any higher costs to its customers. The inability to pass on higher costs to the ­Liquidity planning is used to manage liquidity risk and the cost for financing the Group. company’s customers could have a negative impact on the company’s operations, earnings and financial position. The aim is that the Group should be able to meet its financial commitments and to have the necessary preparedness well in advance. It should be possible to offset upswings and downturns without incurring significant CREDIT RISK unforeseeable costs. Available liquidity in the Group at year end amounted to SEK 1,162.2 M (1,031.3). Due to a relatively limited spread in the number of customers, with ten customers accounting for 99.47% of sales, In accordance with the financial policy, there should always be sufficient cash and cash equivalents and conthe Group is exposed to credit risk pertaining to this. The Group is exposed to credit risk associated with the financial firmed credit lines to cover the liquidity requirements of the period immediately ahead. The company’s financial liainstitutions where this has been placed. bilities consist of supplier credits, totaling SEK 821.6 M (548.5) with a short maturity of within one to two months. CREDIT RISKS IN ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE MARKET RISKS The risk that the Group’s/company’s customers are unable to fulfill their obligations, meaning that payment is not Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will vary due changes in received from customers, comprises a customer credit risk. The credit risk for the Group’s customers is assessed market prices. IFRS divides market risks into three types; currency risk, interest-rate risk and other price risk. and results in decisions for each transaction. For significant accounts receivable, the risk of credit losses is The market risks that primarily impact the Group comprise currency risk and commodity price risk, while the limited by taking out credit insurance or requesting other collateral from customers with low credit ratings or ­interest rate risk has less of an impact since the company has no deposits. insufficient credit history. Based on historical data, the Group has concluded that no impairment of accounts The Group’s aim is to manage and control market risks within specific parameters and simultaneously optireceivable that have not yet fallen due for payment was necessary on the balance-sheet date. A provision of SEK mize the results of risk-taking within specific parameters. These parameters are established in a bid to ensure 2.0 M has been posted for past due accounts receivable. that market risks will have only a marginal effect on the Group’s earnings and financial position in the short term (6–12 months). However, protracted changes in exchange rates and interest rates will impact consolidated MATURITY STRUCTURE OF PAST DUE, NON-IMPAIRED ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE earnings in the longer term. Group Parent Company CURRENCY RISK 2016 2015 2016 2015 Currency risk is the term for the risk that the fair value and cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate when Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying the value of foreign currencies changes. The Group is exposed to various types of currency risks. The main exposure amount, amount, amount, amount, is derived from the Group’s sales and purchases in foreign currencies. These currency risks comprise the risk of Group and Parent company non-impaired non-impaired non-impaired non-impaired fluctuations in the value of financial instruments, accounts receivables and accounts payable and and the currency SEK M receivables receivables receivables receivables risk inherent in expected and contractual payment flows. Such risks designated transaction exposure. Not past due accounts receivable 947.4 543.1 947.4 543.1 According to the financial policy, exchange-risks are not to be hedged. Currency exchanges of the net surplus Past due accounts receivable 0 – 30 days 180.8 75.3 180.8 75.3 in USD to SEK occur on continuous basis. The result includes currency exchange differences of SEK 45.8 M (loss: 3.8) in operating profit and no part of net financial income. Translation difference in cash will be recognized as Past due accounts receivable 30 days – 90 days 3.8 0.7 3.8 0.7 ­financial expense as of 2017. Past due accounts receivable > 90 days 2.1 0.3 2.1 0.3 Provision for accounts receivable -2.0 -1.5 -2.0 -1.5 Total 1,132.1 617.9 1,132.1 617.9 FINGERPRINTS Notes 87 GROUP Group Parent Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 % % % % No of total, no. of % No. of total, no. of % No. of total, no. of % No. of total, no. of % Sales per year c­ ustomers customers of value c­ ustomers customers of value c­ ustomers customers of value c­ ustomers customers of value ‹ SEK 1 M 66 76% 0.1% 80 83% 0.2% 66 76% 0.1% 80 83% 0.2% SEK 1 – 10 M 10 12% 0.4% 6 6% 0.7% 10 12% 0.4% 6 6% 0.7% › SEK 10 M 10 12% 99.5% 10 10% 99.1% 10 12% 99.5% 10 10% 99.1% Total 86 100% 100.0% 96 100% 100.0% 86 100% 100.0% 96 100% 100.0% During the year, the cost of bad debts was SEK 0.7 M (1.5). NOTE 25 Leasing NOTE 26 Related parties OPERATIONAL LEASING PURCHASES OF GOODS/SERVICES FROM RELATED PARTIES Leases where the company is the lessee Group Parent Company Group Parent Company SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 Non-terminable leasing payments Purchases of services from subsidiaries 0.0 –0.3 –126.3 –58.3 amounted to: Total 0.0 –0.3 –126.3 –58.3 Within one year 17.9 6.8 14.4 4.5 Between one and five years 15.6 6.1 10.9 3.1 RECEIVABLES FROMAND LIABILITIES TO RELATED PARTIES AT DECEMBER 31 33.5 12.9 25.3 7.6 Group Parent Company Operational leases comprise leases for premises. The largest leases will expire in 2018 and 2019, with the option SEK M 2016 2015 2016 2015 of renegotiation and extension. The leases include continuous adjustments to track the consumer-price index or Receivables on subsidiaries — — 2.5 4.3 similar index. Liabilities to subsidiaries — — –9.2 –3.7 Leasing fees paid during the year ­pertaining to operational leasing: Group Parent Company Transactions with related parties are priced on market terms. No acquisitions were made in 2016 SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Transactions with key people in executive positions are limited to individual clearly delineated smaller consulMinimum leasing fees 16.7 11.5 12.5 7.2 tancy assignments where specific expertise is required. The Group has purchased services from Board members. Refer to Note 7 for remuneration of the Board and Variable fees — — — — senior executives. Total leasing costs 16.7 11.5 12.5 7.2 Transactions with senior executives have been effected in respect of the exercise of warrants in the T05 and T06 programs. 88 FINGERPRINTS Notes NOTE 27 Group companies • Fingerprint Cards Korea Ltd Company was established in 2015. The operations consist of marketing and technical support in the Korean market. All personnel in Korea are employed by the Korean company. Registered Participating • Fingerprint Cards (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. in China: The company was formed in 2016. The operations consist office of Shareinterest of marketing and customer support on the Chinese market. All staff in China are employed by the Chinese subsidiary, holders´ Net company. Parent Company’s holdings in subsidiaries country equity result 2016 2015 • Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd. Taiwan Company was established in 2016. The operations consist of marketing Anacatum Design AB Sweden 5.3 0.5 100% 100% and customer support in the Taiwanese market. All staff in Taiwan are employees of the Taiwanese company. Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. Korea 2.4 1.6 100% 100% Fingerprint Cards ApS Denmark 7.6 3.8 100% 100% NOTE 28 Statement of cash flows Fingerprint Cards China China 3.6 1.0 100% 0% CURRENT INVESTMENTS HAVE BEEN CLASSIFIED AS CASH AND Fingerprint Cards Inc USA 3.5 2.4 100% 100% CASH EQUIVALENTS BASED ON THE FOLLOWING: Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd Taiwan 0.4 0.3 100% 0% • They have an insignificant risk of value fluctuations • They can be easily converted to cash funds Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB Sweden 2.2 –0.1 100% 100% • They have a term of not more than three months from the acquisition date Group Parent Company Specification of Parent Company’s direct holdings of participations in subsidiaries SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 The following subcomponents are included in Subsidiaries / Number of Holding cash and cash equivalents: Corp. Reg. No. shares as a % Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Cash and bank balances 1,162.2 1,031.30 1142.3 1,018.00 Anacatum Design AB, 556779-5371 24,466,668 100 1.0 1.0 Total in accordance with the statement of Fingerprint Card Korea Co.,Ltd. 20,000 100 0.7 0.7 financial position 1,162.2 1,031.30 1,142.3 1,018.00 Fingerprint Cards ApS 800 100 0.1 0.1 Total in accordance with the cash-flow statement 1,162.2 1,031.30 1,142.3 1,018.00 Fingerprint Cards China — 100 2.5 0.0 Fingerprint Cards Inc 100 100 0.1 0.1 Fingerprint Cards Taiwan Ltd — 100 0.1 — INTEREST PAID AND RECEIVED Fingerprint Security System Databärare AB 556239-5938 1,000 100 0.7 0.7 Group Parent Company SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Carrying amount, December 31 5.2 2.6 Interest received 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 • Fingerprint Security System Data Carriers AB: Interest paid ­–1.0 –0.4 –0.8 –0.4 The company has been a subsidiary since 1998. The company’s operation have comprised safekeeping of the warrants issued by the Parent Company as part of incentive programs and that are not held by employees of the Fingerprint Cards Group. In 2016, the subsidiary managed the warrants acquired during 2013 as part of ADJUSTMENTS FOR NON-CASH ITEMS incentive programs conducted during 2013. Exercises from warrant programs were effected in February, March, November and December, whereby the company no longer had any warrants in Fingerprint Cards AB at Group Parent Company year-end. The company has no employed staff and did not pay any salaries. SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 • Fingerprint Cards Aps in Denmark: The company was established in 2013. The business consists of technology development on behalf of the business in Sweden. All employees in Denmark are employed in Fingerprint Cards Depreciation, amortization and impairment 48.6 43.2 46.5 40.8 Aps. The operations and the number of employees in 2016 continued to grow. Transfer to tax allocation fund — — 650.0 — • Anacatum Design AB in Sweden: All shares in the company were acquired in 2014. The company conducts limited activities and has no personnel employed. Other –34.0 0.0 -35.5 0.0 • Fingerprint Inc. in the US The company was founded in 2014. The operations consist of marketing and technical 14.6 43.2 661.0 40.8 support in the US market. All staff in the United States are employed by the American company. FINGERPRINTS Notes 89 NOTE 29 Important estimates and assessments NOTE 34 Development expenditure Company management has discussed with the Audit Committee the development, choice and disclosures regarding In 2016, the Group’s expenses for technological development and patents increased to SEK 367.0 M (193.8), the Group’s most important accounting policies and estimates and the application of these policies and estimates. of which SEK 62.8 M (17.2) has been capitalized in the Consolidated statement of financial position and the In 2015 and 2016, development expenditure was capitalized. The capitalization was based on the anticipated remaining SEK 304.2 M (176.6) has been expensed. Correspondingly for the Parent Company in 2016, expenses commercial potential of the products to which the expenses pertain. The estimates focused on determining how for technological development increased to SEK 367.0 M (198.5), of which SEK 62.8 M (17.2) has been capitalized long the products would be able to generate earnings and, by their very nature, these estimates depend on trends in the Parent Company’s balance sheet, and the remaining SEK 304.2 M (181.3) has been expensed in the Parent in the market, the performance of competitors and technological developments. Company’s income statement. In 2016, expenses related to technological development and patents as a proportion of total operating expenses, excluding the cost of materials but including capitalized development expenditure, amounted for the Group to SEK 367.0 M (193.8) of a total SEK 610.4 M (393.7), representing 60% (49). NOTE 30 Information regarding the Parent Company In the Parent Company, the equivalent portion in 2016 amounted to SEK 367.0 M (198.5) of a total SEK 622.1 M (398.9), representing 59% (50). Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) (Parent Company) org. nr. 556154-2381 is a limited liability company registered in Sweden, with its registered office in Gothenburg, Västra Götaland, Sweden. The Parent Company’s shares are registered on OMX Nasdaq. The address of the head office is Box 2412, SE-403 16 Gothenburg, Sweden and the NOTE 35 Business combinations (after the balance-sheet date) visiting address is Kungsportsplatsen 2, Gothenburg, Sweden. The 2016 consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, jointly designated “the Group”. DELTA ID INC. On February 1, 2017, Fingerprints concluded an agreement concerning the acquisition of Delta ID Inc. When the acquisition has been completed, Fingerprints will own and consolidate 100% of the share capital of Delta ID Inc. The cash consideration, which corresponds to USD 106 M (approx. SEK 938 M) is subject to certain deferring NOTE 31 Events after the balance-sheet date terms and conditions, based on the future commitment of its management over the coming two years. A Lars Söderfjell steps down from the company’s Board. contingent consideration of up to USD 14 M (approx. SEK 124 M) may be paid by Fingerprints should Delta ID’s Fingerprints acquires Delta ID Inc. revenues exceed the forecast for 2017. The acquisition will be financed with own funds, and by raising loans. Fingerprints’ CFO, Johan Wilsby, to leave the company in July 2017. As a result of the acquisition, Fingerprints broadens its technology portfolio by adding biometric security Fingerprints is expecting a weaker first quarter and that the short-term challenges will persist in the second ­solutions based on the human eye. The acquisition is subject to approval by relevant authorities and is expected quarter. Consequently, the company has decided to refrain from making forecasts for the full year 2017. The to be completed during spring 2017. dividend proposal that was previously communicated in the year-end report has been withdrawn. Financial statements on the takeover of the company had not been established when this Annual Report was approved for publication. The acquisition will generate a surplus value of about USD 105 M. Work on allocating the surplus value will be initiated and it will reported in the interim report on the second quarter of 2017, which will be published on July 21, 2017. NOTE 32 Assets pledged Parent Company SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 NOTE 36 Proposed treatment of the company’s accumulated profit Assets pledged for operating credit, The following amounts are at the disposal of the AGM (SEK): bank balances 15 15 Share premium reserve 79,453,249 SEK Retained earnings 0.00 SEK NOTE 33 Other long-term liabilities Net profit for the year 1,518,408,207 SEK Group Total 1,597,861,456 SEK SEK M Dec 31, 2016 Dec 31, 2015 The Board proposes that the net profit for the year, as well as unrestricted funds and retained earnings, Accumulated liabilities be treated as follows: Opening balance — 0.2 To be carried forward 1,597,861,456 SEK Amortization for the year — –0.2 Closing balance — — Carrying amounts At the beginning of the year — 0.2 At end of year — 0 Other long-term liabilities refer to the long-term parts of financing obtained through financial leasing. 90 FINGERPRINTS Assurance by the Board Assurance by the Board The Board of Directors and President hereby give their assurance that the Annual Report has been prepared in P ­ arent Company and the Group provides a fair review of the performance of the Parent Company’s and the accordance with generally accepted accounting policies in Sweden and that the consolidated financial statements Group’s operations, financial position and earnings, and describes the significant risks and uncertainties faced have been prepared in accordance with the international accounting standards referred to in Regulation (EC) by the ­Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. The Annual Report and Consolidated Accounts no. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of July 19, 2002 on the application of international have, as stated above, been approved for issue by the Board on March 29, 2017. The consolidated statement of accounting standards. The Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements provide a true and fair view comprehensive income and statement of financial position and the Parent Company’s income statement and of the Parent Company’s and the Group’s financial position and earnings. The Administration Report for the ­balance sheet will be subject to adoption by the Annual General Meeting on April 20, 2017. Gothenburg, March 29, 2017 Jan Wäreby Katarina Bonde Peter Carlsson Urban Fagerstedt Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Board member Michael Hallén Åsa Hedin Tomas Mikaelsson Carl-Johan von Plomgren Board member Board member Board member Board member Our audit report was submitted on March 29, 2017 KPMG Johan Kratz Authorized Public Accountant FINGERPRINTS Auditor’s report 91 Audit report To the general meeting of the shareholders of nual accounts and consolidated accounts of the curof revenue from the sale of goods based on when the and we do not express any form of assurance concluFingerprint Cards AB (publ), corp. id 556154-2381 rent period. These matters were addressed in the goods have been delivered and the terms associated sion regarding this other information. context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion with delivery, partly through sample tests and partly In connection with our audit of the annual accounts REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated acby testing the precision in the methodology based on and consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS counts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate historical outcome. the information identified above and consider whether opinion on these matters. the information is materially inconsistent with the annuOpinions Valuation of inventories al accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceWe have audited the annual accounts and consolidatKey Audit Matters See disclosure 17 and accounting principles on pages dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise ed accounts of Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) for the year Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, 72–75 in the annual account and consolidated accounts obtained in the audit and assess whether the informa2016. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts in our professional judgment, were of most signififor detailed information and description of the matter. tion otherwise appears to be materially misstated. of the company are included on pages 58–90 in this cance in our audit of the annual accounts and consoliIf we, based on the work performed concerning this document. dated accounts of the current period. These matters Description of key audit matter information, conclude that there is a material misstateIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prewere addressed in the context of our audit of, and in Inventories in the group and in the parent company ment of this other information, we are required to repared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and amounts to 673 MSEK which is 19% of total assets. port that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. and present fairly, in all material respects, the financonsolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not proInventories consists of both products in process and cial position of the parent company as of 31 December vide a separate opinion on these matters. finished products. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the 2016 and its financial performance and cash flow for The group’s products are brought to market on a Managing Director the year then ended in accordance with the Annual AcRevenue market where the rate of change is high as new prodThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are counts Act. The consolidated accounts have been preSee disclosure 2 and 4 and accounting principles on uct versions are launched continuously. Calculation of responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts pared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and pages 72–75 in the annual account and consolidated obsolescence in inventory comprises significant eleand consolidated accounts and that they give a fair present fairly, in all material respects, the financial accounts for detailed information and description of ments of judgment and thereby constitutes a key aupresentation in accordance with the Annual Accounts position of the group as of 31 December 2016 and the matter. dit matter in our audit. The risk is that this obsolesAct and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in their financial performance and cash flow for the year cence might be overor understated and that every accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board then ended in accordance with International Financial Description of key audit matter adjustment of the provision for obsolete inventories of Directors and the Managing Director are also Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and Revenue during 2016 for the group and the parent comwill have a direct impact on the profit and loss. responsible for such internal control as they determine the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration pany amounted to 6 638 MSEK. Revenue refers to agreeis necessary to enable the preparation of annual report is consistent with the other parts of the annual ments with customers concerning delivery of goods. Response in the audit accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from accounts and consolidated accounts. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized in the We have taken part of the group’s assessment of the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We therefore recommend that the general meeting profit and loss when the material risks and benefits necessary provision for obsolescence in inventory. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated of shareholders adopts the income statement and balassociated with ownership of the products have been We have evaluated the group’s process for assessaccounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Diance sheet for the parent company and the statement transferred to the purchaser. Here at is considered ing the provision for putative obsolescence and tested rector are responsible for the assessment of the comof comprehensive income and statement of financial any uncertainty concerning payment, associated cost, thereto relevant controls. pany’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going position for the group. risk returns or if the seller retains a commitment to We have challenged the group’s assessment and concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related the ongoing management that is usually associated assumptions regarding the provision for obsolesto going concern and using the going concern basis of Basis for Opinions with ownership. cence. This have primarily been done by assessing the accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is We conducted our audit in accordance with InternationTerms associated with delivery of goods, and the group’s assessment of future sales and statistics over however not applied if the Board of Directors and the al Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted elements of judgment and estimates that thereby are historical obsolescence by evaluating the precision in Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities included in the recognition of revenue, makes this a the group’s assessments previous years. This assesscease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to under those standards are further described in the key audit matter in our audit. The risk is that these ment has been performed on an item level. do so. Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent revenues might be overor understated and that evThe Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the of the parent company and the group in accordance ery adjustment of the value will have a direct impact Other Information than the annual accounts and Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in generwith professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and on the profit and loss. consolidated accounts al, among other things oversee the company’s finanhave otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in This document also contains other information than cial reporting process. accordance with these requirements. Response in the audit the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained We have taken part of the current terms of agreement found on pages 1–57 and 93–96. The Board of Auditor’s responsibility is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our to assess the group’s recognition of revenue from the Directors and the Managing Director are responsible Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the sale of goods. for this other information. about whether the annual accounts and consolidated audit are those matters that, in our professional judgWe have tested controls aimed at cut-off of reveOur opinion on the annual accounts and consoliaccounts as a whole are free from material misstatement, were of most significance in our audit of the annue. We have also assessed the timing of recognition dated accounts does not cover this other information ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 92 FINGERPRINTS Auditor’s report Auditor’s responsibility consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are based company’s profit or loss. any material respect: Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our We recommend to the general meeting of share•h  as undertaken any action or been guilty of any about whether the annual accounts and consolidated auditor’s report. However, future events or condiholders that the profit be appropriated in accordance omission which can give rise to liability to the comaccounts as a whole are free from material misstatetions may cause a company and a group to cease to with the proposal in the statutory administration repany, or ment, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an continue as a going concern. port and that the members of the Board of Directors • in any other way has acted in contravention of the auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and conand the Managing Director be discharged from liability Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Artiassurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a tent of the annual accounts and consolidated acfor the financial year. cles of Association. guarantee that an audit con-ducted in accordance with counts, including the disclosures, and whether the ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweannual accounts and consolidated accounts repreBasis for Opinions Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed den will always detect a material misstatement when it sent the underlying transactions and events in a We conducted the audit in accordance with generally appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and manner that achieves fair presentation. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsithereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reaare considered material if, individually or in the aggre• Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence rebilities under those standards are further described in sonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the garding the financial information of the entities or the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indepenin accordance with the Companies Act. economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these business activities within the group to express an dent of the parent company and the group in accorReasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, annual accounts and consolidated ac-counts. opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are redance with professional ethics for accountants in Swebut is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in acAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exsponsible for the direction, supervision and perforden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical cordance with generally accepted auditing standards ercise professional judgment and maintain profesmance of the group audit. We remain solely responresponsibilities in accordance with these requirements. in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that sional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: sible for our opinions. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained can give rise to liability to the company, or that the is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or • Identify and assess the risks of material misstateWe must inform the Board of Directors of, among opinions. loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. ment of the annual accounts and consolidated acother matters, the planned scope and timing of the As part of an audit in accordance with generally accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and cepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise properform audit procedures responsive to those risks, during our audit, including any significant deficiencies the Managing Director fessional judgment and maintain professional sceptiand obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and apin internal control that we identified. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal cism throughout the audit. The examination of the propriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk We must also provide the Board of Directors with a for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At administration and the proposed appropriations of the of not detecting a material misstatement resulting statement that we have complied with relevant ethical the proposal of a dividend, this includes an assesscompany’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit from fraud is higher than for one resulting from errequirements regarding independence, and to commument of whether the dividend is justifiable considering of the accounts. Additional audit procedures perror, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intennicate with them all relationships and other matters the requirements which the company’s and the formed are based on our professional judgment with tional omissions, misrepresentations, or the overthat may reasonably be thought to bear on our indepengroup’s type of operations, size and risks place on the starting point in risk and materiality. This means that ride of internal control. dence, and where applicable, related safeguards. size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, we focus the examination on such actions, areas and • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal From the matters communicated with the Board of consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in relationships that are material for the operations and control relevant to our audit in order to design audit Directors, we determine those matters that were of general. where deviations and violations would have particular procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, most significance in the audit of the annual accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the comimportance for the company’s situation. We examine but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on and consolidated accounts, including the most importpany’s organization and the administration of the comand test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. ant assessed risks for material misstatement, and are pany’s affairs. This includes among other things conactions taken and other circumstances that are rele• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies therefore the key audit matters. We describe these tinuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s vant to our opinion concerning discharge from liability. used and the reasonableness of accounting estimatters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulafinancial situation and ensuring that the company’s orAs a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ mates and related disclosures made by the Board of tion precludes disclosure about the matter or when, in ganization is designed so that the accounting, manproposed appropriations of the company’s profit or Directors and the Managing Director. extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a agement of assets and the company’s financial affairs loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. statement and a selection of supporting evidence in Directors’ and the Managing Director’s, use of the report because the adverse consequences of doing so The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in going concern basis of accounting in preparing the would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public administration according to the Board of Directors’ accordance with the Companies Act. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also interest benefits of such communication. guidelines and instructions and among other matters draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtake measures that are necessary to fulfil the compatained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY ny’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the Gothenburg, March 29 2017 related to events or conditions that may cast signifiREQUIREMENTS management of assets in a reassuring manner. KPMG AB cant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a Opinions Auditor’s responsibility Johan Kratz material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and Our objective concerning the audit of the administraAuthorized Public Accountant attention in our auditor’s report to the related discloconsolidated accounts, we have also audited the tion, and thereby our opinion about discharge from sures in the annual accounts and consolidated acadministration of the Board of Directors and the liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a counts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to Managing Director of Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) for reasonable degree of assurance whether any member modify our opinion about the annual accounts and the year 2016 and the proposed appropriations of the of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in FINGERPRINTS Ten-year summary 93 Ten-year Summary Statement of income 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 DEFINITIONS Most of these key figures are Alternative Performance Revenues, SEK M 6,638.3 2,900.5 233.6 95.4 10.3 68.6 60.9 38.5 27.5 20.7 Measures according to ESMA’s definition. How these Gross profit, SEK M 3,165.3 1,255.3 71.6 39.2 –5.7 –37.0 20.4 6.0 –1.0 –12.5 key figures are used is described below, as is how they are calculated. The alternative performance measures Gross margin, % 48 43 31 41 –55 –46 33 16 –17 –60 are used to provide a more comprehensive description of how the operational activities are developing, such as Operating profit, SEK M 2,613.1 910.3 –145.2 –34.0 –38.7 2.7 1.6 –24.7 –24.1 –35.4 gross margin, gross profit, operating margin, EBITDA Operating margin, % 39 31 –62 –36 –375 5 3 –64 –88 –171 and revenue increase, while other alternative performance measures focus on the owner perspective, such Profit for the year, SEK M 2,034.7 798.3 –144.0 –32.9 –38.1 3.4 2.0 –24.6 –23.3 –34.2 as return on equity, and cases where certain balProfit margin, % 31 28 –62 –35 –375 5 3 –64 –85 –165 ance-sheet items or cash flow items are placed in relation to the number of shares. In addition, the equity/ Depreciation and amortization, SEK M –48.6 –43.4 –32.1 –12.6 –10.8 –4.9 –6.4 –4.1 –3.5 –2.8 assets ratio is provided to describe the financial position Impairment, SEK M — — –29.5 — — — — –5.9 — — and long-term financial sustainability. EBITDA, SEK M 2,661.7 953.7 –83.6 –21.4 –27.9 8.2 8.3 –14.7 –20.8 –32.7 Average credit period. Average value of accounts receivable over the period in relation to net sales, multiplied by 360 days. Financial position balance sheet Intangible fixed assets, SEK M 71.4 49.7 69.8 54.3 29.1 28.2 22.9 12.3 20.8 16.4 Average number of shares. Average number of shares during the period. Tangible fixed assets, SEK M 29.2 20.6 18.8 5.4 4.8 4.2 3.7 0.3 0.3 0.3 Financial fixed assets, SEK M — 1.0 — — — 0.9 — — — — Average number of shares after dilution. Average number of shares plus an increase by the Inventories, SEK M 672.7 153.0 98.8 19.9 11.4 4.3 7.9 9.1 15.4 18 average number of shares that could be issued as a result of current remuneration and personnel Accounts receivable, SEK M 1,132.1 617.9 115.8 31.1 6.2 53 17.2 9.7 8.4 4 ­programs. Other receivables + Prepaid expenses, SEK M 435.4 36.6 19.5 10.1 3.1 3.2 3.8 2.3 1.4 1.6 Average number of shares at the end of the period. Cash and cash equivalents + Current investNumber of shares less treasury shares at the end of ments, SEK M 1,162,2 1,031.3 101.9 211.7 60.6 23 30.8 50.1 22.7 33.8 the period. Shareholders' equity, SEK M 2,226.1 1,146.8 301.1 289.7 101.9 106.3 78 74.3 58.1 67.2 Cash flow from operating activities/share. Cash flow Deferred tax liability, SEK M 136.3 — — — — 1.2 — — — — from operating activities after changes in working Non-current liabilities, SEK M — — 0.2 0.4 0.7 — — — — — capital/average number of shares before and after dilution. Current liabilities, SEK M 1,140.6 763.2 123.3 42.3 12.7 9.3 8.3 9.5 10.9 6.9 Working capital, SEK M 2,261.8 1,075.6 212.7 230.5 68.6 74.2 51.4 61.7 37 50.5 Cost of goods sold. Cost for materials, production ­expenses and amortization according to plan of Balance-sheet total, SEK M 3,503 1,910.1 424.6 332.5 115.3 116.8 86.3 83.8 69 74.1 ­capitalized development expenditure. Inventory turnover rate, days 43 29 132 94 181 74 103 154 211 188 Earnings per share for the period: Profit for the Average credit period, days 47 46 113 99 1,035 184 80 85 81 44 period/number of shares outstanding at period end. Return on capital employed, % 117 126 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –33 –40 –51 Earnings per share after dilution Earnings per share Return on shareholders' equity, % 121 110 –48 –12 –44 3 2.6 –132 –160 –204 plus adjustment for the number of shares and the paid exercise price resulting from current remuneraReturn on capital employed, % 75 78 –34 –10 –38 3 2.3 –117 –135 –185 tion and personnel programs. Earnings per share Equity/asset ratio, % 64 60 71 87 87 91 90 89 84 91 ­after dilution can never exceed earnings per share before dilution. 94 FINGERPRINTS Ten-year summary EBITDA. Earnings Before Interest Taxes Depreciation Cash flow 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 and Amortization. Operating profit before financial Cash flow from operating activities, SEK M 1,130.3 910.4 –174.2 –28.8 14.5 –22.2 –0.6 –11.3 –17.1 –31.9 ­income/expense, taxes, depreciation/amortization and impairment losses. Cash flow from investing activities, SEK M –78.3 –26.0 –90.6 –38.3 –11.4 –11.7 –20.4 –1.5 –7.8 –5.5 Cash flow from financing activities, SEK M –955.7 47.4 155 220.5 34.5 24.9 1.8 40.3 13.7 0 Equity/assets ratio. Shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. Cash flow for the year, SEK M 96.3 931.8 –109.8 151.1 37.6 –7.8 –19.3 27.5 –11.2 37.4 Gross margin. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales. Shares Earnings per share, SEK 6.40 2.53 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 –0.24 –0.36 Gross profit. Revenues less cost of goods sold. Earnings per share after full dilution, SEK 6.33 2.48 –0.49 –0.12 –0.17 0.02 0.01 –0.22 –0.24 –0.36 Inventory turnover rate, days. Average value of Cash and cash equivalents + investment at inventory over the period in relation to cost of goods year-end/share, SEK 3.71 3.26 0.35 0.83 0.17 0.11 0.16 0.25 0.37 0.56 sold, multiplied by 360 days. Equity per share, SEK 7.11 3.63 1.03 1.06 0.47 0.49 0.39 0.65 0.61 0.7 Net margin. Profit for the period as a percentage of Equity per share, after full conversion, SEK 7.09 3.57 0.97 1.04 0.47 0.5 0.39 0.65 0.61 0.7 revenues. Cash flow from operations per average number Number of shares outstanding at period end. of shares, SEK 3.56 2.86 –0.61 –0.11 0.14 –0.1 0 –0.1 –0.18 –0.33 Number of shares less bought back shares held in treasury. Shares at end of period, thousands 313,967 316,196 292,106 270,806 239,041 218,048 198,348 198,348 60,764 60,764 Average number of shares during the year, Operating margin. Operating profit as a percentage of thousands 317,727 315,349 287,574 254,470 228,841 216,943 210,719 89,283 101,419 101,419 revenues. Number of shares after dilution, average, Operating profit. Operating profit before financial thousands 321,409 321,372 310,306 276,441 230,362 216,943 210,719 89,283 101,419 101,419 ­income/expenses and tax. Dividend per share, SEK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Profit for the period. Profit after financial income/­ Share price at year-end, SEK 62.85 118.2 7 10.9 2.5 1.9 1.8 0.7 0.5 2.6 expenses and tax. Market capitalization at year-end, SEK M 19.733 37.374 2.033 2.938 559 406 355 131 56 160 Return on equity. Profit for the period in relation to Employees at year-end 306 150 104 48 19 19 19 13 13 12 average equity for the period. Average equity is defined as shareholders’ equity at the start of the period plus shareholders’ equity at the end of the period divided by two. Revenue increase. This shows the increase in ­revenues compared with the corresponding year-­ earlier period shown as a percentage. Shareholders’ equity per share. Shareholders’ equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the number of shares outstanding, before dilution, at period-end. Shareholders’ equity per share after dilution. See “Shareholders’ equity per share” plus adjustment for the number of shares and the paid exercise price resulting from current remuneration and personnel programs. Working capital. Current assets less current non-­interest-bearing provisions and liabilities. FINGERPRINTS Shareholder information 95 Shareholder information FINGERPRINTS’ WEBSITE FUTURE REPORTING DATES REGISTRATION CONTACT INFORMATION FOR INVESTORS • Interim Report Q1 2017 January–March: Shareholders wishing to attend the AGM must Fingerprint Cards AB (publ) At www.fingerprints.com, there is up-to-date May 4, 2017 be entered in the share register maintained by Box 2412 company, share and insider information, finan• Interim Report Q2 2017 April–June: Euroclear Sweden AB by Wednesday, April 12, SE-403 16 Gothenburg cial reports and a press-release archive, as well July 21, 2017 2017, and notify the company of their intention Street address: as opportunities to subscribe for reports and • Interim Report Q3 2017 July–September: to attend the Meeting not later than on April 12, Kungsportsplatsen 2 press release. The Annual Report is available at October 26, 2017 at 4.00 p.m. at the following address: ­company Gothenburg Fingerprints’ website. webside: www.fingerprints.com/arsstamma, or For the sake of the environment and expen­ by phone +46 8 518 01 553 or to the address Telephone: +46 31 60 78 20 ses, Fingerprints has chosen not to distribute a Fingerprint Cards AB c/o Computershare, Fax: +46 31 13 73 85 physical copy of the Annual Report to shareholdBox 610, SE 182 16 Danderyd. E-mail: investrel@fingerprints.com ers. Annual reports, interim reports and press Website: www.fingerprints.com releases are available at the company’s website for investors. 96 FINGERPRINTS Glossary Glossary ALGORITHM THE INTERNET OF THINGS SMARTPHONE/ TABLET A systematic procedure for how to conduct a Internet-connected devices that are linked to the A combined mobile phone and handheld comcalculation or solve a problem in a given number Internet and can thus communicate with/be puter which, via mobile broadband, is linked to of steps. In Fingerprints’ specific case, the controlled via the Internet. the Internet. A smartphone has a complete method refers to the comparison of two finger­mobile operating system that is transferable prints with each other. MATCHING between various devices and that enables the The process of comparing an image of a fingeruser to easily install mobile apps, which are AUTHENTICATION print with a pre-processed template, and assmall third-party programs that expand the Control process for a particular entity; in consessing whether or not they are similar. phone’s functionality. junction with logging on, for example. The word is synonymous with verification. MODALITY TEMPLATE Type of biometric feature, such as fingerprint An arrangement of unique data that represents BIOMETRIC MODULE sensors and iris sensors. a certain fingerprint. Module with fingerprint sensors together with a biometric processor, storage of a fingerprint ODM TOUCH SENSORS template and software. Original Design Manufacturer, a company that A sensor that scans the fingerprint directly when develops and manufactures products sold under the finger top touches the sensor surface; comCHIP the trademarks of other companies. pare with swipe sensor. A piece of silicon in which the integrated circuit is embedded, such as a sensor chip. Normally, OEM WAFER a silicon wafer is cut into a number of chips, with Original Equipment Manufacturers companies A thin circular slice of silicon containing a numeach chip being essentially identical. that manufacture the end product that is sold in ber of integrated circuits, such as sensor chips. the open market DESIGN WIN VERIFICATION Decision by a customer (OEM or ODM) to start SMART CARD The comparison of compiled biometric data with developing one or several commercial products Plastic card equipped with a chip, an embedded a given template for the purpose of verifying the using Fingerprints’ technology as a built-in part circuit card with information about the card and matching of the two. This enables the authentiof this new product/these new products. its owner. cation of an individual to be made with a high degree of certainty. IDENTIFICATION Comparison of compiled biometric data with all stored templates for the purpose of identifying one of these templates (and thus an individual) from a multitude. WHEN WAS THE LAST TIME YOU FORGOT YOUR FINGER? WE BELIEVE IN A WORLD WHERE YOU ARE THE KEY TO EVERYTHING. Fingerprints is a world-leading biometrics company. We believe in a secure and seamless universe where you are the key to everything. Our solutions are found in millions of devices and are used billions of times, every day, providing safe and convenient identification and authentication with a human touch. POSTAL ADDRESS VISITING ADDRESS PHONE P.O Box 2412 Kungsportsplatsen 2, + 46 (0)31 60 78 20 SE-403 10 Gothenburg, Sweden SE-411 10 Gothenburg, Sweden
