Prosperity People Planet www.sappi.com 2016 Group Sustainability Report About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Contents Group Prosperity People Planet 2 Reader’s guide 42 Prosperity 2016 – at a glance 50 People 2016 – at a glance 80 Planet 2016 – at a glance Our management approach Our management approach to 3 About this report 43 Our management approach 51 to people 81 natural capital 4 Messages from our leadership 44 Realising our strategy 51 Profiling our people 82 Sourcing sustainably managed fibre Our sustainability governance 56 Being a great place to work Managing and mitigating climate 7 46 Our investment case 86 structure change Our performance against our 60 Strong leaders 8 47 Research and development 87 Reducing our carbon footprint regional targets Our performance against our global 60 Measuring levels of engagement Using and discharging water 9 48 Our value add 91 sustainability goals responsibly 61 Monitoring turnover and new hires Reducing solid waste and 12 Our accolades 93 adding value 63 Engaging constructively with trade 13 Our sustainable business model unions 64 Communicating operational 14 Our key material issues changes Our management approach to Prosperity 65 safety People Planet 68 Safety performance in Europe 26 Our stakeholders – Safety performance in North Our key relationships 69 95 United Nations Global Compact America 70 Safety performance in Southern Africa 104 Global Reporting Initiative 71 Promoting wellbeing, health and safety 115 Glossary 72 Helping others to help themselves 76 Supporting school integration in Germany 77 Fighting food waste 78 Making ideas matter sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 1 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reader’s guide Realising our 2020Vision More information Certification bodies Conventions More detailed information on many of the topics Certification bodies, eg FSC® and PEFC™, are Billion We are progressing our journey towards discussed in this online sustainability report is referenced throughout this report, without We follow contemporary ‘short scale’ convention; our 2020Vision which draws on the power available in other Sappi publications, our own providing detailed information about each of our defining one billion as one thousand million. of One Sappi to reshape Sappi’s future as website and third-party sources. Where operations’ certification status in each instance, we move beyond pulp and paper to unlock and commercialise the potential available, we provide links to these sources. to ensure ease of reading. Specific of woodfibre-based bioproducts. Our When data is expressed in specific form, this strategy of intentional evolution, which Read more detailed information available Certification information for each mill underpins this journey, is defined by the means that the actual quantity consumed in other published documents available on can also be obtained from our website, megatrends described in the wheel on (energy, water etc) or emitted (emissions, solid the Sappi website, www.sappi.com. www.sappi.com. page 46. waste etc) is expressed in terms of a production EU NA SA Read more detailed information available Recognition of certification bodies is parameter for the period indicated. For Sappi, as from third-party websites. further detailed in the glossary. with other pulp and paper companies, the Getting around EU NA SA EU NA SA parameter is air dry tons of product. EU NA SA EU NA SA This Group Sustainability Report makes use of in-document navigation tools, Best viewed Intellectual property Tons allowing you to navigate to the subjects We standardise all our reported measurements that interest you most. The navigation using the metric ton equivalent to 1,000kg (one bar at the top of the page will keep you This sustainability report is best viewed using Various websites, research reports, trademarks, thousand kilograms). apprised of where you are in the report. Adobe Acrobat’s PDF viewer, which can be registered trademarks and other forms of downloaded free of charge from Adobe’s intellectual property are referenced in this report. Click on the icons to: website. All of these, whether marked or unmarked are, Exchange rates without exception, acknowledged as the legal Move to the contents page property of their respective owners. Viewing the report online, using your browser’s We have used the following exchange rates: native built-in PDF-reader may render some of FY2016 Move forward one page the navigational and interactive functionality Average NA SA unusable. Move back one page US$/ZAR 14.7 EUR/US$ 1.1 EU NA SA Move to the previous page you were reading EU EU NA Access NA SA SAadditional/explanatory information, including data to the Prosperity and Planet graphs. Related information within this report is cross-referenced EU NA SA This report makes use of Adobe NA SA Acrobat’s bookmark tools EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 2 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary About this report Scope of this report Joint ventures excluded This report is aligned with our Annual Integrated LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 joint venture These trends occur in the broader context of a Prioritising content Report and covers the period from the beginning (JV) with Borregaard at Saiccor Mill, is excluded world where climate change concerns and This report is structured along Sappi’s wellof October 2015 to the end of September 2016. as we do not manage the operation. However, resource scarcity are raising expectations to established ‘3Ps’ of sustainability: Prosperity, We report on a regional and global basis, the JV is included in our safety statistics. make more and better with less, and where People and Planet. It covers material wherever possible presenting data over five sustainably manufactured products derived from sustainability focus areas that affect the longyears to make the information relevant, accessible renewable resources are more important than term success of our business, and that relate to Global Reporting Initiative and comparable. Safety, health, quality and ever before. any significant impacts we have on the economy, environmental data is compiled according to environment or communities in which we international best practice. Commentary is We have reported in terms of the Global Reporting Based on this context, we have realigned our operate. provided on graphs to enhance understanding Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Sustainability Reporting strategy to maintain our position as a global and specific measurement criteria – as well as Guidelines (Core). We have included a GRI Index forest products leader and developed a global While we do cover economic (Prosperity) issues instances where these have changed – are and a separate document communicating our vision based on the power of One Sappi. to some extent, these are dealt with in greater clearly spelled out. progress in terms of the United Nations Global detail in our Annual Integrated Report, available Compact (UNGC). In preparing this report we have tracked on www.sappi.com. environmental findings and research, public Reporting framework opinion, employee views and attitudes, the Identifying stakeholders EU NA SA Defining report content interests and priorities of environmental and We have identified the stakeholders we expect As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South social groups, as well as the activities, profiles to use our report on the basis of our ongoing Africa and we have our primary listing on the and interests of investors, employees, suppliers, engagement – formal and informal – with them. Determining materiality JSE Securities Exchange, we abide by the customers, communities, governments and The various ways in which we engage our We consider material matters to be those matters King III Code on Corporate Governance (King III). regulatory authorities. stakeholders are set out in detail in this report. that could facilitate or inhibit our One Sappi In line with King III’s recommendation for The stakeholders we expect to use this report strategy and that could substantively affect – integrated reporting, our Annual Integrated Throughout the report, qualitative text is backed include investors, customers, suppliers, either positively or negatively – our ability to Report provides a very clear link between up by quantitative information, generally in the employees, communities, governmental and create stakeholder value over the short, medium sustainability and strategy and gives a broad form of graphs illustrating performance over five non-governmental organisations, environmental and long term. view of our overall sustainability performance. years between 2012 and 2016. bodies and all those who are affected by our activities. The information presented has been determined In response to stakeholders’ needs for more We aim to present information that is material, on the basis of our ongoing extensive in‑depth information pertinent to their specific accurate, comparable, relevant and complete. engagement with our stakeholders and has been region, we publish region-specific Sustainability The information presented covers topics and assessed against the backdrop of current Reports in addition to this group overview. Our indicators that reflect our significant economic, business operations, as well as the opportunities, 2016 regional Sustainability Reports for our environmental and social impacts, as well as challenges and prevailing trends in our industry operations in Southern Africa and North America, issues that would substantively influence the and the global economy. together with an updated summary for Europe, assessments and decisions of stakeholders. We will be available in 2017. publish our performance against targets in both the group report and our regional reports, transparently reporting on success or lack thereof in achieving these targets. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 3 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Messages from our leadership The success of our drive to adapt our business We deeply regret these fatalities and our hearts We also continued to invest in the communities to the global megatrends that are reshaping the go out to the families of the deceased. Our group in which we operate, with a view to empowering world around us is evident in our performance and regional management teams, as well as them to reach their full potential through selfover the past year. our board of directors, have placed even greater sustaining initiatives. emphasis on safety, particularly in our plantation This performance would not have been possible operations where most of our severe and fatal The ongoing trajectory of urban growth around without our dedicated, resourceful people. Their accidents occur. We have brought in experts the globe is leading to growing concerns about commitment to our values of doing business from around the world to advise us on how we natural resources and food security. To with integrity and courage, making smart can improve our systems, training and overall successfully navigate this trajectory, as One decisions which are executed with speed, has approach to safety in order to make our company Sappi we need to continue treading more lightly resulted in a leaner, more productive and efficient a safer place to work. We will continue to focus on the planet by progressively increasing our business. on entrenching a strong safety culture with the generation of renewable energy, enhancing our ultimate aim of zero accidents in the workplace. energy efficiency, reducing the amount of solid In terms of prosperity, this translated into an Our ultimate goal remains reinforcing a 24/7 waste generated, promoting the use of certified increase of 62% in return on capital employed, safety culture and ensuring that every person fibre and returning more than 90% of extracted and a dividend of 11 US cents for the year ended who comes to work goes home uninjured. water to the environment. 30 September – our first since 2008. This means that our Southern African colleagues who are On a more positive note, we continued to position In addition to these efforts, we are working beneficiaries of our Broad-based Black Economic our product portfolios to meet the needs of our collaboratively with technology partners and Empowerment (BBBEE) transaction, Sefate, will customers across the world, leverage the industry bodies to develop more sustainable for the first time receive dividend payments as opportunities inherent in global megatrends and approaches to the task of balancing sociomembers of either the management or employee unlock the potential of forest-derived bioproducts. economic growth and natural capital. This was underpinned by the commissioning of share trusts. our nanocellulose pilot plant in the Netherlands, Sappi celebrated 80 years of existence in 2016. In addition, we reduced debt significantly during together with the decision to build a secondThe original company was established in 1936 the year and by US$800m over the past three generation sugar extraction demonstration plant and registered on the Johannesburg Stock years. Our improved cash generation resulted in in South Africa, which is due to come on stream Exchange in January 1937. Over the years, we the group achieving the targeted leverage of less in 2017, as well as the establishment of a have built up an enviable legacy and reputation. dedicated Biotech division to consolidate and As we continue on our One Sappi journey than two times net debt to our earnings before expand our renewable biomaterial offerings. towards our 2020Vision, it is important to interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation, earlier than expected. safeguard our legacy and reputation. This means In terms of our people, our priority is a diverse, ensuring that all our people, customers, partners, engaged workforce who understand the world of However, great business results hold little value if communities, suppliers and other stakeholders tomorrow so that we position ourselves to take they come at the cost of our people. Our know what we stand for, how we hope to achieve advantage of future trends in order to grow and outstanding financial results were overshadowed our vision and understand the principles that prosper. Accordingly, we continued to invest in by our disappointing safety performance. guide us along the way. Accordingly, our revised our people so that we are able to create and Although our combined own employee and Code of Ethics sets out the expected behaviours seize opportunities, enable our people to grow contractor lost time injury frequency rate intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. that will help us stay true to who we are as we declined, there were four fatalities in Southern progress on our journey. Africa involving one employee and three contractor fatalities at our sawmilling and forestry Steve Binnie operations. Chief Executive Officer, Sappi Limited sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 4 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Messages from our leadership continued External assurance In line with our 2020Vision, we are intentionally Currently, assurance of sustainability information In addition, in FY2016 Sappi Limited was a evolving Sappi to respond to global megatrends, is conducted by our Internal Audit team. Their constituent of the FTSE/JSE Responsible including shifts in demographics, technology, verification process includes reviewing the Investment Index and the FTSE/JSE Responsible climate, the drivers of the international economy procedures applied for collecting and/or Investment Top 30 Index. Being included in these and a carbon constrained future. If we are to measuring, calculating and validating nonindices means that our sustainability performance succeed in realising our vision, we recognise that financial data, as well as reviewing reported has been externally assessed. we have to be agile enough to respond not just information and supporting documentation. to changes in the business landscape, but also Collectively, these external assessments and to the evolving needs of our people and the In practice, most of our key operations undergo certifications, as well as interaction with our communities in which our operations are external verification, including the Ecostakeholders, give us confidence that our situated, as well as the challenges they face in Management Audit System (EMAS) in Europe performance indicators are reliable, accurate dealing with a rapidly changing world. In addition, and globally, ISO 14001 environmental and pertinent. The Social, Ethics, Transformation we need to respond to pressures on the natural certification, 9001 quality certification and and Sustainability (SETS) Committee reviews the resources on which our business depends, OHSAS 18001 certification. efficacy of conducting external assurance continuously striving to implement best annually. The committee considered external environmental practice and keeping abreast of We are also assessed in terms of the forest verification in the year under review, but is cutting-edge technologies. certification systems we use, and in South Africa, satisfied that the sustainability information our Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment presented in this report has been provided with a By balancing People and Planet with (BBBEE) performance is assessed by an external reasonable degree of accuracy. Prosperity in this manner, we will maintain ratings agency. our position as a global forest products leader committed to collaborating and partnering with stakeholders – focused on being a trusted and sustainable organisation with an exciting future in woodfibre. Valli Moosa Chairman of the Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability Committee sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 5 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Intentional evolutionary strategy responsive to megatrends . . . To reshape Sappi’s future, our n sforma tive futu r es Tr a 2020Vision draws on the power of One Sappi as we move BioBiobeyond pulp and paper to Bio mic al energy materials Nan cellu ounlock and commercialise the lose che Te c inn hnic ur ov al at potential of woodfibre-derived Nexus – carbon-co ion es try industry t nstra Fores bioproducts. fu ined renewal e eco l tiv ta y Prosperity nom D ec igi om al ob ly Tr a Our strategic evolution is ma ies on Gl p n p su hai c ng nsf an Tr a n s f o r A gei underpinned by a commitment df ormative future n Resourc latio utu popu to collaborating and partnering e Megatrends Cha scarcity res impacting with our stakeholders, and our In c r afflu ease d ngin g pro ence and aims to position Sappi as a ang e lanet business le duct excpe tions inequ e ch P op ality trusted and sustainable Climat cta En Pe er ift s organisation with an exciting gy sh s ills Sk future in woodfibre. Fo od sec u rit y g r a ti on Ri se of Mi th e l dua ivi s re ind d tu ase Tr Incre fu Megaa urba nn cities sf e ti isati on m or v a at or ive m sf ures fut Tr a n sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 6 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our sustainability governance structure Our approach to sustainability is framed in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet — referred to internally as the 3Ps — and is set out in our Group Sustainability Charter. Sappi Limited This in turn is underpinned by the Code of Ethics EU NA SA board and our group value statement: “At Sappi we do business with integrity and courage, making smart decisions which we execute with speed.” Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability (SETS) Committee Endorses Group Sustainability Charter Regional Sustainability Councils (RSCs) operate in Europe, North America and Southern Africa. Ensures SETS requirements are Group Sustainable Development Council (GSDC) incorporated into regions Each RSC focuses on key material issues relevant to its specific region and on incorporating sustainability into everyday business processes. Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee These RSCs report to the group Sustainable Development Council, which in turn reports to the SETS Committee which in turn reports to the Strategy development Regional Sustainability Councils board. and implementation Sustainability ambassadors in Europe and North Sustainability ambassadors in Europe and North America Target setting America and brand ambassadors in Southern and brand ambassadors in Southern Africa Africa help to entrench an holistic approach to the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet throughout the group. Employees Budgeting Spread our sustainability story Report back on targets and initiatives Data collection and verification sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 7 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our performance against our regional targets Prosperity Europe Target 2016 performance Status Return on net operating assets (RONOA) 10% 10.2% Achieved EBITDA margin greater than 10% by 2017 10.1% Achieved North America Target 2016 performance Status 5% lower variable costs, particularly Achieve or exceed an annual 12% RONOA chemicals, wood and energy helped improve Not achieved margins. Southern Africa Target 2016 performance Status EBITDA margin greater than 20% 25% Achieved Sustainable cut above four million wet white tons per annum 3.8 million tons Not achieved Achieved Exceeded Not achieved sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 8 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our performance against our regional targets continued People Europe Target 2016 performance Status Provide 30 hours of training per employee per annum by 2017 Actual: 29.28 hours/employee Female: 38.41 hours/employee Male: 27.99 hours/employee Not achieved Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) LTIFR of 0.65 Target of 0.8 LTISR: 20 North America Target 2016 performance Status Offer training at average of 60 hours per employee per year to enhance job performance and management skills 80 hours Exceeded Safety (LTIFR) 0.69 Achieve zero workplace injuries Extremely good results at Cloquet Mill offset Not achieved by incidents at Somerset Mill. Southern Africa Target 2016 performance Status Achieve Level 4 compliance in BBBEE (in respect of the new Level 3 (old Forestry Codes). The new Forestry Codes) Forestry Codes have not been gazetted yet Achieved and we have thus been audited on the old codes for our 2016 financial year. Improvement of 2% every other year of engaged employees in We have a formal Employee terms of participation, commitment and issues closed out Engagement Survey every second year and this will happen again in 2017. In Not applicable 2015, 76% of our employees engaged and the participation in the survey was 78%. Combined LTIFR for own employees and contractors to be better than best‑ever achieved on a continuous 12-month basis and Lost 0.32 LTIFR and 117.7 LTISR Not achieved Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) to be below 25 Achieved Exceeded Not achieved sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 9 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our performance against our regional targets continued Planet Europe Target 2016 performance Status Reduction of specific direct fossil CO2 emissions including Increased by 2.1% purchased power emissions (calculated at 400g/KWh) by 5% by Direct CO2 emissions reduced by 4.1% 2017 (base year 2012, saleable production) Not achieved We produced less than in 2012 and we sold less power to the grid. Both negatively influenced the specific performance. Reduction of specific water use (m³/ton manufactured pulp Increased by 1.9% and saleable paper) by 5% by 2017 (base year is 2012, saleable We produced less than in 2012, which Not achieved production) negatively influenced the specific performance. Maintain a high level of certified fibre delivered to our mills Certified: 75.3% (FSC® or PEFCTM certified, or equivalent) FSC: 25.5% Achieved PEFC: 49.8% North America Target 2016 performance Status Procure 60% certified fibre to meet customer demands for 55% certified products Lower than target but able to meet customer Not achieved demands. Reduce the amount of total energy expended in making each ton of 4.4% product by 5% by 2020 Realising benefits of continuous improvement, Exceeded capital projects and a milder than normal winter. Reduce paper mill raw material waste by 5% by 2020 5.8% Exceeded Reduce pulp mill raw material waste by 10% by 2020 13% Exceeded Southern Africa Target 2016 performance Status Achieve 10% reduction in specific purchased fossil energy by 2020 with 2014 as the base year 6.1% reduction Achieved Achieve a 10% reduction in total specific fresh water usage 15.2% reduction Achieved by 2020 with 2014 as a base year Achieve a 10% reduction in specific solid waste landfilled by 2020 using 2014 as a base year 12.9% increase Not achieved 100% certification of own timber 100% of own timber is certified, and 82% Exceeded 70% certification of Chain-of-Custody for our manufacturing plants of all timber used in our mills is certified. Achieved Exceeded Not achieved sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 10 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our performance against our global sustainability goals Prosperity People Planet In line with our 2020Vision and One Sappi strategic approach, in 2015 we established EN ambitious global sustainability targets. Regional targets are aligned to these goals. Energy Global target ED ROCE LTIFR GAG Certified E PE The base year is 2014, with five-year targets from 2016 to 2020. Capital spend budget O efficiency PL over five years will be used to determine targets in various elements. (Return on (Combined own Sustainable fibre engagement capital and contractor LE D (Specific total Our performance in 2016, together with commentary, is set out below. employed) employees) AB energy) EN EN ED IS Our targets reflect issues that are important to our sustainability as a business and are a ER G key element of our work to continually improve our performance in terms of the 3Ps. Progress – or lack thereof – against our targets is monitored and reported on regularly to management, the RSCs, the Global Sustainable Development Council and ultimately, to the SETS Committee, a fully constituted board committee. 2014 base Prosperity Not • ROCE: The 62% improvement on our 2014 base reflected the ongoing successful implementation of our 2020Vision and One Sappi strategy, and is highly encouraging, 10.8% 0.53 measured 22.92GJ/adt 79% given that the ongoing viability of our business and generation of value for all our stakeholders depends on our ability to generate profits. People: • Safety: Globally, while there was no significant improvement in the own employee 2016 performance Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), there was an improvement in contractor LTIFR, resulting in a 4.3% improvement in the combined LTIFR. However, this was tragically overshadowed by four fatalities in Southern Africa involving one own Not employee and three contractors. 17.5% 0.46 measured (2015: 74%) 23.17GJ/adt 73% • Sustainable engagement: Surveys are held every second year, which means the next one will be held in 2017. We are currently implementing solutions to the gaps identified during the 2015 survey. Planet 2015/2016 % change • Specific total energy (STE): The 1.1% increase in STE/GJ/adt meant that we did not achieve our goal, due mainly to increased energy intensity in Southern Africa. This in turn was due to greater use of coal and heavy fuel oil at Saiccor Mill, as well as problems with the lignosulphonate spray dryer at Tugela Mill. Note that we previously indicated that our STE goal was 21.05GJ/adt. This has been changed as reflected in 62% 4.3% Not applicable 1.1% 6% improvement improvement increase decrease the table alongside, in line with the changes to our energy reporting described on page 87 of this report. • Certified fibre:EUWeNAdid SAnot achieve our goal in 2016, with the percentage standing at 73% against a target of maintaining or exceeding our 2014 base of 79%, for the following reasons: In Europe, we are finding there is a push back against certification by sawmills, who are finding certification requirements increasingly onerous; in North Target America, the decline was driven primarily by a change in production strategy at zero 2020 goal Cloquet Mill which involved a change from buying 100% certified market pulp to 12% LTIFR with 5% Maintain making our own pulp. Doing so means we are limited to the amount of certified fibre ROCE minimum 10% 76% improvement or improve percentage available in the local wood basket; and in Southern Africa, the decrease was the result minimum improvement over the period of using less of our own woodfibre because of the drought, having to buy it in and year-onbeing limited by the amount of certified fibre available. year sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 11 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our accolades We were Europe North America Southern Africa included in: ••The German Packaging Award 2016 in the ••Shortly after year-end, the American Forest & ••KZN Exporter of the Year award in the New Materials category went to the Sappi Paper Association (AF&PA) recognised Sappi manufacturing category. Guard product family. The award-winning new North America with the 2016 AF&PA Leadership ••Lomati Sawmill honoured with the 2015 Kruger • The FTSE/JSE materials from Sappi’s functional papers in Sustainability Award for Energy Efficiency Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism product group are Algro Guard® OHG and and Greenhouse Gas Reduction for their Hood (KLCBT) Large Business Enterprise Award. Responsible Leine® Guard M. The jury praised Sappi’s sustainable paper packaging solutions, which Heat Recovery Project at Somerset Mill. Go to our 2015 Group Sustainability Report for ••Three PMR Diamond Arrow Awards – Sappi Ngodwana Mill, Sappi Forests and Sappi offer innovative integrated barrier and heat further details. Southern Africa for doing the most to protect Investment Index, sealing properties otherwise only achievable ••Honoured with the Printing News Top Product the environment with multi-layer films. The jury also noted the Award in the Consumables, Packaging ••Recognised as a top South African brand in and exceptional tactile properties and excellent printability of the Sappi Guard product family. Substrates category for our heavyweight LusterCote packaging. EU NA SA the annual Sunday Times newspaper survey for 2016. ••Received a Champion of Economic ••A PRISA Gold Prism Award for Internal • The FTSE/JSE Development Award from the Maine Development Foundation. The award is given Communications. ••Sappi has been awarded a Gold Quill to those individuals or organisations that are (Excellence) for communication management Responsible key to driving Maine’s economy forward. ••Selected as a winner in the 2016 Pulp & Paper in the Community Relations category of the International Association of Business Investment International (PPI) Awards, Bringing Paper to Life – Innovative Printing & Writing Campaign Communicators (IABC) for the Abashintshi Social Mobilisation Programme, as well as two of the year(1). IABC Silver Quill Awards for the same Top 30 Index. programme, one for community communication and one for environmental communication. ••Sappi Southern Africa received a FP&M SETA Recognition Award as a Best Practice Workplace Provider for Apprenticeship training. The award is given to companies addressing (1) Shortly after year-end. artisan development which is listed as a critical and scarce skill. ••Top 10 2016 Massmart Supplier Environmental Awards. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 12 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our sustainable business model Currently, natural capital, financial capital and human capital are the most important in our drive to position Sappi as a profitable and cash-generative diversified We have aligned our long-established approach to sustainable development woodfibre group – focused on dissolving wood – Prosperity, People and Planet – with the IIRC’s* six capitals model. pulp, paper and products in adjacent fields. Our processes Papermaking The papermaking and specialised cellulose (dissolving wood pulp) processes Dissolving wood pulp sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 13 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues Governance Material issue: a sound ethical culture Background Enh ical anc Our reputation, built up over 80 years, is one of Eth repu ed e Pro ltur tat ion our most important assets, and one of the most du ct on cu difficult to rebuild should it be negatively Pro du cti Fo Governance impacted. Accordingly, driving a strong ethical res try Inn culture is both a moral responsibility and a ov business imperative. at y io n fet Sa e Nanoc Bioma The issues set out Our response ellulo s terial Bio-en ergy Adjac s ent on the following In 2016, we launched a revised Code of Ethics which incorporates the new Sappi values Key Prosperity pages are (At Sappi we do business with integrity and courage; making smart decisions which we Specialised material People relations Labour issues challenges in Growth execute with speed), which includes specific cellulose policies that guide employee behaviour and aging our operating incorporates practical examples of possible iality Spec ers Pack ers ap pap c phi scenarios which employees might encounter. p e environment that Gra pers a De clin SC R p we believe may The Code has now been translated into the various Sappi languages (English, German, Co sts have a material Dutch, Finnish and Zulu) and distributed to all Sappi mills and offices. The roll-out of regional Em iss P la n e t fib re impact on our awareness campaigns was accompanied by ion s Energ Wo od Water business by communications materials including a brochure, posters, letters to stakeholder groups, newsletter y affecting the value and training video and a slide presentation. Climate change we create for These campaigns followed the 2015 roll-out of stakeholders. the One Sappi Mission, Strategy, 2020Vision and Values. A dipstick survey conducted in August 2016 indicated a positive attitude towards the values campaign rolled out in 2015. Of the 4,804 staff members who took part, approximately 80% responded positively (strongly agree or tend to agree) to the statement: “I am sufficiently informed about Sappi’s values.” sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 14 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Prosperity Material issue: costs In FY2016, we also embarked on a number of As part of our ongoing goal of continuous cost Packaging Background efficiency projects: reductions, our latest formal programme focuses Background In the highly capital intensive pulp and paper ••New turbines at Tugela and Saiccor Mills on procurement and efficiency savings. The A recent report, World Packaged Food – Market industry, cost containment is a key pillar of (described on page 25) intention is to reduce costs by US$100 million Opportunities and Forecasts, 2014–2020, competitive advantage. ••A new woodyard at Somerset Mill (described EU NA SA per annum by FY2020 off the FY2015 cost base. indicates that by 2020, the packaged food on page 22) We plan to achieve this by: market is expected to bring in revenue of ••Following an investment in Stanger Mill of EU NA SA ••Working to strategically identify those areas of US$3.03 trillion, registering a compound annual Our response approximately US$2 million in the mill’s paper our global spend, such as chemicals, growth rate (CAGR) of 4.5% from 2015 to 2020(1). In recent years, we have embarked on a number machine in 2015, in FY2016 we invested a purchased pulp and technical goods and of cost and efficiency projects at our mills, further US$4.7 million in the sheeting and services, which will produce important cost including: finishing operations with a focus on speed, savings through a global sourcing approach Our response ••A new multifuel boiler at the Kirkniemi Mill, increasing the throughput of our finished A4 ••Applying the strategic sourcing process and Our target earnings from our packaging division capable of firing coal, internal and external products, as well as improving the packaging category management principles to reduce is 25% of EBITDA by 2020. Our expertise in the biomass, which has reduced energy costs by quality of our products to further benefit our costs across all third party spend areas, and food packaging market gives us a competitive approximately 26% per annum customers, and ••Identifying and adopting best in class edge, as does the growing demand for ••The gas pipeline at Somerset Mill which ••In Europe, we allocated US$22.7 million for mill procurement tools and practices. environmentally sound packaging. enables the mill to switch selectively between upgrades which will be completed by the end gas, biomass or oil for energy generation of 2016. At Lanaken Mill, the gate-roll coater In FY2016, in Europe, we launched the following ••Improved lime preparation, also at Somerset on PM7 is being replaced with a state-of-theMaterial issue: declining demand in speciality products: Mill, which has sped up the recommencement art film-press coater. With additional some of our traditional markets ••Building on the success of Algro® Guard, a time after an annual shut adaptations to the drying system and coating Our aspirational 2020Vision sets out a range of product family designed to enhance the ability ••An increase in capacity of the pulverised fuel preparation, the rebuild paves the way to add medium-term targets with the end goal of of packaging to protect food products and power boiler at Ngodwana Mill, and weight to the first coating. The investment will substantially increasing EBITDA (earnings before improve their safety while simultaneously ••A rebuild of the pulp line as well as paper enable PM7 to produce the entire portfolio of interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) by removing steps from the production process, machine (PM11) at Gratkorn Mill in order to grades, without compromising on web profile, the conclusion of 2020. Expanding our product we launched Algro Guard OHG, a new highenhance paper quality, increase the operating coating coverage and paper properties. portfolio underpins this aim. Our response in barrier paper-based packaging solution. Algro windows of the mill’s biggest paper machine Kirkniemi Mill is undergoing a variety of terms of our targeted business segments is set Guard OHG provides integrated barriers that and enhance the potential grammage range. modifications to its PM3 to increase energy out on the following pages. prevent the migration of oxygen and water efficiency and further improve quality vapour into packaged products and also make consistency through better basis weight and packaging production simpler and more moisture profiles. efficient by eliminating the need to apply special coatings or lamination. This paper meets the market demand for alternatives to foil and plastics, reducing both costs and environmental footprint. (1) http://www.foodprocessing.com/industrynews/2015/global-packaged-food-market-by-2020-will-be-a-3-03-trillion-industry/ EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 15 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued ••We also enhanced our leading position in In Europe, Sappi now also offers the corrugating In North America: Graphics paper silicone base papers in the European pressure medium Ultraflute®, which is manufactured in ••We launched Neoterix™ST, the first commercial Background sensitive adhesive market with new additions Southern Africa for the global market. casting and release paper with Sharklet™ News, entertainment, and information is to the range of Algro Sol silicone base papers. bacteria-inhibition technology. The new release increasingly consumed via computers, tablets, We introduced lower grammages for Algro Sol paper is the first of its kind which creates and phones instead of paper. SNC in the form of 82, 85 and 98g/m². In response to the high demand for Fusion surfaces that inhibit bacterial growth without Produced on the mill’s PM2, they are suitable topliner, we expanded production from Alfeld the use of toxic additives or chemicals. The for office applications, offering high volume, Mill to include production at Ehingen Mill. product is the first in our new Neoterix™ line Despite the enormous migration to good mechanical strength, consistent thickness and will be available to customers globally electronic media, neuroscience research and outstanding siliconisation properties. Following the conversion of the Alfeld Mill into a under the name Neoterix ST from 2017. shows that paper-based content and centre of excellence for specialities and board, advertisements offer special advantages in and the scaling up in production of folding box connecting with our brains. This is As with all Sappi’s release papers, Neoterix ST highlighted by a recent article in Forbes board at Maastricht Mill, Ehingen Mill is now acts as a mould for coated fabric and laminates. Sappi’s Algro Guard family of products has Sappi’s third European production site for magazine(1) which cites a report showing It is used to transfer texture and gloss onto that direct mail is easier to process mentally recently been awarded The German special papers and board. Previously, the mill these surfaces and is then stripped away. and tests better for brand recall. Packaging Award 2016 in the New Materials produced only high-quality matt and silk According to a published study in Antimicrobial category. The award-winning new materials graphic papers with single to triple coatings. Resistance and Infection Control, when applied from Sappi’s functional papers product As a result of the production of Fusion in to high touch surfaces, the microtexture According to the report, direct mail requires group are Algro® Guard OHG and Leine® Ehingen Mill and the associated further quality reduced surface contamination of methicillin21% less cognitive effort to process than Guard M. The packaging awards were development, a slightly adapted range of sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) and digital media (5.15 vs 6.37), suggesting that announced at a ceremony on 27 September product weights is now offered. In addition to methicillin-resistant S aureus (MRSA) by as it is both easier to understand and more 2016 at Fachpack in Nuremberg, Germany. 130 and 140g/m2, Fusion is now available in much as 97% and 94% respectively, compared memorable. Post-exposure memory tests The jury praised Sappi’s sustainable paper 135g/m2 and, for the first time, 110g/m2. This to controls. validated what the cognitive load test packaging solutions, which offer innovative offers corrugated card processors even more revealed about direct mail’s memory integrated barrier and heat sealing properties options and creative possibilities, and encoding capabilities. When asked to cite otherwise only achievable with multi-layer ••We expanded our LusterCote® packaging line the brand (company name) of an films. The jury also noted the exceptional to offer heavyweight options – 70, 80 and 95lb. ••In this region, we are also developing barrier advertisement they had just seen, recall tactile properties and excellent printability of Produced at Cloquet Mill, these products solutions for corrugated card. The mineral oil was 70% higher among participants who the Sappi Guard product family. offer superior performance for offset, barrier liner, Leine Guard, has already were exposed to a direct mail piece (75%) flexographic and gravure printing, including than a digital advert (44%). undergone successful market testing as an wide-format, multi-colour sheetfed presses. In inner liner. combination with LusterCote 55 and 60lb, the ••We expanded our corrugated raw material new grades also extend Sappi’s offering for cut product line by offering corrugated paper (fluting) and stack labels. and topliner. The bright white Fusion® topliner is the primary topliner product, while the cartonboard Algro Design and the new folding carton atelier™ can also be used as topliners. Weights from 90 to 400g/m2 are available. (1) http://www.forbes.com/sites/rogerdooley/2015/09/16/paper-vs-digital/#7afd38ba1aa2 EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 16 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Our response Additionally, McCoy gift cards’ multi-layer The popularity of cellulosic-based fibres is based We recognise that the graphics paper market is structure is optimised for clean-edge, die-cut In 2016, in conjunction with Intertek, we on their high levels of absorbency, breathability in decline, but maintain that paper is a renewable quality, while the paper stays flat and even developed a composite called Symbio and softness, as well as wash and wear and recyclable product that, when manufactured through processing, with no feeding issues. which is based on cellulose fibres found in characteristics. from woodfibre originating in responsibly Printer feedback from product trials has been trees and polypropylene. Cellulose fibres managed forests and plantations like ours, is an very positive, citing McCoy as one of the best can significantly increase the rigidity of environmentally sustainable, powerful medium. performing paper gift cards on the market. plastic despite keeping weight low, whilst at Their environmental credentials, when compared We manage our capacity to strengthen our the same time giving the material renewable with petroleum-based fibres, also contribute to leadership position in this market, realising its properties. Higher rigidity also means a their growing popularity. strategic importance to the group and maximising ••We also made several recent product and potentially lower carbon footprint, as less its significant cash flow generation. Accordingly, service enhancements to our Opus® and Flo® materials are used. product lines, including: A potential shortage of cotton supply is expected we continue to develop and enhance our portfolio to accelerate demand for DWP. The International of products to meet the needs of customers who – Increased sheet brightness on Opus to 94 – Increased sheet brightness on Flo to 90 The product is intended for standard Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC) is forecasting recognise the value of print. a supply deficit in the 2016 season, on the back – The addition of 120lb cover options to the injection moulding and extrusion processes. Flo product line, and The use of fillers in plastic is already normal, of El Niño and changing Chinese cotton policies. In Europe, in addition to high performance offset –  Faster availability of size options on Flo but using these cellulose fibres instead of China has historically supported spinners with a printing, our Magno® Plus Gloss and Plus Silk products. the traditional fillers reduces the weight by rebate on domestically purchased cotton. The high bulk products are now fully certified for use approximately 15%. Mixing 20% to 50% of policy was amended in 2014, to subsidise cotton on HP Indigo digital presses – certification which the cellulose fibres with polypropylene farming. However, only one province was offered eliminates the need for duplicated stocks, Sappi North America is a founding member of increases the stiffness. The end-product subsidies, as China looked to unwind its stored ensuring production flexibility between offset and the Paper and Packaging Board, an industrycan be easily coloured and the fibres are not inventories. Accordingly, Chinese cotton supply digital processes. wide initiative under the auspices of the US visible. It will initially be available with 20% is estimated to have decreased by 6.5% yearDepartment of Agriculture to take steps to stem and 40% cellulose content. We see further on-year in 2015 and is forecast to decrease a the decline of paper and grow paper-based possibilities to use this technology for car further 27% year-on-year in 2016(2). In North America in FY2016: packaging demand. The roughly US$20 million interiors, furniture, consumer electronics ••We announced the addition of McCoy® Gift consumer campaign, ‘How Life Unfolds’, was and toys. Card 28pt to our McCoy line. The McCoy launched in July 2015 and has already had a Our response paper brand’s premium surface and measurable improvement in industry awareness Textiles are the primary market for our DWP, printability allow for a variety of stand-out and reputation among target consumers. which is sold globally for use in viscose staple printing techniques, including heavy colour Dissolving wood pulp (DWP) fibre (rayon) and solvent spun fibres (lyocell), and saturated imagery, embossing, foil printing Background we continue to supply smaller quantities into the and spot gloss. McCoy gift cards have also In Southern Africa, we continued to focus on The market demand for the use of cellulosic other DWP market segments. Sappi is the been engineered for high bond strength to our core market brands like the well-known fibres is increasing across a wide spectrum of world’s biggest producer of DWP and we expect satisfy tape, hot glue and authorisation Typek® office brand which has a high bagasse applications and sustained growth is expected global demand for textiles continuing to grow, mechanisms, including scratch-offs, bar codes (sugar cane waste residue) content and offer our for cellulose fibres in the industrial application particularly in markets such as China, India and and magnetic strips. customers a range of papers from Sappi Europe over the next five years, according to a recent Indonesia, due to increasing population growth in line with our One Sappi strategy. report(1). The report finds that the apparel and and affluence in these regions. Forecasts by home textile application segments of this market Oxford Economics put Asia’s share of world GDP (1) https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2015/10/12/775180/0/en/Cellulose-Fiber-Market-2015-Global-Trends-Forecasts-to-2020are expected to witness a compound annual in real US Dollar purchasing power parity at for-the-36-9-Billion-Industry.html growth rate of 9.66% and 9.62%, respectively. nearly 45% by 2025, up from 23.2% in 1990(3). EU (2) NA SA Source: Avior Capital Markets (3) http://dupress.deloitte.com/dup-us-en/economy/asia-pacific-economic-outlook/2016/q1-asia-economic-growth-continues.html EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 17 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Against this backdrop, we will be expanding our ••DWS erroneously concluded that the area Demand and value are forecasted on the basis Phase II was delayed due to late equipment DWP capacity at Ngodwana and Saiccor Mills would therefore have to be reduced by 30% of various key applications of nanocellulose, delivery from a few suppliers although our target by 40,000 and 50,000tpa respectively, beginning due to the eucalyptus using 30% more than such as composites and packaging, paper and for the final commissioning remains the end of in FY2017. the pine, and paper board, biomedicine, and other applications, December 2016 with further optimisation in ••They should instead have required only a 3% including as a viable alternative to expensive early 2017 to produce a dry redispersible reduction in area, as this would bring the water high-tech materials such as carbon fibres and nanocellulose (CNF). In light of our expansion plan and given that, in use back to 10% more than the grassland and carbon nanotubes. Southern Africa, our DWP is based on the same level as the pine which it replaced. eucalyptus fibre, the suspension of the draft Biobased materials genus exchange regulations is a welcome move. Our response Background The Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) The consultant’s findings have been substantiated In 2015, we announced our development of a The key components of woodfibre include had intended to use the draft regulations to force and it is highly unlikely that the regulations patented, low-cost nanocellulose process in cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin and extractives. timber growers to firstly apply for a licence or will be reinstated. Accordingly, FSA is advising conjunction with Edinburgh Napier University. Both cellulose and hemicellulose are amendment to a licence, when switching genera members that they can switch genera on at least This process uses unique chemistry whereby polysaccharides containing many different sugar and more importantly, insist on a blanket 30% a 1:1 area basis – a development we welcome. wood pulp fibres can be easily broken down into monomers which can be extracted from pulping reduction in plantation area, when switching nanocellulose without producing the large streams. This offers opportunities with strong, from pine to eucalyptus. volumes of effluent associated with existing growing market demand for renewable Adjacent markets: nanocellulose, techniques using high amounts of energy. In biochemicals from non-food sources as sugars and lignins addition, the chemicals used in the process can companies intensify their search for ‘green’ Forestry South Africa (FSA), supported by the Nanocellulose easily be recycled and reused without generating products that offer enhanced sustainability and Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Background large amounts of effluent. also offer product value chains with a lower (DAFF) had for many years contested these The raw material for nanocellulose, woodfibre, is carbon footprint. requirements and appointed a consultant based abundant. Furthermore, nanocellulose is not only at the Council for Scientific and Industrial lightweight, it has very high tensile strength (eight Last year, we also announced that we would be Research (CSIR) who established a significant times that of steel), the crystalline form is developing this energy-saving process in a pilotOur response error in the initial calculations on which the draft transparent, gas impermeable and it is highly scale plant at Brightlands Chemelot Campus in One of the pillars of our strategy is to move regulations were based. Their error can be absorbent when used as a basis for aerogels Maastricht, the Netherlands. into new adjacent business fields based on demonstrated in the following hypothetical or foams. renewable raw materials, ie biomaterials and bioexample: energy, to extract more value from the production ••A grassland uses a hypothetical 100mm of The nanocellulose pilot plant has experienced a processes. In July 2016, we established a rainfall per annum The nanocellulose market is projected to register number of challenges mainly due to equipment new business unit, Sappi Biotech, to take ••It is planted to pine which uses a hypothetical a market size in terms of value of US$250 million deliveries. Nonetheless, with a number of global responsibility for the commercialisation 110mm of rainfall (10% more than the by 2019, signifying an annualised compound innovative solutions we commissioned phase I of new products. grassland) annual growth rate of 19% between 2014 of the pilot plant in March 2016. This allowed ••It is subsequently converted to eucalyptus, and 2019(1). the team to manufacture microcellulose (CMF) of which uses 113mm of rainfall (13% more than excellent quality when compared to our For example, we are looking into ways to use the the grassland and 30% more than the pine) competitors. The highlight for the team was the sugars (as well as lignin and organic acids) ability to produce adequate quantity of the extracted from the wood during the pulping product to run a successful paper machine trial process, including entering into partnerships to at one of our mills. modify these extracts into higher value products for use in a wide variety of applications. (1) http://www.marketsandmarkets.com/PressReleases/nanocellulose.asp EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 18 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued The biorefinery process for second generation Material issue: innovation In FY2016, the focus for Exciter I projects (core hemicellulose sugars at Sappi involves recovering Typical components of woodfibre % business) was on cost reduction, developing Background them from the prehydolysate liquor and The world is increasingly recognising the value new products and optimisation of current then separating them from the associated lignin of products based on woodfibre, so that processes. Over the past year, in addition to 11 and organic acids. There are various levels 23 opportunities are opening up to supply products, working on spray blade coater and stock of processing and purification depending on processes and services based on this renewable, preparation development, we focused on: end uses. The products we are targeting include biodegradable natural resource. ••Cost reduction through novel innovations for sugar alcohols such as xylitol (a low energy sugar the paper industry substitute), lactic acid (used in the production of 30 45 ••Processing in our pulp and paper mills, polylactic acid (PLA), a renewable plastic), glycols Our response including the potential inclusion of lower cost (the main applications being for the production of Our R&D initiatives focus on consolidating and species in the timber furnish for DWP pulp PET for plastic bottles) and unsaturated polyester growing our position in our targeted market production and ongoing work on the economic resins and other products. segments; driving cost competitiveness and feasibility of sugar extraction ■ Cellulose ■ Hemicellulose cost reduction; as well as optimising our ••The evaluation of disruptive processes or ■ Lignin ■ Resins equipment and forestry assets. technologies for DWP manufacture and/or Second generation sugars are attractive because ■ Inorganics conversion they do not compete with first generation sugars ••Improving our DNA Fingerprinting Platform which are sourced from agricultural crops. This is Our total R&D spend in 2016 was US$26 million, Bio-energy including spend of approximately US$7 million which has been in commercial use since 2008, extremely important because of a rapidly growing and global population and worldwide pressure on Background on our Exciter programme which focuses on As the world looks to move away from fossilcore business (Exciter I) and new and adjacent ••Breakthrough papermaking processes, agricultural resources. including cost-effective concepts for coated based fuels in view of the need to reduce carbon business (Exciter II). footprint and mitigate global warming, so biofine paper by significantly decreasing variable The construction of a second generation sugar energy is becoming increasingly important. costs and the use of CMF/CNF in papermaking. extraction demonstration plant at Ngodwana Mill Cost versus value of Exciter projects US$’000 in South Africa will begin in 2017, with the Exciter II (new business) is primarily focused on feedstock supplied from the DWP line. The Our response In South Africa, the government’s Renewable new technologies in adjacent areas to the current demonstration plant will make it possible to study business. In FY2016, we focused on: the next generation dissolving wood pulping Energy Independent Power Producer Programme 220,000 200,000 Investment /value delivered (REIPPPP) is the result of the national need to 180,000 ••The development of products for adjacent process and test new ideas at mill scale. The 160,000 markets, including paper for plastic projects main features which we hope to demonstrate increase energy capacity and reduce carbon 140,000 emissions. Sappi submitted the Energy Biomass 120,000 100,000 which focused on delivering renewable raw include increasing production output, higher 80,000 materials and biodegradable products as DWP quality, lower operating costs and a new Project at Ngodwana Mill to REIPPP and was 60,000 selected as preferred bidder. The project involves 40,000 alternatives to plastic products optimised hydrolysate revenue stream. The 20,000 ••Biorefinery, as well as organic acids and lignin products from the demonstration plant will assist the supply of biomass from local plantations to 0 Ngodwana Mill. This is then used as boiler fuel to 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 platforms, and in the development of various beneficiation Fiscal year ••New commercial revenue streams in the options for the different DWP lines operated produce steam which in turn would generate 25MW of electrical energy which would be fed ■ Total (cost) ■ Total (value) release field and active and intelligent packaging by Sappi. as well as the development of fibre-based into the national grid. We are still waiting for regulatory approval. composites. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 19 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued People Material issue: safety The programme will involve all employees in Overall, FY2016 was characterised by amicable, In Southern Africa, approximately 47% of the Background manufacturing and forestry from the CEO down, but tough negotiations, and relatively good total workforce is unionised. In 2015, a new Safety is not only an ethical issue, but also to line management, supervisors, trade unions relationships with organised labour across the recognition and threshold agreement was a business issue which can impact productivity, and health and safety representatives. The geographies. concluded with the majority union, the Chemical costs and reputation. programme, which will be facilitated by an Energy, Paper, Printing, Wood and Allied Workers industrial psychologist, will address issues like Union (CEPPWAWU). In Europe, approximately 72% of our employees fatigue, communication, risk tolerance and at Our response belong to a union and are represented through risk behaviour. Contractors will be involved in all We regret to report that tragically, there was one work councils. European Works Council The labour relations climate in Southern Africa safety decisions and the Sappi Forests division own employee and three contractor fatal injuries meetings take place twice a year at which Sappi was volatile, mainly due to trade union rivalry. will also focus on forestry contractor supervisor during the year in Southern Africa. The severity is represented by the Chief Executive Officer and However, the mills continued to enjoy labour training and a chainsaw operator evaluation, gap of these accidents was reflected in the increased Human Resources Director. The main purpose of stability owing to ongoing positive engagement analysis and a retraining programme. Injury Index (II) for own employees and the meetings is to inform and consult on business with union leadership facilitated by structures contractors. results/market developments and pan-European such as the National Partnership Forum which Material issue: labour relations organisational topics. includes senior members of management and Background senior union leaders. They hold regular meetings There was no significant improvement in the own Sound labour relations are important in creating where business, safety and union challenges employee LTIFR of all regions during FY2016, The overall labour relations climate in this region a harmonious working environment, enhancing are discussed. although there was an improvement in contractor continued to be constructive. We concluded a productivity and maintaining a healthy turnover collective labour agreement (CLA) at Kirkniemi LTIFR. All regions recognise that we will not rate. Mill and are engaging with local union leaders to While collective bargaining during FY2016 was improve our safety record by treating safety in the same way we have done so in the past. conclude a CLA at Maastricht Mill. The CLAs for extremely tough, we once again successfully Consequently, in 2017, all regions are introducing Our response the other mills are due for review in 2017. concluded wage negotiations without industrial new safety initiatives in order to significantly The Sappi employment landscape includes action in all sectors – forestry, pulp and paper, as improve safety going forward. interaction with trade unions at all our well as sawmilling. In North America, approximately 65% of our manufacturing sites across the group. This employees are members of a union and there are interaction is based on transparent In Southern Africa, Sappi Forests 11 collective bargaining agreements with hourly Material issue: investing in communication and mutual respect. employees in place. commissioned consultants from Finland and communities New Zealand to spend two weeks each in the Background forestry operations to evaluate practices and Sappi promotes freedom of association and There were no major disputes in this region. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) investment make recommendations for improvement. engages extensively with representative trade During FY2016, we settled labour agreements can enhance a company’s social licence to During 2017, the region will be embarking on a unions. Globally, approximately 60% of Sappi’s with trade unions at Somerset, Cloquet and operate; build reputation and employee morale; Twice as safe programme to halve the number of workforce is unionised, with 71.5% belonging to Westbrook Mills, the security union at the help establish customer loyalty and attract talent. accidents by 2020. a bargaining unit. Somerset Mill and the two small railroad unions Community investment is particularly important at Cloquet Mill. These new agreements contain in Southern Africa, given that it is a developing economic provisions similar to those negotiated country and that our plantations and operations with the production workers at all three mills are situated in rural areas where economic during FY2015. and social development lags behind more urbanised sectors. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 20 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Our response Our CSR initiatives in 2016 are described in more To encourage more engagement and involvement ••Possibly the highlight of the year under review Sappi’s CSR policy provides a global framework detail in our group sustainability report, available from employees, in 2017 we will be launching was the success of our youth development used by each operating region to guide local at www.sappi.com, but a snapshot is set out an employee ITM programme. project called Abashintshi (‘the Changers’ in activities. The policy reflects community need, below to give an overview of these initiatives. Zulu), implemented in conjunction with a government priorities and business strategy as development communication agency. The well as global developments including the In Southern Africa: project involves using young people from the emergence of sustainability/CSR standards and In conjunction with Natuur en Bos, Sappi Europe ••There is a proven causal link between early rural communities living in and around our reporting. continued with their employee-led tree-planting childhood development and success and operations across KwaZulu-Natal to mobilise programme, planting a further 4,000 saplings wellbeing later in life. 2016 was the third year of their communities to take charge of their in the Forêt de Soignes in Belgium. This brings our ECD project in KwaZulu-Natal, which own future instead of waiting for work or Projects are aligned with and support business the total number of trees planted by the group covers 25 sites through the Training and development to arrive from outside, in line with priorities and needs, taking into account to over 16,000 since the initiative started Resources in Early Education (TREE) the asset-based community development feedback from our stakeholders. six years ago. organisation, with the project expanding to (ABCD) model. The programme began with include an additional 18 sites from the end 18 young volunteer men and women in 2015 of 2016. In Mpumalanga province, the and has now expanded to include 36 people. In each region where we operate, we invest in Now in its 17th year, the annual Ideas that Matter development of an ECD Centre of Excellence three key stakeholder groups: our customers, (ITM) programme in North America continues to at the Sappi Elandshoek community through communities and employees. While each region provide financial support to designer applicants Penreach is delivering strong results. We have Over the last two years, these 36 change has its own programme, these conform to who create and implement print projects for also extended the ECD programme in Gauteng, agents have reached more than 18,500 people common themes which are aligned with our social impact. The programme is open to North with 50 practitioners in 50 ECD centres per in their respective communities. Overall, almost business needs and priorities and which include American designers who have partnered with a year undergoing training through Jabulani 330 people have been taught some basic education, local community support, the non-profit organisation and developed a Training and Development. business skills which has resulted in more than environment and health and welfare. We communication campaign that is ready for ••We continue to support five PROTEC branches 120 micro enterprises either starting up, or encourage employees to participate in outreach implementation. This year’s winning projects in Sappi communities (maths and science being rejuvenated. The Abashintshi have also and community projects. were chosen for the effective way they address classes for over 1,000 students in grades 10, mobilised communities to become involved in pressing social issues including rural healthcare 11 and 12) as well as the KwaDukuza fire prevention with significant results – the and pharmaceutical misuse, literacy, childhood Resource Centre. average number of fires in 2016 is the lowest in In addition, support for activities associated with development and the importance of play, access to Sappi land and conservation efforts, six years. education and leadership in war-challenged such as biodiversity and species mapping, international communities, girls and youth Social investment spend in 2016 and budgeted spend for 2017 mountain biking and recreational birding development and traumatic health issues for continues to grow. children and their families. Total Spend 2016 Budget 2017 Europe US$98,200 US$90,900 The fact that Sappi is headquartered and listed North America (ITM US$250,000)* US$577,362 US$580,000 Since 1999, the ITM grant programme has in South Africa, coupled to the significant funded over 500 non-profit projects and has Southern Africa US$2.5 million US$3.85 million development needs of the country, dictates a contributed more than US$13 million to a wide Additional once-off spend by Sappi Forests on capex items for higher focus on CSR activities by Sappi in range of causes that use design as a positive villages including solar geysers, etc US$1.36 million Southern Africa. force in society. * The figures given here for Sappi North America differ from the SNA regional report as the figures in the latter include the value of steam donated to a local hospital from Westbrook Mill as well as our beneficial use of by-products from Cloquet Mill. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 21 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Planet Material issue: woodfibre In North America, we recently announced a In Southern Africa, the fact that we own and ••We continued to focus on the development of Background US$25 million capital project to update Somerset lease 388,000 hectares (ha) of plantations gives genomic methods for the selection of superior The global demand for woodfibre is expected to Mill woodyard. This project will allow the mill to us a competitive advantage. Of this 388,000ha, individuals to potentially shorten the breeding increase for the foreseeable future, driven partly modernise the wood debarking, chipping and 249,000ha is used to grow trees, with a further cycle. Pure species development is ongoing, by the demand for wood pellets rather than finite chip distribution systems, thereby improving 139,000ha being used for other purposes such with selected individual genotypes being fossil fuels as a green energy source. This is reliability, reducing white wood losses and costs as conservation. We have access to wood from captured through grafting. Trials on seed use expected to accelerate as more and more while enhancing efficiency gains through the a further 103,000ha via contracted timber efficiency, aiming to make best use of scarce countries commit to mitigation actions on climate increased production of wood chips. The suppliers. Our aim is to produce low cost wood seed resources, whether for breeding or in the change. In 2015, global wood pulp prices improved quality will decrease the cooking time with the required pulping characteristics and nursery continue climbed past the previous peak from 2011, within the digester, while the increased chip increase yield per hectare. We actively pursue ••Hybrid production of both pines and eucalypts which was the highest price point in more than volumes mean the mill will no longer purchase this aim, particularly through genetic improvement continues, and various hybrid combinations 30 years(1). woodchips from the external market. of planting stock. Work to enhance the are being tested across Sappi land holdings. sustainable management of our plantations and Work is being done to improve the growing fibre base in FY2016 included: environment for cutting production, to refine In addition, climate change has the potential to The commissioning of the new system will be ••The acquisition of LiDAR (Light Detection and plant quality specifications and to investigate seriously impact our fibre base. In all three complete by the end of November 2017, Ranging) data for all Sappi land holdings media and media enhancements to promote regions where Sappi operates, climate change following a temporary woodyard shutdown for primarily for the purpose of determining ground growth could alter the frequency and intensity of forest installation. Specifically, upgrades will be made roughness and slope (important variables for ••In the field, cold tolerance trials and insecticide disturbances such as insect outbreaks, invasive to the log infeed, debarker, chipper, chip transfer harvesting). LiDAR produces a very accurate investigations look for ways to counter biotic species, wildfires, and storms. These system, woodroom controls and bark handling. three-dimensional point cloud (six points per and abiotic threats, while methods of land disturbances could reduce forest productivity m2). In addition to slope and ground roughness, preparation, fertiliser treatment and site and change the distribution of tree species. these data were used to extract tree heights selection seek to give plants the best possible Given Sappi Europe’s general risk mitigation strategy of sourcing pulp and woodfibre from a at a compartment level. Tree measurement, growth, while studies on wood properties seek Given that woodfibre is a key input to our variety of sources and regions, we do not using LiDAR, is significantly better than the to add value to the pulping process manufacturing operations, maintaining continuity anticipate any material impact to raw material conventional 3% sampling approach ••We began to test Corymbia henryi, a promising of supply and containing costs is integral to our supply from climate change in the short to conducted by Sappi as it is essentially a census potential new species choice which can sustainability as a business. medium term. In North America, our operations of the tree growth in a compartment. It tolerate salt-laden coastal winds and is slightly do not currently face material risks associated measures tree height, a main driver of growth, tolerant to frost (0 to -5° C), and with climate change. We source from northern very accurately. Extensive testing was carried ••We have used near infrared spectroscopy Our position hardwood and softwood wood baskets that out, and the LiDAR data correlated extremely (NIRS) to develop baseline models representing In Europe, we mitigate fibre supply risk through have not suffered under any drought conditions well with recent in-field conventional a range of wood chemical traits. These models shareholdings in wood sourcing cooperatives or from fire. measurements (correlation greater than 90%). are being used to predict the wood property of and in this region and North America, through a Growth data for approximately 50% of large numbers of genotypes in tree breeding combination of approaches which include both Sappi’s planted area was updated using trials and the technique is being investigated short and long-term wood supply agreements. this methodology as tool for scanning chips in our pulp mills for rapid assessment of important traits such as moisture and wood density. (1) http://www.pulpapernews.com/2016/02/wood-pulp-and-paper-prices-continue-to-rise EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 22 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued In terms of climate change, we mitigate risks by: In Southern Africa, we work to expand access In recent years, we have expanded Khulisa ••To further assist with the development of small ••Deploying a diverse range of commercial to the forestry sector in a number of ways, Umnotho beyond the borders of KwaZulugrowers and other forestry value chain species and hybrids across a wide range of including: Natal to the Eastern Cape. We have signed a participants, we have established a training climatic conditions Memorandum of Understanding with the centre at Richmond in KZN. The training centre ••Continually monitoring and reviewing forest Eastern Cape Rural Development Agency has Khulisa Ulwazi (‘Growing Knowledge’) as best practices in light of changing environmental (ECRDA) to facilitate forestry development in its slogan and will be providing training to small factors, thus helping to mitigate any increased this region. To date, the total area planted growers, land reform beneficiaries and small threat from water shortages or drought covers 3,297ha and a further 4,812ha is in scale contractors in the technical and business ••Maintaining wide genetic variability in planting the Environmental Impact Assessment phase, aspects of forestry and small business material, including drought resistant breeds with records of decision awaited on a management. (See page 31 of the 2016 Sappi ••Measuring permanent sample plots annually further 1,250ha. For further details, please Southern Africa Sustainability Report for (eucalypts) or bi-annually (pines) to determine see our Khulisa Project Grow FAQ, available at further details.) the effect of drought for use in long-term www.sappi.com planning ••Proactively implementing innovative pest and Material issue: emissions regulations EU NA SA disease programmes ••We are also active in land reform. As at the end EU NA SA and carbon tax ••Maintaining a broad genetic base, thereby of September 2016, Sappi was involved in Background facilitating response to new challenges such as 51 land reform projects with the average The so-called Paris Agreement – adopted by all pests, disease and climate change while farm size of 218ha to the largest project of 196 parties to the United Nations Framework providing continuous genetic improvement approximately 6,900ha belonging to the Convention on Climate Change at COP21 in over the long term, and Somhlolo Community Trust. Many of these Paris on 12 December 2015 and which came ••Implementing an extensive fire protection properties previously belonged to commercial into force on 04 November 2016 – urges strategy, as climate change exacerbates the farmers who had supply agreements with countries to implement policies that would allow potential for fires. ••Khulisa Umnotho (Project Grow), our Sappi. To ensure sustainable production from them to keep a global temperature rise below enterprise development initiative which began these properties, we have entered into supply two degrees Celsius. The global forest products in 1983, is aimed at community tree-farming agreements with the new beneficiaries and industry has a highly significant role to play in the and has successfully uplifted impoverished have also provided assistance. This depends implementation of these targets. communities in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern on the requirements of the project, but ranges Cape. The total area currently managed under from a pure supply agreement to a this programme amounts to 22,717ha. In comprehensive Forestry Enterprise We believe that any policies aimed at curbing FY2016, under the programme, 395,232 tons Development Agreement (FEDA). The latter is a emissions and introducing carbon tax need to (2015: 361,134 tons), worth approximately supply agreement but also incorporates take due recognition of the industry’s high use of US$20 million was delivered to our operations. development objectives whereby Sappi renewable energy or of the important role that Since 1995, a total volume of 2,865,360 tons, provides technical and business training as sustainably managed natural forests and to the value of ZAR1.3 billion, has been well as administrative support, and plantations play in mitigating global warming. purchased from small growers in terms of this programme. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 23 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued Our response Overall, the flow of forest CO2 is carbon positive Material issue: energy Over five years, we have achieved a reduction in The success of our industry depends, in part, on when forests are sustainably managed and the internal energy consumption of 8.8% and a Purchased energy costs as a fair, consistent and predictable environmental forest system remains a net sink of CO2 from the percentage of cost of sales (COS) % reduction in energy intensity of 2.1%, as well as regulations that take account of the high level of atmosphere. Thus, the carbon neutrality of an increase in energy self-sufficiency of 10.5%. renewable energy used by our industry. In 2016, sustainably managed forest biomass is a globally Sappi’s generation of renewable energy scientifically supported fact. 16 (derived from black liquor, sludges and biomass) 14 Our energy efficiency is enhanced through our was 52.9% – an increase of 5.1% over five years. 12 extensive use of cogeneration and through our Of this amount, just over 75% (2015: 73%) is The carbon neutrality of biomass harvested from 10 ongoing drive to make process improvements 8 own black liquor. In addition, over five years we sustainably managed forests has been 6 and install more efficient equipment. Globally we have achieved a reduction in direct (Scope 1) recognised repeatedly by an abundance of 4 have developed and constructed five hydro, two emissions of 4.7% and 20.55% in indirect studies, agencies, institutions, legislation and 2 gas and 31 steam turbines which generate 0 (Scope 2) emissions., representing a decrease rules around the world, including the guidance of 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 around 800MW of renewable power on 14 sites in absolute emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2) the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change across seven countries. of 8.8%. and the reporting protocols of the United Nations ■ Southern Africa ■ Europe Framework Convention on Climate Change. ■ North America ■ Global Most Sappi mills generate power onsite from As forests grow, carbon dioxide (CO2) is removed fossil or renewable resources for internal from the atmosphere via photosynthesis. This Our view is that any emissions regulations or consumption. In some instances (Westbrook Mill carbon tax must take account of the carbon Background (North America), Gratkorn and Maastricht Mills CO2 is converted into organic carbon and stored neutrality of biomass. Energy is a key input for our industry. Aggressively (Europe) and Ngodwana Mill (South Africa)), in woody biomass. Trees release the stored managing energy usage leads to a reduction in excess energy is generated which is sold back carbon when they die, decay or are combusted. carbon emissions and enhanced cost efficiencies. into the power grid. This energy is used for As the biomass releases carbon as CO2, the In terms of carbon taxes, we continue to monitor In Southern Africa, where national energy district heating in the vicinity of Sappi’s plants carbon cycle is completed. The carbon in the situation in each region where we operate. In demand outstrips supply at times, energy and for export into the public grid, thereby biomass will return to the atmosphere regardless North America and Europe, carbon taxes do security is also an issue. replacing fossil fuels. In this way, roughly 100,670 of whether it is burned for energy, allowed to not appear to be an imminent risk. In Southern biodegrade or lost in a forest fire. metric tons CO2e emissions were avoided during Africa, the Department of Environmental Affairs the past five-year cycle(1). (DEA) and National Treasury have embarked on Our response a process to ensure that the carbon tax is aligned Even though globally our energy costs as a The net impact of these processes is that CO2 percentage of cost of sales have declined over flows in and out of forests and through the forest with a proposed carbon budget system. We are In the USA, the country’s energy profile is only pleased to report that the DEA has accepted five years due to actions taken, it makes business 10% renewable energy whereas the pulp and products industry by both biomass combustion sense for Sappi to aggressively manage energy and sequestration in products. our proposed carbon budget which is valid paper industry uses 54.5% and Sappi North until 2020. usage and promote the generation of renewable America’s use of renewable energy is over 70%. energy. We aim to reduce our carbon footprint This is a significant competitive benefit not just in by improving energy efficiency and decreasing terms of costs, but also in terms of customers our reliance on fossil fuels. We have and will choosing papers with a lower environmental continue to achieve this by making process footprint(2) and as a result we have the lowest changes, installing more efficient equipment, reported greenhouse gas emissions amongst reducing purchased energy (electricity and fossil the major domestic coated freesheet suppliers. (1) The emissions avoidance value was calculated by taking each regional power utility’s emissions factor and comparing it with Sappi’s fuel) by increasing our use of renewable energy internal power generation emissions factor. The difference between the two factors indicates that Sappi’s internal power generation is less carbon intensive in certain regions and therefore results in carbon emission avoidance. – an approach that ultimately results in a (2) https://www.eia.gov/forecasts/aeo/data/browser/#/?id=37-AEO2016&cases=ref2016~ref_no_cpp&sourcekey=0 reduction in CO2 emissions. EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 24 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key material issues continued In Southern Africa, we have embarked on two Also at Saiccor Mill, in FY2016, we established a Of all the regions where Sappi has operations, new energy projects: pilot scale plant at the mill to assess the use of Reduction in energy consumption GJ/adt Southern Africa, which is a water-stressed ••At Tugela Mill, we have installed a new turbine anaerobic digestion to treat Saiccor Mill’s waste region and which has been experiencing its and applied for the project to be registered condensate. Rich in organic matter, the 24.0 worst drought in many years, has been most under the South African government’s cocondensate could be treated via a process which 23.5 23.0 23.50 0.18 1.03 severely affected. 0.33 generation Independent Power Producer uses organic acids to produce biogas in the form 22.5 0.27 0.08 Programme, and of methane. This in turn could be used to produce 22.0 ••At Saiccor Mill, we are replacing three turbine energy, either for internal use or external sales to 21.5 To mitigate the impact of low flows on the 21.0 generators with a high efficiency steam turbine the national grid. This has significant implications 20.5 Umkomazi River, the prime source of water to generator set. This will eliminate wasteful steam for the mill’s energy costs, as evaluations show 20.0 Saiccor Mill, we have completed a project to venting during process upsets, allow for that the condensate has the potential to generate 19.5 raise the Comrie Dam wall, upstream of Saiccor 19.0 efficient boiler operation and mitigate the enough energy to replace 30 tons of coal per 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Mill, tripling the amount of water in the dam. impact of an Eskom electricity supply day. We are also evaluating the extraction of However, we still await a water use licence from interruption. It will also reduce the amount of chemicals from the condensate stream. the regulatory authorities. At Ngodwana, Tugela imported power purchased from Eskom, and Stanger Mills we are focusing on internal thereby increasing power self-sufficiency to modifications which involve the more efficient approximately 69% and enhancing the mill’s Percentage energy self-sufficiency % use of water. cost competitiveness. In addition, it will improve Material issue: water coal-fired boiler operation as the occasional Background oversupply of steam due to the cyclical nature 70 60.9 63.5 The United Nations estimates that by 2030 58.6 59.6 56.3 of the steam demand will be handled via the 60 almost half of the world’s population will live in condensing turbine set rather than by 50 39.8 areas of high water stress. Human population 39.7 38.3 39.1 42.3 37.3 37.3 increasing or decreasing boiler steaming rates. 40 32.7 31.7 34.9 27.2 growth and consumption are the leading drains 26.7 26.9 It is expected that the boiler steam to coal ratio 30 26.9 24.8 on global water supplies. will improve by 6% as a result of running these 20 boilers at an optimal rate. Annual savings are 10 estimated to be approximately US$4.9 million 0 Our response Southern Africa Europe North America Global based mainly on reduced power purchases. Our production processes depend on water, as ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 does woodfibre, our primary input. Globally, we ■ 2015 ■ 2016 return 92% of the water we extract back into the environment after it has been treated and cleaned. Of the 8% balance, approximately 4% exits the mill in the form of production, while the remainder is lost to the environment. Globally, over five years, we have achieved a positive result in effluent concentration by reducing chemical oxygen demand by 0.5% and total suspended solids by 36.5%. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 25 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our stakeholders By determining our most material issues through stakeholder engagement, we clarify and confirm the strategic themes that ascertain our most significant risks and opportunities. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 26 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships We engage with those stakeholders who have Our principles of stakeholder engagement Strategic shift the most material impact on our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve our goals, as well as those who are most affected Our approach to engagement with all stakeholder As a global business, with our products sold into by our activities. Building relationships with them groupings is based on the principles of: more than 150 countries, our ability to connect in a spirit of trust and mutual respect enables ••Materiality – identifying the material concerns with stakeholders as One Sappi, motivated by more tangible business value creation: by of stakeholder groupings our revised Mission, Strategy, 2020Vision and understanding stakeholder rights, needs and ••Relevance – focusing on those issues of shared Values, gives us a clear advantage and, expectations; integrating their inputs; as well as material concern to our stakeholders and to for our stakeholders, a connection they can trust measuring and monitoring our activities, we Sappi and identifying how best to address to add value. ensure alignment with our strategic goals. them for our mutual benefit ••Completeness – understanding the views, needs, performance expectations and Proactive, Recognising the strong link between stakeholder inclusiveness and materiality, we use stakeholder perceptions associated with these material issues and assessing them against prevailing constructive engagement as a tool to assist in the identification and prioritisation of material issues. Materiality local and global trends, and ••Responsiveness – engaging with stakeholders stakeholder takes into account substantial economic, environmental and social factors in addition to on these issues and giving regular, comprehensive, coherent feedback. engagement is at financial factors. By determining our most material issues through stakeholder engagement, the heart of our we clarify and confirm the strategic themes that ascertain our most significant risks and Our main stakeholder groupings, as set out in our Group Stakeholder Engagement Policy drive to integrate opportunities and manage expectations and priorities, thereby facilitating our licence to (available on www.sappi.com ), are set out in this section, together with selected examples of sustainability into operate, enhancing our organisational effectiveness and ultimately, driving the longengagement undertaken during the reporting period. EU NA SA our everyday term success of our business. business Accordingly, we engage with a broad range of processes. stakeholders through a variety of formal and informal channels – from ongoing engagement across all our stakeholder groupings, including investors, government, industry bodies, customers, communities and NGOs, to collective public meetings with stakeholders by our mills, as well as surveys of selected groups such as employees, customers and investors and audits with suppliers. We view stakeholder engagement not as a once-off annual intervention but as an ongoing dynamic process able to respond to the changing nature of issues of interested and affected parties. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 27 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Employees Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We invest in future talent while challenging our Our group and regional CEOs engage with staff ••Regional recognition awards: people so that they are able to seize the through regular site visits, presentations and – SEU: The annual Coryphaena award opportunities presented by global megatrends. discussions; suggestion lines exist at some – SNA: The quarterly Risk Taking and Ingenuity We make resources available to enable our facilities, and unions have formal channels awards people to grow intellectually, fulfil their potential through which they engage with management. – SSA: The Excellence in Achievement (EAA) and bring new ideas to fruition. awards – Sappi Trading: The Gold SMART awards. We encourage full engagement between managers and their staff. Other avenues of Areas of mutual interest engagement include: Ongoing training and development initiatives, ••Global, regional and local newsletters training targets in each region. ••Strategy, priorities and performance of the ••Our global Intranet company. ••Letters, roadshows and presentations by the Targeted training and engagement programmes ••Internal and external activities of the company, group CEO as well as regional CEOs in each region regarding sustainability. our staff and our communities. ••Operating unit meetings, briefings and ••Organisational developments, particularly in workshops respect of restructuring. ••Various forums (SSA): In Southern Africa, we operate bursary ••Ongoing training and skills development. – National Employment Equity and Learning programmes and Engineers in Training and ••Creation of a dynamic and encouraging Forum Foresters in Training programmes, and support environment through a focus on safety, health, – Shop Steward Forum further education and training (FET) colleges. wellness and recognition programmes. – National Partnership Forum ••Commitment to sustainability. – Transformation Steering Committee ••Global Employee Engagement Survey (every In this region, our employees also have access ••Group values and Code of Ethics. second year) to the Earth Kind Agent eLearning game by ••Wellbeing committees at mills and business which they are exposed to Sappi’s sustainability units information in a new and innovative platform. To ••Health and safety committees at mills date, approximately 900 employees have played ••Global Technical Innovation Awards and Global the game. A tablet version of the game enables Sappi Limited CEO Award for Excellence, and children, family and friends of employees to access the game. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 28 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Employees continued Engagement in 2016 Value add The new global Sappi Mission, Strategy, In all regions, we encourage employees to In Southern Africa: ••Engaged employees are pivotal to the success 2020Vision and Values were launched in participate in outreach and community projects. ••The Sappi Leadership Academy saw a group of our business – alignment with our strategic August 2015 by the group CEO. The roll-out of For example, in North America, we support the of 15 complete the programme in 2016 and a direction enables our people to contribute this initiative was supported by a robust Portland (Green Neighbour Festival). The festival new group of 24 employees began in more positively to the business as well as their communications and engagement campaign to has a 5km run/walk affiliated with the event August 2016, due for completion in 2017 personal and career development. ensure that all staff internalised the new approach which supports clean water education. For two ••The region also focused on first line manager ••By building our human capital, we enable and adjusted their focus and behaviours consecutive years, Sappi has been recognised development, and delivery of our 2020Vision and establish a base accordingly. by event sponsors for having the largest team in ••A new learning management IT solution was of the technical skills needed by the industry. the event. implemented which involves job-specific skills gap analyses for employees to replace the In August 2016, we conducted a snap survey of generic personal development planning done the roll out. Of the 4,804 staff members who In Europe, the Green Ambassador and Ecoin the past. The system will go live to the rest of participated, approximately 80% responded effectiveness campaign launched in 2015 Sappi in 2017. positively (strongly agree or tend to agree) to the continued to gain traction, helping to bring the statement: “I am sufficiently informed about concept of sustainability from management Sappi’s values.” The survey rated which levels and boardroom meetings to the shop floor. Although our combined own employee and communication mechanisms were most effective In 2016 we linked the campaign to the annual contractor Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate in informing staff about our new values. Sappi safety week so that corporate responsibility declined, regrettably there were four fatalities Newsletters and eMails scored highest overall. is seen within its broadest context. in Southern Africa involving one employee and Per region, other mechanisms (meetings, videos, three contractor fatalities at our sawmilling and workshops, other written material, slide and forestry operations. presentations, team meetings, Sappi Net and In North America, we: information from management) also proved ••Continued with our sustainability ambassador, effective. Workshops were generally regarded as enhancing development and growth through the least effective. engagement (EDGE) and leadership excellence and development (LEADS) programmes – in 2016 the latter focused on critical thinking We have initiated follow-up actions to the ••Extended the Ideas that Matter (ITM) Employee Engagement Survey conducted programme (described on page 78 of this during September 2015. report) which recognises and supports designers who support good causes to an employee ITM programme. In FY2016, average global training spend per employee amounted to US$529. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 29 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Unions Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Engagement in 2016 Given today’s extremely challenging global ••SEU: Negotiations occur at the various Overall, FY2016 was characterised by amicable, economic conditions and the current sociocountry and industry-specific collective labour but tough negotiations and relatively good economic dynamics in the Southern African associations, and the contract terms range relationships with organised labour across the labour market, we prioritise our relationship with from one to two years. The labour framework geographies. More comprehensive details are our employees and their representatives. in Europe consists of works councils and provided on page 63 of this report. Protecting the right to freedom of association collective labour agreements and differs from EU NA SA and collective bargaining is fundamental to the country to country. manner in which Sappi does business. Globally, ••SNA: The majority of our hourly employees – Value add approximately 60% of our workforce is generally production unit employees – are represented by unions, with 71.5% covered by represented by the United Steelworkers (USW) collective bargaining agreements. union, but employees are also represented by Meaningful engagement on a number of issues various craft, guard and railroad unions. In this affecting both business and employees results in: region, labour agreements are usually for ••Improved relationships Areas of mutual interest three years. ••More stable labour force, and ••SSA: Our wage negotiations with recognised ••Enhanced productivity. trade unions take place at the pulp and paper In addition to meeting with local union leadership and sawmilling chambers under the auspices for the purposes of remuneration, working hours, of the Bargaining Council for the Wood and and other conditions of service as well as Paper Sector in South Africa, and our resolving grievances, the company relies on local agreements are generally annual. In this region, unions to help with safety and wellness initiatives, we also engage on broader issues with as well as various forms of community outreach. the recognised trade unions at the national employment equity and skills development forum, the Shop Steward Forum and the National Partnership Forum. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 30 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Communities Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Having a mutually respectful relationship with the There are various formats of community ••SSA: We support mountain biking and trail communities in which our business is situated is engagement meetings held by our mills in the running, which promote access to our critical to our success. We work to incorporate regions where they operate. These range from plantations and enables us to communicate the communities close to our operations into our broad liaison forums for business, local with an influential and growing group of journey of intentional evolution, which recognises government and communities to legally stakeholders regarding the positive messages the importance of conserving natural resources, mandated environmental forums which form part around our forestry operations. We support the uplifting people so that they are well-positioned of the licensing conditions of mills. In Southern Sappi Karkloof MTB (Sappi Karkloof Classic to thrive in our increasingly inter-connected Africa, there are local farmer and community Festival and Trailblazer Event and Sappi world. forums related to our forestry communities. Karkloof MTB Recreational Club); the Sappi Mankele Mountain Bike Challenge; and the Sappi Howick MTB Classic. We have also Social projects are reviewed on a case-by-case Globally, we engage with local communities provided land access/sponsorship to the Isuzu basis and we encourage projects which facilitate through support of and sponsorship for local 3 Towers Stage Race, the MTN Barberton partnerships and collaboration between events and initiatives and we encourage Classic, SANI2C, Joburg2C and the DCSR communities, government and the private sector. employees to participate in outreach and Misty Valley Challenge. community projects. Areas of mutual interest We support responsible honey collection from Regionally communities through our work with the African ••SEU: Each Sappi mill and sales offices support Honey Bee Trust. This also acts to prevent Key issues discussed on a regular basis include various local education, cultural and wildfires set by honey collectors. employment, job creation and business environmental projects based on annual opportunities, economic and social impacts/ requests and identified needs. We also have contributions and community support. established extensive internship programmes We have established a youth development, Environmental issues relate to water usage and at our all our mills. Kirkniemi Mill offers training entrepreneurship and social mobilisation quality, effluent quality and air emissions. material for schools and all mills host schools project called Abashintshi in nine forestry on mill tours. communities in KwaZulu-Natal with the ••SNA: Each business unit has a lead intention to roll out the project to other sustainability ambassador who is responsible communities in the coming years. for supporting sustainability communication, conducting training and fostering community engagement through local projects. Education programmes are supported at targeted colleges and universities, as are programmes to encourage study in fields relevant to our operations. Corporate sponsorships support organisations like Living Lands & Waters focused on environmental stewardship and education. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 31 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Communities continued Engagement in 2016 Value add All mills continued to offer paper and financial In Southern Africa, we continued to work with Engagement with communities: sponsorship to local schools, sport and hobby local government and communities to accelerate ••Enhances our licence to operate clubs, forest products industry students, local afforestation in the northern region of the Eastern ••Promotes socio-economic development which safety/environmental organisations, and support Cape through our Khulisa Umnotho (Project could, in the long term, lead to increased local charities. Grow) enterprise development programme. We demand for our products, and also continued to be active in land reform. For ••Initiates real social mobilisation and change for further details, please click here. the better. Our innovative Abashintshi project continued EU NA SA to gain traction, helping to prevent the spread of fires, creating viable entrepreneurs, Spend on corporate social responsibility (CSR) improving communication with communities, initiatives in 2016 amounted to approximately and developing a core group of previously US$4.4 million. unemployed youth. Thirty-six Abashintshi graduated in 2016. Our CSR approach and initiatives are described on pages 72 to 78 of this report. To access this We have also supported the African Honey Bee section, please click here. Trust to develop honey collectors who use EU NA SA our plantations. For further details on both these projects please see pages 72 and 73 of this report. EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 32 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Customers Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We adopt a partnership approach, whereby we ••The group follows an approach of regular ••Our customers can also make use of the develop long-term relationships with global, engagement with customers by senior and following: regional and local customers. We also executive management in support of the – In terms of specialised cellulose, technical accommodate more transactional customers. ongoing engagement by the relevant sales and Centres of Excellence are located at Saiccor We offer customers innovative products and marketing teams. In North America, we also and Cloquet Mills high levels of service that enable them to meet meet annually with the Sappi Merchant – A Competence Centre for Speciality Papers the needs of the rapidly changing world of Association. and Paper Laboratory at Alfeld Mill tomorrow. We also review our go-to-market – Westbrook Technology Centre where strategy where relevant to ensure that we align scientists constantly look for ways to improve our interests and the interests of our end-users. Globally casting and release paper products. Click Where relevant, we will also conduct R&D and Targeted communication campaigns help here to read details of Neoterix™ST, the first develop products to suit customers’ specific to promote the value of paper-based commercial casting and release paper with needs. communication and support the efforts of Sharklet™ bacteria-inhibition technology. marketers and communicators in their search for (Declining demand – North America). responsible choices. Examples include support ••We introduced several new products. EU NA SA for the TwoSides organisations in Europe, North ••We showcased our packaging papers from Areas of mutual interest America, South America, Southern Africa and EU NA SA Europe and North America at FachPack 2016 Australia and the Print Power campaign in and Labelexpo Europe, and ••High service levels. Europe. ••We sponsored the Alexander Watson ••Information and campaigns to promote print as ••Trade shows and exhibitions to promote and Associates (AWA) Global Release Liner Industry a communication medium. support paper-based packaging. Conference & Exhibition in Austria. ••Information and campaigns to promote paper ••We provide extensive technical support: packaging and the use of paper products for – Globally, a series of technical brochures is other technical, specialised as well as casting available on our website www.sappi.com and release paper applications. – We host customer and investor visits to the ••Information and support to promote the use of various mills EU NA SA dissolving wood pulp (DWP). – In Europe and Southern Africa, we publish ••Information and support to promote the use paper profiles and information sheets for our of biomaterials including lignins and papers. These give details regarding the nanocellulose. composition of our papers, as well as key ••Provision of technical information and support environmental parameters related to our pulp to our paper and DWP customers. and paper production processes and ••Information about organisational develop­ information on environmental management ments and the fibre sourcing and production systems and woodfibre sourcing policies, processes behind our brands. and ••New products that meet rapidly changing – In North America, we use GreenBlue’s market demand. environmental performance assessment tool (EPAT) which enables buyers to evaluate our performance on a mill-by-mill basis. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 33 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Customers continued Engagement in 2016 Value add In Europe: In North America: In Southern Africa: Ongoing engagement with our customers ••We held the seventh annual Sappi Football ••Our Sustainability Customer Council continued ••Following a customer request, we completed enables us to: Cup, which challenges our customers, printers to provide candid feedback and valuable input an Ecovadis questionnaire and were awarded ••Meet their needs for products with an enhanced and publishers to show their skills in table on emerging issues. The council comprises a gold recognition level. environmental profile football. Qualifying matches follow the rules Sappi customers, representing multiple ••We sponsored the graphic design category in ••Enhance awareness of the importance of issued by the International Table Soccer customer segments of the coated papers, and the Student Gold Pack Awards held under the sustainability Federation. Thirteen qualifying teams from the casting and release papers business, including auspices of the Institute of Packaging SA and ••Promote our customers’ own sustainability original pool of 148 teams, representing merchants, printers, publishers, corporate we also sponsored paper for the Citrus journeys Austria, CEE (Slovakia and Czech Republic), paper buyers and graphic designers. Online Research Institute annual report in addition to ••Keep abreast of market developments France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Spain and the and print education platforms in this region sponsoring their annual symposium. ••Demonstrate the power of print, and UK, participated in the final. The three winning include the environmental quotient (eQ) and ••We partnered with Nashua and their franchisees ••Showcase our products and promote the teams won tickets to the 2016 UEFA education, training and consulting (ETC). to raise funds for their Children’s Trust through Sappi brand. Champions League final in Milan on ••We continued to support the Paper and the sale of Sappi copy paper. 28 May 2016. The tournament attracts Packaging Board (P+PB), of which we are a ••We also partnered with retailer Pick n Pay increasing numbers of participants every year. member, in rolling out a public, consumerthrough their school club to bring education ••There was an increase in the number of facing integrated marketing campaign on material to 600 primary schools requests relating not only to whether we meet behalf of the paper and packaging industry. (21,000 educators and 450,000 learners) as our customers’ ethical requirements, but also ••We also continued to support the ‘paper part of our efforts to show the value of paperwhether our suppliers meet them as well. checkoff’, a consumer campaign aimed at based education and deepen the use and Accordingly, we completed information about helping reverse the decline in printing and brand recognition of Sappi Typek copy paper our products from Alfeld Mill in the Sedex writing papers as well as boost demand in schools. structure following a request from a large fastfor paper-based packaging using TV, print, moving consumer group. billboards and the Internet. ••In this region, our Eco-effectiveness Campaign continued to enable customer engagement. This material includes many stories from within At FachPack 2016, we showcased our restructured containerboard product range including: the mills and the rest of the Sappi organisation • Our bright white Fusion® topliner as well as corrugating liner and fluting Ultraflute™, and to provide clear evidence of our actions. The • Bright white coated cartonboard Algro® Design – typically used for folding cartons containing campaign promotes individual action and high-quality products such as cosmetics, perfume, premium chocolate and confectionery. recognition to make efforts to be sustainably We also showcased our comprehensive portfolio of coated and uncoated papers for the flexible effective. It is about highlighting those who packaging and labels market, including papers for food and non-food applications such as make the effort to help improve our ecosachets, pouches and wrappers as well as a range of self-adhesive and wet-glue labels. Algro effectiveness. Investments and innovations are Guard OHG, an innovative paper-based packaging solution with high-barrier functionality and also made to meet customer expectations heat seal characteristics, made its trade debut at FachPack. This product has been developed of increased efficiencies, reduced impacts for flexible packaging applications and features integrated barriers against oxygen, grease, and products which will enhance their own water vapours and mineral oil mixtures. social responsibility journey. The personal stories from Sappi’s Eco-effectiveness Campaign can be found at: http://www.sappi. com/eco-effective-stories EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 34 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Industry bodies Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We partner with industry and business bodies to Sappi is a member of various industry and SNA memberships include: provide input into issues and regulations that business associations in each region. ••American Forests and Paper Association affect and are relevant to our businesses and (AF & PA) industries. ••Paper and Paper Packaging Board SEU is a member of TwoSides and supports ••Agenda 2020 Technology Alliance Print Power. Both of these organisations work to ••Sustainable Packaging Coalition (SPC), and We also support and partner with industry dispel myths about the environmental impact of ••Forest Products Working Group. initiatives aimed at promoting the use of our print, paper and paper packaging. SNA is a products. founding member of TwoSides US, and SSA supported the launch of the local TwoSides SSA memberships include: campaign in 2014. Sappi is a member of the ••Paper Manufacturers’ Association of South Areas of mutual interest Save Food initiative which aims to eliminate food Africa (PAMSA) including their body for paper waste and loss globally. recycling (PRASA) ••Business Leadership South Africa ••Issues that affect the sustainability of our ••The CEO Initiative industry – woodfibre base, carbon taxes, SEU memberships include: ••Business Unity South Africa energy and emissions etc. ••Confederation of European Paper Industries ••Manufacturing Circle ••Energy issues in general and in particular (CEPI) ••Forestry South Africa government proposals on carbon taxation. ••Eurograph ••Sappi Forests is a founding member of ••The impact of increased regulations on ••The Alliance of Energy-Intensive industries the Tree Protection Co-operative Programme business. ••The Two Team Project (focusing on (TPCP) based in the Forestry and Bio••The benefits of our industry and our economic breakthrough technology concepts in the technical Institute (FABI) (http://www.fabinet. contribution to society. industry which could enable a more competitive up.ac.za/ ) at the University of Pretoria. ••Social and environmental credentials of our future), and Through the TPCP we are also members of EU NA SA products. ••European Joint Undertaking on Bio-based the internationally collaborative programme Industries. Biological Control of Eucalypt Pests (BiCEP) (http://bicep.net.au/ ) at the Australian Centre for Industrial and Agricultural Research EU NA SA (ACIAR), and ••We also belong to the Eucalyptus Genome Network (EUCAGEN) based at the University of Pretoria and to CAMCORE, an international, non-profit organisation dedicated to the conservation and utilisation of subtropical and tropical tree species. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 35 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Industry bodies continued Engagement in 2016 Value add We participated in the FSC® economic chamber ••Sappi is able to create and launch new Packaging and speciality papers meeting held in August 2016 in São Paulo, Brazil. products which already meet Sustainable Flexible packaging and label papers Containerboard Release liner The objective of the meeting was to consolidate Packaging Coalition criteria, which is beneficial key issues that affect the plantation forestry to us on a cost basis and a sustainability basis. component of the economic chamber of the ••Maintain and expand markets for our products. FSC, and align the strategy of this group on how ••Demonstrate the value add of the forest these issues should be dealt with by the FSC. products industry. In essence, the meeting was set up to organise ••Dispel myths and promote understanding of and align the plantation sector on the following our industry. FSC issues: controlled wood, pesticide policy, ••Contribute to the resolution of societal Chain-of-Custody, online claims platform; free, problems related to skills development, prior and informed consent (FPIC) and education and job creation. biotechnology. Graphic papers The problem of infection and pest control on our Coated woodfree paper Uncoated woodfree paper Functional papers Rigid packaging Technical papers plantations is becoming increasingly challenging. To this end, our researchers engaged with a number of experts in this field. In Southern Africa, various threats to economic stability, the rule of law, good governance as well as the independence of government and political role-players resulted in the private sector and in particular the CEOs of around 100 major companies mobilising around an action plan which was focused on helping government avert any sovereign credit rating downgrade; increasing the focus on anti-corruption efforts Coated mechanical paper Newsprint paper Casting and release papers Tissue paper Dissolving wood pulp in government; strengthening Chapter 9 institutions (oversight bodies of Parliament); and developing plans to enhance job creation and skills development. In addition, work continues to deal with a crisis in tertiary education around the affordability of education and student demands for free education on the one hand, and the failure of vocational training facilities to deliver the technical skills the country requires. Sappi has supported and remains active in these CEO initiatives. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 36 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Investors Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Value add Our aim is to provide investors (shareholders and ••Our Investor Relations (IR) team engages with ••Understanding of our strategic direction. bondholders) and analysts with transparent, shareholders and analysts on an ongoing ••Enhanced reputation. timely, relevant communication that facilitates basis. This team has direct access to the ••Greater investment confidence. informed decisions. executive directors and any issues shareholders ••Broader licence to invest. raise that would be relevant for the board are channelled through the IR team. Our Chairman Areas of mutual interest also engages with shareholders on relevant issues. ••We conduct ad hoc mill visits and road shows, ••Information on Sappi’s strategy. and issue announcements through Securities ••Return on investment. Exchange News Services (SENS), in the press ••Transparent information about risks, opportunities and on our website, www.sappi.com. and ESG performance. ••We publish our Annual Integrated Report and sustainability reports on the company website. EU NA SA ••Shareholders can attend and participate in the AGM as well as the four quarterly financial delivering on results briefings. strategy ••Our CFO and Head of Treasury engage with bondholders, banks and rating agencies on an 2016 ongoing basis regarding the performance of the company. ••We participate in the Carbon Disclosure and debt Forest Footprint Disclosure projects every year, reduction making our submissions publicly available, and One ••In 2016, we continued to engage with our Sappi investors through the above-mentioned avenues. intentional evolution next phase – growth 2016 Annual Integrated Report sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 37 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Suppliers and contractors Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Engagement in 2016 We are committed to establishing mutually SEU: A joint sourcing partnership assists in To further assist with the development of small respectful relationships with our suppliers negotiating better terms with timber and other growers and other forestry value chain and encouraging them to join our commitment suppliers. participants, we have established a training to economic, social and environmental centre at Richmond in KwaZulu-Natal. responsibility and to creating an environment The training centre (Khulisa Ulwazi/Growing that shares our commitment to doing business SNA: We are participating in a project whereby, Knowledge) will provide training to small growers, with integrity and courage, making smart through a partnership with the American Forest land reform beneficiaries and small-scale decisions which we execute with speed. We aim Foundation and the Sustainable Packaging contractors in the technical and business aspects to build long-term value partnerships. Coalition, stakeholders across the supply chain of forestry and small business management. have come together to understand challenges, and identify new methods to evaluate sustainable Given our focus on safety, we work with our forest management on family-owned land. contractors to ensure that they follow Sappi’s Value add safety systems. SSA: We have established a group timber certification scheme for small and medium ••Security of woodfibre supply. growers. There are currently more than ••Improved supplier relations. Areas of mutual interest 40 members in the scheme with plantations ••Better understanding of the requirements of ranging from a few hundred hectares to the Sappi group. 4,391 hectares in size. FSC® certification is ••Expanded basket of certified fibre. ••Transparent information. ••Better safety performance from contractors. ••Forest certification. not yet available to micro growers. Sappi is ••Increased value and decreased costs. currently working with other industry players to ••Security of fibre supply, income generation and overcome this. job creation. ••Common safety standards with contractors. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 38 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Civil society (Including media) Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Value add We maintain an open relationship with the media, ••We join key credible organisations as members. ••Opportunity to inform and educate the media. believing that an informed media is better able to ••We develop personal relationships and engage ••Transparent, two-way communication and serve public reporting and debate on any issue. on an ongoing basis. opportunity for dialogue. ••We provide support to and sponsorship for key ••Support for the valuable work of various NGOs. organisations on issues of mutual interest. We continue to update the media regarding our ••In Europe and North America, we maintain strategic shifts to extract value from woodfibre in close engagement directly and through our line with future trends. We engage with civil industry body CEPI with the FSC®, WWF society organisations on issues of mutual interest International and in Europe, with the Programme and belong to key organisations relevant to our for the Endorsement of Forest Certification operations. (PEFC™). ••In North America, Sappi is a member of the economic chamber of both FSC US and SFI®. Areas of mutual interest As such we actively engage with these organisations through a variety of working groups and committee activities. ••Business developments. ••In Southern Africa, Sappi is a member of the ••The future of our industry. local WWF organisation as well as FSC. In this ••Our contributions to our communities. region, our forestry operations belong to a ••Protecting the environment. number of fire associations, given that fire is a key risk on our plantations. We are also members of and support: ••SANBI (South African National Biodiversity Institute) ••Birdlife SA ••WWF-SA ••The Honorary Rangers of the Kruger National Park, and ••The UCT ADU (Animal Demography Unit) indigenous tree mapping project. Engagement in 2016 took place through the channels outlined above. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 39 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our key relationships – Government and regulatory bodies Management approach Engagement in 2016 We engage with government departments and In Southern Africa, we continued to engage In the South African National Environmental regulatory bodies to provide input into issues with government organisations regarding BroadCompliance and Enforcement Report 2015/16, and regulations that affect our industry. We also based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE), the statement is made that a docket related engage with regional and local governments and carbon taxes and budgets, as well as a biomass to environmental non-compliances at Saiccor local authorities to obtain support for our project at Ngodwana Mill which was still pending Mill will be referred to the Director of Public operations and show how our activities contribute regulatory approval at year-end. Prosecutions within the 2016/2017 financial to local economic and social development. year. We await the statement of charges and will respond once these are made available to us. Also in Southern Africa, the Centre for Environmental Rights (CER) published a followAreas of mutual interest up report on their 2015 review of corporate Value add reporting and information contained in the ••Energy issues in general and in particular National Environmental Compliance and government moves on carbon taxation. Enforcement Reports (NECER) of the Engagement creates opportunities to promote ••The impact of increased regulations on Environmental Management Inspectorate (EMI) understanding of the issues and challenges we business. of the Department of Environment Affairs (DEA). face and resolve certain challenges. ••The social and economic benefits of our Their 2016 report can be found at http:// industry nationally as well as at a local level. fulldisclosure.cer.org.za/company/sappi . They commended Sappi for providing much EU NA SA more disclosure in its 2015 reports. They also noted, “Sappi is to be commended for this Ongoing avenues of engagement reference to the NECER and the mention therein of the inspection at the Sappi Saiccor Mill. The Consultations take place on an ongoing basis clarification that no official report has been with government departments and regulatory received from the DEA is helpful, in particular in bodies in each region. that it explains why the details of the alleged non-compliances have not been disclosed.” This remains the situation. As in our 2015 report we confirm that we have taken note of the CER’s comments and their request for increased transparency. We remain committed to aligning our reporting to any mentions in the NECER. We also continue to engage with authorities regarding all issues of environmental compliance. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 40 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Prosperity Our ability to deliver value creation for our shareholders by focusing on Prosperity through improved profit, strategic positioning and debt reduction, lies at the heart of our commitment to sustainability. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 41 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Prosperity 2016 – at a glance We are a partner in creating 78% increase in 62% increase in Profit up 91% First dividend in Cash generation up Net debt down by earnings per share return on capital eight years of by more than 20% successful, future-oriented US$200 million employed 11 US cents to be paid in January 2017 packaging designs Overall earnings We launched these packaging and speciality papers in 2016: Our 2020Vision encapsulates growth driven by: Algro® Guard OHG, a new high-barrier the concept of One Sappi, A buoyant DWP paper-based packaging solution maximising the value market of our global brand. Strong growth in Algro® Sol SNC 82, 85 and 98g/m² speciality packaging sales 2020Vision Sales by source Fusion® 135g/m2 and 110g/m2 Sappi will be a diversified woodfibre group Neoterix™ST, the first commercial SOUTH AFRICAN targeting a substantial Neoterix™ST casting and release paper with increase in EBITDA through an 50 Sharklet™ bacteria-inhibition technology We are a global 23 business with proud expanded product portfolio roots as a South African with increased margins, 27 We launched McCoy® Gift Card 28pt graphics paper multinational company. providing enhanced rewards to all its stakeholders. Launched Symbio, a composite based New ■ North America Graphic business on cellulose fibres found in trees and GROWTH paper opportunities polypropylene SE 25% 10% Sales by product 2016: G of EBITDA Packaging Specialised M and specialities cellulose of EBITDA US$5,141 EN Cost savings Packaging T 25% 40% Our production rch and Develo of EBITDA of EBITDA operations esea pm e across the 5 1 18 group TIONS A Other growth R RA CE RO nt OP across the globe SS N 50 11 PROD UC LOB E segments 23 are supported TI O TH EG Savings Group EBITDA 5 by STRONG substantial 59 R&D and a Packaging is one 27 by increase worldwide sales of our core growth 2020 network. segments. ■ North America ■ Coated paper sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 42 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach Note: A detailed analysis of our financial Our industry stands on the cusp of renewal performance in FY2016 can be found in our as plantation and forest-derived bioproducts Saleable production (adt/a) 2016 Annual Integrated Report, available on emerge as a global game changer in a carbon www.sappi.com. constrained future. 8,000,000 7,000,000 Our ability to deliver value creation for our EU NA SA Our integrated pulp and paper mills are ideal 6,000,000 shareholders by focusing on Prosperity through platforms from which to meet future market 5,000,000 improved profit, strategic positioning and debt demand for carbon neutral bio-energy, 4,000,000 3,000,000 reduction, lies at the heart of our commitment to biochemicals, biomaterials, nanomaterials, 2,000,000 sustainability. neutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Integrating 1,000,000 Our industry stands the extraction and beneficiation of plantation and forest-derived biocompounds with our mill 0 Global Europe North America Southern Africa on the cusp processes is significantly more efficient than standalone operations, giving us a head start in ■ 2012 ■ 2015 ■ 2013 ■ 2016 ■ 2014 of renewal growing adjacent businesses that add additional value to the wood we use in our pulp and paper as plantation and businesses. Globally, there was a decrease in global saleable production. Production in Europe was stable. In forest-derived North America production at both Cloquet and Somerset Mills increased, while production at Westbrook Mill was stable. In Southern Africa, bioproducts production decreased due to the sale of the Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills in the first quarter. emerge as a global Saiccor Mill’s production also decreased mainly due to the drought and economiser tube leaks, game changer in a while production at Ngodwana Mill was impacted by newsprint commercial downtime in carbon constrained the first quarter and chemical recovery furnaces outages in the second quarter. future. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 43 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Realising our strategy Generate Rationalise cash to declining strengthen businesses balance sheet Our 2020Vision sets out to rationalise declining We finalised the sales of Enstra and Cape Kraft We have made good progress in our aim of Our net debt currently equates to leverage of businesses, generate cash to strengthen our Mills in October and November 2015, having a cleaner, stronger balance sheet in order 1.9 times EBITDA, achieving our long-term target balance sheet, achieve cost advantages, grow respectively. The proceeds from the two sales to accelerate our growth in adjacent businesses. of less than two times leverage. We expect to through moderate investments and accelerate was US$39 million. Given our strategy, these We achieved this through the sales of the reduce net debt levels further during the course growth in adjacent businesses from a assets were deemed to be non-core to our two mills in Southern Africa which realised of 2017 and are considering utilising some cash strong base. business. The products produced at these mills approximately US$39 million and improved reserves to repay the maturing 2017 bonds in are no longer considered core to our long-term operational cash generation, which increased order to lower future finance costs. Profit was up strategy, and the sale of these businesses were from US$145 million to US$359 million in the 91% to US$319 million from US$167 million in The manner in which we are achieving this is by aimed at unlocking value from non-core assets year under review. This meant that we achieved 2015 and from US$135 million in 2014. This, focusing more intensively on speciality packaging; and freeing up resources for further investment our targeted leverage of less than two times net together with our improved debt position, has providing high-end graphic papers for our in DWP, virgin containerboard and other new debt to our earnings before interest, taxes, put us in a strong position to move forward with customers who still see the value of printed business opportunities. depreciation and amortisation, which amounted our 2020Vision. communications; expanding our dissolving to US$739 million, earlier than expected. Net wood pulp (DWP) business and by moving into debt was down 20% or US$363 million year-onadjacent markets. This is described in the key year, from US$1,771 million to US$1,408 million. material issues section of this report. Details of This reduction, together with the refinancing of new products are also covered here. high-cost debt in 2015 – achieved through the EU NA SA issuing of seven-year bonds at a record low interest rate of 3.375%, has resulted in lower interest charges. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 44 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Realising our strategy continued Accelerate Grow growth in Achieve through adjacent cost moderate businesses advantages investments from a strong base We work to lower fixed and variable costs, ••Installed a new turbine at Tugela Mill and We will make moderate investments in existing We will continue our focus on having a cleaner, increase cost efficiencies and invest for cost applied for the project to be registered under areas with strong potential growth, including stronger balance sheet so that we can then advantages. To achieve this goal, we have: the South African government’s cogeneration pulp, speciality grades and packaging papers. accelerate our growth in adjacent businesses. ••Initiated a global procurement strategy based Independent Power Producer Programme. At We are also looking at: This was underpinned by the commissioning of on our One Sappi strategy to reduce the cost Saiccor Mill, we are replacing three turbine ••Additional packaging at Ngodwana and Tugela our nanocellulose pilot plant in the Netherlands, of our third-party goods and services and generators with a high efficiency steam turbine Mills together with the decision to build a secondcreate a sustainable competitive advantage for generator set. Annual savings are estimated to ••Electricity opportunities in Southern Africa generation sugar extraction demonstration plant Sappi. Our target is to reduce third party spend be approximately US$4.9 million based mainly ••The debottlenecking of Saiccor and Ngodwana in South Africa, due to come on stream in 2017. by US$100 million per annum by 2020. We are on reduced power purchases, and Mills through the expansion of DWP capacity We have established a dedicated Sappi Biotech on track to achieve this, having realised savings ••Embarked on a project to increase the capacity ••Exploring opportunities in specialty packaging, division to consolidate and expand our renewable of US$13 million in FY2016. We expect to of the recovery boiler at Ngodwana Mill, thereby and biomaterials offering. realise a further US$50 million in FY2017 which debottlenecking the mill. ••Securing additional hardwood timber supply in will offset anticipated lower graphic paper Southern Africa. prices. Our major focus areas are as follows: – Pulp, energy and non-fibre raw materials Click here to read more about our procurement in Europe savings in the key material issues section of – Logistics and wood in North America this report. – Wood and energy in Southern Africa, and EU NA SA – Global freight sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 45 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our investment case Sappi’s diversified product portfolio Well positioned for current and future growth Sappi’s diversified product portfolio Market leader markets •• Leading European coated paper producer. •• Paper business is highly cash generative, providing •• Leading North American coated freesheet paper the funds for future growth into cellulose-based Fil producer. solutions, speciality packaging papers and adjacent ms (c Topliner for con sum er s urf film), lear a •• Leading South African graphics and packaging products. kag ing (she lfac tex dh pac c es ( tur esiv paper producer. •• Underlying demand trends positive for DWP: ready packaging, Pack aging fas ar int upho ed e h er point-of-sale), fo ls la ion iors tery, •• Number 2 global producer of coated paper (59% of – DWP share of the textiles market (Sappi’s primary liner and fluting p prem ium r (flo min item , e r ltur al and rodu or, ate s), sales). DWP market) is expected to grow further r bar , i (ag ricu (cho industrial eg fruit and confe colate, c ts Re furn allin w s ted gen sil leas iture) g, •• Number 1 global producer of DWP (17% of sales). – Growth in total fibre consumption on the back of t e gra e, oxy ur, veg eta bles , frozen e ctione ry i c e , In reas apo lectro , o (g ter v l oil) foods, automotive cosm nics, pre pap ne b liner •• Number 2 global producer of coated paper (59% of increasing population and affluence will be wa inera aling parts, appliances, etics, ssu ers as r f e m at se or beverages), s p irit a e s or sales). covered by man-made fibres fo r he sf perfu s, ap dhes ensit l s lt and opertie g for box es (games, p harm me, ( g plic ive ive be me t pr kagin d ra a •• Globally, strong position in specialities and paper – However, certain moisture management Ba La ot we ve pac od an d gift boxes) ceutic ac ph tion n als) offi ompoic art s lid ds ( a h nd si ns (in or m , gl ct packaging. properties of cellulose fibres cannot be fo -foo c s s, r g m s) e an mat ites, pe vin a he tio non Statio (ca s (p yoghad lica ns, nd tainer d t er Pa rlea tal, s), substituted by oil-based synthetic fibres, a o n R e office nery, r u sa rier, sta), rt p p l C ig id a i a f pe l l l iona a p on ap (ca ars, s) ose/ray i board s te e s p packa ph che dog bag ots), nct ee re a prom rinting, Ca w j ttle enhancing the opportunity for cellulosics. Fu apers ging sti st di erm ts s, su arm ts foo s Visc lyocell By 2020, the packaged food market is expected to otion bo n a •• The DWP market offers diversification ma al g (f (co ar), aceu ood ), d l be s p rel nd g bring in revenue of US$3.03 trillion, registering a pres terial, papease Te enta sn nfec wrap tica , La per e lothing, opportunities. pa c th k er nd t e post ions, cig ack tio p l, ers Textile (c d linen, compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 4.5% from pa ing and speci sue r, n e a ckag aper u ers line aret , coff ery, rs alit tic ch s) •• Speciality paper business continues to s exam , staple Pa y Tis pape t bu r, so es (i ee), p s Tis dding 2015 to 2020(1). We are steadily increasing our househol welling, ck ble improve sales volumes and realised prices. l u pads po nd ft nn ag e let hen presence in this market. uc le pac er in (vo lab to fibres curtains, h wr (toi k g •• Demand for virgin packaging strong in en toba es (s ap), , al wa kitc els, ry, Offic ve cc ou upholste s Southern Africa. e lop o), p, Through intentional ic tow iettes, e( en Geographic diversification and significant assets •• Energy generation projects in Southern F tea non-wov ons)) pa lexi evolution we will hn ers ) Africa. v l ser ustria cal y mp continue to grow Sappi (wipes, ta s tr print p n•• Our global presence allows us to take advantage of Co ion ind edi G aph into a profitable and p NewsGraphic ures, uct r NewsBroch es, str mber d p ulp opportunities where markets are strong: ic a n d maga zin ti cash-generative o re papers, Innovation dars, supplements, calen orts, – Europe: Six paper mills and one speciality paper rep diversified woodfibre apers broadsh eets, a nnual bility p rin M ti n g p a p e r s F a mill, well-invested assets at the heart of the advertising sustain direct group – focused on c r y i c ro •• History of industry ‘firsts’. s, report igital woo s Bind European paper markets inserts mail, d ooks, dissolving wood pulp, c el l t a lli n e e (table rs u lo thick ts), •• Technology centres around the world. g, b printin hlets, ng (MC se ener – North America: One paper mill, one paper and pamp ale, paper and products in C) (fo pharm ods, s •• Development of low-cost nanocellulose of-s pointonal P p lv i fat re aceuticals specialised cellulose mill and one speciality paper promo al,ti adjacent fields. so place (yogh ment ) process whereby chemicals can be easily materi , lp urt, mill, exposure to the most attractive end-market is ice cre D Pu d rs ul am) recycled and reused without generating large poste s P n woo gue p rs segments catalo C Saw er flu HE MC, Et quantities of waste water. m a t e ri a l s Bio he ids C – Southern Africa: Two paper mills, one pe r b ap mi , d (dr C, M •• Pilot-scale nanocellulose plant commissioned Pa nd g tim ul er ni e illi ph aid ng fl terg ng specialised cellulose mill and one paper and a vin l so d p H ce em ll o arm s, ota en at Brightlands Chemelot Campus in the dis woo p Pa ll i Ce ane ac food tion ts, specialised cellulose mill, 388,000ha of owned pu l an per su ulos h eu , Netherlands. bo d ga e ul p gin g tic and leased plantations and contracted supply m ar rs Nano Lig n o s te ka , als ) •• Nanocellulose opens up growth opportunities. ak d (H cellu a ac od from almost 103,000ha of plantations, and ing org ighe lose p h o n (P or fo line , an r va f lka ies c •• Innovative products like Neoterix™ST, the first gly ic ac lue a tter phi e) – 30 sales offices on six continents. c i sug ols, ds, Food ent (c s, oal ba ogra g tap commercial casting and release paper with a (flavou dditive ing ag alc ar rc Bond ttes, ceramic ust lith skin suspe arrier, d Sharklet™ bacteria-inhibition technology and oh ols brique ed pellets, ma stabili nsion l fe anima pressant, s ing oil Symbio, a composite based on cellulose fibres protein ser, soya s u p pe r s Extensive fibre base in South Africa , thick er), dis ing, age ening stabilis (leather tann s, found in trees and polypropylene, developed thicke nt in food), re applica ner (industr agent te admixtu rd), primarily for injection moulding. ti ia concre ypsum boa nt (impro ons), addit l g dyes, cation ag , wax e •• Low-cost, fast-growing woodfibre base from statepropert ve mechan ive ifi ie ic al emuls s, pigments crete), of-the-art sustainably managed plantations. therm s, rubber, id e on starch osetting re latex, (pestic s, asphalt c gent -based sins, ls ion o n a g •• Forestry R&D programmes target suitability of comp os substa nc e m u str a ti seque nt systems, tment cleanin Demonstrable track record of debt reduction spun fi ites (high-te es), ie e a species for changing climate conditions and endvehicle bres in moto ch n u tr (micro ounds, wa g systems te r tr ) s , aero r comp ilers, coolin use in terms of growth and fibre properties. streng thene planes), for bo •• Refinancing and debt reduction has led to lower admix r (c o n c •• Carbon sequestration by our plantations offers a tures) rete finance costs. potential buffer against carbon taxes. •• Have already realised our 2020 EBITDA target. http://www.foodprocessing.com/industrynews/2015/global(1) packaged-food-market-by-2020-will-be-a-3-03-trillion-industry/ EU NA SA www.sappi.com sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 46 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Research and development Case study Symbio: Another example of Sappi innovation Underpinning our strategy with In partnership with Intertek, we have developed a composite based on cellulose and polypropylene research and development (R&D) called Symbio. The product is intended for standard injection moulding and extrusion processes. The use of fillers in plastic is already normal, but using these cellulose fibres instead of the traditional fillers We spent US$26 million on R&D in reduces the weight by approximately 15%. Mixing 20% to 50% of the cellulose fibres with polypropylene 2016. Technology is a cornerstone of increases the stiffness. The fibres are not visible in the end-product, which means the end-product our business and is supported by can easily be coloured. Symbio will initially be available with 20% and 40% cellulose content. We see technology centres in each region further possibilities to use this technology for car interiors, furniture, consumer electronics and toys. covering each section of the value chain: ••Symbio is developed primarily for injection moulding. The cellulose fibres are not visible and the product has a neutral off-white colour and low odour. Europe Maastricht Centre of Excellence ••Symbio is partly biobased, incorporating cellulose fibres which are derived from sustainably Papermaking processes The annual global Technical Innovation Awards managed forests and plantations with high levels of certification. promote a culture of internal innovation. In 2015, North America the regional winners were: ••Cellulose adds significant stiffness to the polypropylene matrix while keeping density low. • Sappi Europe: Hot soft-nip-calendering for Westbrook Centre of Excellence Gloss96 (global winner) Coated fine paper and speciality casting • Sappi North America: Ink reticulation mottle ••Stiffness, thick wall mouldability and good dampening properties make Symbio ideal for applications and release papers development improvement for McCoy Silk Cover, and where good sound quality is important. • Sappi Southern Africa: The development of Southern Africa Ultraflute lightweight semi-chemical fluting. http://www.forestplastics.com/ Forestry Research Centre (Tweedie) EU NA SA The innovation developed by the Sappi Europe • Tree breeding team was in response to customers’ needs for a • Propagation techniques glossy paper allowing perfect machine runability • Silviculture during printing and converting whilst maintaining a high quality product. Sappi Technology Centre (Pretoria) • Fibre processing • Paper science • Chemical sciences • Environmental Sappi Specialised Cellulose Centre of Excellence (Umkomaas) • Applications testing • Fundamental cellulose properties sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 47 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our value add Adding value in each region where we operate Our products add value to people’s lives every transportation, cleaning and security creates With its traditional and new products, the paper industry represents nearly 4% of US day and are used in the following ways: opportunities for small, medium and micro industry plays an important role in society, manufacturing GDP(3) and is a significant ••Dissolving wood pulp: Viscose fabrics and enterprises. offering efficiently manufactured, fully recyclable taxpayer, paying approximately US$7 billion textiles for fashion clothing, household products, made from renewable raw materials. annually in federal, state, and local taxes(4). furnishings and used in foodstuffs, cosmetics The forestry industry is one of the strategic and pharmaceutical products In 2016, we added value to the prosperity of the economic sectors in each region where we ••Graphics papers: Commercial printing regions where we operate: operate and makes a significant contribution to Southern Africa including magazines, brochures, catalogues, ••By employing approximately 12,000 employees The forest sector in Southern Africa employs economic growth and job creation – particularly direct mail, corporate reports and calendars and 750 contractors globally (in addition approximately 165,900 workers and provides in rural areas, where employment and income ••Packaging papers: Convenience food, fast approximately 10,500 people are employed by about 62,700 direct jobs and 30,000 indirect generation opportunities are more limited than food and to protect and transport fresh contractors working for Sappi Forests in jobs. Forestry provides livelihood support to in cities. produce, and Southern Africa) 652,000 people of the country’s rural population. ••Speciality and casting and release papers: ••By creating millions of dollars’ worth of The pulp and paper industry provides about Consumer goods in the food, pharmaceutical goods each year: In FY2016 sales per Europe 13,200 direct and 11,000 indirect employment and luxury product markets, labels and a region were: Europe: US$2,582 million; North In 2015, the pulp and paper industry provided opportunities. wide variety of other applications. America: US$1,367 million; Southern Africa: 179,000 jobs in Europe directly, and 1.5 million in US$1,192 million, and the value chain. It has a turnover of €79 billion ••By contributing to domestic growth and the The forest sector (forestry and forest products) and adds €16.5 billion to Europe’s GDP(1). We contribute to society through payments to balance of payments in each region where contributes about 1% to national GDP. In terms governments, suppliers and employees, as well we operate by exporting products to over of regional GDP, forestry in KwaZulu-Natal as returns to shareholders. We facilitate social 150 countries around the world. North America contributes 4.4%; in Mpumalanga 3.7%; in the and economic wellbeing by using labour drawn The forest products industry employs 900,000 Eastern Cape 0.6%; and about 0.6% in Limpopo. from local communities, and the services of small workers and is among the top 10 manufacturing Some 20,000 workers are employed in and medium enterprises situated in the areas 2016 % sector employers in 47 states. For every 100 jobs sawmilling, 6,000 in the timberboard and 2,200 around plantations and production facilities. We in the industry, the paper and allied products in the mining timber industries, while a further also have a best practice training programme industry supports 325 jobs in supplier industries 11,000 workers are employed in miscellaneous and, through our corporate social responsibility and local communities, while the wood products jobs in forestry(5). 8 programme, together with our enterprise 5 industry supports an additional 225 jobs outside development programme in Southern Africa, 33 the industry(2). Forests products workers earn a (1)  http://digibook.digi-work.com/Digibooks.aspx/Get/ invest in the socio-economic development of the combined total of approximately US$50 billion. cepi/1520/FINALKeyStatistics2015webpdf EU (2) NA SA  http://www.afandpa.org/docs/default-source/one-pagerscommunities in which our workers live. june-2015/jobs-and-economic-impact-june-2015.pdf 54 The industry is a major contributor to the national EU  www.afandpa.org/docs/default-source/1pgrs/jobs-and(3) NA SA economic-impact-january-2016.pdf?sfvrsn=2c The indirect economic benefits of our operations economy, shipping goods that are worth more EU (4) NA SA  http://www.afandpa.org/our-industry impact sectors including technical, construction than US$200 billion annually. The forest products EU (5)  http://www.gov.za/about-sa/forestry NA SA and engineering services which are outsourced ■ To employees as salaries, wages and other benefits EU NA SA to a wide variety of contractors. The chemicals ■ Reinvested to grow the business ■ To lenders of capital as interest industry, in particular, is one of our major ■ To governments as taxation suppliers. In addition, the provision of services including the collection of waste paper for the industry and the outsourcing of non-core activities such as maintenance, medical services, sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 48 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary People Continuing to invest in our People enables us to both create and seize opportunities. The cornerstone of this approach is making resources available that enable our People to grow intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 49 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary People 2016 – at a glance 9,786 males 2,187 females 11,983 people work at Sappi and we also employ 747 contractors. We aim to be a great place to work Great jobs Great leaders Great rewards Great culture Great company We unlock the Globally, we spent an average per potential of our employee of US$529 on training and development. people with world-class Leadership academies in each training region develop future lead team successors. programmes. We recognise and reward achievement through initiatives like the Technical Innovation Awards and the Group Chief Executive’s Award which recognises outstanding leadership behaviour and contributions to our business. Training spend We produce We track training spend We monitor training in per employee category terms of gender to ensure communication to ensure that training is that female employees materials directed where most are being provided with in many languages. appropriate and where skills gaps have been the same development opportunities as their identified. male colleagues. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 50 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach to people Profiling our people Our 2020Vision involves focusing on The cornerstone of this approach is making technological innovation that will help us unlock resources available to enable our people to grow and commercialise the potential of biochemical intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. Our extracts, microfibrils, nanocellulose fibres and aim is to create an environment where we can cellulose nanocrystals found in wood. live up to our values of doing business with integrity and courage, making smart decisions which we execute with speed. In order to make this shift successfully, our priority is a diverse, engaged workforce who understand the world of tomorrow so that we position ourselves to take advantage of future trends in order to grow and prosper. Accordingly, Diversity brings with it different skills sets and Women tend to be under-represented in our we continue to invest in our people so that we backgrounds, as well as unique ways of doing workforce due to the nature of our operations, are able to create and seize opportunities. things and different ways of thinking innovatively. ie a highly capital intensive manufacturing These in turn enhance our ability to service environment which involves shift work. Line diverse, rapidly evolving global markets. We management are mandated to facilitate the celebrate our differences in human capital and employment of women by ensuring that those strive to create a workplace free from working on shifts are safe and that bathroom discrimination and harassment; acknowledging facilities are available to them. and accepting differences among our people with respect to age, class, ethnicity, gender, physical ability, race, sexual orientation and The diversity of our employee base is set spiritual practice. We view diversity as a key out below and on the following pages. driver that enhances our competitiveness and sustainability. Gender split per region Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa* Sappi group 21 624 353 2,187 1,141 3,426 9,796 1,809 4,540 69 * This number differs from the Annual Integrated ■ Male ■ Female Report and Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report as it excludes Lomati Sawmill employees. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 51 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Profiling our people continued Employees by age group Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 29 1,051 4,626 2,289 142 550 14 1,605 1,257 899 763 2,617 2,325 47 5,752 ■ Below 30 ■ 60 to 50 ■ 50 and older Employees by job category Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 5,000 1,500 50 2,500 6,000 5,792 4,500 5,500 1,421 44 2,262 5,000 4,000 4,369 1,200 40 2,000 4,500 3,500 35 4,000 3,000 900 30 1,500 1,716 3,500 2,500 3,000 2,000 600 20 1,000 2,500 1,500 2,000 2,377 2,315 1,500 1,000 300 10 500 344 457 300 521 1,000 1,313 500 273 57 43 46 2 57 500 160 6 2 8 1 3 5 11 0 26 0 0 0 0 0 ■ Top management ■ Senior management ■ Professional or middle management ■ Skilled technical and junior management ■ Semi-skilled ■ General worker or no job category indicator sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 52 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Profiling our people continued Gender and race split at executive level Sappi Limited board (Executive and non-executive) Sappi Limited Executive Committee Female Male 2 10 10 9 9 8 8 8 7 7 5 6 6 1 5 5 1 1 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 Black White Black Indian White Coloured White ■ 30 to 50 ■ 50 and older ■ 30 to 50 ■ 50 and older New hires (external hires) by gender Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 2 25 102 193 394 110 54 648 142 12 ■ Female ■ Male sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 53 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Profiling our people continued New hires (external hires) by age group Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 29 2 82 42 9 169 350 89 53 7 5 85 66 285 409 ■ Below 30 ■ 60 to 50 ■ 50 and older New hires (external hires) by category Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 500 120 15 110 550 110 100 500 110 101 506 100 90 450 400 90 4,369 11 80 400 80 10 70 350 300 70 60 300 60 50 250 200 50 49 40 200 40 5 30 36 30 150 163 100 20 100 20 108 67 10 2 10 12 50 60 2 12 2 4 0 0 35 0 0 7 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ■ Top management ■ Senior management ■ Professional or middle management ■ Skilled technical and junior management ■ Semi-skilled ■ General worker or no job category indicator sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 54 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Profiling our people continued New hires (internal movement) Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 0 32 71 28 61 24 15 409 320 0 ■ Female ■ Male Transformation In Southern Africa, where employment equity falls under Broad-based Black Economic Language diversity Empowerment (BBBEE) legislation, our employee diversity profile is monitored quarterly by the Southern African lead team and discussed Although English is the primary language used throughout the monthly at every business unit’s Equity Forum. Each human resources manager and hiring manager is required to recruit in accordance with group, key communication materials are disseminated in the Employment Equity Plan in place at their site. We report in more detail on BBBEE in the prevailing languages of each region. our regional 2016 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 55 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Being a great place to work Providing the right employee experience and being a great place to work is critical to differentiating us from other employers in a competitive market and enables us to attract and retain talent. Great Great Great Great rewards culture company jobs Our compensation programmes are designed to We have a strong talent management culture In 2016, we launched a revised Code of Ethics We create opportunities and make resources achieve our goals of attracting, motivating and and mindset. One aspect of this is our recognition which incorporates the new Sappi values available to enable our people to grow retaining employees who can drive the programmes which play an important role in (At Sappi we do business with integrity and intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. achievement of our 2020Vision. motivating employees and establishing a high courage; making smart decisions which we Training and development programmes are level of connection to the business. At a global execute with speed) and includes specific reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure they level, we present two annual awards: policies that guide employee behaviour and remain relevant to the changing needs of our The primary components of pay include base people, the business environment and Sappi. ••The Technical Innovation Awards, and incorporates practical examples of possible salary, benefits, eg medical and retirement, ••The Group Chief Executive’s Award which scenarios which employees might encounter. annual incentive awards and long-term recognises outstanding leadership behaviour Our approach to training is decentralised, with incentives. Compensation levels are set to reflect and contributions to our business. each mill, function, business unit and region competitive market practices and internal equity The Code has now been translated into the taking responsibility for training. Five-year training as well as company and individual performance. various Sappi languages (English, German, targets in each region allow us to monitor our Regionally, we present the following awards: Dutch, Finnish and Zulu) and distributed to all progress. ••Europe: The annual Coryphaena award which Sappi mills and offices. Regional roll-out EU NA SA recognises truly exceptional achievements campaigns have commenced which include In our ongoing drive to build a learning culture, we ••North America: The quarterly Risk Taking and various forms of awareness programmes are reducing our focus on mandatory training in Ingenuity awards including a brochure, posters, letters to favour of skills building. On average for the group, ••South Africa: The Excellence in Achievement stakeholder groups, newsletter and video and the split between mandatory or compliance awards, and slide presentations. training and skills training is as follows 75.98% ••Sappi Trading: The Gold SMART awards. development, 24.02% compliance training. These campaigns followed the 2015 roll-out of the One Sappi Mission, Strategy, 2020Vision While we invest in formal training and development and Values. A dipstick survey conducted in programmes, we realise that potential is not only August 2016 indicated a positive attitude towards developed through training courses which the values campaign. Of the 4,804 staff members develop competencies and skills. We provide who took part, approximately 80% responded our employees with opportunities to gain new positively (strongly agree or tend to agree) to the experiences and through personal development plans which are based on creating the right statement: “I am sufficiently informed about conditions and circumstances which allow Sappi’s values.” people to develop their careers. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 56 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Being a great place to work continued Percentage employees with current % Average training spend per employee US$ individual development plans 0 506 82 39 605 973 55 297 ■ Europe ■ Southern ■ Africa Europe ■ North America (Of salaried employees) ■ Europe ■ North America ■ Sappi Trading ■ North America ■ Sappi(of salaried employees) Trading ■ Southern Africa ■ Sappi Trading ■ Southern Africa Percentage split per region on skills and compliance training % Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 17.44 5.85 15.04 24.02 49 51 82.56 94.15 84.96 75.98 ■ Skills improvement ■ Compliance training sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 57 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Being a great place to work continued Average training hours per employee by gender in 2016 Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 28 42.6 71.1 75.3 0 0 66.0 53.2 68.7 38.4 ■ Female ■ Male We monitor training in terms of gender to ensure that female employees are being provided with the same development opportunities as their male colleagues. Average training hours per employee by employee category Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group Not disclosed in Europe. 100 80 100 100 90 70 90 96.07 90 94.74 88.86 80 88.98 80 80 60 70 70 70 58.25 53.73 50 60 60 60 50 40 50 50 52.75 52.08 40 48.52 40 40 43.29 30 37.17 35.33 30 30 30 33.05 20 24.10 20 20 25.46 20 23.76 10 10 14.30 10 15.83 10 2.52 11.63 8.80 0 0 6.75 0 0 0 0 ■ Top management ■ Senior management ■ Professional or middle management ■ Skilled technical and junior management ■ Semi-skilled ■ Not graded We track spend per category to ensure that training is directed where most appropriate and where skills gaps have been identified. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 58 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Being a great place to work continued Training budget for the group ’000 Europe (EUR) North America (US$) Sappi Trading (US$) Southern Africa (ZAR) 626 112 3,116 2,412 3,805 3,126 916 181 ■ Budget ■ Actual Training spend as a percentage % of payroll per region 1.08 0.34 0.97 2.23 ■ Southern Africa ■ Europe ■ North America ■ Sappi Trading sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 59 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Strong leaders Measuring levels of engagement Having a strong leadership pipeline is critical to We recognise that ascertaining levels of employee achieving our 2020Vision and also underpins our engagement is important in achieving our goal sustainability as an organisation. In 2016, we of building a workforce that is engaged, enabled focused on the following leadership initiatives: and energised. Accordingly, we continue to ••In Europe, we conducted a two-day coaching measure levels of employee engagement every intervention to assist line managers in becoming second year. In September 2015, we conducted more effective coaches to support their teams an employee engagement survey, the objectives to embrace PDCA thinking. PDCA or plan-doof which were as follows: check-act or plan-do-check-adjust is an ••Measure changes in employee opinions and iterative four-step management method used perceptions of Sappi as a place to work since in business for the control and continual the baseline survey in 2013 improvement of processes and products. We ••Measure the evolution of sustainable Training initiatives also continued with the Sappi Europe Leadership Academy, with a new group of engagement at Sappi, and ••Understand what drives sustainable like bursaries, 16 employees started in September 2016, due for completion in 2017 Clear evidence engagement among our employees. ••In North America, we continued with the learnerships and LEADS (Leadership Excellence and continues to link We will report back in 2017 on follow-up actions implemented as a result of the survey, together Development at Sappi) programme with a artisan training are focus on Critical Thinking. Topics offered to all salaried employees under the Critical Thinking employee with the outcomes of these. reported in more umbrella included the Critical Thinking Standards, Biases, Levels of Thinking, and engagement to Employee engagement is one of our 2020 global goals. Thinking Fallacies. Westbrook Mill began detail in our regional training on Problem Analysis for all supervisors an organisation’s and managers. The training is being conducted sustainability bottom line. EU NA SA by a multinational management consulting and training services company, and reports. ••In Southern Africa, one of our focus areas was on first line manager development. Our classroom and project-based foremen development programme was attended by 35 employees in 169 individual classroom sessions covering eight modules. The Sappi Southern Africa Leadership Academy programme saw a group of 15 complete the programme in 2016 and a new group of 24 employees started in August 2016, due for completion in 2017. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 60 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Monitoring turnover and new hires A certain turnover rate is needed to bring new Absenteeism rates cover sickness absences due We also include paid maternity or paternity leave, people with new skills into the business to drive to illness or injury on duty or accidents outside but exclude unpaid maternity or paternity leave. innovation and a fresh approach while maintaining of the workplace, where employees are on paid Similarly, temporary disability where Sappi a certain level of continuity. In 2015 the global sick leave. continues to pay a salary is included, while turnover rate for the manufacturing and distribution temporary or permanent disability covered by industry stood at 9.1% for voluntary turnover and insurance is not included. Turnover by gender 14.8% in terms of total turnover1. Our turnover figures compare favourably against this benchmark: Involuntary turnover voluntary turnover across Sappi for 2016 was 2.47% while involuntary turnover across the group Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group was 6.41%, with total turnover standing at 8.88%. A significant portion of involuntary turnover was the finalisation of the sale of the Enstra and Cape Kraft Mills early in FY2016 and the transfer of those 4 employees to the new owners. 15 68 28 83 33 230 85 Turnover includes retrenchments, retirements and 75 non-renewal of contracts. Monitoring turnover by gender and age group is strategically important: a 9 disproportionately high number of women leavers could indicate discrimination. Similarly, an extremely high number of younger people leaving could ■ Female ■ Male indicate that they are not being given sufficient career opportunities. Voluntary turnover Absenteeism by region Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group % 0.21 1.82 3 1 22 83 115 4.24 5.72 153 702 25 521 9 ■ Southern Africa ■ Europe ■ Female ■ Male ■ North America ■ Sappi Trading 1 http://www.compensationforce.com/2016/04/2015-turnover-rates-by-industry.html sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 61 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Monitoring turnover and new hires continued Total exits by age group Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 5 227 458 8 154 40 102 156 72 6 36 14 77 391 518 ■ Below 30 ■ 60 to 50 ■ 50 and older Total exits by employee category Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 300 100 20 500 1,000 90 900 18 250 447 80 400 800 80 15 238 70 700 765 200 60 300 600 150 50 10 500 40 200 400 100 196 30 300 5 5 20 24 100 200 251 50 10 71 100 1 19 0 2 8 2 0 5 1 9 103 4 13 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 ■ Senior management ■ Professional or middle management ■ Skilled technical and junior management ■ Semi-skilled ■ Not graded sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 62 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Engaging constructively with trade unions Globally, approximately 60% of our workforce is unionised, with 71.5% belonging to a bargaining Ensuring disciplined behaviour unit. Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for individual wellbeing, but also to ensure our group goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures, while grievance policies entrench the rights of employees, including the right to raise a grievance without fear We recognise the right of employees to collective of victimisation, the right to seek guidance and assistance from a member of the Human Resources Department, or their representative, at any time bargaining and freedom of association in and the right to appeal to a higher body, without prejudice. accordance with all relevant local labour legislation. We maintain constructive relationships We have identified no operations or significant suppliers where the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining has been and partnerships with all representative unions violated or is at significant risk. We have identified no operations and significant suppliers as having significant risk for incidents of child labour. and works councils, who enjoy consultative or Similarly, we have identified no operations and significant suppliers as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and negotiating powers on issues of mutual interest, measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Union representatives are present in our formal joint management/worker health and safety committees. Overall, FY2016 was characterised by amicable, but tough negotiations and relatively good relationships with organised labour across the geographies. For details on our engagement with trade unions in 2016, please click here. EU NA SA Collective bargaining units by region % Europe North America Sappi Trading Southern Africa Sappi group 28.5 13 34.3 42.1 8.9 91.10 57.9 87 65.7 71.5 ■ Female ■ Male sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 63 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Communicating operational changes Operational changes are of key concern to all In Europe, information about significant In Southern Africa (including Sappi Limited), the Most of the countries in which Sappi Trading is employees, particularly those represented by operational changes needs to be provided at a implementation of significant operational based are not covered in collective agreements trade unions and/or bargaining units. time when planned changes are concrete changes is governed in terms of section 197 and except for Austria, Brazil and South Africa. In enough to enable proper consultation. Finland section 189 of the Labour Relations Act, 66 of Austria, the notice period follows labour law and is the only country in which we operate where 1995. The Act does not prescribe a specific individual employment agreements. In the case In terms of career endings, access to retirement the process is followed through according to a notice period in this regard. However, the of senior and general staff, notice periods of four planning services is provided on a regional basis set timeline. standard practice is a minimum of 30 days, and and three months respectively are required. and in some instances this is supported by a maximum of 60 days’ notice for consultation in Based on local legislation, these notice periods financial wellbeing programmes. To the extent case of a large-scale restructuring process. The increase according to years of service. A notice that there are employee lay-offs, we provide Across all countries, information about significant recognition agreement concluded with the period is not set up in Collective Labour severance pay to all employees and, in some operational changes needs to be provided at a majority union, Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, Agreements. In Brazil, a minimum notice period instances, outplacement assistance. time when planned changes are concrete Wood and Allied Workers Union (CEPPWAWU), regarding operational changes is required for enough to inform about reason of changes, recognises the provision of the Act in this regard. large companies, but there is no particular need planned measures with impact on employees, to communicate to unions in advance. Overall, we aim to communicate any changes to number of affected employees and timing, but our people timeously and transparently. early enough to still enable a proper consultation. Sappi Southern Africa is party to the Bargaining Council for the Wood and Paper Sector as well as forestry within South Africa. In the case of In North America, the notice period in terms of sawmilling and pulp and paper, collective Federal Law is 60 days. Details regarding bargaining is conducted at industry level under operational changes are not specified in collective the auspices of the bargaining council. The bargaining agreements. Constitution specifies when parties should submit issues of bargaining for the particular year and when the negotiations must commence. Forestry conditions of employment are implemented on 01 April every year and are regulated by ministerial sectoral determination. The normal notice period applies. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 64 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach to safety The pulp and paper making process presents The OHSAS 18001 Safety Management System several safety risks including the use of certain underpins the group’s safety strategy. The I see, I say, I listen The Group Head Technology, who reports substances/products, the operation and reporting of ‘near miss’ incidents is an integral directly to the CEO, is responsible for safety We have changed the format of our Global maintenance of machines, exposure to high part of our Incident Reporting Standard. Safety throughout the group. Management is Safety Awareness Day to a safety day safety temperatures and the transport and handling of experts in the group analyse the near miss accountable for safety and will demonstrate week. This has meant that senior managers different kinds of loads. reports in order to establish trends which enable leadership through personal example, but can visit a number of mills and participate in the safety platforms to develop corrective action. we also expect and encourage every the proceedings; thereby confirming their Our investigations focus on root causes rather employee to take responsibility for their own personal commitment to sustainability in In addition, globally, forestry is recognised as a than apportioning blame. Practical support is health and safety and give our employees general and safety in particular. This year’s dangerous occupation – in many countries, the supplied in the form of workshops, training the necessary skills, tools and training to theme “I see, I say, I listen” emphasised most dangerous occupation. In the USA, for sessions, a safety bulletin and monthly sharing of do so. that a safe working environment is only example, according to the Bureau of Labor good practices and of learning from mistakes. possible when everyone at all levels of the Statistics’ Census of Fatal Occupation Injuries organisation is committed to safety and there were 111 deaths for every 100,000 loggers builds on the previous themes of “You are in 2014(1). Our culture and goal of zero incidents and the key that unlocks safety” and “Walk the accidents is underpinned by our team oriented, talk.” behaviour-based safety (BBS) approach. To Against the backdrop of the safety risks inherent achieve this, safety risk managers meet on a in our industry, our safety drive – Project Zero – quarterly basis in a regional safety platform. The safety theme for FY2017 is “Life strives to establish a culture of zero incidents Common problems and solutions, as well as matters” with the intention of driving home based on a healthy workforce working under lessons learnt from inside and outside the group, the importance of preserving the lives of our safe conditions, with the necessary skills and are discussed and assimilated. The key employees and stakeholders in all areas of comprehensive training. This is reinforced by the components of the regional platforms are the the operation. belief that all injuries and industrial illnesses can analysis of trends and the development of be prevented, underpinned by focusing on corrective action. leading indicators, people’s behaviours and determining the root causes of incidents. (1) http://time.com/4326676/dangerous-jobs-america/ EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 65 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach to safety continued Our Project Zero approach sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 66 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach to safety continued Our overall safety performance in 2016 Group fatalities Tragically, there was one own employee and All regions recognise that we will not improve our There was one own employee fatality and three three contractor fatal injuries during the year in safety record by treating safety in the same way contractor employee fatalities as follows: Southern Africa. The severity of these accidents we have done so in the past and consequently, ••A Sappi engineering supervisor from Lomati was reflected in the increased Injury Index (II)(1) in 2017, are introducing new safety initiatives in Sawmill suffered fatal head injuries when a for own employees and contractors. There was 2017 in order to significantly improve safety fence pole that was being removed swung out no significant improvement in the own employee statistics going forward. of control and hit him against the head Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)(2) of all ••A tractor driver was fatally injured on Braemar regions during FY2016, although there was an plantation when the tractor that he was Sappi Limited improvement in contractor LTIFR. The group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2012 to 2016 operating overturned LTIFR for own employees and contractors stood ••A chokerman was fatally hit on the forehead at 0.46 (2015: 0.48). Regrettably, this meant that LTIFR LTISR with a log while extracting timber with an 60 we did not achieve our global safety goal of zero 0.8 0.79 excavator yarder on Twello plantation, and LTIFR with a minimum 10% improvement year 0.7 0.68 0.71 50 ••A truck driver was fatally injured when the 0.6 on year. In support of Sappi’s 2020Vision, and 0.56 0.59 40 dump truck that he was operating as part of 0.5 our global safety goal, all regions have set 0.4 0.47 30 road building operations overturned on Sutton 0.41 specific safety targets to be achieved by 2020 0.3 0.35 0.38 0.36 20 plantation. and each region has compiled specific action 0.2 10 plans to achieve these targets. 0.1 0 0 Group fatalities from 2012 to 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Own LTIFR ■ Control LTIFR Own ll Control ll 5 4 4 4 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Own ■ Contractors (1) The injury index is a product of the LTIFR and the Lost Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) and provides an overall sense of safety within the measured unit, ie LTIFR LTISR. (2) The LTIFR is calculated by dividing the product of lost time injuries and a group-wide standard for man hours by the unit’s man hours, ie LTIFR = Lost Time Injuries LTI 200,000/unit’s actual man hours. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 67 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Safety performance in Europe Significant accomplishments Focus going forward ••Stockstadt Mill reached one million man hours SEU’s objective is to be the safest pulp and Sappi Europe Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2012 to 2016 LTIFR without an LTI on 27 June 2016. paper company in Europe. The strategic ••Maastricht Mill achieved an LTIFR of 0.33 and objectives in support of this goal are: 450 is well on its way to achieving zero accidents. ••Improving LTIFR by 10% per year with an 6 400 ••SEU Central Services has not had an LTI for ultimate goal of achieving 0.52 in 2020 5 4.9 350 more than three years. ••Making the safety of personnel the first priority 4 300 in all operations, and 3.89 250 3 3.58 3.42 3.19 ••Ensuring that no employee will suffer permanent 200 2 150 loss of the use of a body part or a fatal injury. 100 1 1.27 0.98 1.01 50 0.76 0.65 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Own LTIFR ■ Control LTIFR Own ll Control ll Sappi Europe (SEU) completed FY2016 with an LTIFR for own employees of 0.65. This is a significant step in the direction of achieving the SEU 2020 LTIFR target of 0.52. The number of LTIs for own employees decreased from 34 in F2015 to 28 in F2016. Contractor incidents decreased slightly from 20 in FY2015 to 18 in FY2016, but due to fewer working hours, LTIFR increased from 3.19 to 3.89 in FY2016. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 68 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Safety performance in North America Significant accomplishments Focus going forward ••Allentown Sheeting Facility experienced one We will achieve our overall objective of zero Sappi North America Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2012 to 2016 LTIFR SNA continues to benchmark in the upper lost time recordable injury on 27 July 2016 fatalities or life-changing incidents and an LTIFR 25% compared to the North American ending a four-year period or 1,579 days without of less than 0.5 by: paper industry. a lost time incident. ••Driving participation and prevention activity 120 3.5 ••Cloquet Mill completed FY2016 with one lost through gain sharing 3.0 100 3.17 2.5 time incident and an LTIFR of 0.13, the best in ••Improving training and skills of the incoming 2.0 80 SNA completed FY2016 with an OIR(1) of 1.42 the mill’s history. workforce 1.5 60 which is higher than the FY2015 historically best ••The maintenance department at Somerset Mill ••Coaching and mentoring of front line leaders 1.0 1.61 40 achievement of 1.01. There were 35 recordable experienced two incidents, equalling its best through the safety contact programme 0.5 incidents during FY2016 (FY2015: 25) and there performance. The paper mill maintenance ••Implementing hazard reduction techniques 0.77 20 0.72 0.69 0 0.43 0.56 0 0.48 0 were no contractor LTIs. team had zero recordable injuries. through the SafeStart programme to increase 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 ••Westbrook Mill experienced three lost time ownership and develop skills, and incidents, one less than FY2015. ••Implementing muscular skeletal disorder and ■ Own LTIFR ■ Control LTIFR SNA’s severity rate has declined and stabilised, ergonomics hazard reduction programmes. Own ll Control ll with the second-best year rate of 17.5 in F2014, followed by the best year rate of 16.8 in FY2016 Note: 2015 numbers have been restated. (FY2015: 19.62). In FY2016, SNA experienced 414 lost workdays (FY2015: 486 lost days). Sappi North America (SNA) completed FY2016 with an LTIFR for own employees of 0.69 Safety improvement actions taken throughout compared with 0.48 in FY2015 – above the the year included engagement with the labour FY2016 target of 0.6. A total of 17 lost time/ unions, a refocus on ergonomic risk reduction, restricted incidents occurred during FY2016 driving participation through actions and front compared to 12 in FY2015. line leaders refocused on performing daily safety contacts. (1) The OIR Incidence Rate is applicable only to North America and is arrived at by taking the number of recordable incidents 200,000/man hours. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 69 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Safety performance in Southern Africa Significant accomplishments ••Saiccor Mill achieved one million man hours The programme will involve all employees in manufacturing and forestry from the CEO down, to line Sappi Southern Africa Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 2012 to 2016 LTIFR without an own LTI with a total of 1.66 million management, supervisors, unions and health and safety representatives. The programme, which will man hours between LTIs and also achieved be facilitated by an industrial psychologist, will address issues like fatigue, communication, risk 60 one million man hours without a contractor tolerance and at risk behaviour. Contractors will be involved in all safety decisions and the Sappi 0.7 LTI 2016 with a total of 1.85 million man hours Forests division will also focus on forestry contractor supervisor training and a chainsaw operator 0.6 0.65 50 0.6 0.58 between LTIs. evaluation, gap analysis and retraining programme. 0.5 0.5 40 ••There were no contractor injuries at Stanger Mill. 0.4 0.46 0.37 30 ••Ten out of 16 operating units achieved zero Posters in Sappi Forests safety campaign 0.3 0.3 0.28 20 own LTIs for 12 months or more, and eight 0.26 0.2 0.24 units achieved zero contractor LTIs for 0.1 10 12 months or more. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ■ Own LTIFR Own ll ■ Control LTIFR Control ll Focus going forward Our objectives for FY2017 are to achieve: LTIFR for own employees for FY2016 increased ••Zero fatal accidents to 0.50 and for contractors declined to 0.26, ••An LTIFR of better than 0.46 for own employees both against a target of 0.45. The own employee and contractors, and and contractor employee fatalities described on ••An LTISR of less than 25 for all categories of page 67 resulted in the high severity rates for employees. both own employees and contractors. To achieve these objectives the focus will remain The unacceptable trend in the number of fatalities on maintaining OSHAS 18001 certification and in 2015 and 2016 is receiving intense focus by improving the Behaviour Based Safety system the Sappi management team with a number of by critically reviewing the current status and new initiatives under way. eliminating shortfalls. In FY2016, Sappi Forests commissioned During 2017 the region will be embarking on a consultants from Finland and New Zealand to Twice as safe programme to reduce the number spend two weeks each in the forestry operations of accidents by half by 2020. to evaluate practices and make recommendations for improvement. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 70 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Promoting wellbeing, health and safety Southern Africa Europe Proactively seeking to keep our employees The complexity of the Southern African workforce ••Employee wellbeing – these programmes Employee wellbeing programmes are healthy enhances productivity, reduces stress and employment legislation has resulted in a focus on educating, empowering and providing decentralised and each mill, together with the and enables creativity and innovation. Promoting more structured employee wellbeing function. employees with the skills to take ownership of mill lead teams, decides on their priorities for the wellbeing also has a direct impact on the We categorise our health and wellbeing their wellbeing. The programmes include year. Programmes vary across the mills and bottom line. programmes based on occupational health, support against obesity, substance abuse include preventative medical healthcare checkprimary healthcare and employee wellbeing. (alcohol and drugs), basic counselling for ups, flu vaccinations and immunisations as well referrals to external providers, financial as support of employee sports and social Health and safety committees are in place at all wellness, trauma counselling, work stress activities, among other things. our operations. Through these committees, our ••Occupational health – our practice is issues and other health issues and relationship people are consulted about the development/ governed through standards and best issues. review of policies and procedures and changes operating practices aimed at preventing harm North America that affect workplace safety or health. to employees at work. The major risks we are Representation in each region is as follows: challenged with due to our work environment HIV/AIDS mortality rate (National mortality % We encourage all salaried and hourly employees ••In Europe, formal health and safety committees are noise, vapours, fumes and ergonomic rate: 2%) (and their spouses) who participate in one of are in place at different levels of the business in risks. To mitigate the noise risk, we conduct 0.8 Sappi’s medical plans to complete a Health line with statutory requirements. 100% of all repeated hearing loss measurements and have 0.6 0.69 Risk Assessment (HRA) questionnaire. We Sappi Europe employees are represented by focused on reducing or eliminating noise levels 0.61 0.51 continue to have wellness events, such as the safety committees in the work environment. 0.4 0.40 healthy cooking demonstrations and Wellness ••In North America, all unions have the ••Primary healthcare – we continue to focus on 0.2 0.27 Webinars, at our sites. opportunity to participate in joint management HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis as primary 0.0 worker safety committees healthcare issues. At some of our mills we have 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ••In Southern Africa (including Sappi Limited), partnered with the provincial health services to In 2016, Sappi North America once again health and safety representatives are elected provide chronic medication and HIV/AIDS supported the silent auction for World AIDS from non-supervisory staff. In line with retroviral drugs to the clinics at our mills. As day in support of the AIDS Action Committee legislation, there is one representative for every indicated by the graph alongside, the mortality of Massachusetts by participating in the 50 workers, and rate from HIV/AIDS within Sappi Southern annual auction. All proceeds from the event ••Sappi Trading does not have formal joint Africa has been reducing steadily over time. benefit the cause. management-worker health and safety committees due to the small size of the offices, https://aidsauction.na.sappi.com/ but there are appointed safety officers. EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 71 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Helping others to help themselves Supporting BEE entrepreneurs The bulk of our corporate social responsibility We have teamed up with a development agency, (CSR) investment takes places in Southern African Honey Bee (AHB) to provide training in Africa, given that we are headquartered here and the harvesting and collecting of honey by in view of the country’s developmental needs. sponsoring bee farming training of community We are now measuring our investment more members and participants in Khulisa Umnotho inclusively in terms of spend. Our CSR spend (Project Grow) in KwaZulu-Natal. of US$4 million in 2016 reflects once-off spend by Sappi Forests on capex items for community villages including water reticulation Our support of the AHB project aligns with our and building renovation. increasing focus on the asset-based community development (ABCD) approach. As with the Abashintshi programme described on page 75, The projects we support are increasingly focused this involves a focus on appreciating and on building capacity by empowering communities mobilising individual and community talents, and individuals to help themselves and take skills and assets, rather than focusing on responsibility for their own prosperity. problems and hand-outs. It deals with the ‘glass half full’ rather than the ‘glass half empty’ mindset and helps to guide communities in realising their own worth and the unique assets they have available. The week-long bee farming training takes place at monthly intervals and has been designed to address the needs of rural people with few resources. The training comprises six modules as set out in the organogram alongside, beginning with the basics of beekeeping and taking the potential honey farmers to the point where they are producing and marketing their own honey. The only stipulation is commitment, as only those participants who complete the required tasks can continue to the next level of training. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 72 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Helping others to help themselves continued As honey production is seasonal, the training Finally, it has helped to reduce the number of also teaches participants the basics of vegetable wildfires started by honey hunters. According to and poultry production so that they can generate the Zululand Fire Protection Association, in 2015, income throughout the year. wildfires started by honey hunters accounted for 40% of all wildfires in KwaZulu-Natal. Although most of these fires were small and caused limited Trainees are taught to make their own beekeeping damage, they use up valuable fire-fighting personal protective equipment and smokers. resources and have the potential to escalate out They also receive beehive kits which they of control. assemble themselves into functional beehives. In South Africa, all imported honey is irradiated The services bees provide in pollinating by law and there is significant demand for pure, South Africa’s food crops are estimated at local non-irradiated honey. AHB has secured a ZAR10.3 billion annually(1). According to the guaranteed offtake agreement with a leading South African National Biodiversity Institute, pharmaceutical distributor under the ‘Eat Naked honey bees are highly dependent on all Honey’ brand. All honey procured from the AHB eucalyptus trees(2) like those that grow on beekeepers is gravity extracted and distributed Sappi plantations. Because eucalyptus and marketed through the Eat Naked brand. trees flower at various times of the year, they provide a constant, reliable flow of nectar and pollen, making them essential to In addition to the income generation and skills the beekeeping industry. aspects of this project, there are other significant advantages: Firstly, beekeeping as a form of agriculture has an overwhelmingly positive impact on the natural environment including pollination and improved yields of many food crops. Secondly, it ensures local participation in conservation by allowing people to derive economic benefit from indigenous flora. (1) http://www.iol.co.za/scitech/science/environment/lets-talk-about-bees-and-gum-trees-1820785 EU (2) NAGums SA and Bees: A roadmap for landowners in South Africa, available on www.sanbi.org EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 73 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Helping others to help themselves continued PROTEC: Continuing to exceed national pass rates Early childhood development (ECD) Empowering communities and individuals PROTEC delivers science, mathematics, We continued to offer US$680 for each distinction There is a proven causal link between early technology, world-of-work and English theoretical in maths and science. In 2015, in total 50 childhood development and success and and practical education to Grade 10 to 12 distinctions were earned in mathematics and wellbeing later in life. 2016 was the third year of learners from disadvantaged communities. The science by matric pupils from the Sappiour ECD project in KwaZulu-Natal, which covers programmes are run in parallel to formal schooling supported PROTEC branches at Mandeni, 25 sites through the Training and Resources and are delivered at Saturday and vacation Stanger, Umkomaas, Pietermaritzburg and in Early Education (TREE) organisation, with school classes by qualified and experienced Nelspruit. the project expanding to include an additional PROTEC tutors. The programme consistently 18 sites as from the end of 2016. In Mpumalanga The Abanakekeli delivers matric and bachelor pass rates that Province, the development of an ECD Centre of In our 2015 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability exceed the national statistics year-on-year. Excellence at the Sappi Elandshoek community Report, we disclosed our plans to roll out a through Penreach is delivering strong results. We community-based alien invasive programme at have also extended the ECD programme in our KwaZulu-Natal mills aligned with the Gauteng, with 50 practitioners in 50 ECD centres programme at our Ngodwana Mill. The per year undergoing training through Jabulani PROTEC results compared with national pass rates at matriculation and bachelor degree level over three years % programme has been developed with and is Training and Development. facilitated by WESSA (the Wildlife and 99 100 100 90 97 Environmental Society of Southern Africa). Work 78 76 76 75 80 70 71 71 has commenced through community teams at 60 50 Sappi Stanger Mill and will begin in 2017 at 40 31 28 30 20 25 Saiccor and Tugela Mills with an anticipated 10 0 20 Abanakekeli (‘caregivers’) per mill. The Pass rate Bachelor Pass rate Bachelor Pass rate Bachelor 2013 2014 2015 programme not only has environmental benefits, but also provides training and employment, with the ultimate goal of establishing viable ■ PROTEC ■ National businesses. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 74 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Helping others to help themselves continued The Abashintshi ••Work with each community in terms of the Over the last two years, these 36 change agents The Pepper Bark Tree Project Our youth development project called Abashintshi asset-based community development (ABCD) have reached more than 18,500 people in Warburgia salutaris (Pepper Bark tree) was once (‘the Changers’ in Zulu), implemented in concept. ABCD focuses on appreciating and their respective communities. Overall, almost widespread in Southern Africa and has long conjunction with a development communication mobilising individual and community talents, 330 people have been taught some basic been one of the most sought after commodities agency has had a dramatic impact and changed skills and assets and most importantly – it is a business skills which has resulted in more than in the Southern African traditional healthcare a number of lives for the better. The purpose of community-driven process rather than a 120 micro-enterprises either starting up, or sector where 27 million people rely on traditional the Abashintshi programme was to create a programme driven by external parties or being rejuvenated. The Abashintshi have also medicine. The Warburgia Salutaris Project channel for Sappi to communicate directly with agencies. The aim is to get each community to mobilised communities to become involved in supports the efforts of the Kruger National Park the communities close to its operations and, identify its own assets and to mobilise internally fire prevention with significant results – the to protect South Africa’s most endangered tree through this interaction, build relationships, ••Ifa Lethu – a legacy project whereby the elderly average number of fires in 2016 is the lowest by re-introducing the tree into communities. The improve Sappi’s reputation and reduce risk in the community will document their heritage in six years. The programme is being expanded focus is on growing and supplying to traditional factors such as fires. and the lessons learned will be transferred to to Sappi’s other forestry areas and to Sappi’s healers and communities to reduce the the youth in the life skills project, and mill communities during 2017. commercial poaching value of the plant. ••Establish school holiday programmes. The project involves using young people from the rural communities living in and around our Our intervention has enabled seedlings to be operations in southern KwaZulu-Natal to mobilise grown on a large scale. To date 3,000 trees have their communities and take charge of their own been distributed to communities in Mpumalanga futures instead of waiting for work or development and Swaziland. Twelve thousand seedlings are to arrive from outside, in line with the assetbeing prepared for distribution in 2017. An annual based community development (ABCD) model. target of 15,000 has been set. To re-introduce The programme began with 18 young volunteer the tree in KwaZulu-Natal, the Sappi Shaw men and women in 2015 and has now been Research Centre has developed seed beds with expanded to include 36 people. 1,500 trees established within the first year. These will be distributed to our Khulisa Umnotho communities. Key to the programme is the engagement with youth, as we had previously engaged primarily with traditional leaders and councillors. Key projects include: ••A youth life skills project (various modules dealing with decision-making and choices, among others) sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 75 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Supporting school integration in Germany As part of an initiative to raise funds for a school In addition to raising funds through the sale of integration project in Aachen, Germany, Sappi the book, the students who have been involved Europe donated the high-quality coated paper in the project have gained invaluable experience necessary to produce a colourful cookery book learning a variety of skills necessary to produce a entitled ‘Meat & Greet’. The ‘Juniorenkreis der cookery book, from compiling recipes and IHK’ and a group of refugees from the setting up photo shoots, to choosing the right Internationale Förderklasse an der paper and working with printers. Gemeinschaftshauptschule Aretzstraße worked together to compile recipes from the refugees’ home countries which reflect their culture and food traditions. With further support from an advertising agency and a printer who are providing their services for free, the students cooked their dishes and had them photographed for the book. All the revenue from the sales of the cookbook will go to ‘Youth power without violence e V’ which is the association that supports the school’s integration work. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 76 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Fighting food waste Sappi became a member of the Save Food initiative, signalling a firm commitment to better protection of all foodstuffs the world over. Save Food is a joint initiative of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Messe Düsseldorf and interpack, the world’s leading trade fair for processes and packaging. Through projects, trade fairs and conferences, the initiative aims to increase awareness among decision makers from the worlds of politics, business and industry of the critical need to fight food waste. The initiative was set up in response to the shocking fact that one-third of all food is wasted or lost in transit to the end customer. The amount wasted or lost would meet the world’s demand for food. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 77 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Making ideas matter Since 1999, as an integral part of Sappi’s The programme is open to North American This year’s eight winning projects highlight how The winning projects were chosen for the corporate social responsibility platform, the Ideas designers who have partnered with a non-profit designers can use the power of paper and print effective way they address pressing social issues that Matter grant programme has funded over organisation and developed a communication for social impact. including rural healthcare and pharmaceutical 500 non-profit projects and has contributed campaign that is ready for implementation. misuse, literacy, childhood development and the more than US$13 million to a wide range of importance of play, education and leadership in causes that use design as a positive force in war-challenged international communities, girls society. and youth development and traumatic health issues for children and their families. In FY2017, we will be launching an Employee Ideas that Matter programme. Design Museum Foundation was a grant recipient for the Extraordinary Playscapes campaign. Coaniquem BCF, the Burned Children Foundation, was a worthy grant recipient. A storybook, patient Playground passports, outdoor kiosks, a website, and a catalogue are being created to amplify the passport and environmental graphic system to guide children and their families through burn treatment reach of a national travelling exhibition on the design and importance of imaginative outdoor play. plans in Latin America. For further details go to: https://www.sappi.com/ideas-that-matter EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 78 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Planet Our business relies on natural capital, particularly on woodfibre, land and water. Accordingly, we focus closely on responsible management of these resources. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 79 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Planet 2016 – at a glance Our business relies on natural capital, particularly on woodfibre, land and water. Accordingly, we focus closely on responsible management of these resources. Our woodfibre resources Soil High levels of forest certification With long rotation We make use of independently verified, internationally accepted forest accreditation systems including the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification™ times of Europe 8-18 years and little or (PEFC™,) the Forest Stewardship Council®) (FSC®) and the Sustainable Forestry “ Initiative (SFI). Forest certification combines auditing forest management practices no mechanical with tracing the origin of forest products. The certification process begins in the As stakeholders in No owned plantations or land. Woodfibre sourced from forests close to each forest or plantation and continues through the entire Chain-of-Custody (CoC); mill. Softwood and hardwood pulp is sourced from Europe and the Americas. cultivation, the structure managed forests, we thereby giving consumers the assurance that forest products with these certifications of soils in our plantations Tree species used: have been produced in accordance with sound environmental and social practices have a responsibility to ensure is maintained or and standards. Spruce (used for mechanical pulp and softwood chemical pulp) and beech (used for the sustainability of the world’s hardwood pulp). Lanaken Mill can also process significant amounts of poplar. improved, while topsoil ” nutrients are increased. forest resources through our 100% of our owned and leased plantations are FSC-certified. procurement practices. In KwaZulu-Natal, we are North America now mulching – rather Group Wood Globally, 73% of fibre supplied to our mills is certified. than burning – slash, Procurement Policy No owned forest plantations or land. Wood sourced from landowners and thereby enhancing commercial loggers. Woodfibre is procured from temperate forests in Maine, the retention of soil And the rest? New Hampshire, Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin and from the Canadian Less Less waste provinces of New Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. moisture and nutrients. FSC-controlled wood and PEFC Due Diligence Systems (DDS) solid to landfill requirements are incorporated into our purchasing specifications and Tree species used: waste 14.3% Maple, poplar, aspen, beech and birch (hardwoods) and spruce, pine and fir (softwoods). Hardwood contracts. (Contracted supply) Environmental and forestry-related information (including wood sources) 10.6% is obtained from every pulp supplier on a regular basis and this data is then evaluated by a team of experts. Southern Africa 91% We generated 14.2% Sappi owns or leases 388,000 hectares with approximately 28.5 million 56% less solid waste than tons of standing timber. Contracted supply covers a further 103,000ha. Tree species used: we did five years ago 44% Of the 234,000ha planted at the end of FY2016, 56% was hardwood and 44% softwood and of contracted supply, 91% is hardwood. and we sent 6.6% less Softwood Hardwood 234,000ha planted SUN GEOTHERMAL WIND WATER BIOMASS waste to landfill. Globally, over five years we… ■ Hardwood ■ Softwood Reduced carbon footprint: ■ Contracted supply hardwood Over half – 52.9% of the power we generate is We discharge from renewable resources. have increased have reduced have reduced 36.5% energy selfScope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions FEWER total We are doing more with less and aim for continual sufficiency by 10.5% by 4.7%. by 20.5%. improvement. suspended and our generation solids in of renewable effluent than energy by 5.1%. We have reduced absolute emissions intensity we did five (Scope 1 and 2) by 8.8% globally over five years. years ago. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 80 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Our management approach to natural capital The WWF® 2016 Living Planet Report points out To realise these commitments, we have a far••Having environmental targets in place in each that increased human pressure – such as reaching environmental management system region. Targets are reported on each quarter to conversion of natural habitat to agriculture, overwhich includes: the management teams in each region, on a exploitation of fisheries, pollution of freshwater ••Following a lifecycle approach to environmental regular basis to the Global Sustainable by industries, urbanisation and unsustainable management which includes minimising the Development Council and to the Social, Ethics, farming and fishing practices – is diminishing environmental impact of our operations in Transformation and Sustainability Committee natural capital at a faster rate than it can be terms of raw materials and energy sources, as biannually, and replenished. It also states that the consequences well as developing new production methods ••Using ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 are expected to grow over time, increasing food and products and finding innovative new ways and in Europe: EMAS (Eco Management and and water insecurity, raising prices for many of beneficiating waste Audit System) and ISO 50001. To view these commodities and increasing competition for land ••Identifying opportunities to save water and certifications, please go to the certifications and water. energy arise at every step in the production FAQ on our website. processes. This process begins in our The WWF® 2016 Against this backdrop and recognising that plantations, where we apply best practice Paper comes from nature and it returns to EU NA SA management techniques to produce woodfibre Living Planet Report healthy ecosystems are vital to our survival, wellbeing and prosperity, conducting our with properties that allow pulping using less nature. Not only is it strong, versatile, beautiful, reusable and recyclable, it is also points out that business in an environmentally sustainable manner is an obligation. This obligation is integral energy and water ••Ongoing investment in research and fully biodegradable. In sea water conditions, paper biodegrades fully within four months, increased human to our licence to operate on an individual, development ••Maintaining systems which monitor returning to nature without leaving any toxic residue. pressure is community, country and global level. It also environmental performance and legal makes sound business sense, given that we compliance at each mill, including energy diminishing natural depend on natural resources such as water and woodfibre for our ongoing viability as a business dashboards, integrated water and waste management plans, air emissions, and effluent capital at a faster and it is in our interest to use these resources as responsibly as possible. ••Taking appropriate, pre-emptive action to improve or mitigate identified environmental rate than it can be risks ••Ensuring that we keep up with environmental replenished. We acknowledge that we do have an environmental footprint; however, we carefully best practice through a number of internal manage and mitigate the environmental, climate environmental ‘clusters’ comprising experts in and biodiversity impacts of our operations. various fields We achieve this by working towards the Planet commitments embodied in our Group Sustainability Charter. EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 81 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Sourcing sustainably managed fibre Regional certification Responsible manufacturing begins with Certification is applicable to fibre and In North America, Europe and Southern Africa, responsible procurement. Healthy, abundant Performance against our global manufacturing sites. There are two types of the percentage of certified fibre is, respectively: forests and plantations are critical to the longcertification goal certification: The first is forest certification which 55%, 75.2% and 82%. Sappi’s plantations in term viability of each of our core businesses In terms of certified fibre, our 2020 global assures that forests and plantations producing Southern Africa are 100% FSC-certified. In North because wood supplies the bulk of renewable goal is to maintain or improve the percentage wood products are managed according to a set America, 100% of wood and pulp is purchased energy that drives our mills and cellulose fibres of certified fibre supplied to our mills at our of criteria aimed at responsible management and in accordance with both the FSC Controlled comprise the primary ingredient in our paper and 2014 base of 79%. We did not achieve this that social aspects such as indigenous rights Wood standard and the SFI Certified Sourcing pulp products. in 2016, with the percentage at 73%. In have been taken into consideration. The second standard. These standards are a critical element Southern Africa, this was the result of is Chain of Custody (CoC) certification which of Sappi’s due diligence for the Lacey Act using less of our own woodfibre because of tracks and assures process wood products compliance. In North America, Sappi includes Our procurement policies cover a wide variety of originate from certified forests and plantations. the drought and having to buy timber in. In fibre sourced from Certified Logging Professional issues, including the management of plantation North America, the decline was driven and the Maine Master Logger programmes. forests and harvesting. primarily by a change in production strategy Cloquet, Westbrook and Somerset Mills are CoC tracks the origin of a raw material at each FSC, SFI and PEFC-certified. In Europe, all mills at Cloquet Mill which involved a change stage of the production process, from beginning are FSC and PEFC-certified. In Southern Africa, We are certified by internationally recognised, from buying 100% certified market pulp to to end. For forest-based industries like ours, 100% of Sappi’s owned and managed plantations independently verified certification systems making our own pulp as we were limited to certifying the CoC means verifying that the wood, are FSC-CoC-certified, while Ngodwana, including the Forest Stewardship Council® the amount of certified fibre available in the used at each stage of the production process, Saiccor, Stanger and Tugela Mills and Lomati (FSC®), the Programme for the Endorsement of local wood basket. In Europe, there is push originated from a forest or plantation certified as Sawmill are FSC-CoC-certified. Forest Certification (PEFCTM) and the Sustainable back against certification by sawmills, who being sustainably managed. Forestry Initiative (SFI®) for woodfibre. are finding certification requirements increasingly onerous. CoC is only valid if each link in the chain is checked. Once a link in the chain is broken, material loses its certified status. To ensure an Forest management certificate Chain of Custody (CoC) certification by independent third parties unbroken chain, each time the timber is processed the processor must be certified to Own forests and plantations verify that they have a system of tracking the Third party and outgrowers Harvesting Pulp and paper production Converters Consumers timber material through the process. For the forests and fibre plantations paper industry, the value of certification lies in being able to label the final product as originating Fibre procurement certificate from a sustainably managed forest, providing Chain of Custody (CoC) certification added value for the customer or retailer. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 82 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Sourcing sustainably managed fibre continued Collaborating with industry players ••Individual and family-owned land accounts for Consequently, through a partnership with the ••CEPI, of which Sappi Europe is a member, more than one-third of all land across the American Forest Foundation and the participates in actions supporting and We have taken the decision to understand United States of America. These lands are Sustainable Packaging Coalition, stakeholders promoting the development of sustainable the challenges and risks of genetically owned by more than 22 million individual across the supply chain have come together to forestry management tools – including forest modified (GM) tree crops as our competitors owners and the US Forest Service estimates understand challenges and identify new certification – all over the world, particularly in in the woodfibre space have started utilising that more than half of the wood harvested for methods to evaluate sustainable forest less developed countries this technology. While we see potential the wood products industry originates in familymanagement on family-owned land. ••In Southern Africa, Sappi has established a environmental, social and reputational risks owned forests. While these landowners may Development of a new data driven assurance group certification scheme for small and with GM crops, we also see them as a have management plans in place, in most model will demonstrate how the practices and medium growers. There are currently over potential method to adapt our plantations to cases there is no formal CoC certification to actions of landowners on individual parcels of 40 members in the scheme with plantations a potentially rapidly changing climate and offer brand owners the supply chain assurances land aggregate into a healthy forested ranging from a few hundred hectares to as a renewable source of chemicals, energy they seek. landscape or regional ecosystem. The model 4,391 hectares in size. FSC certification is not and fibre. To date, however, our forestry could also be used to identify potential yet available to micro growers. Sappi is operations are GM tree free. landscape-wide gaps and opportunities to currently working with other industry players to Working with conservation agencies enhance forest sustainability, and find practical overcome this. To find out more, click here . ways for the supply chain to address them at a Currently timber from micro growers is Clairmont Mountain Nature Reserve near EU NA SA In North America, our US$25 million meaningful scale. This project is chaired by recognised as ‘controlled wood’ and can thus Bulwer in the foothills of the Drakensberg investment in a new woodyard at Somerset Sappi North America’s Director of Sustainability. be used to produce FSC products labelled as mountains is one of the sites we have Mill is enhancing the sustainability of our ‘Mixed Sources’. identified as an area of high ecological value. fibre base. Click here for details. The 1,000ha reserve is significant from a EU NA SA conservation point of view primarily because it connects two existing nature reserves. It also includes some large and relatively pristine portions of grassland that are important in terms of habitat connectivity. The Clairmont Nature Reserve project is a partnership between Sappi and Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 83 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Sourcing sustainably managed fibre continued Case study Promoting sustainable forest management: working collaboratively to solve the problem Our forestry research team is participating in a project to monitor the extent and degree of damage of gall wasp in our plantations associated with L invasa, and level of success of the bio-control agent across the summer rainfall plantation area, using an industry monitoring network operated by forestry companies and Forest tree species are subject to attack by various pests, for example the Eucalyptus gall wasp, supported by specialist technical expertise from the Forestry and Agricultural Biotechnology Leptocybe invasa (L invasa). Institute (FABI) and the Institute for Commercial Forestry Research (ICFR). The main outcome Selitrichodes neseri (S neseri), a parasitic wasp of L invasa was first discovered in April 2010. expected from this project is the effective bio-control of L invasa. In order to achieve this, four Studies have shown that S neseri is a suitable biological control agent due to its short developmental outcomes are planned: time, long adult life span, ability to utilise a range of gall ages and a high level of host specificity. • A map to show the spatial and temporal trends in L invasa activity • Estimates of the parasitism levels of L invasa by S neseri (bio-control agent) • Estimates of economic impact on industry associated with L invasa, and • Prioritised and targeted release of the bio-control agent S neseri as needed. A pilot survey has been conducted in May 2016 to test the sampling protocol. A slightly revised sampling protocol will be used for the first national L invasa survey to be conducted during November 2016. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 84 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Sourcing sustainably managed fibre continued Case study Promoting sustainable forest management: mulching of harvest residue In order to quantify this benefit of mulching, Sappi Forests established three research trials in KwaZulu-Natal. In general, the survival and growth of trees where slash was mulched was superior Burning of harvest residue (slash) is a common practice in Southern Africa as it reduces fuel load to where harvest residue was burnt. This may be related to moderation of soil temperature, and fire risk and it facilitates pre-planting, planting and post-planting activities. However, burning conservation of soil moisture, reduction of sand blasting, increased nutrient retention, etc. reduces soil organic matter (SOM) content which is important for improving water holding capacity of the soil and also soil texture, as well as maintaining soil fertility. In addition, SOM regulates soil The studies indicated that the value of the estimated additional timber due to mulching exceeds temperature and serves as a habitat for soil organisms. Previous studies on nutrition of trees the mulching costs, thereby making mulching a financially viable option. In addition, there are also identified that nutrient loss, especially nitrogen (N) loss, is a concern on the sandy soils of KwaZuluindirect benefits along the supply chain. For example, mulching allows mechanisation of silviculture Natal which have low organic matter content. operations as old stumps do not limit machine movement, allowing for easier, cheaper harvesting of the next crop. Mulching also reduces the period a compartment is temporarily unplanted, when A costlier alternative to burning is mechanical mulching of the remaining harvest residue. This conditions for burning are unfavourable. process has a number of benefits, including: • Protection of soil against erosion and compaction To sum up: Mulching is an economically viable alternative to burning as this treatment improves • Conservation of soil moisture soil fertility at planting and throughout the rotation, allowing trees to rapidly capture the site and • Increased percolation and retention of soil water thus increasing overall growth. • Reduced evaporation • Reduction of weed growth, and We are now mulching on our plantations in KwaZulu-Natal. • Moderation of soil temperature – elevated temperatures can result in fine root mortality which increase plant stress. The remaining mulch also plays an important role in plant nutrition as it acts as a slow release fertiliser, releasing nutrients as it decomposes. This is especially important to retain N, which is easily leached from the soil after harvest residue has been burnt. These benefits should translate into increased survival and growth of trees. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 85 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Managing and mitigating climate change Forests and plantations play an important role We share the view that, collectively, greenhouse Climate change is exacerbated by the presence Our industry has played a significant role in gases (GHGs), most notably carbon dioxide of too many greenhouse gases in the atmosphere expanding forests and plantations. In Europe The individual within Sappi with the highest (CO2), and methane (CH4), are responsible for of which CO2 is the most abundant. Through and North America, for example, forests are responsibility for climate change is the climate change and that these are generated photosynthesis, a part of the carbon cycle, trees growing. Europe’s net forest area is currently Group Head Technology who reports primarily by human activities such as the burning and other plants use water and sunlight to increasing at a rate of approximately 1.6 million directly to the group CEO. of fossil fuels, poorly managed landfill and convert CO2 into carbohydrates to provide hectares per annum(1). In the United States, more deforestation. The pace at which climate change energy and building blocks for growth. The trees are grown than harvested. The country is occurring is cause for concern. process releases oxygen as a by-product. The continues to benefit from a large and diverse forest inventory distributed across about oneFor a discussion on how we mitigate climate carbon removed from the atmosphere is third of total land area. Over the last 60 years, the change risk in our plantations, please click effectively stored in plant material and wood. In total net United States forest area has increased here. other words, trees and the use of forest products can act as carbon sinks. by over 3%(2). EU NA SA Forests and plantations play an important role Energy recovery Trees absorb CO2 during photosynthesis and release oxygen Carbon is stored in paper, board and dissolving wood pulp products Pulp and paper mill Sustainably managed forests store carbon (1) Confederation of European Paper Industries. (2) http://www.za.twosides.info/US/Thirty-Leading-NorthAmerican-Companies-Remove-Go-Paperless--Save-TreesEU NA SA Claims sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 86 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing our carbon footprint Our efforts to reduce our own carbon footprint Our aim is to enhance energy self-sufficiency, are evident in the fact that over 50% of our global Note: In terms of water and energy, we improve energy efficiency and decrease our In the USA, the country’s energy profile is energy use is derived from renewable, rather have made certain changes to align more reliance on fossil fuels. We are achieving this by only 10% renewable energy whereas the than fossil fuel sources. This is important, as the closely with the Global Reporting Initiatives making process changes, installing Best pulp and paper industry uses 54.5% and burning of fossil fuels releases ‘new’ CO2 G4 indicators and the guidelines set out by Available Technology (BAT) which is more energy Sappi North America’s use of renewable previously locked up in the earth’s crust in the the National Council for Air and Stream efficient, reducing purchased energy (electricity energy is over 70%. This is a significant form of oil, gas or coal. When renewable energy Improvement (NCASI). Changes have been and fossil fuel) by increasing our use of renewable competitive benefit not just in terms of like biomass is burned, the CO2 released is backdated to 2012 to allow for trend energy – an approach that ultimately results in a costs, but also in terms of customers equivalent to that which was bound from the continuity. reduction in CO2 emissions. choosing papers with a lower environmental atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis footprint(2). – so, no ‘new’ carbon is being introduced. Previously, total energy was defined as Our generation of renewable energy in FY2016 basic purchased energy (mill gate) plus own was 52.9% mostly from black liquor – just over Since 2000, when we instituted a system for fuels. It has now been readjusted to include 75% (2015: 73%), indicated in the pie chart Global renewable energy breakdown % 2016 measuring greenhouse gases (GHGs), based on basic purchased energy plus own fuels alongside. The regional renewable energy profile the premise of measure, monitor, manage and minus energy sold. In addition, the is as follows: Europe: 36.1%, North America: 0.35 0.54 1.17 mitigate one of our key strategic goals has been inefficiency factor for some mills has been 79.5% and Southern Africa: 44.6%. 2.18 11.92 8.67 to reduce our carbon footprint by improving updated. energy-use efficiency and decreasing our reliance on fossil fuels. The reason for the much higher percentages of Cooling water is now included in process renewable energy in our mills in North America water, so that effluent levels have increased. and Southern Africa than in Europe is that in the Over five years, we have reduced total Scope 1 first two regions, a much greater proportion of 75.17 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity our product originates from integrated pulp and by 8.8%. Most Sappi mills generate power onsite from paper mills. These mills typically have a higher fossil or renewable resources for internal degree of energy self-sufficiency than mills with ■ Own black liquor ■ Combusted sludges ■ Own biomass (Mostly bark) ■ Purchased biomass consumption. In some instances (Westbrook Mill different processes or those that only produce ■ Own biogas ■ Renewable energy in purchased power ■ Own generated hydroelectricity (North America), Gratkorn and Maastricht Mills paper, as the black liquor (dissolved organic (Europe) and Ngodwana Mill (Southern Africa)), compounds from wood) created during the excess power can be generated which is sold manufacture of pulp is a biofuel and a primary back into the power grid. This power is used for source of renewable fuel for steam and power district heating in the vicinity of Sappi’s plants production. and for export into the public grid, thereby replacing fossil fuels. In this way, roughly 100,670 metric tons CO2e were avoided during the past five-year cycle(1). (1) The emissions avoidance value was calculated by taking each regional power utility’s emissions factor and comparing it with Sappi’s internal power generation emissions factor. The difference between the two factors indicates that Sappi’s internal power generation is less carbon intensive in certain regions and therefore results in carbon emission avoidance. (2) https://www.eia.gov/forecasts/aeo/data/browser/#/?id=37-AEO2016&cases=ref2016~ref_no_cpp&sourcekey=0 EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 87 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing our carbon footprint continued Energy consumption within organisation GJ/a Percentage energy self-sufficiency % Energy intensity GJ/adt To view our performance against our global STE goal, please click here. 86,700,966 80,344,927 EU NA SA 100,000,000 81,892,578 36.41 80,005,778 80 40 79,096,051 30.94 32.26 32.39 60,688,128 31.45 58,920,176 63.5 30.98 30.98 80,000,000 70 35 29.77 29.94 54,229,945 33.29 54,075,534 60.9 59.6 58,546,654 56.3 58.6 52,530,851 60 57,497,484 30 50,597,408 60,000,000 50,327,837 60,251,962 23.68 22.65 22.84 23.17 50 22.92 42.3 39.8 37.3 37.3 25 25,580,036 38.3 34.9 23,947,873 40 39.1 39.7 32.7 14.86 15.04 40,000,000 31.7 14.82 14.52 23,545,956 10,688,509 27.2 20 26.9 15.00 12,614,253 23,192,318 30 26.7 26.9 24.8 22,887,482 11,811,060 15 20,000,000 8,847,729 20 5,889,622 10 10 0 Purchased Own Power Steam 0 0 Purchased renewable renewable consumpconsumpfossil fuels fuels fuels tion tion Global Europe North America Southern Africa Global Europe North America Southern Africa ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 Globally, energy self-sufficiency showed an Globally, energy intensity was stable. In Europe, increase. In Southern Africa, Ngodwana Mill energy intensity increased slightly due to reduced the amount of power purchased, using Maastricht Mill increasing purchased power and more own produced renewable fuel (bark), at Kirkniemi Mill for the following reasons: the leading to an increase of 2.4% in energy selfmill purchased more power rather than using sufficiency. In Europe, Gratkorn and Kirkniemi the gas turbine based on pricing differentials, Mills solved bottlenecks in the recovery/biomass and the start-up curve of the new boiler. These boilers, resulting to a 2.1% rise in energy selfincreases were offset by Alfeld Mill improving sufficiency. In North America, Cloquet and PM2 efficiency and Lanaken Mill generating Somerset Mills purchased less biomass. At more own power due to higher steam demand. North America is seeing the benefits of recent Cloquet Mill, the purchased biomass was capital and process improvement projects. For reduced due to downtime on pulverised boiler 7. example, the paper machine hood heat recovery There was an increase in natural gas to offset project at Somerset Mill is exceeding some of this reduction in purchased bark, but performance expectations. In addition, Lean Six natural gas use was down overall due to the lime Sigma projects continue to contribute to energy kiln maintenance outage. Somerset Mill reductions. Better control of the causticising increased self-sufficiency due to increased black area at Somerset Mill has led to more stable lime liquor firing. Additional factors include a net kiln operations and a reduction in fuel usage in reduction in purchased energy input as a result the kiln. Our improvements were also in part due of a shift from lower efficiency purchased to the milder winter weather. biomass to higher efficiency natural gas. Energy intensity increased in Southern Africa as Saiccor Mill used more heavy fuel oil and coal because of the poor quality of the latter, as well as recovery boiler tube leaks which meant the turbines generated less power. At Tugela Mill, the production and sale of lignosulphonate has increased our energy intensity due to the accounting treatment of the sales. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 88 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing our carbon footprint continued Planting more trees in Europe Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) t CO2/adt Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) t CO2/adt In February 2016, employees from Sappi Europe’s head office in Brussels continued their tradition of tree planting in the Forêt de Soignes by planting 4,000 saplings. 1.47 1.5 0.7 1.31 0.62 1.28 1.27 0.56 1.17 0.6 0.52 This brings the total number of trees replanted by the group to over 16,000 since the initiative 1.2 0.5 0.48 0.45 started six years ago. 0.9 0.4 0.65 0.60 0.61 0.60 0.62 0.6 0.3 0.23 0.40 0.42 0.21 0.21 0.20 0.40 Sappi’s employee-led tree planting initiative started in Spring 2010 in association with ANB 0.39 0.38 0.28 0.28 0.35 0.33 0.2 0.18 0.11 0.11 0.23 0.10 0.10 (Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos), the equivalent of the Department of Forestry. This organisation 0.3 0.11 0.06 0.07 0.1 0.04 0.04 0.05 is responsible for the planting of approximately 30,000 trees in the Forêt de Soignes every year 0.0 0.0 as part of the National Forest Management Plan (Belgium). Global Europe North America Southern Africa Global Europe North America Southern Africa ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 While this tree planting event is a good tradition and excellent team building, the number is ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 certainly very small compared with the number of trees we plant in our Southern African plantations – 34 million per annum, which is (on average) 65 trees every minute. Globally, Scope 1 (direct) emissions increased Globally, Scope 2 (indirect) emissions decreased. slightly. In Europe, Scope 1 emissions increased In Europe, emissions were stable, while specifically due to higher coal consumption at increasing in North America. In North America, Gratkorn Mill and in the multi-fuel boiler at both Somerset and Cloquet Mills had slight Our greenhouse gas emissions cradle to gate Kirkniemi Mill and Maastricht Mill’s efficiency increases in purchased power to make up for Emitted/captured by Sappi. was negatively impacted by problems with one less onsite generation. In Southern Africa, Not emitted by Sappi. of our steam turbines. Lower operating hours in emissions declined at Ngodwana Mill because N 2O HFC8 SF8 2015 caused lower CO2 emissions (compared of less purchased power and increased power PFC3 CO2 CH2 to 2014 and 2016). Overall in North America, self-sufficiency, together with more stable plant CO2 Scope 1 emissions improved, driven by reduced conditions. Stanger Mill bought less power as CO2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 coal firing at Westbrook Mill and the scheduled the mill experienced water shortages resulting in capture direct indirect purchased kiln outage at Cloquet Mill. In Southern Africa, some downtime in the pulp plant. emissions emissions goods and service increased emissions were the result of poor emissions quality coal and recovery boiler tube leaks at Saiccor Mill which meant the mill had to use more coal and heavy fuel oil. At Tugela Mill, Total GHG emissions intensity t CO2 /adt CO2 is absorbed by the trees, Coal, production of process Purchased steam and Employee business travel, Scope 1 emissions increased because of the capturing carbon in the material, oil, renewable fuels electricity for own use contractor owned vehicles commissioning of the lignosulphonate spray photosynthesis process. and gas and outsourced activities dryer plant which increased fossil fuel demand. 0.90 Most of the carbon remains 0.88 sequestered in our products 0.88 0.86 0.84 0.82 0.82 0.80 0.80 0.80 0.80 Since 2009, Sappi North America has participated in the US Environmental Protection Agency’s 0.78 (EPA) Smartway Transport partnership, an innovative collaboration between the EPA and 0.76 companies that provide freight delivery services. The goal of Smartway partners is to cut 0.74 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 transportation-related carbon dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 89 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing our carbon footprint continued Specific particulate matter Specific NOx air emissions kg/adt Specific SOx air emissions kg/adt kg/adt air emissions 4.5 4.23 7 6.62 3.0 3.87 2.60 4.0 3.58 5.75 5.58 3.57 3.48 6 2.5 3.5 2.01 5 4.39 3.0 2.52 3.97 2.0 2.38 2.39 2.5 2.24 2.14 4 1.49 2.03 2.00 1.34 1.86 1.82 1.5 2.0 1.83 1.14 3 2.14 2.00 1.94 0.81 1.5 1.0 2 1.47 1.53 0.65 0.84 0.80 0.54 0.54 0.79 1.0 0.75 0.47 0.50 0.47 0.47 0.89 0.79 0.82 0.79 0.81 0.40 0.38 0.43 0.53 0.67 0.5 1 0.48 0.47 0.46 0.5 0.03 0.02 0.03 0.05 0.03 0.0 0 0.0 Global Europe North America Southern Africa Global Europe North America Southern Africa Global Europe North America Southern Africa ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 Globally, NOx emissions decreased. (Changes Globally, specific SOx emissions decreased. Globally, particulate emissions declined. In in 2015 for North America and Southern Africa While emissions in Europe are low, they Europe, particulate emissions are generally low resulted in an increase. Not ‘no change’ as increased slightly in 2016 because of increased but moved up slightly due to increased coal previously reported – an explanation is provided coal firing in Gratkorn, Kirkniemi and Stockstadt firing at Gratkorn Mill. Emissions were down in below.) In Europe, emissions increased slightly Mills. In North America, emissions were down North America due in part to favourable stack due to reduced operational time of the gas overall, driven by a reduction in coal usage at testing results for the recovery boilers at turbine and increased coal firing in Gratkorn Mill, Westbrook Mill and the continued trend of low Somerset and Cloquet Mills. Emissions in based on economic considerations. The overall number 6 fuel oil usage at Somerset Mill. In Southern Africa went down due to a focus on trend for North America was down, driven by Southern Africa, emissions decreased at particulate matter emission control at Ngodwana the installation of a low NOx burner at Cloquet Saiccor Mill due to increased focus on managing Mill, together with the commissioning of bag Mill and reduced coal firing at Westbrook Mill. the magnesium oxide boiler number 2 in addition fillers. At Stanger Mill, stack gas flows were The NOx production at Somerset Mill was to lower sulphur content of the coal used in the corrected and backdated to 2012 resulting in stable. There was an increase in reported NOx coal-fired boilers. Emissions also decreased at higher NOx, SOx and particulate emissions than emissions at Cloquet Mill in 2015 because of Ngodwana Mill due to increased plant stability, previously reported. improved monitoring by the Continuous less fossil-fuel used (coal and heavy fuel). At Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS). In Stanger Mill, stack gas flows were corrected addition, the increase in specific NOx is and backdated to 2012 resulting in higher NOx, significantly linked to the change in production SOx and particulate emissions than previously basis. In 2014 Cloquet Mill produced nearly reported. 100% dissolving wood pulp. In 2015 there were less reported saleable tons due to the production of kraft pulp for our paper machines. In Southern Africa, emissions at Ngodwana Mill decreased due to an increase in plant stability and reduced fossil fuel consumption in terms of coal and heavy fuel oil. At Saiccor Mill emissions decreased due to correction in gas flow rates in the coal fired boilers. At Stanger Mill, stack gas flows were corrected and backdated to 2012 resulting in higher NOx, SOx and particulate emissions than previously reported. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 90 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Using and discharging water responsibly Water usage in our plantations We return a significant amount of water extracted As South Africa is a water-stressed country, back into the environment. Due to the nature of water usage is a significant focus. Our plantations Specific water returned to extracted m3/adt Total water withdrawal by source m3/a our processes, it is very difficult to improve on have both positive and negative impacts on the 239,903,922 this metric. However, we can improve on the environment. One of the negative impacts is that 224,534,780 220,890,049 221,286,427 1.00 40 quality of effluent we discharge and we have they generally do use more water than the 0.95 250,000,000 227,826,253 35 been doing so steadily over time. We use grasslands they generally replace. However, on a 33.85 34.81 34.13 33.51 33.91 0.90 200,000,000 32.43 30 31.95 31.72 0.85 temperature controls, oxygen level controls and 31.02 31.10 national scale the amount of water they generally 25 0.80 150,000,000 other metrics to ensure that we comply with all use is relatively small – about 3% of available 20 0.75 100,000,000 relevant environmental regulations. Water resources – but this varies considerably from 0.70 15,819,916 15,532,918 19,158,931 14,852,049 15 15,794,241 14,811,584 13,341,476 12,473,606 0.65 5,474,300 4,635,051 5,452,380 5,091,836 5,547,953 management is included in our operational place to place and during different times of the 10 0.60 50,000,000 12,148,456 426,402 environmental management plans, which are year. To put this into context, irrigated agriculture 5 0.55 0 Municipal Surface water Groundwater Municipal reviewed and updated annually. Over five years, uses approximately 60% of South Africa’s 0 0.50 (industrial (river, dam) (boreholes) (potable) wastewater) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 chemical oxygen demand (COD) in effluent has available water resources. declined by 0.5%, while total suspended solids ■ Process water extracted (m3/adt) ■ Effluent discharged (m3/adt) ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 Ratio of effluent to extracted water ■ 2015 ■ 2016 (TSS) have decreased by 36.5%. Due to perceptions about forestry’s high use of water, serious restrictions on expansion have Globally, water consumption was stable and we continued to return more than 90% of extracted water to About our bleaching processes been placed by government. We believe this is the environment. In Europe, production water was stable, while specific figures decreased slightly for misguided, based on the following: surface and ground water. Some minor measures in water reduction in the region also contributed to the In Europe, all our integrated pulp is totally ••As the only designated streamflow reduction decreased specific annual consumption. In North America, absolute water usage was up in proportion chlorine-free (TCF). Market pulp is either activity, plantation forestry is not irrigated, but to production, while specific water usage was stable. In Southern Africa, less surface water was used. elemental chlorine-free (ECF) or TCF. In pays for the water it uses in what is essentially Ngodwana Mill produced less tons compared to 2015 and also increased plant stability, resulting in less North America, our mills use the ECF water consumed in 2016. At Saiccor Mill, there were stricter controls on water consumption because of a ‘rain’ tax the drought and several water reduction initiatives were implemented and at Stanger Mill there was bleaching process. Our mills in Southern ••Our trees are planted away from riparian zones, ongoing water optimisation because of the drought. The sales of Enstra and Cape Kraft Mill resulted in Africa use ECF or oxygen bleaching thereby decreasing the amount of water used decreased municipal water usage. sequences. ••The quality of water emanating from afforested catchments is generally good and is much better than most other forms of agriculture, Note: Process water extracted and effluent discharged exclude non-contact cooling water. and ••Though difficult to calculate, the value added to the water we use compares very favourably with other forms of land use – especially because forestry uses land that has few other economic options for use. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 91 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Using and discharging water responsibly continued Specific total suspended solids(1) kg/adt Chemical oxygen demand (COD)(1) kg/adt 1.90 13.51 2.0 15 1.75 13.05 13.09 11.98 12 11.10 1.5 1.42 1.30 8.65 8.68 1.08 9 8.19 7.99 7.82 7.91 7.57 7.32 0.97 0.96 7.30 7.20 7.45 1.0 0.86 0.82 6.23 6.12 0.78 0.80 5.82 0.74 0.69 0.68 6 0.61 0.57 4.82 0.55 0.55 0.51 0.49 0.5 3 0.0 0 Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 Globally, TSS declined. TSS figures increased in The increase at global level was mainly driven by Europe due to hydraulic variations because of Europe and North America. In Europe, COD stops/start-ups on the paper machines and the levels reverted to 2014 levels following the reavailability of the final sedimentation tank. The commencement of pulp production at Gratkorn overall trend in North America showed a Mill after the rebuild of the recovery boiler at decrease in TSS due to reductions in loading the mill. In North America, at year-end, we and improved removal efficiency in the treatment discovered a correlation factor between BOD plant at Westbrook Mill, while at Cloquet Mill and COD that may be resulting in underreductions were the result of a Lean Six Sigma reporting the COD for the Cloquet facility. We project to improve clarifier efficiency. In Southern will investigate further in 2017 and will make Africa, the decreased levels were the result of corrections as appropriate. All of the North the sale of Enstra Mill and a focus at Tugela Mill American mills report BOD annually in the Sappi on optimising reject screens from PM2 to reduce North America Sustainability Report. In Southern fibre loss to drains. Africa, levels decreased because of the sale of Enstra Mill. Emissions at Stanger Mill also decreased due to pulp mill shuts and the introduction of calcium nitrate into the effluent treatment process which assisted with the biological processes in the lagoon. Saiccor Mill has been excluded from the TSS and COD calculations as it is the only mill in the group to use the sulfite pulping process in (1) the production of DWP. (Both Ngodwana and Cloquet Mills use the prehydrolysis kraft pulping process to produce dissolving wood pulp.) However, over five years, Saiccor Mill has reduced TSS and COD effluent concentrations by 44.7% and 3.15% respectively and will continuously improve its water quality footprint through further capital investment. Over many years, scientific studies carried out on the marine environment have concluded that the magnitude and spatial extent of the impact is negligible with no immediate or significant ecological concern – CSIR (2008 – 2015). sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 92 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing solid waste and adding value Uses for Sappi’s waste The least desirable method of solid waste Non-solid waste ••In North America, inorganic ‘grit’ removed from Over five years, we have reduced the disposal from an environmental perspective is ••Used oil is dewatered, chemically treated, the chemical recovery process is used for amount of solid waste generated by 14.2% landfill. Organic waste emits methane, a refined and filtered for reuse in various grades roadbed underlayment. and the amount of solid waste sent to landfill greenhouse gas with approximately 25 times the of base oils. ••Bagasse supplied to Stanger Mil in South by 6.6%. global warming potential of CO2. Inorganic waste ••At Alfeld and Ehingen Mills in Europe, coarse Africa is depithed, and the pith given to farmers can leach, resulting in surface and/or groundwater pigments from repulping internal broke are as a soil enhancer. pollution. recovered from paper machine effluent and ••Lignosulphonate (a by-product of the pulping Our focus is on minimising end-of-life waste reprocessed to substitute virgin material. In process) is recovered from spent pulping through waste beneficiation. This not only helps another process, coating colour is also liquors, and sold to customers for use in other As can be seen from the pie chart below, globally products. In Southern Africa, lignosulphonate to mitigate environmental impact, but also, as recovered from effluent and reprocessed. most of Sappi’s solid waste generated is in the is sold to customers for use in a dust with reducing purchased energy usage, it brings These partly Sappi-patented processes help to form of wood waste. In all regions, this is used as suppressant product used in the mining sector, down costs and can generate additional revenue. increase material efficiency. a fuel for onsite energy generation. In Southern while in Southern Africa and Europe, Sending waste to landfill adds costs, while Africa, wood waste is also used for composting valorising waste brings in revenue. lignosulphonate is also sold to the cement and and landfill stabilisation. Solid waste fertiliser industries and for other speciality ••Sludges, bark and wood are combusted for chemical applications. energy production in each region, while in Europe, dried sludge is also used for animal bedding by farmers. We generate very little hazardous waste, 0.2% of Global breakdown of solid waste types in Sappi ••At some mills, tall oil (a by-product of the kraft the total generated. This is closely controlled and (%) 2016 pulping process) is sold to convertors as a carefully managed, both at our operations and ■ Bark (from own operations) ■ Biomass renewable chemical raw material and used to the receiving facilities. 18 ■ Boiler ashes ■ Other make detergents, lubricants and paint 27 additives. ••In North America, lime and boiler ash is provided to farmers as a soil enhancer through 34 Global breakdown of ‘other’ solid waste types in Sappi a partnership with the University of Minnesota 21 (%) 2016 Extension Service, Carlton County By-Products Programme, while in Southern Africa, lime mud is sold. 16.2 21 ■ Wood waste (knots, sawdust, silvers, fines oversize, pallets, other wood) 4.5 1.3 ■ Paper and packaging waste ■ Other combustible waste 7.0 7.0 ■ Green liquor dregs/sodium sulphate rejects 7.4 3.9 ■ Process rejects including slaker rejects ■ Lime mud 0.1 17.8 ■ Wires and felts 2.5 4.8 3.2 1.0 2.2 sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 93 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Disposal methods of solid waste t/a Specific landfilled waste t/adt 600,000 510,944 432,766 0.25 0.234 0.221 500,000 434,776 426,623 0.211 0.213 414,945 472,050.46 24,340.69 0.189 401,757 0.20 400,000 405,941 296,263 321,11.28 286,964 309,444 300,000 225,915 181,851 0.15 267,703.73 192,259 69,314 150,248 157,138 0.085 200,000 54,742 0.075 0.10 169,653.85 0.073 0.070 0.064 57,352 3,030 0.070 0.062 0.055 0.059 132,763 0.045 47,868 100,000 48,690 14,540 111,209.91 39,310 26,027 29,710 28,321 0.05 0.012 14,623.20 24,340.69 0.007 0.012 0.013 0.012 0 Landfill Landfill ComRecovIncinerReOther waste 0.00 (onsite) (offsite) posting ery ation use/Re(solid thirdEurope North America Southern Africa (energy) cycle party waste) Global ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2012 ■ 2013 ■ 2014 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 ■ 2015 ■ 2016 Globally, there was a decrease in landfilled waste. In Europe, there was a slight increase in ashes mainly due to the new multifuel boiler at Kirkniemi Mill. However, these were almost completely recycled. In North America, volumes sent to landfill declined because of a reduction in solid fuel firing (boiler ash) at Somerset and Westbrook Mill. Landfill volumes were down at Cloquet Mill due to expansion of the beneficial use of by-products where materials are primarily used as a soil amendment. In Southern Africa, more waste was reused resulting in a reduction of disposal to landfill and more bark was used as fuel at Ngodwana Mill. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 94 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) We integrate our communication on the UNGC principles into our sustainability reporting and corporate citizenship communication. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 95 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary UNGC signatory since 2008 d Sappi Limite 0 PO Box 3156 ntein 2017 Braamfo SOUTH AFRICA 8111 407 Tel +27 (0)11 om www.sappi.c Ban Ki-moon His Excellency eral Secretary-Gen United Natio ns 10017 New York, NY USA 17 ss. 09 January 20 Progress proce unication on tary-General Principles an d to the Comm bedded in Dear Mr Secre e UNGC’s Ten g the goals em We have been a I would like to re-affirm Sappi’s comm itment to th since 2008 and we have been makin g steady progr ess in achievin y to the UNCG GC principles signator ion on the UN signatory to the UN Sapp i ha s the Ten Princi b ee n a ples. of th e U N G C Secretariat, we integrate ou r co m m un ic at at the request ication. r alignment endations and ship commun overview of ou Global Compact In line into ou w r ith su re st co ai m na b m ility reporting an d co rp or at e ci tiz en manne r in w hi ch w e are doing so and inning al of so 20 gi 16 ve . s In an ke eping with the arkets around overarching the world, gr es s R ep or t sets out the ca m e in to effect at the beg an d b ui ld in g m ication on Pro ls (SDGs) which oing business since 2008. This Commun with the global Sus ta in ab le D our aim is to ev elopment Goa strengthen th e en ab lin g en vi ronment for d ment. th e S D G s, fo r su st ai nable develop spirit of er sa l ne ed ssing the univ thereby addre y Yours sincerel Steve Binnie K), N P Magez a, e Officer ), M A Fallon (U Chief Executiv en s (N L) , R J DeKoch (USA Radebe Officer), G P F Beursk SA) and B Sappi Limited nn ie (U K) (Chief Executive R Thummer (Austria), Mse s K R Osar (U Messrs S R Bi d K) (Chairman), s D Konar an Nigel Rudd (U nders (NL), Dr Directors: Sir T Pe arce an d R J A M Re G , M V Moosa, J D McKenzie 08963/06) 1951/003180/ 06) i Li m ite d (R eg no 1936/0 Limited (Reg no Sapp he rn Af ric a ppi Sout Secretaries Sa sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 96 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 As stipulated in our Group Human Rights Our commitment to ensuring that we are not The International Trade Union Confederation Policy and Group Human Resources Policy, complicit in human rights abuses is encapsulated (ITCU)(1) human rights index rates the countries www.sappi.com , we endorse the principles in our Group Human Rights Policy. This extends we operate as follows, with one being the best entrenched in the Universal Declaration of to suppliers and states that we: score and five being the worst score: Human Rights and the International Labour EU NA SA ••Require our suppliers to respect human rights ••Rating 1 (Irregular violations of rights): Organisation (ILO). and act in full accordance with our policies and – Austria guidelines concerning social responsibility, – Finland labour standards and human rights, and – Germany Principle 1: Business should support We also conform to and, in many cases exceed, ••We commit to openly and transparently report – The Netherlands and respect the protection of prescriptions set out in the labour legislation in on human rights violations within our value ••Rating 2 (Repeated violations of rights): internationally proclaimed human rights. the countries in which we operate. chain, should these occur. – South Africa ••Rating 4 (Systematic violations of rights): Our Group Human Resources Policy recognises – United States of America. This policy further commits us to working with the right of all people to be treated with dignity, communities in order to address indigenous and prohibits harassment in the workplace. people’s interests and to resolving land claims in We have identified no operations or significant Principle 2: Make sure their own South Africa with wide participation and in the suppliers where the right to exercise freedom of corporations are not complicit in human Hotlines in all regions allow employees and best interests of individuals and communities. association and collective bargaining has been rights abuses. suppliers to report human rights abuses in full violated or is at significant risk. We have identified confidentiality. no operations and significant suppliers as having In terms of our Group Supplier Policy, we also significant risk for incidents of child labour. encourage our suppliers to uphold the principles Similarly, we have identified no operations and of human rights as set out in the United Nations significant suppliers as having significant risk for Universal Declaration on Human Rights. incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. (1) https://www.ituc-csi.org/IMG/pdf/ituc-violationmap-2016-en_final.pdf EU NA SA sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 97 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Labour Principle 3 Principle 4 We promote freedom of association and sound Our Group Human Rights Policy explicitly forbids In Southern Africa, as in the other regions where labour practices by engaging extensively with the use of compulsory and forced labour. Our we operate, Sappi pays market-related wages in representative trade unions. Protecting the right Group Supplier Policy states that we encourage accordance with or above local legislation. As an to freedom of association and collective our suppliers to adhere to national labour law example: the new minimum wage for the forestry bargaining is fundamental to the manner in which and to internationally proclaimed human rights, sector, gazetted by the Minister of Labour, was we do business. In 2016, globally 60% of our including those relating to forced labour (including successfully implemented on 01 April 2016. workforce was unionised, with 71.5% belonging prison and slave labour). Sappi Southern Africa adjusted the minimum to a bargaining unit. wage in the forestry division by 7% which is 0.4% Principle 3: Businesses should uphold above the regulated minimum wage increase of Our labour standards ensure that our freedom of association and the effective 6.6%. In the absence of a formal collective We focus on maintaining constructive remuneration practices are fair, with recognition of the right to collective relationships with trade unions, believing that this compensation levels set to reflect competitive bargaining structure in this division, workers’ bargaining. is essential to long-term sustainable development. market practices and internal equity as well as committees were engaged during the Discussions range from remuneration issues, to company and individual performance. implementation process. training and development, health and safety and organisational changes. In all three regions, labour is sourced on the open In 2013, we made it a contractual obligation for market. In rural areas, forest products companies our forestry contractors to pay their workers in Principle 4: The elimination of all forms Given the complex labour situation in Southern like Sappi are often the only, or major, employers accordance with the minimum wage stipulated of forced and compulsory labour. Africa, we have established a number of in the region, which makes the local population by government for the agricultural sector. structures to enhance ongoing positive very dependent on the company and which engagement with union leadership. This is could in turn lead to exploitative behaviour and facilitated by structures such as the National an indirect form of forced labour. Furthermore, in this region, our plantations are Partnership Forum which includes senior 100% FSC®-certified or controlled and this forest members of management and senior union certification system stipulates the protection of leaders who hold regular meetings where This is a particular issue in South Africa, which indigenous people’s rights. business, safety and union challenges are is one of the most consistently unequitable discussed. countries in the world and continues to be characterised by high levels of poverty and We are further focusing on promoting economic unemployment. Disparity in income differentials inclusion and eliminating poverty through our Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for across population groups and across genders Khulisa Umnotho (Project Grow) enterprise individual wellbeing, but also to achieve our remains a challenge. While there has been some development scheme which has been in group goals and objectives. In each region, progress in reducing poverty in urban areas, operation since 1983. We also work actively with disciplinary codes ensure disciplinary procedures many South Africans in rural areas still endure the authorities and communities on land reform are applied consistently, while grievance policies high levels of poverty underpinned by social projects which aim to promote the inclusion of entrench the rights of employees, including the deprivation and under-development. Recognising previously disadvantaged South Africans into the right to raise a grievance without fear of that decent work and productive employment economy. victimisation, the right to seek guidance and are key elements to achieving fairness, reducing assistance from a member of the Human poverty and achieving equitable, inclusive and Resources Department or their representative at sustainable development, we work hard to dispel any time, and the right to appeal to a higher the imbalance. authority, without prejudice. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 98 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Labour continued Principle 5 Principle 6 Our Group Human Rights Policy explicitly forbids We recognise that the creation of an equitable Where an unfair or discriminatory practice has the use of child labour. Our Group Supplier Policy working environment, in which the dignity of all occurred, employees are able to make use of the states that we encourage our suppliers to adhere individuals is respected and the diversity of all grievance procedure to lodge their grievance. to national labour law and to internationally employees is valued, represents an essential Employees also have access to a hotline proclaimed human rights, particularly those foundation for sustainable growth and telephone number where they can report Principle 5: The effective abolition of relating to child labour. competitive advantage. incidents of this nature. child labour. We are committed to promoting diversity and In Southern Africa, we have employment equity inclusion so that all employees can develop their targets to promote economic and social full potential, irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, transformation of the previously disadvantaged. disability, age, religion, belief or sexual orientation. Principle 6: The elimination of We administer our People policies, programmes discrimination in respect of employment Women tend to be under-represented in our and practices in a non-discriminatory manner in and occupation. workforce due to the nature of our operations – a all aspects of our relationship with our employees, including recruitment, hiring, assessments, work manufacturing environment which involves shift assignments, promotions, transfers, terminations, work. Line management is mandated to facilitate wage and salary administration and selection for the employment of women by ensuring that training and development. women working on shifts are safe and ensuring that female bathroom facilities are available. We are making progress – indicated by the fact that The Group Human Resources Policy and the 18.25% of new hires are women, with women Group Human Rights Policy state that Sappi accounting for 20.56% of the workforce. prohibits “discrimination based on race, gender, colour, ethnicity, age, religion, political and sexual orientation, union membership, physical disability In Southern Africa in 2015, we embarked on a or HIV/AIDS status”. disability learnership project with I Can, whereby 10 learners successfully completed their learnerships. We are now supporting 15 new learners for a new 12-month programme. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 99 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Environment Principle 7 Principle 8 As stated in our Group Sustainability Charter and ••Taking appropriate, pre-emptive action to At the heart of our business is a renewable, Group Environmental Policy, we acknowledge improve or mitigate identified environmental recyclable natural resource – woodfibre. We use that we do have an environmental footprint, but risks this to create pulp, paper and dissolving wood are committed to managing and mitigating the ••Ensuring that we keep up with environmental pulp solutions which enhance the lives of environmental, climate and biodiversity impacts best practice through a number of internal consumers around the world. Principle 7: Businesses should support a of our operations. environmental ‘clusters’ comprised of experts precautionary approach to environmental in various fields challenges. ••Having environmental targets in place in each We take a holistic approach to protecting the The precautionary approach places the onus on region. Targets are reported on each quarter to environment, beginning with the responsible Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs and to the management teams in each region, on a procurement of wood that is grown and harvested take active steps to prevent any harm from regular basis to the Global Sustainable sustainably and sourced only from well-managed occurring. We achieve this by: Development Council and to the Social, Ethics, forests and plantations. We are committed to ••Following a lifecycle approach to environmental Transformation and Sustainability Committee reducing our use of traditional fossil fuels, Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to management which includes minimising the lowering both our environmental footprint and biannually, and promote greater environmental environmental impact of our operations in energy costs. We focus on the efficient use and ••Using ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 responsibility. terms of raw materials and energy sources, as recovery of materials used in the manufacturing and, in Europe: EMAS (Eco Management and well as developing new production methods Audit System) and ISO 50001. process in order to minimise waste. and products and finding innovative new ways of beneficiating waste ••Identifying opportunities to save water and We view conducting our business in an Our energy efficiency is enhanced through our energy at every step in the production environmentally sustainable manner as an ongoing drive to make process improvements processes. This process begins in our obligation – one which is integral to our licence to and install more efficient equipment, as well as plantations, where we apply best practice operate on an individual, community, country through our extensive use of cogeneration. management techniques to produce woodfibre and global level. It also makes sound business with properties that allow pulping using less sense, given that we depend on natural resources We track key metrics for fibre, emissions, energy energy and water such as water and woodfibre for our ongoing usage and the impact of our operations on air, ••Ongoing investment in research and viability as a business and it is in our interest to water and solid waste. We use this data when development use these resources as responsibly as possible. setting improvement goals related either to our ••Maintaining systems which monitor operations or our interactions with our key environmental performance and legal stakeholder groups – employees, customers compliance at each mill, including energy and our local communities. In 2015, we dashboards, integrated water and waste established overarching 2020 global goals in management plans, air emissions and effluent addition to the regional goals established in each region to deal with specific issues. Progress against these goals is reported on in our Annual Integrated Report, our Group Sustainability Report and regional Sustainability Reports. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 100 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Environment continued Over five years we have: In Europe, we: In North America, we: ••Increased energy self-sufficiency by 10.5% ••Continue with our eco-effectiveness ••Play an active role in Living Lands and and our generation of renewable energy by campaign where Sappi people share their Waters, a non-profit, environmental 5.1% stories about achieving greater levels of organisation focused on cleaning up ••Decreased direct (Scope 1) and indirect environmental responsibility https://www.sappi. America’s great rivers and forest restoration, (Scope 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by com/eco-effective-stories and http://www.livinglandsandwaters.org/ Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to 4.7% and 20.55% respectively ••Communicate information internally about ••Are working on a fishway project near promote greater environmental EU NA SA ••Reduced absolute emissions intensity by 8.8% sustainability-related topics through our green Westbrook Mill, enabling natural fish passage responsibility. EU NA SA ••Generated 10.6% less solid waste than we did ambassadors, who keep colleagues informed through a portion of the Presumpscot River for five years ago, and sent 14.3% less waste to about industry developments that could be of the first time in more than 150 years landfill interest to customers ••Are a supporter, together with publishers, ••In terms of water quality, decreased chemical ••Are closely engaged in the Confederation of cataloguers and other paper companies, of oxygen demand (COD) by 0.5%, and total European Paper Industries (CEPI) Roadmap Recycling Works in Publishing (RWIP). RWIP suspended solids (TSS) by 36.5% (both 2050 which works to implement the transition is a member of The Recycling Partnership, statistics include Saiccor Mill), and to an effective low-carbon economy, and whose goal is to increase curbside recycling ••Decreased solid waste by 9.3%. ••Belong to the ‘Save Food’ initiative which in 200 communities throughout the US in signals a firm commitment to better protection the next 10 years. For more information, see of all foodstuffs the world over. Save Food is a www.recyclingpartnership.org We are a constituent of the FTSE/JSE joint initiative of the Food and Agriculture ••Continue to build relationships between Sappi EU NA SA Responsible Investment Index and the FTSE/ Organisation of the United Nations (FAO), the and our local communities through our JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index. To United Nations Environment Programme sustainability ambassadors. In many cases, we achieve this, we were assessed on our (UNEP), Messe Düsseldorf and Interpack, the have established our presence and positive environmental, social and governance world’s leading trade fair for processes and impact through recurring community events performance. Our inclusion in these indices packaging. such as the River Quest programme supported indicates that we are succeeding in our goal by our Cloquet Mill employees. Through River (set out in our Group Sustainability Charter) of Quest, each year over 1,200 sixth-grade treading more lightly on the planet. students and teachers have a hands-on learning experience using the St Louis River Land, air and water are shared resources. By ecosystem as a core to the curriculum. motivating and encouraging people, particularly Similarly, our southern Maine ambassadors Yes, I care. those close to our operations, to share our have organised a major Sappi presence at the commitment of treading more lightly on the Portland area ‘Green Community’ day, planet, our aim is to enhance the sustainability of including papermaking demonstrations, and the natural resources and ecosystems on which our business depends. Vind je het belangrijk om het juiste te doen op de juiste manier? Bij Sappi hebben we ervoor gekozen om Eco-effective te zijn door onze manier van zaken doen te integreren met hoe wij het milieu benaderen. Dat wil zeggen dat we effectief zijn op een efficiënte manier en zo onze doelstellingen met minimale milieu impact bereiken. Eco-effectiveness is erg praktisch gericht – variërend van vermindering van het watergebruik en effectieve transport beslissingen tot wisselen tussen energiebronnen. Het is ook van toepassing op onze klanten, die wij aanmoedigen en steunen met betrekking tot hun eco-effective keuzes. Duurzaamheid begint bij Sappi bij een ieder van onze mensen, resulterend in een door het gehele bedrijf gedragen eco-effectiveness. sappi.com/eco-effective Sappi. Eco. Effective. 2875.indd 1 04.05.15 16:21 sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 101 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Environment continued Principle 9 ••Participate in a partnership with the American We have partnered with mountain biking In line with our strategy of intentional evolution Forest Foundation and the Sustainable clubs and event organisers, allowing which includes seeking growth opportunities by Packaging Coalition, whereby stakeholders access to our plantations and natural producing innovative performance materials across the supply chain come together to areas in Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. from renewable resources, we have identified understand challenges, and identify new http://www.karkloofmtb.co.za/ and http:// nanocellulose as a key growth area. A pilot-scale methods to evaluate sustainable forest www.midlandsmeander.co.za/biking plant for low-cost Cellulose NanoFibrils Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to management on family-owned land. (nanocellulose) production at the Brightlands promote greater environmental EU EUNA NASA SA Development of a new data-driven assurance Chemelot Campus in the Netherlands came on responsibility. ••Continue with the Earth Kind Agent electronic model will demonstrate how the practices and stream earlier this year. actions of landowners on individual parcels of sustainability game which educates our people land aggregate into a healthy forested about key aspects of our environmental landscape or regional ecosystem. The model performance. The game for PCs and the links This is a culmination of our three-year project could also be used to identify potential to the apps can be found at: with Edinburgh Napier University to find a lowlandscape-wide gaps and opportunities to http://www.sappi.com/earthkindagent , and cost energy-saving process that will allow Sappi enhance forest sustainability, and find practical ••Support the Pepper Bark Tree (Warburgia to produce the nanocellulose on a commercially Principle 9: Encourage the development ways for the supply chain to address them at a Salutaris) project which in turn supports the viable basis – and importantly without producing and diffusion of environmentally friendly EU NA SA meaningful scale. This project is chaired by efforts of the Kruger National Park to protect large volumes of chemical waste water technologies. Sappi North America’s Director of Sustainability. South Africa’s most endangered tree by associated with existing techniques. Significant re‑introducing the tree into communities. about our process is the use of unique chemistry, Sappi’s intervention has enabled seedlings to which has allowed us to very easily break down In Southern Africa, we: be grown on a large scale. To date 3,000 trees the wood pulp fibres into nanocellulose. There is ••Set approximately 30% of our land aside for have been distributed to communities in no expensive chemistry required and, most the management and conservation of natural Mpumalanga and Swaziland. 12,000 seedlings significantly, the chemicals used can be easily habitats, including indigenous forests and the are being prepared for distribution in 2017 and recycled and reused without generating large biodiversity they contain an annual target of 15,000 has been set. To quantities of waste water. ••Have established a group certification scheme re-introduce the tree in KwaZulu-Natal, the for small and medium growers. There are Sappi Forests research facility has developed currently over 40 members in the scheme with seed beds with 1,500 trees established within Believing in the power of open innovation and plantations ranging from a few hundred the first year. These will be distributed to our cooperation, in Europe we participated in the hectares to 4,391 hectares in size. FSC®Khulisa Umnotho (Project Grow) beneficiaries CEPI Two Team Project. The initiative took the certification is not yet available to micro and communities. form of a year-long race designed to seek out growers, Sappi is currently working with other CO2 emission cutting technology and gave rise industry players to overcome this, and to eight new technologies. For further ••Promote multiple use of our landholdings. Annually, we provide information to the Carbon information, go to: http://www.cepi.org/system/files/ Our land provides a resource for planned Disclosure and Forest Footprint Disclosure public/documents/publications/innovation/2013/ recreational activities. We support Projects and make our submission publicly finaltwoteamprojectreport_website_updated.pdf non‑motorised activities such as mountain available. EU NA SA biking and bird watching on our land, aligning with our commitment to promoting a In each region, we sponsor environment-related healthy lifestyle and nurturing an appreciation publications accessible to the general reader. for nature and the sustainable use of renewable resources. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 102 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Anti-corruption Principle 10 We recognise that building an accountable In FY2016, we launched a revised Code of Ethics The Sappi Code of Ethics and the Sappi values organisation underpins our ongoing viability as a which incorporates the new Sappi values complement each other as a guide to appropriate business. Accordingly, the Social, Ethics, (At Sappi we do business with integrity and behaviour and actions. One of the platforms Transformation and Sustainability Committee, courage; making smart decisions which we used by the business to measure adherence to among other things, monitors our activities with execute with speed), includes specific policies the Code of Ethics is the Ethics Hotline. The Principle 10: Businesses should work regard to matters such as social and economic that guide employee behaviour and incorporates types of complaints received by the Ethics against corruption in all its forms, development, including the UN Global Compact practical examples of possible scenarios that Hotline are at par with the benchmark average. including extortion and bribery. and the OECD Policy Guidelines for Preventing employees might encounter. Hotline calls are monitored quarterly and Corruption, with particular emphasis on Section disclosed annually in our Annual Integrated VII of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Report. Enterprises dealing with Combating Bribery, The Code has been translated into the various Bribe Solicitation and Extortion. Sappi languages (English, German, Dutch, Finnish and Zulu) and distributed to all Sappi EU NA SA mills and offices. The roll-out of regional No issues have been raised regarding Sappi awareness campaigns was accompanied by with regards to compliance with the convention communications materials including a brochure, either externally or internally. posters, letters to stakeholder groups, newsletter and video and presentation slides. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 103 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) In support of our commitment to sustainability we report annually in terms of the G4 Global Reporting Initiative (core). sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 104 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI General standard disclosures Key: • AIR Sappi 2016 Annual Integrated Report • GSR Sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report (This report) • Blue page numbers are links G4 indicator General standard disclosures Where reported G4–1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of GSR, Messages from our sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. leadership, page 4 Organisational profile Where reported G4–3 Report the name of the organisation. AIR, Cover G4–4 Report the primary brands, products and services. AIR, Group overview, pages 18–25 G4–5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. GSR, About this report, page 3 G4–6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or AIR, Group overview, page 18 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4–7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. AIR, Share statistics, page 86 G4–8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). AIR, Group overview, pages 18–25 G4–9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: GSR, Our sustainable business a Total number of employees model, page 13 b Total number of operations c Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations) d Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations) e Quantity of products or services provided. G4–10 Report the composition of the workforce, including: GSR, Profiling our people, a Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender pages 51–55 b Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d Report the total workforce by region and gender e Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4–11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. GSR, People, page 63 G4–12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. GSR, Our sustainable business model, page 13 sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 105 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI General standard disclosures continued Organisational profile continued Where reported G4–13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: GSR, Realising our strategy, a Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings and expansions pages 44–45 b Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance and alteration operations (for private sector organisations) c Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. G4–14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. GSR, UNGC, page 102 G4–15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which GSR, Our stakeholders, page 39 it endorses. G4–16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: GSR, Our stakeholders, page 39 ••Holds a position on the governance body ••Participates in projects or committees ••Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ••Views membership as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries Where reported G4–17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Group Annual Financial statements available on Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. www.sappi.com GSR, page 3 (joint ventures excluded) G4–18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. GSR, About this report, page 3 Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. G4–19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. GSR, About this report, page 3 G4–20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organisation, as follows: GSR, Our key material issues, ••Report whether the aspect is material within the organisation pages 14–25 ••If the aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4–17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: ••The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4–17 for which the aspect is not material or ••The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4–17 for which the aspect is material ••Report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organisation. G4–21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organisation, as follows: GSR, Our key material issues, ••Report whether the aspect is material outside of the organisation pages 14–25 ••If the aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for the entities identified ••Report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organisation. G4–22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements. GSR, Planet, page 87 G4–23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Not applicable sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 106 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI General standard disclosures continued Stakeholder engagement Where reported G4–24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. GSR, Our stakeholders, pages 26–40 G4–25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. GSR, Our stakeholders, page 27 G4–26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication GSR, Our stakeholders, of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. pages 26–40 G4–27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics GSR, Our stakeholders, and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. pages 26–40 Report profile Where reported G4–28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. GSR, About this report, page 3 G4–29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). GSR, About this report, page 3 G4–30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). GSR, About this report, page 3 G4–31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Graeme Wild, Group Head Investor Relations and Sustainability G4–32 “In accordance” option: GSR, Global Reporting Initiative, a Report the “in accordance” option the organisation has chosen pages 104–114 b Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option AIR, About this report, IFC c Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be “in accordance” with the guidelines. G4–33 Assurance: AIR, About this report, IFC a Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report b If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided c Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers d Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. Governance Where reported G4–34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for AIR, Corporate governance, decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. pages 44–54 Ethics and integrity Where reported G4–56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Code of Ethics available on www.sappi.com sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 107 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects Economic performance Where reported EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed GSR, Our value add, page 48 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organisation’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: ••Direct economic value generated: •• Revenues ••Economic value distributed: ••Operating costs ••Employee wages and benefits ••Payments to providers of capital ••Payments to government (by country) ••Community investments Economic value retained (calculated as “Direct economic value generated” less “Economic value distributed”). To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change GSR, Managing and mitigating Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, climate change, page 86 including: ••A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other ••A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity ••The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken ••The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity ••The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AIR, Compensation report, a Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organisation’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. pages 55–61 b Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: ••The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them ••The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at ••When that estimate was made c Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage d Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer e Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 108 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Indirect economic impacts Where reported EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported GSR, Helping others to help a Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported themselves, pages 72–78 b Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. Report positive and negative impacts where relevant c Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts GSR, Our value add, page 48 a Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. These may include: ••Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors, or the whole economy ••Economic development in areas of high poverty ••Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions ••Availability of products and services for those on low incomes ••Enhancing skills and knowledge among a professional community or in a geographical region ••Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain ••Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment ••Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities ••Economic impact of the use of products and services b Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols and policy agendas. Environmental — Energy Where reported EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used footprint, page 88 b Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used c Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: ••Electricity consumption ••Heating consumption ••Cooling consumption ••Steam consumption d Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: ••Electricity sold ••Heating sold ••Cooling sold ••Steam sold e Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples f Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used g Report the source of the conversion factors used. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 109 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Environmental — Energy continued Where reported EN5 Energy intensity GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the energy intensity ratio footprint, page 88 b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio c Report the types of energy included in the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam or all d Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organisation, outside of it or both. EN6 Reduction of energy consumption GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples footprint, page 88 b Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam c Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples footprint, page 88 b Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it c Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used. Environmental — Water Where reported EN8 Total water withdrawal by source GSR, Using and discharging a Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: water responsibly, page 91 ••Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans ••Ground water ••Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organisation ••Waste water from another organisation ••Municipal water supplies or other water utilities b Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused GSR, Our key material issues, a Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation page 25 b Report the total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4–EN8 c Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 110 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Environmental — Emissions Where reported EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers footprint, page 89 of offsets or allowances b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3 or all) c Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions d Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions e Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used f Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source g Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or footprint, page 89 transfers of offsets or allowances b Report gases included in the calculation, if available c Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions d Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used e Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source, if available f Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio footprint, page 89 b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio c Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) d Report gases included in the calculation. EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent footprint, page 89 b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3 or all) c Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it d Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used e Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 111 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Environmental — Emissions continued Where reported EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions GSR, Reducing our carbon a Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: footprint, page 90 ••NOx ••SOx ••Persistent organic pollutants (POP) ••Volatile organic compounds (VOC) ••Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) ••Particulate matter (PM) ••Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations b Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used c Report the source of the emission factors used. Effluents and waste Where reported EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination GSR, Using and discharging a Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: water responsibly, page 92 ••Destination ••Quality of the water including treatment method ••Whether it was reused by another organisation b Report standards, methodologies and assumptions used. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method GSR, Reducing solid waste and a Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste by the following disposal methods: adding value, page 93 ••Reuse ••Recycling ••Composting ••Recovery, including energy recovery ••Incineration (mass burn) ••Deep well injection ••Landfill ••On-site storage ••Other (to be specified by the organisation) b Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: ••Disposed of directly by the organisation or otherwise directly confirmed ••Information provided by the waste disposal contractor ••Organisational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 112 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Social: labour practices and decent work Social — Employment Where reported LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region GSR, Profiling our people, a Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region pages 52–55 b Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Social — Labour/management relations Where reported LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements GSR, Communicating operational a Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of changes, page 64 significant operational changes that could substantially affect them b For organisations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Social — Occupational health and safety Where reported LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region GSR, Our management and by gender approach to safety, pages 67–71 a Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers) by: ••Region ••Gender b Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organisation is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: ••Region ••Gender c Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 113 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary GRI Specific standard disclosures – Material aspects continued Social — Training and education Where reported LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category GSR, Being a great place to a Report the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: work, page 58 ••Gender ••Employee category LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category GSR, Being a great place to a Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular performance and career development review work, page 57 during the reporting period. Social — Diversity and equal opportunity Where reported LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group AIR, Our leadership, membership, and other indicators of diversity pages 44–47 a Report the percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: ••Gender ••Age group: under 30 years old, 30–50 years old, over 50 years old ••Minority groups ••Other indicators of diversity where relevant b Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: ••Gender ••Age group: under 30 years old, 30–50 years old, over 50 years old ••Minority groups ••Other indicators of diversity where relevant. Social — Compliance Where reported SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Index – Not applicable, no a Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: such fines or sanctions ••Total monetary value of significant fines ••Total number of non-monetary sanctions ••Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms b If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient c Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 114 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Glossary General definitions chemical oxygen demand (COD) – the amount COSO – the Committee of Sponsoring Forestry SA – largest forestry organisation of oxygen required to break down the organic Organisations of the Treadway Commission representing growers of timber in South Africa AF&PA – American Forest and Paper Association compounds in effluent CSI and CSR – corporate social investment and FSC® – in terms of the Forest Stewardship air dry tons (ADT) – meaning dry solids content chemical pulp – a generic term for pulp made corporate social responsibility Council® (FSC®) scheme, there are two types of of 90% and moisture content of 10% from woodfibre that has been produced in a certification. In order for land to achieve FSC chemical process endorsement, its forest management practices dissolving pulp – highly purified chemical pulp must meet the FSC 10 principles and other biofuels – organic material such as wood, waste derived primarily from wood, but also from cotton assorted criteria. For manufacturers of forest and alcohol fuels, as well as gaseous and liquid CHP – combined heat and power linters intended primarily for conversion into products, including paper manufacturers fuels produced from these feedstocks when they chemical derivatives of cellulose and used mainly like Sappi, Chain-of-Custody (CoC)-certification are burned to produce energy in the manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent involves independent verification of the supply coated mechanical – coated paper made from spin fibre and filament chain, which identifies and tracks the timber groundwood pulp which has been produced in a through all stages of the production process black liquor – is the spent cooking liquor from mechanical process, primarily used for from the tree farm to the end-product the pulping process which arises when pulpwood magazines, catalogues and advertising material dissolving wood pulp – highly purified chemical is cooked in a digester thereby removing lignin, pulp derived from wood intended primarily for hemicellulose and other extractives from the conversion into chemical derivatives of cellulose full-time equivalent employee – the number wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting coated papers – papers that contain a layer of and used mainly in the manufacture of viscose of total hours worked divided by the maximum black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin coating material on one or both sides. The staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and filament number of compensable hours in a full-time residues, hemicellulose, and the inorganic coating materials, consisting of pigments and schedule as defined by law chemicals used in the pulping process. Black binders, act as a filler to improve the printing liquor contains slightly more than half of the surface of the paper energy – is present in many forms such as solar, energy content of the wood fed into the digester mechanical, thermal, electrical and chemical. greenhouse gas (GHG) – the GHGs included in Any source of energy can be tapped to perform the Kyoto Protocol are carbon dioxide, methane, coated woodfree – coated paper made from work. In power plants, coal is burned and its nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, bleached pulp – pulp that has been bleached chemical pulp which is made from woodfibre chemical energy is converted into electrical perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride by means of chemical additives to make it that has been produced in a chemical process, energy. To generate steam, coal and other fossil suitable for fine paper production primarily used for high end publications and fuels are burned, thus converting stored chemical advertising material energy into thermal energy haptic – (haptic communication) – refers to the ways in which people communicate and interact casting and release paper – embossed paper via the sense of touch. As well as providing used to impart design in polyurethane or polyvinyl corrugating medium – paperboard made from fibre – fibre is generally referred to as pulp in the information about surfaces and textures, touch, chloride plastic films for the production of chemical and semi-chemical pulp, or waste paper industry. Wood is treated chemically or or the haptic sense, is a component of synthetic leather and other textured surfaces. paper, that is to be converted to a corrugated mechanically to separate the fibres during the communication in interpersonal relationships The term also applies to backing paper for selfboard by passing it through corrugating cylinders. pulping process that is non-verbal and non-visual. Touch is adhesive labels Corrugating medium between layers of linerboard extremely important for humans and is vital in form the board from which corrugated boxes conveying physical intimacy are produced fine paper – paper usually produced from CEPI – Confederation of European Paper chemical pulp for printing and writing purposes Industries and consisting of coated and uncoated paper sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 115 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Glossary continued ISO – developed by the International managed forest – naturally occurring forests newsprint – paper produced for the printing of sackkraft – kraft paper used to produce multiStandardisation Organisation (ISO), ISO 9000 is that are harvested commercially newspapers mainly from mechanical pulp and/or wall paper sacks a series of standards focused on quality recycled waste paper management systems, while the ISO 14001 series is focused on environmental performance market pulp – pulp produced for sale on the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions – The Green and management open market, as opposed to that produced for OHSAS – is an international health and safety House Gas Protocol defines Scope 1 (direct) and own consumption in an integrated mill standard aimed at minimising occupational Scope 2 (indirect) emissions as follows: health and safety risks firstly, by conducting a ••Direct GHG emissions are emissions from JSE Limited – the main securities exchange in variety of analyses and secondly, by setting sources that are owned or controlled by the South Africa mechanical pulp – pulp produced by means of standards reporting entity the mechanical grinding or refining of wood or ••Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are wood chips a consequence of the activities of the reporting kraft paper – packaging paper (bleached or OTC – over-the-counter trading of shares entity, but occur at sources owned or controlled unbleached) made from kraft pulp by another entity NBHK – Northern Bleached Hardwood Kraft pulp. One of the varieties of market pulp, packaging paper – paper used for packaging kraft pulp – chemical wood pulp produced by produced from hardwood trees (ie birch or purposes silviculture costs – growing and tending costs digesting wood by means of the sulphate pulping aspen) in Scandinavia, Canada and northern of trees in forestry operations process USA PAMSA – Paper Manufacturers’ Association of South Africa solid waste – dry organic and inorganic waste Kyoto Protocol – a document signed by over NBSK – Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft materials 160 countries at Kyoto, Japan in December pulp. One of the main varieties of market pulp, 1997 which commits signatories to reducing produced from coniferous trees (ie spruce, pine) PEFCTM – the world’s largest forest certification their emission of greenhouse gases relative to in Scandinavia, Canada and northern USA. The system, the PEFC is focused on promoting Specialised Cellulose – the business within levels emitted in 1990 price of NBSK is a benchmark widely used in the sustainable forest management. Using multiSappi which oversees the production and pulp and paper industry for comparative stakeholder processes, the organisation marketing of dissolving wood pulp purposes develops forest management certification lignin – is an organic substance that, with standards and schemes which have been signed cellulose, forms the chief part of woody tissue by 37 nations in Europe and other interspeciality paper – a generic term for a group of NGO – a non-governmental organisation is any governmental processes for sustainable forestry papers intended for commercial and industrial non-profit, voluntary citizens’ group which is management around the world use such as flexible packaging, metallised base linerboard – the grade of paperboard used for organised on a local, national or international paper, coated bag paper, etc the exterior facings of corrugated board. level Linerboard is combined with corrugating medium plantation – tree farms by converters to produce corrugated board used specific – when data is expressed in specific in boxes NPO – non-profit organisation. A corporation or form, this means that the actual quantity an association that conducts business for the PM – paper machine consumed during the year indicated, whether benefit of the general public without shareholders energy, water, emissions or solid waste, is liquor – white liquor is the aqueous solution of and without a profit motive expressed in terms of a production parameter. sodium hydroxide and sodium sulphide used to power – the rate at which energy is used or For Sappi, as with other pulp and paper extract lignin during kraft pulping. Black liquor is produced companies, this parameter is air dry tons of the resultant combination of lignin, water and natural/indigenous forest – pristine areas not saleable product chemicals used commercially pulpwood – wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not of sufficient standard for saw-milling Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) – number of lost time injuries x 200,000 divided by man hours sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 116 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Glossary continued specific purchased energy – the term ‘specific’ General financial definitions disposal date – the date on which control in presentation currency – the currency in which indicates that the actual quantity during the year respect of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and the financial results of an entity are presented indicated, is expressed in terms of a production acquisition date – the date on which control in significant influence in associates ceases parameter. For Sappi, as with other pulp and respect of subsidiaries, joint control in respect of paper companies, the parameter is air dry tons joint arrangements and significant influence in qualifying asset – an asset that necessarily of product associates commences fair value – the price that would be received to takes a substantial period (normally in excess of sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an six months) to get ready for its intended use orderly transaction between market participants Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI®) – the associate – an entity over which the investor at the measurement date SFI® programme is a comprehensive system of has significant influence recoverable amount – the recoverable amount objectives and performance measures which of an asset or cash-generating unit is the higher integrate the sustained growing and harvesting financial results – comprise the financial of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value of trees and the protection of plants and animals basic earnings per share – net profit for the position (assets, liabilities and equity), results of in use. In determining the value in use, expected year divided by the weighted average number of operations (revenue and expenses) and cash future cash flows are discounted to their net shares in issue during the year flows of an entity and of the group present values using the discount rate thermo-mechanical pulp – pulp produced by processing woodfibres using heat and commissioning date – the date that an item of mechanical grinding or refining wood or wood foreign operation – an entity whose activities related party – parties are considered to be property, plant and equipment, whether acquired chips are based or conducted in a country or currency related if one party directly or indirectly has the or constructed, is brought into use other than that of the reporting entity ability to control the other party or exercise significant influence over the other party in ton/tonne – term used in this report to denote a compound annual growth rate – the mean making financial and operating decisions or is a metric ton of 1,000kg annual growth rate of an investment over a functional currency – the currency of the member of the key management of Sappi Limited specified period of time longer than one year primary economic environment in which the entity operates total suspended solids (TSS) – refers to matter segment assets – total assets (excluding suspended or dissolved in effluent control – an investor controls an investee when deferred taxation and cash) less current liabilities it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns group – the group comprises Sappi Limited, its (excluding interest-bearing borrowings and from its involvement with the investee and has subsidiaries and its interest in joint ventures and overdraft) uncoated woodfree paper – printing and the ability to affect those returns through its associates writing paper made from bleached chemical pulp power over the investee used for general printing, photocopying and share-based payment – a transaction in which stationery, etc. Referred to as uncoated as it joint arrangement – is an arrangement of Sappi Limited issues shares or share options to does not contain a layer of pigment to give it a diluted earnings per share – is calculated by which two or more parties have joint control group employees as compensation for services coated surface assuming conversion or exercise of all potentially rendered dilutive shares, share options and share awards unless these are anti-dilutive joint venture – is a joint arrangement whereby viscose staple fibre (VSF) – a natural fibre the parties that have joint control of the significant influence – is the power to made from purified cellulose, primarily from arrangement have rights to the net assets of the participate in the financial and operating policy discount rate – this is the pre-tax interest rate dissolving wood pulp that can be twisted to form arrangement decisions of an entity but is not control or joint that reflects the current market assessment of yarn the time value of money for the purposes of control of those policies determining discounted cash flows. In operation – a component of the group: determining the cash flows the risks specific to ••That represents a separate major line of woodfree paper – paper made from chemical the asset or liability are taken into account in business or geographical area of operation, pulp determining those cash flows and are not and included in determining the discount rate ••Is distinguished separately for financial and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) – the operating purposes world’s largest conservation organisation, focused on supporting biological diversity sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 117 About this report Governance Ta r g e t s Accolades Key material issues Stakeholder engagement Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary Glossary continued Non-GAAP financial definitions dividend yield – dividends per share, which net debt – current and non-current interestspecial items – special items cover those items were declared after year-end, in US cents divided bearing borrowings, and bank overdraft (net of which management believe are material by The group believes that it is useful to report by the financial year-end closing prices on the cash, cash equivalents and short-term deposits) nature or amount to the operating results and certain non-GAAP measures for the following JSE Limited converted to US cents using the require separate disclosure. Such items would reasons: closing financial year-end exchange rate generally include profit or loss on disposal of ••These measures are used by the group for net debt to total capitalisation – net debt property, investments and businesses, asset internal performance analysis divided by capital employed impairments, restructuring charges, non••The presentation by the group’s reported earnings yield – earnings per share divided by recurring integration costs related to acquisitions, business segments of these measures the financial year-end closing prices on the JSE financial impacts of natural disasters, non-cash facilitates comparability with other companies Limited converted to US cents using the closing net operating assets – total assets (excluding gains or losses on the price fair value adjustment in our industry, although the group’s measures financial year-end exchange rate deferred taxation and cash and cash equivalents) of plantations and alternative fuel tax credits may not be comparable with similarly titled less current liabilities (excluding interest-bearing receivable in cash profit measurements reported by other borrowings and overdraft) companies, and EBITDA excluding special items – earnings ••It is useful in connection with discussion with before interest (net finance costs), taxation, total market capitalisation – ordinary number the investment analyst community and debt depreciation, amortisation and special items ordinary dividend cover – profit for the period of shares in issue (excluding treasury shares held rating agencies. These non-GAAP measures divided by the ordinary dividend declared, by the group) multiplied by the financial year-end should not be considered in isolation or multiplied by the actual number of shares in issue closing prices on the JSE Limited converted to construed as a substitute for GAAP measures EPS excluding special items – earnings per at year-end US cents using the closing financial year-end in accordance with IFRS. share excluding special items and certain onceexchange rate off finance and tax items ordinary shareholders’ interest per share – asset turnover (times) – sales divided by total shareholders’ equity divided by the actual trade receivables days outstanding assets fellings – the amount charged against the number of shares in issue at year-end (including securitised balances) – gross trade income statement representing the standing receivables, including receivables securitised, value of the plantations harvested divided by sales multiplied by the number of days average – averages are calculated as the sum price/earnings ratio – the financial year-end in the year of the opening and closing balances for the closing prices on the JSE Limited converted to relevant period divided by two headline earnings – as defined in Circular US cents using the closing financial year-end 2/2013, reissued by the South African Institute of exchange rate divided by earnings per share Chartered Accountants in December 2013, Broad-based Black Economic which separates from earnings all separately Empowerment (BBBEE) charge – represents identifiable remeasurements. It is not necessarily ROCE – return on average capital employed. the IFRS 2 non-cash charge associated with the a measure of sustainable earnings. It is a Listings Operating profit excluding special items divided BBBEE transaction implemented in 2010 in Requirement of the JSE Limited to disclose by average capital employed terms of BBBEE legislation in South Africa headline earnings per share ROE – return on average equity. Profit for the capital employed – shareholders’ equity plus inventory turnover (times) – cost of sales period divided by average shareholders’ equity net debt divided by inventory on hand at balance sheet date RONOA – return on average net operating cash interest cover – cash generated by assets. Operating profit excluding special items operations divided by finance costs less finance net assets – total assets less total liabilities divided by average net operating assets revenue net asset value per share – net assets divided SG&A – selling, general and administrative current asset ratio – current assets divided by by the number of shares in issue at balance expenses current liabilities sheet date sappi 2016 Group Sustainability Report 118
