SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 2015 The Earth Is Our Home About Our Report 3 Message from the Chairman and Group CEO 4 Borusan Facts and Figures 6 Borusan Holding and Group Companies 8 Strategy and Management 9 Corporate Governance 10 Ethics Management 11 Sustainability Management 15 Economic Performance 19 Investments 22 Environmental Performance 27 Energy Management and Combatting Climate Change 28 Waste Management 30 Social Performance 34 Employment 35 Employee Rights 41 Occupational Health and Safety 42 Corporate Responsibility 49 Appendix 60 Memberships 60 Awards 63 Performance Indicators 63 GRI G4 Content Index 75 2 About Our Report With our sustainability reports at Borusan Group, The Principles of Our Report we present our management approach regarding We prepared our report based on the GRI (Global economic, social and environmental impacts Reporting Initiative) Guidelines and in accordance resulting from our products, services, and activities with GRI G4 Guidelines – Core option. to all our stakeholders, especially Borusan staff www.globalreporting.org and our customers. In the process of identifying our strategic The Scope of Our Report sustainability aspects, we considered the GRI principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, Unless otherwise stated, the data in this report sustainability context and completeness besides cover Borusan Group’s ongoing activities in four the UN Global Compact principles that we signed major areas of activity and six major industries in 2003. during January 1st December 31st 2015. Although the priorities of these industries are divergent, we www.globalcompact.org identified their mutual strategic aspects thanks to the workshop we held during the reporting period. Our Next Report In the report, we included the performance data We plan to publish our next report that will reflect and good practices regarding mutual aspects for our sustainability performance in 2016, in the the companies that constitute 95% of total Borusan second half of 2017. Previous Borusan Group Group revenues. These companies are: Borusan Sustainability Reports are present at our corporate Mannesmann, Borçelik-Kerim Çelik, Borusan web site. Otomotiv and Automotive Group companies, www.borusan.com Supsan, Borusan Lojistik, Borusan EnBW Enerji and Borusan Makina and Güç Sistemleri. We also (G4-17, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23) included Kerim Çelik data that was excluded in the last year’s report, along with Borçelik data. Borusan Manheim’s performance is outside the boundaries of this report. 3 Message from the Chairman and Group CEO Ahmet Kocabıyık Agah Uğur Board Chairman Group CEO Dear Stakeholders, As Borusan Holding, one of the leading companies to inform momentum of the five-year strategic plan. We treated the its stakeholders regarding the sustainability performance studies on developing innovative products and services in Turkey since 2009, we are glad to share with you our across all our business lines for the last three years, under a seventh sustainability report that we prepared based on GRI new topic; corporate entrepreneurship. G4 Guidelines. Currently, we employ more than 200 people in innovation Same today as it was yesterday, we continue our activities departments of group companies and business incubator with a transparent and accountable management approach, companies. With a USD 30 million investment budget, we respect human and environment at each business priority continue to study on 31 diverse products and business area along with our 6,500 employees in 3 continents and models from which 11 of them are in commercialization 12 countries. stage. We predict the total potential of these projects as USD 2 billion regarding the potential value they will create. Our consolidated group revenue was USD 4.4 billion, and operational profit was USD 329 million across all business On the other hand, this year, we completed the structuring lines in 2015. We reached USD 362 million investment of our R&D company that will provide coordination and amount where the main actor was our new business line; synergy in the group. The R&D company conducted 18 sustainable energy. different projects in 2015 with more than 60 employees, made three patent applications, worked on seven mutual The main differentiating feature of 2015 for Borusan projects with universities and partnered with four startis the studies done about innovation, R&D and digital up companies. In addition, we initiated the establishment transformation where it focused on all its energy with the process of three more R&D Centres; the first one will be 4 Logistics R&D Centre, the second one will be Advanced (OHS) performance with regard to our priority to create safer Material Development R&D Centre and the third one will be and healthier workplaces for our employees, customers and New Product Design and Layout R&D Centre. suppliers; and our zero accident objective. We gave 14,101 men hours OHS training to group employees throughout the We engaged in many efficiency and saving oriented year. innovative projects and investments at our companies again, this year. We strived to manage these efforts with a large Last but not the least, our projects that will contribute to sustainability perspective considering their economic, social, the sustainable development objectives of our community environmental and corporate results. We explained these continue without slowing. We give back to community investments in detail in the economic and environmental through our activities regarding education, arts and culture, sections of our report. environment, human rights and empowering women along with our volunteer staff. We bear in mind the risks associated with climate change which is one of the most essential social and environmental In this context, we maintained the support of Borusan issues today. Therefore, we conduct studies to reduce Kocabıyık Foundation to education institutions; provided the impacts of our operations on climate change. In this educational support to more than a hundred youngsters; regard, we try to develop more energy efficient processes gathered thousands of music lovers with many prominent in operations, save natural resources, and offer products musicians from Turkey and from around the world via that use less energy. In 2015, we derived important gains in Borusan Sanat, presented original examples of modern art resource usage by the efficiency studies of group companies. to art lovers through Borusan Contemporary and worked With our renewable energy generation investments which for a more equal and fair community through our women play an important role in reducing risks of climate change, empowerment practices. In the reporting period, we we prevented about 473 thousand tons of CO2. allocated USD 12 millions funds to community projects. We continued the training activities to support career We hereby thank our employees, dealers and suppliers, development of our employees and achieved 150,767 shareholders for counting on us, investors, customers and men hours training and 24% increase. We organized other stakeholders; in the journey we started to create value diversified training programs under Borusan Academy for all our stakeholders. roof, to develop and improve each level of employees. We continuously improve our Occupational Health and Safety 5 Borusan Facts and Figures Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile Economic Economic Operations in 70+ Years 3 Continents Industry and 12 Countries Service Experience USD 4.4 Billion USD 329 Consolidated Million Revenues Operational Profit 16 Companies 4 Industries 6 Business Lines USD 30 Million 30 Ideas and 6 Innovation Business Incubation Investments Companies* Unless otherwise stated, data in this table cover 2015 performance. *(As a result of 2 years of work) 6 Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile Social Social 6,500+ 13% Executive Level Employees Women Managers Ratio 946 6,536 Hours Volunteer Time Spent for Employees Volunteer Projects 150,767 24% Training Hours Hours Training Increment Ratio TRY 4 Million (app.) 1,588 Women Loan Amount Number of Provided by Branches Entrepreneurs Provided with Microloan Support Environmental Environmental 370 MW 479 Thousand Tons Renewable Energy CO2 Emission Reduction Installed Capacity TRY 700+ Thousand 1,529 Employees Environmental 2,163 Hours Investments Environmental Trainings 7 Unless otherwise stated, data in this table cover 2015 performance. Borusan Holding and Group Companies At Borusan, we achieve sustainable growth by means of and value chain, managing relations with partners and our strong corporate business culture. Borusan Holding and other stakeholders, efficient use of resources, and defining Borusan Danışmanlık ve Ortak Hizmetler Company oversee sustainability strategy. the central management of our group together. Borusan Danışmanlık ve Ortak Hizmetler is in charge of Borusan Holding assumes responsibility of increasing providing the expertise necessary for our group to reach the value created to shareholders and other stakeholders its strategic targets and support business outcomes, and through the leading, supportive, and controlling role it plays managing the processes regarding optimum cost/maximum as the strategic leader of group companies. Holding fulfils efficiency. The company also oversees major initiatives the critical responsibilities such as; deploying “innovative such as; Lean 6 Sigma, Sustainability and Corporate Social competition” understanding throughout the organization Responsibility projects across the group. BORUSAN GROUP STEEL LOGISTICS DISTRIBUTORSHIP Borusan Lojistik Steel Pipe Machinery and Power Systems Borusan Logistics International Borusan Mannesmann Boru Yatırım Holding Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri Borusan Mannesmann Borusan Makina Kazakistan BM Vobarno Automotive Borusan Mühendislik ENERGY Borusan Otomotiv Borusan İstikbal Ticaret Borusan EnBW Enerji Borusan Oto Flat Steel Borusan Otomotiv Premium Kiralama Borçelik Supsan Kerim Çelik Manheim Türkiye 8 Strategy and Management We determine the long term strategies of Borusan Holding and ever increasing value for our stakeholders by our risk group companies in the framework of a five-year perspective management model built to turn risks into opportunities. and four major concepts. These are; Profit Growth, Strategic Market Positioning, New Products & Services and Business Borusan Holding’s management approach is based on Excellence. communicating effectively and transparently with all our internal and external stakeholders. We take into While realizing our strategic plans, we prioritize our social, consideration both industry and stakeholder priorities in environmental and economic aspects, create constant defining our sustainability priorities. 9 Corporate Governance We conduct all operations at Borusan Group companies according to transparency, fairness, responsibility and accountability principles of corporate governance. Borusan Holding that plays a central role and does not participate in management of group companies, along with Borusan Yatırım which participates in companies with minority shares and functions as a portfolio company, comprise the Corporate Parent. Holding corporate governance structure is part in the management boards of group companies as based on effective communication and audit mechanisms chairman or member. that establish control over the entire group. Holding Financial Control, Internal Audit, Finance and Investor Borusan Holding Board of Directors, the supreme decision Relations departments help Corporate Risk Management making organ of the group, undertakes the general Department in implementing risk processes. Internal Audit responsibility of group activities towards shareholders Department inspects group companies’ processes and offers and other stakeholders. The Board determines the group them improvement suggestions by identifying the risk areas. objectives and develops strategy to achieve these objectives The inspections conducted by Internal Audit department and thereby works for sustainable development of group includes social topics such as ethics, employee rights, and companies. OHS, in addition to environmental topics. In 2015, 56% of group companies’ departments were inspected by Holding Borusan Holding Board of Directors, with a balanced Internal Audit Department on social and environmental structure of both executive and non-executive members, is topics. comprised of seven members, including two independent ones. Holding Executive Board is positioned under the Board of Directors in the organizational structure, and acts as the Structure of Board of Directors 2014-2015 GRI management platform that oversees the achievement of Women Members 29% Foreign Members 29% LA12 group strategic objectives. Executive Board members lead specific industry and business line related studies by taking 50 Years and above 100% 10 Ethics Management Our business ethics approach based on transparency, The Ethics Board may be reached 24/7 by phone or e-mail. honesty, fairness and accountability creates the basis The processes of investigating the notices received from for all stakeholder relations of Borusan Group. We lead group companies are conducted by Borusan Holding Audit the way in the industries we operate regarding ethics, Director and Borusan Holding Legal Director; notices fair competition and fight against corruption, and make conveyed to the Ethics Board by Borusan Group employees maximum effort to raise community awareness in these or third parties are undisclosed. The examination and issues. investigation works are conducted by independent experts in secrecy. The booklet “Handbook for Borusan Employees: Business Principles, Business Ethics and Human Resources Every year, we provide trainings to all the white-collar Practices”, composed by Borusan Group Ethics Board, which employees working at group companies, about ethics and defines in detail the business principles concerning topics risks associated with corruption, which is an ethics subtopic. such as human rights, environment and public activities, In the reporting period, 170 man-hours training was provided the outline for the implementation of ethical rules and the in this regard. Borusan Holding is among the founding rules of conduct regarding stakeholder relations, which all members of the Ethics and Reputation Society (TEID), which employees are obliged to act accordingly, can be reached on was established with the aim of enhancing business ethics our corporate website. awareness in Turkey and raising awareness about this issue both in the business world and the community. Besides the responsibility of our employees to comply with the ethics rules, they are expected to guide relations amongst We don’t do business with clients and suppliers who employees and stakeholders according to these principles. disregard business ethics and break the laws. In 2015, The responsibilities of investigating notices received we prepared Borusan Group Supplier Working Conditions through the Borusan Group Ethical Rules Consultation and Protocol to be signed by subcontractors and suppliers, Information Line, where complaints regarding violations of according to the objectives set by Audit and Purchasing ethical rules are also conveyed, and developing solutions departments. More than 150 contracted suppliers signed in relation to these notices belong to the Ethics Board that the protocol. In 2015, there was no unethical action, legal works under Borusan Holding Inc. Chairman of the Board of noncompliance or corruption case identified throughout Directors. the Group or in business partners and suppliers to our knowledge. 11 ÖVGÜ ŞAHİN GO CLOSER TO NATURE… 12 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… We are already too exposed to harmful To make yoghurt I boil the milk up to a chemicals in our daily lives. certain temperature and then add some leftover yoghurt gradually leaving it for I think in this way I can contribute for the fermentation. future of our planet, albeit a small one. I wrap it with some cloth and leave it wait I also contribute to my own health, which aside for 2-3 hours. makes me happy. If you come one step closer to the nature, she comes 10 steps closer to you. #EcologicalBorusan 13 Our Sustainability Journey Signed UN Global Compact Initiated Our First Sustainability Report Studies Signed Turkey Quality Association’ ‘Management is Women’s Right’ Manifesto Signed UN Fight Against Climate Change 2˚C Memorandum as one of the 3 Turkish companies Became the second Turkish company to become member of World Sustainability Development Business Council Signed Ethics in Business Manifesto Signed UN Women’s Empowerment Principles Became the first Turkish company to join in UN Women’s Empowerment Principles Leadership Group Published our sixth 14 sustainability report Sustainability Management As Borusan Group, we define our social and by Environmental Management Units and Lean 6 Sigma environmental impacts created by our economic office. We conduct our corporate social responsibility activities as our responsibilities. We act with the practices by Holding Corporate Communications and consciousness that the business strategies we develop Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation. and the decisions we take today will shape the future, and we conduct our operations with the objective to create value for our stakeholders. Borusan Holding CEO is the primary supervisor of Borusan Group’s economic, social and environmental sustainability performance. We ensure our economic sustainability performance through practices led by Holding CEO and group companies’ general managers; social sustainability performance by Holding HR, Corporate Communications and OHS Group; environmental sustainability performance Sustainability Management at Borusan Economic Social Environmental Holding Human Resources Holding Executive Board Holding Corporate Group Companies Communications Environmental Management General Managers of Units Group Companies OHS Group Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation Lean 6 Sigma Office 15 Our Material Aspects In order to maximize focus on material aspects, we held reviewed our material aspects in economic, social and the sustainability strategy workshop during the reporting environmental perspectives separately and prioritized them period by gathering 25 representatives from eight group for each company. Then, we identified mutual aspects for all companies’ OHS, environment and quality departments our companies to design the Borusan Holding Materiality mainly. Through analyses and intensive discussions, we Matrix. (G4-18, G4-19) Borusan Holding Materiality Matrix High (Assesments and Decisions on the Company) Economic Performance Influance on Stakeholders Business Ethics Health and Safety Labor Rights Waste Management Energy and Climate Employment Change Low Significance of impacts for Borusan Holding (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) The upper right-hand part of the graph displays aspects The main objective of creating such a matrix was to clearly that are of high importance for both our stakeholders identify aspects important to both our company and our key and our group, and influence our company’s performance stakeholders, and to develop our plans and set our targets directly and significantly. These aspects constitute the main around these aspects. In the coming terms, we intend to headings of the relevant sections of our report, and data exchange ideas with more of our stakeholders, and to on our group companies’ performance in those areas are further develop the aspects and related targets we will covered extensively in the report. focus on. 16 Communication with our Stakeholders We define our stakeholders as persons and organizations and environmental interactions with our companies and that are influenced by our activities, and at the same time, prepared the stakeholder maps for each. who could have an impact on our group’s efforts to achieve its business targets. In order to plan a more intensive As a result of these studies, it was revealed that the primary communication scheme with our key stakeholders for the key stakeholders identified at the workshop and the ones coming terms, we reviewed all key stakeholders of each identified by Holding Corporate Communications were company in the group. coherent. The communication platforms we employ for these stakeholders, along with their content and communication During the sustainability strategy workshop we held with frequency, are given in the table; Our Stakeholder the representatives of each group company, we prioritized Communication Platforms. (G4-24, G4-25) the key stakeholders that had intensive economic, social, Universities (Academicians) Non-governmental Organizations (NGOs) Other persons Borusan Employees and institutions Suppliers Business Partners that may have interest in Local BORUSAN Customers Borusan Administrations HOLDING Press Banks Business World Public Institutions Capital Markets Social Media Users 17 Stakeholder Communication Platforms Stakeholder Group Communication Method/ Frequency Borusan Employees CEO and General Manager Memorandums (frequency varies according to topics of communication); Borusan Day (yearly); Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Employee Loyalty Research (yearly); Internal Communication Meetings (at least yearly in group companies); Performance Evaluation Meetings (yearly); Internal Information Notices (instant); Ocean Volunteers Platform (all year long); Recreation Clubs; Ethics Rules; Employee Trainings and Borusan Academy Faculty Programs (all year long); The Borusan Employees and Yammer İntranet Platforms; B’Alem Human Resources Portal and Applications Customers Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Customer Satisfaction Research (at least yearly in Group companies); Meetings and Interviews; Internet based Applications; Ethics Rules, Corporate Website Business Partners Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Audits (instant / periodical); Joint Projects; Public Institutions Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews Press Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Annual Public Disclosure Meeting; Project Specific Press Meetings; Interviews; Press Tours (instant); Corporate Website Banks Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Meetings and Interviews Suppliers Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Supplier Evaluation Surveys Local Administrations Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Joint Projects Business World Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews Non-governmental Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Organizations (NGOs) Joint Projects; Donations and; Memberships (continuous) Social Media Users Instant Agenda Messages Shared on Corporate and Brand Accounts Capital Markets Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Periodic reports (on Borusan Yatırım’s website) Universities Human Resources, Career Days Participations; Sabancı University and Borusan Academy Program (Academicians) Collaboration; Joint Program with Boğaziçi University and Borusan Internal Financial Affairs Other persons and Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; News and Information Flow institutions that may have through Media Tools; Communication through Corporate Social Media Accounts interest in Borusan (Students, Potential Employees, Trade Associations, etc.) 18 (G4-26, G4-27) Economic Performance While planning the group strategies; we oversee national always works for the better. In order to reach excellence and global variables, developing technology, diminishing in process management, we apply 6 Sigma Management natural resources, client expectations, and trends such Method across our group since 2002. as changes in regulations. In our long term objectives, we mainly focus on increasing the group companies’ In 2015, we prevented approximately 473 thousand tons of market shares in their business lines and their sustainable CO2 emissions thanks to our energy investments that play a development. major role in reducing risks originating from climate change besides our growth and efficiency driven investments. We target continuity of profits and overall excellence 19 through lean and efficient processes in Borusan Group that ÖZGÜR ARSLAN CARRY OUR LEGACY INTO THE FUTURE… 20 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… We wanted to make healthy products at We put tomatoes, peppers, onions etc. home since as parents we want our child into a pot and cook them adding some to grow in good health. water in it. We then filter the water and add flour and knead it like pastry dough. I grew up with tarhana soup of my mother; my wife also grew of with tarhana soup Later on there is the drying phase. We need of her mother. to crumble it frequently. After crumbling it we see that it breaks into very small So now we have started to do what we pieces. We sieve the pieces and then put learnt from our mothers. sieved dry pieces into jars. Take a small step, do it yourself! #EcologicalBorusan 21 Investments In 2015, we continued to grow our profits in all business lines all our investments with the aim of creating sustainable we operate. Our total revenues exceeded USD 4.4 billion. benefits and evaluate according to their economic, social, We also continued our investments to end the year with environmental and corporate results. USD 362 million total investment amount where our main focus was on sustainable energy. 2015 was an important year because it was the first year of our five-year strategic plan which we worked on for a long time. We accomplished many investment projects at all our companies with the objective to develop products and services that are efficiency and business excellence oriented. We manage Industrial Investments Company Name of Investment Objective Budget Supsan Increasing production efficiency of A-B Line Increasing daily production from 7,000 to 370 Thousand € 9,000-9,500 pieces Economic: 30% cost improvement Social: Increasing employee motivation through new technology machinery usage. Success of the projects and Targeted Gains rewarding the team. Environmental: Less electricity, operational material and cooling grease usage Corporate: Accomplishment of cost improvement Restructuring need in the Licenced Seller and Reaching the target audience of the Licenced Service networks due to the addition of brands, accurate brand communication Jaguar brand to the portfolio in 2015; renovation and enriching customer experience by 20.03 Million € Borusan Otomotiv projects to conform to the retail standards at increasing the sales and after sales current premises defined and imposed by our services producers BMW AG and JLR Limited Economic: Reducing general costs Social: Employee and customer satisfaction Targeted Gains Environmental: Efficient use of the area, energy efficiency achieved, lifetime of buildings and assessment of carbon footprint Corporate: Increasing customer satisfaction and corroborating brand and company image 22 Company Name of Investment Objective Budget Enabling transportation by low emission Import: 45 Thousand € Borusan Otomotiv Launching BMW brand electrical cars and vehicles, thereby minimizing environmental Other: 100 Thousand € related services in the market damage Economic: Reducing cost of fuel and the amount of fuel consumption through electricty usage Targeted Gains Social: Employee and customer satisfaction Environmental: Less carbon emission Corporate: Corroboration of company and brand image West Terminal Port Expansion Project, Building the alternative for the berth that completed Borusan Lojistik 10 Million $ Gemlik / Bursa (Borusan Port) its structural lifecycle at the East Terminal Economic: 2.6 Million $ (project completion cost is 7.4 Million $) Social: Creating employment Targeted Gains Environmental: Completion of construction according to approved EIA report Corporate: Zero accident, increasing current capacity, creating solutions to client needs 28,458 m2 sea embankment construction at Increasing client demands, storage area Borusan Lojistik Gemlik/Bursa (Borusan Port) requirement 3.05 Million $ Economic: 0.3 Million $ (projected completion cost is 2.7 Million $) Targeted Gains Social: Creating employment, zero accident Environmental: Completion of work according to approved EIA report Corporate: Increasing current capacity, meeting client needs 23 Company Name of Investment Objective Budget H2 Furnace Investment, Project of Improving Capacity increase, cost improvement and 7.8 Million $ Borçelik Surface Conditions in CR Product Group product quality increase Economic: +3.5 Million $ EBITDA (2019 target) Targeted Gains Social: Client satisfaction increase Environmental: Less energy consumption (1,040 TEP/yr.) and carbon emission (3,250 tons/yr.) Corporate: +40 kT additional capacity gain ECL 2nd coil opener; conforming to Reduce coiling preparation time 2.4 Million $ Borçelik increasing CR capacity Targeted Gains Economic: Achieving investment target (3.5 Million $ EBITDA) Corporate: Capacity increase Borusan Makina Providing employees with better working ve Güç Sistemleri Gebze Campus Moving (employees and environment, creating synergy and economic (BMGS) & Borusan 1.6 Million € workshops due to insufficient work place) benefits by bringing together different Endüstriyel companies (BESYS, BMGS, Free Zone) Sistemler (BESYS) Economic: Maintain economies of scale Targeted Gains Social: Increase employee satisfaction Environmental: Better waste management, benefiting from rain water Corporate: Consolidation of companies under one roof New TAV Furnace Investment for the Meeting the demand as a result of new TAV Furnace: 3,245,000 $ Borusan automotive projects and maintain the Mannesmann automotive segment (Halkalı) & Bursa Plant Bursa Plant: ~750,000 $ Investment dominant position in the market; be more active in export market Economic: This project in the automotive segment where high value added pipes are used will add significant Targeted Gains amount to company profit Corporate: Increasing trust and loyalty of clients to our company, keeping our position and market share in the domestic market 24 Renewable Energy Generation Investments Name of Investment Timing Installed Capacity Budget Harmanlık WPP Investment Decision: July 2013 52.8 MW 61.80 Million $ (actual) Commissioning plants: May 2015 50,000 residences Karacabey/BURSA • Building a wind power plant with 52.8 MW installed capacity Targeted Gains • Generating approximately 166 GWh energy annually • Beginning commercial production by providing substantial completion until August 2015 • Reduction of 98 thousand tons of greenhouse gas emission annually Koru WPP Investment Decision: July 2013 52.8 MW 60.49 Million $ Lapseki Commissioning plants: May 2015 50,000 residences (actual) ÇANAKKALE Targeted • Building a wind power plant with 52.8 MW installed capacity • Generating approximately 137 GWh energy annually Gains • Beginning commercial production by providing substantial completion until September 2015 • Reduction of 80 thousand tons of greenhouse gas emission annually 25 Name of Investment Timing Installed Capacity Budget Mut WPP Investment Decision: July 2013 52.8 MW 59.95 Million $ (actual) Commissioning plants: June 2015 50,000 residences Mut / MERSİN • Building a wind power plant with 52.8 MW installed capacity • Generating approximately 153 GWh energy annually Targeted Gains • Beginning commercial production by providing substantial completion until September 2015 • Reduction of 85 thousand tons of greenhouse gas emission annually Investment Decision: July 2013 33 MW 42.83 Million $ FuatWPP (first 6 Commissioning plants: October 2015 30,000 residences (actual) turbines) Kemalpaşa/İZMİR • Building a wind power plant with 33 MW installed capacity Targeted Gains • Generating approximately 92 GWh energy annually • Providing substantial completion until October 2015 • Reduction of 55 thousand tons of greenhouse gas emission annually Bandırma WPP Investment Decision: July 2013 30 MW 35.08 Million $ (actual) Capacity Increase Commissioning plants: December 2014 – February 2015 Bandırma BALIKESİR 26 Environmental Performance At Borusan Group companies which are leaders in different environmental impacts of operations; and apply a proactive industries; we aim to develop efficient products and services approach for protecting the environment and natural that respect environment and deliver best benefits for users; resources in our operation geography. engage in many environmental practices that reduce natural resource and energy consumption, waste production, and We support activities and trainings that increase the carbon footprint. environmental awareness in the community and among employees in order to deploy environmental consciousness According to the environmental sustainability strategy in our organization and the value chain. In the reporting determined by our Holding, we implement practices across period, 1,529 employees from all our companies received the entire group which will alter the risks associated with 2,163 hours of environmental training. Our environmental climate change into opportunities; constantly reduce investments exceeded TRY 700 thousand. 27 Energy Management and Combatting Climate Change Every year, we develop innovative, leading solutions at First Wind Power Plant (WPP) with LEED Certificate Borusan Group companies to cater for the purpose of We received the Leed Gold Building Certificate as a result efficient energy usage, reduction of emissions and fight of a USD 20 thousand budget project to save energy at our against climate change. With our renewable energy Bandırma WPP administration building that started in 2014 generation investments which play an important role in April. In the scope of the project, architectural, electrical and reducing risks of climate change, we prevented about mechanical schematics of the building were updated, energy 480 thousand tons of CO2. study report we prepared. Electricity meters were fixed to the electricity consumption equipment at the building. We We intend to reduce our group’s carbon footprint constantly exhibit that the energy used at the building was from a through energy and emission management practices we renewable energy source. Many topics were reviewed and initiate. We define strategies that turn environmental risks measured such as lighting, water consumption and flora. into opportunities at group companies, achieve solid results such as energy saving, material and natural resource Borusan Lojistik LED Transformation in Port efficiency by means of our good practices. Lighting! We initiated LED transformation project in 2012-2013 at Borusan Port in order to reduce lighting costs and improve legal mandatory measures. We co-operated with our suppliers to make measurements and trials at the field and design special LED fixtures in the scope of USD 288 thousand budget project. While contributing in the Green Port efforts to save 1.3 million kWh/year electricity, we also made TRY 380 thousand revenue. 28 Borusan Oto İstinye LED Transformation in Lighting! Capacity Increase at Supsan with Efficiency Projects! We initiated LED transformation project in 2012 with the In 2014-2015 term, we conducted projects at Supsan to objective to save energy and in return, reduce our electricity increase hourly production amount and reduce the number cost with a budget of TRY 5,000. We changed 150 watt of stops at production facilities in order to enhance capacity lamps with 50 watt LEDs. This transformation earned us to meet OEM customer demands and to accommodate the TRY 1,500 monthly electricity saving and TRY 1,000 saving need to improve costs. In the scope of EUR 370 thousand in maintenance cost. budgeted project, by increasing efficiency; we reduced electricity consumption, materials used, and cooling grease Borusan Mannesmann’s Energy Saving Target! amount per valve to improve cost by 30%. We reduced Renovation of SRM furnace inductors by shrinking the electricity consumption from 1.36 kWh/piece in 2014 to internal diameter where the pipe is located and reduction 1.137 kWh /piece in 2015. of inductive reactance that generates between external diameter of pipe and inductor internal surface; will save us the lost electricity on this reactance. We intend to achieve TRY 3,225 per production ton energy recovery by implementing the design in 2016 which we initiated in 2015 with a EUR 87,690 budget. 29 Waste Management As Borusan Group which involves the leading companies every two years with a very high cost. So, we initiated a of steel, dealership, logistics and energy industries, we new practice. We put into use a second filter press system, act with the responsibility to protect the environment which was held redundant and connected to water inflow in where we work and live. the system, that would prevent the accumulated particles in the first spill area of the balancing pool to sink in the bottom We intend to minimize the negative environmental impacts and solidify. Thus, we were able to reduce the sludge at of our companies’ operational processes from product and the beginning and the amount of particles in the water that service design and production to delivery and marketing was chemically treated. As a result, we reduced 132,666 kg phases. We extend the scope of practices that involve waste in 2014 and 70,610 kg waste in 2015. processes such as reduction of natural resource usage including water consumption and prevention of waste at its Reducing Chemical Usage at Borçelik source. We ordered an oil decomposition tank and a detergent storage tank in order to reduce surface cleansing chemical Scrap Recovery in SRM stops at Borusan Mannesmann and demineralized water consumption by 10% with a We recovered the pieces of pipe that would otherwise be budget of TRY 150,000. We reduced water inflow in the scrap which are left cold inside the furnace during production system, and changed the cleansing chemical we use. We by taking them out with the new roller we designed and made several trials with different chemicals. In the first half cutting them with the firing saw. We reduced the duration of 2016, we seek to save 0.35 kg-m3/ton in detergent, and of assembly stops from 20 minutes to 5 minutes, achieving 25 m3/1,000 tons in demineralized water. We will continue 75% reduction. In addition, we eliminated all accidents to experiment various chemical components that will further during this process as a result of mechanical improvements. reduce our chemical consumption in the following terms. We saved TRY 519 thousand annually by preventing labour loss, recovering scrap and machine efficiency. Reducing Grease Consumption at Supsan In the 2014-2015 term, we allocated a EUR 20 thousand Hazardous Waste Reduction at Borusan Mannesmann budget at Supsan for grease channels, new pumps and In our Halkalı plant, particles in water treatment balancing grease pan repairs with the aim to improve cost by reducing pool accumulated to form a sludge in concrete form. This cooling grease consumed for each valve. We reduced the condition decreased the efficiency of the treatment process cooling grease/valve from 0.017 gr to 0.010 gr. and resulted in large amounts of hazardous waste due to 30 the mandatory cleaning activity which we conduct once Biodiversity is a Priority Aspect for Borusan EnBW Enerji During our strategy workshop with our managers from all without harming the ecosystem in 1.4-hectare forest area. group companies, besides all the mutual aspects discussed For this purpose, an extra cost of EUR 650 thousand has and identified for the Group, preserving biodiversity was been borne by Borusan EnBW Enerji. considered as a priority aspect for Borusan EnBW Enerji specifically because of its business line. “Ornithological monitoring” studies for Koru, Mut, Harmanlık, Fuatres, Bandırma, Balabanlı Wind Power Plants Borusan EnBW Enerji’s Yedigöl Aksu HPP and Harmanlık have been made since 2014. “Bat monitoring and Bat WPP facilities are situated in a Wildlife Protection Area. Carcass surveys” for Koru, Mut, Harmanlık, Fuatres Wind The ecoflow of Yedigöl Aksu HPP which is necessary for Power Plants have been made since 2015. These studies the natural life in the stream is being constantly tracked being conducted in cooperation with Akdeniz University with academic collaboration. To date, no deterioration in the Biology Department and Third Party consultants. During the water quality has been detected as a result of its processes. preconstruction, construction and operation stages, these studies are made using scientific methods to determine the A fish passage was constructed over the regulator structure condition of wild life, particularly the conditions of regional at the Yedigöl Aksu HPP to protect biodiversity and ensure and migrating birds and bats. the continuity of the fish population living in the stream. During the transportation phase of the Fuatres WPP (in İzmir Kemalpaşa) a special device for transportation of the blades has been used for the first time in Turkish wind energy market. Each blade was erected on the special device called “Blade Lifter” and lifted at the connection point by 50 degrees from surface. Thus, transportation was completed 31 GÜLSÜM ÖZKOCA FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORLD… 32 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… I myself make the detergent I use at home. scent. Then, I mix the ingredients and put them into a detergent container. Ingredients of detergent are soap, borax, laundry soda and lavender oil. It’s just that simple to make detergent at home. I grate the olive oil soap, add borax and laundry soda as well as adding a few Chemical ingredients contaminate our drips of lavender oil for it to have a nice nature, environment and harm us. I took a small step for a clean world, I myself made my own detergent. #EcologicalBorusan 33 Social Performance Our employees are our most crucial assets at Borusan In order to improve employee experience, loyalty and Group. In accordance with the Group’s strategic objectives, thereby increase personal and corporate performance, we we constantly invigorate our teams with talents and provide measure our employees’ satisfaction every year, and work the necessary training and working environment by Borusan together to provide them with healthy, safe and fair work Academy’s leadership, for the professional and personal of places. our current employees. We initiated many good practices to retain our talents for We oversee employee and human rights in all our operations, long tenures. Besides the good practices initiated within the encourage equal opportunity and raise awareness among Holding, other projects specific to companies are detailed in employees regarding all kinds of discrimination. For this this section. purpose, we established “Equal Borusan” social equality 34 platform. Employment Maximizing the competence, motivation and performance for those women-men employees who own 0-6 years of its employees and thereby supporting them to create of age children at specific day-cares, preschools and a competitive edge in their industries constitutes the development programs. All group employees are covered by basis for the human resource practices of Borusan Group health insurance that involves both inpatient and outpatient companies. It’s fundamental for our group to attract treatment. talents and retain them by constantly supporting their developments. Besides providing yearly check-up and health insurance in various contents according to management level; we Total employee number reached 6,677 in 2015 by an 8% also offer Employee Pension Plan for employees who are increase from previous year at Borusan Group companies. between 35 to 55 years of age with more than 3-year Women employee ratio stayed the same as 16%. We seniority that would help them manage their retirement. In provided more than 150 thousand hours of training to this context, we deduct a specific amount form employee our employees in 2015 in both professional and personal salaries and add a company share to invest in their plans. development contexts. Employees who complete 5 years at Borusan Group can redeem their savings. At all Borusan Group locations, we have nursing rooms available for working mothers. We provide special discounts 35 We did not repeat the Employee Loyalty research in 2015 In the reporting because we conducted the research at the end of 2014 and period, we gave received the results in the first quarter of 2015. We plan to feedback to 90% hold the research in the middle of the year, starting from of white-collar employees and 12% of blue-collar employees 2016, so that we will receive the results in October and be on their performances. able to reflect the actions to be taken in the following term. 4 Breakdown of Trainings Breakdown of Employees 16 9 70 Professional Development Women Personal Development Men 17 Occupational Health and Safety 84 Other (Leadership etc.) Borusan Holding Employee Satisfaction Approach • Effective Internal Communication • Recommendation System • Performance Management Practices • Annual Satisfaction Survey • 360° Competence Assessment System • Personal Pension Plan • Borusan Academy Training and Development Programs • Borusan Culture and Arts Activities • Career Planning • Borusan Social Clubs 36 Avita Employee Support Program We initiated Avita Employee Support Program in order stress on the person or need further inquiry. Psychological to support our employees outside their work life and and medical consultancy, financial and legal information, thereby create a better employee experience at our group back-waist-neck pains and office ergonomics, healthy diet, companies. The program is led by Holding Human Resources new born care, social life and similar topics are included in Department and with the participation of Borusan Holding, the service. Borusan Danışmanlık, Borusan EnBW Enerji, Borusan Manheim, Borçelik, Kerim Çelik, Borusan Makina ve Güç In the next term, after making some communication Sistemleri, Borusan Oto & Otomotiv employees. adjustments, we intend to deploy this practice that we implement to create happier Borusan employees, The program which reaches approximately 3,500 increase loyalty thereby increase personal and corporate employees, involves consultancy and information services performance. where our employees and their family members who live together can benefit 7/24 on any topic that may cause 37 SERDAR YEŞİL REMEMBER! YOU ARE NOT THE ONLY ONE IN THE ECOSYSTEM… 38 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… I save leftover food for stray animals. We prepare mushy rice for birds and leave it on windowsill. First I save the leftover food at my home and then take theirs from my neighbours We share a common planet with animals. and the butcher in the neighbourhood. There is an ecological life. My biggest supporter, my mom also save leftover food together with her neighbours. We consume limited amount of food. Later on, we take the leftover food to After meeting our own need, the rest also places where street animal population need food; those are the street animals is dense. in need. I take all bones, pieces of meat and leftover Don’t throw the leftover food, set them food to the spots with my son. aside for the street animals. I have done it! You can do it as well. It’s not a hard thing to do. #EcologicalBorusan 39 Enhancer Leader Enhancing Borusan +Value From Borusan Lojistik Otomotiv! Borusan Otomotiv Group Human Resources initiated a training After Borusan Lojistik acquired Balnak Lojistik company, in project with a TRY 300 thousand budget in November 2014 order to merge both companies’ employees as one team and to establish and sustain performance culture in the company to establish the collective corporate culture that will carry our and support managers to lead this process. With this study, we company to sustainable successful future, we initiated +Value intend to engage all employees to embrace company targets Project at the end of 2014. Human Resources Department by shifting the perception that performance process is an and Executive Management sponsored the study that covered operational process owned by human resources. approximately 1,200 employees at Borusan Lojistik offices. Atla Gelişelim training aims to raise the managers’ intuitive To facilitate different corporate cultures and employee profiles awareness and support them in performance and team to work together, we introduced workshops, class trainings management topics. GLGB, on the other hand, is structured and survey with a budget of TRY 650 thousand. As a result of as a training based entirely on creating performance culture. these studies, we were able to increase employee loyalty and In 2014, managers and more senior levels attended Atla motivation through senior management’s actions and maintain Gelişelim and GLGB trainings. In 2015 positive leadership all employees from different units to work for mutual goals. trainings were given. 82 managers and above attended all the trainings. Also, 72 Unit Managers attended Atla Gelişelim We plan to continue all practices initiated via this project training. including new suggestion system, performance culture, recognition and rewarding practices, open communication Starting from 2016, we plan to hold focus group studies and platforms, using “we” language, celebrating achievements project evaluation surveys to Managers, Unit Managers and and dissemination of feedback culture, in the following years employees in order to follow up. To date, employees who do as well. not manage teams did not receive the program. We intend to include all employees in the program in the coming terms. 40 Employee Rights At Borusan Group companies, we promise fair, safe and healthy work environment for our employees. Business Ethics Rules policy guides our group regarding human and employee rights. In conformance with laws and regulations; we enable our employees to exercise their personal employee rights accurately and in full and Due to the nature of industries we operate in, Borusan oversee the balance between their work and private Group companies are preferred mostly by male employees lives. and thus, the ratio of women employees to white collars was 16%. The ratio of women executives to all executives According to our business ethics rules and company was 13% in 2015. policies, child labour and forced labour are strictly prohibited at group companies. In the reporting period, no At Borusan Group, we believe that social and personal incidents regarding violation of the freedom of association welfare reside in unconditional equality of women-men. In and union rights occurred and none of our operations carry our country, among the 37 million working population, only an obvious risk in this manner at group companies. In 7 million are women; and one every five women has to live 2014, all group operations except Borusan Lojistik’s were at the brink of poverty. Human resources policies based on audited and evaluated in terms of human rights impacts; no opportunity and social gender equality constitute the basis infringements were determined in these areas. for our human resources practices, while works aiming at raising awareness among stakeholders and the society are conducted. For this purpose, we established the social equality platform named “Equal Borusan”. In the scope of this employeeinitiative platform, we transform our language, perspective and the way we do business into an equal structure. We aim to create awareness in mind set via this transformation. Our objective is to form a happy and successful future where no social perception or role, especially gender, will prohibit equality. 41 Occupational Health and Safety At all Borusan Group companies, providing a safer, regarding health and safety. Suggestions from committees healthier work environment for employees, clients and are one of the main enablers for the constant development suppliers is our business priority. We benefit from risk of OHS performance. analyses, performance measurements, trainings, practices and infrastructure improvements in accordance with our In 2015, we intended to establish “Borusan OHS Group” 0 occupational accident target. in order to develop OHS culture among group companies and provide a platform where companies share their At all Borusan Group companies, we have Occupational experiences and learn from each other. OHS trainings Health and Safety (OHS) Committees that represent include 9% of all trainings across group companies. In the entire workforce. OHS Committees act as an internal reporting period, we provided OHS training to 8,500 people communication mechanism where group employees can including subcontractor employees in nearly 14,000. convey their suggestions, complaints and expectations Our Companies and Locations Having OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Borçelik • Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri • Borusan Mannesmann • Kerim Çelik • Borusan Oto / Otomotiv • Borusan Lojistik • Supsan • Borusan EnBW Enerji Bandırma WPP • Holding Head Office 42 Borusan Group OHS Committees 2015 Established OHS 68 Committee Number Number of Employee 65 Representatives in Established OHS Committees Total Number of Members in 259 Established OHS Committees 43 Occupational Health and Safety Practices During the reporting period, we continued to develop projects SRM Cooling Bed Lift Pipe Transport: SRM line cooling regarding occupational health and safety at most of our bed lift carried serious accidental risks such as material companies. hitting as a result of rolling pipes in the lift. Lift clamps design have changed into an inclined shape thanks to Golden Advices for Occupational Health suggestions. While eliminating occupational accidents by and Safety at Borusan Mannesmann 100% in this process, we also saved USD 75 thousand Boru annually. As Borusan Mannesmann we implement various practices Shaft Change: Squeezing-smashing and musculoskeletalto; raise level of employees’ OHS culture and awareness, waist injury risks used to occur in small slitting machine at provide employees a safe and secure working environment the slitting line while assembling and dismantling shafts where they are aligned through trainings, make danger-risk for size rotation and adjustments. We decided to handle surveillance at the field, and show the emphasis our top shaft assembly-dismantling work by a mechanical system management gives to occupational health and safety by that abolished manual interference and enabled button implementing them at the field. By means of systematic control. By improving the ergonomic working conditions improvements listed below and cultural transformation, we to prevent hand, finger and waist injuries; terminating achieved a 42% decrease in accidents during 2014-2015. occupational accidents and increasing the production capacity, we saved approximately USD 77,500 annually. • Monday Zero Accident Talks • On the job Field Trainings • OHS Spot Trainings • Mandatory Use of Protective Glasses • Safety Walks • I’m not Superman Campaigns • Right-Wrong Bulletins • Mission Impossible-Danger Hunt Competition • Field Tour Discordance Reports • Unit OHS Scoreboards • Unit OHS Performance Monitoring 44 Effective OHS Process Management at Borusan Lojistik! Structuring Health Management Process Activating Risk Assessment Management Process We executed structural improvements in health unit when We completed Borusan Lojistik risk assessment module occupational safety specialists discovered that the unit configuration and infrastructural studies in 2015. By service quality processes and the legal necessities regarding recording OHS specialists, doctors and employee OSGBs at Borusan Lojistik were not monitored effectively. representatives in the system, we correlated them with automatic risk assessments. We added past risk analyses Criteria such as; workplace doctors’ and other health in the system, organized infrastructure and user trainings of personnel’s qualifications, duties, authorities, responsibilities; the module, ensured that new analyses are added directly health unit’s business plan, organization, reporting system, through the module. performance and evaluation of the service quality of OSGBs helped us to determine the improvement areas and take As a result of these studies, we automated our risk action accordingly. During the project, we updated current assessment system; standardized the risk sources and risks; instructions and forms, improved the documentation system linked all risk steps with the current or planned precautions by preparing additional necessary documents; we intended in the system. By providing individual revision of each risk to actively use QDMS system. step, we eliminated the need to update the whole analysis for only one step. We began to report and create solutions regarding mutual risks at all our locations. 45 BURCU BEYENİRSOY KUTLU A SMALL STEP IS WHAT TRANSFORMS EVERYTHING… YOU ARE NOT ALONE… 46 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… I don’t pour leftover fry oil into sink, Why do I do this? I care about both my I recycle it. own well-being and my kids’ well-being. I also care about the environment. After frying potatoes, I pour leftover fry oil into a jar. I don’t use it again. The reason is that one litre of fry oil I hand the accumulated fry oil to my contaminates 1 million litres of clean neighbourhood headman. water. She also hands it over to the metropolitan municipality and they deliver it to relevant organizations. We don’t pour leftover fry oil into sink, we spare and hand it over to the relevant organizations. #EcologicalBorusan 47 10 Points OHS Project from Borçelik! Due to the fact that 75% of all work accidents are caused by By cooperating with the IT department, we ensured the behavioural issues, we decided to change unsafe behaviour establishment of the system in SAP. We uploaded the list to safe one at Borçelik and reduce accidents originating of all operating and investment period risks to the system. from behaviour. Since 2012, we hold focus group studies, We provided all premise OHS Representatives and Field customized trainings at all levels, surveillance plan and form HSE (Health Safety and Environment) Specialists who preparations with a USD 100 thousand budget. As a result of will use the system with user trainings. While preventing these studies, we observed an increase in communication accidents through active risk monitoring, we contributed to among employees, feeling of security and safe behaviour. the development of OHS culture by holding risk assessment oriented studies. We plan to conduct a survey to users Effective OHS Risk Management System regarding the system usage and develop the system by at Borusan EnBW Enerji taking actions according to the results of the survey. We identified the improvement areas in risk assessment OHS Investments Against Fire Risks at processes at Borusan EnBW Enerji particularly to effectively Supsan! convey our risk management knowledge and experience acquired during investment period to other projects. We Identification of fire as risk element according to corporate realized that by establishing an internal company database risk assessment results led us to reorganize emergency for OHS risks, we would be able to monitor risk and prevent exits and put hydrant system into use in order to facilitate accidents proactively. the fast and easy exit of employees in case of emergency and improve effective intervention opportunities in case of fire. With a EUR 76,600 budget, we built six hydrant centres, 10 firefighting inlets and a fire water booster system with electricity and diesel jockey. Our purpose for this investment was to reduce economic loss through more effective fighting in case of a fire risk; safeguard employees and premises and reduce environmental risks. 48 Corporate Responsibility BORUSAN KOCABIYIK FOUNDATION We focus our corporate responsibility work at Borusan, who in areas of insufficient resources in our country. Besides, The performs a leading role in terms of social contribution, on Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform established by volunteer three axes; education, culture-arts and women empowerment. employees in 2008 shines out with its essential and authentic Founder and Honorary President, the late Asım Kocabıyık’s works as another social responsibility area of the Group. principles and values play a major role for Borusan in keeping its ‘Responsible Company’ identity at the forefront. “I have a Educational Activities great debt of gratitude to my country. And I have worked hard BKV’ support for education, which Asım Kocabıyık acknowledged all my life to pay back” said Kocabıyık once and this “giving as the most crucial area to design Turkey’s future, has been back to the community what we get from society” approach continuing for many years. Among the educational facilities is embraced by each Borusan employee today and is placed in built by BKV to date, there are Borusan Otomotiv Zehra Nurhan the DNA of corporate culture. We established Borusan Kocabıyık Kocabıyık Primary School, Gemlik Borusan Primary School, Foundation (BKV) in 1992 for the effective management of Borusan Asım Kocabıyık Technical and Industrial Vocational Borusan’s social activities on a sustainable basis. We conduct all High School, Kocaeli University Asım Kocabıyık Vocational our social works under this roof in three main axes. We allocated School, Uludağ University Asım Kocabıyık Vocational School, USD 12 million budget in 2015 for BKV that provides support and similar examples. 49 These institutions show high academic and sportive grantees from which we still continue grants to 8 music performances in their fields and achieve very successful students. The Foundation contributes to platforms such as results to be a role model in our country. In addition, BKV Education Reform Initiative to ensure the development of engaged in many significant support projects such as Turkish education sector. Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation İstanbul University Faculty of Economics Library restoration. also acts as the coordination centre for Ertuğ & Kocabıyık BKV still continues its support to some of the institutions Publications which is a joint project of architect and it built or meets all their needs according to the public photography artist Ahmet Ertuğ and Borusan Holding administration contracts signed. Chairman Ahmet Kocabıyık. This project involves books with collection value in which Ottoman, Byzantium, Roman and We also grant scholarships at BKV for domestic or Hellenistic era academic text and pictures taken particularly international education of youth since 2015. Last year, 123 for this purpose are presented. students were granted these scholarships. In the context of classical music and graduate education scholarships which are our focus areas, we gave scholarships to 24 50 A Corporate Volunteering Initiative: The Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform The Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform was established include activities such as; conducting joint projects with in 2008 for the purpose of engaging Borusan employees various NGOs, blood donation, book collection campaign, to volunteer in social responsibility projects of education, shore and sea cleaning activities, book reading to visually culture and arts, environment and human rights by utilizing impaired, mentorship, school friend program. The most their knowledge and skills. The Borusan Ocean Volunteers impressive project of 2015 was the campaign designed by Platform performed 6,536 hours of volunteer projects Borusan Holding and volunteer employees in cooperation with 946 volunteer Borusan employees in 2015. Both with The Association for Solidarity with Asylum Seekers Borusan Employees and the group companies continue and Migrants to meet the school requirements of Syrian operations nonstop to “pay back debt of gratitude to their children. We delivered more than a thousand gift packs to country The Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform activities children via Borusan volunteers. Borusan Invests in the Future of Gemlik Borusan carried the excitement of FIRST® LEGO® League conducted in collaboration with Gemlik Municipality (FLL) tournaments which is organized with the title Science and Gemlik County Education Administration, is to Heroes Meet at Turkey, to Gemlik in 2015. In the project reinforce feelings of science making, innovating, learning entitled “Science Heroes Meet at Gemlik” initiated by enthusiastically and sharing. Gemlik students who will learn Borusan, 100 children from 10 schools in Gemlik enjoy the basics of robotics science and develop the skills to solve their creativity and love for science by making robots social problems via innovation, will present their robots in from LEGO pieces. The purpose of the project that is the regional and national tournaments. 51 Women’s Empowerment Principles Borusan Group is among 1300 companies worldwide and Factory”, women employment is enabled at premises within 121 in Turkey, that have signed the Women’s Empowerment OIZs and children are provided with education opportunity. Principles (WEPs), a joint initiative of the UN Global Compact In 2015, 2 child care facilities were built in Malatya and and UN Women. The WEPs provide holistic guidance to Balıkesir. United Nations honoured the project which we business on how to empower women in the workplace, plan to complete in 2017 as exemplary project. marketplace and community. In 2014, Borusan joined the WEPs Leadership Group, the first Turkish company to join. The WEPs Leadership Group provides strategic guidance to the WEPs initiative. In the coming terms, we plan to conduct work to expand the dissemination of the principles, whose number of signatories is aimed to be increased, and to provide mentorship for companies that intend to We Support sign, thereby sharing our knowledge and EMPOWERMENT experience regarding the empowerment of PRINCIPLES WOMEN’S women. We conduct this work under Global EQUALITY MEANS BUSINESS UN WOMEN Compact Turkey Women’s Empowerment UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Work Group activities. www.weprinciples.org Borusan Holding Micro Finance Branches My Mom’s Job is My Future Project In 2009, we opened our first Micro Finance Branch in Afyonkarahisar, the birth place of our founder and honorary In the context of “My Mom’s Job is My Future” project president Asım Kocabıyık, in order to realize our goal to which is one of the most essential Borusan projects for support women entrepreneurs. The second Micro Finance empowering women; we co-operated with the Ministry of Branch is opened in 2013 at Bursa, Gemlik where Borusan Family and Social Policies and Ministry of Science, Industry Holding owns a large industrial campus including a port. and Technology to establish daily child care facilities at 10 organized industrial zones To date, we provided TRY 4 million loans to women (OIZ) at 10 cities across Turkey for the 0-6 entrepreneurs through both Micro Finance branches to years old children to receive child care and support them for establishing and developing their own preschool education. Through these facilities businesses. In 2015, number of women entrepreneurs who 52 entitled “Borusan Joy received micro finance loans reached 1,588. Culture and Arts Activities Borusan Sanat that moves toward its 20th year, operates presented an outstanding performance to classic music lovers with Borusan Istanbul Philharmonic Orchestra (BIPO) with in Istanbul. BIPO opened the 2015–2016 season with one of its dynamic ensemble comprising of the best classical the most vibrant violin virtuosos of our time; Sarah Chang, and musicians in Turkey, working to become one of the leading in November 2015, presented the Concerto for Two Pianos symphonic ensembles in Europe, Borusan Quartet, the which was recently composed by the world famous piano Borusan Children’s Chorus, Borusan Music House and couple Katia and Marielle Labèque and Philip Glass which Borusan Klasik, which is the first classical radio in Turkey BIPO was one of the commissioners. that broadcasts over the Internet. The thematic festival BIPO conducts each December had a BIPO, managed by the art director and permanent chief richer content this year than the previous ones. 9 concerts Sascha Goetzel, and which reaches around 25 thousand were performed featuring Güher and Süher Pekinel, Evelyn music lovers each year through its monthly concerts, Glennie, Nicolas Altstaedt, Kit Armstrong and Bang On A Can greeted 2015 with New Year Concert as usual. For the first All-Stars, Hezarfen Ensemble and sa.ne.na with West Side time, BIPO presented a baroque program to its audience in Story theme focusing on American music and composers. a concert where the First Violin Pelin Halkacı Akın was the In 2016, BIPO will meet with prominent musicians such as soloist and proved successful to classic music lovers. Luca Pisaroni, Chen Reiss, Freddy Kempf, Ufuk and Bahar Dördüncü, Rudolf Buchbinder, Krzysztof Penderecki and end In a concert where Ian Bostridge, Miah Persson and Mark the season with Norma opera which will be presented for Stone appeared, Haydn’s Seasons oratorio was performed and the first time in 40 years in commemoration of Leyla Gencer. so this profound composition (that is not usually performed in Istanbul) was shared with music lovers. BIPO presents the favourite compositions from concerto repertoire in concerts where star soloists such as Michel Camilo, Arcadi Volodos, Bryn Terfel, Julian Rachlin appear. In the content of Sascha Goetzel’s works to earn masterpieces to the ensemble repertoire, BIPO presented Mahler’s 5th Symphony. BIPO ended its concerts at Lütfi Kırdar ICEC with the Aida opera’s concert version performed in the memory of Leyla Gencer in May 2015. Latonia Moore who is one of the best performers of this role 53 Borusan Contemporary We transformed Yusuf Ziya Paşa Köşk at Rumelihisarı in its 100th year, into Borusan Contemporary where contemporary art pieces are exhibited. We present innovative exhibitions at Perili Köşk where Borusan Holding manages office work during the weekdays and at Borusan Contemporary during the weekends. During Borusan Contemporary’s 2015 program, nearly Furthermore, in February 2016 BIPO will go on a European 16 thousand art lovers visited Borusan Contemporary tour including Wien, Frankfurt, Friedrichshafen and Nürnberg. Art Collection anthology besides the exhibitions BIPO will accompany violin virtuoso Nemanja Radulovic and regarding diversified media and cognitive content. Vadim Repin who’s at the peak of his career. Borusan Contemporary hosted two new exhibitions between Borusan Quartet, one of the most popular ensembles in 29 November 2014 22 March 2015. Common Ground: Turkey, continued its concerts at Süreyya Opera House, Water is the second exhibition in the series entitled Common across Turkey and abroad in 2015 and executed the Ground: Earth, Water, Air. Selections from the Borusan premiere performances of new compositions and popular Contemporary Art Collection by curator Nazlı Gürlek, were compositions of chamber music repertoire. Borusan on view throughout 2014-2015. Music House which plays a major role in Borusan Sanat to reach large masses, particularly reached young audience through its concerts accompanied by alternative artists of contemporary music. Celebrating the second year on the air in 2015, Borusan Klasik, Turkey’s only classical music station that broadcasts on internet, played its part in Borusan Sanat’s efforts to convey classical music to masses through its experienced program designers, guests and content. 54 55 Overture: New Acquisitions by curator Kathleen Forde, from to the Moving Image Expo by purchasing Kalliopi Lemos’ the Borusan Contemporary Art Collection presented recently ‘In the Centre of the World’ and thereby adding another acquired works not previously on view in the special masterpiece in its collection. While “What Lies Beneath” exhibition galleries at Borusan Contemporary during the that gathers prominent names from global contemporary same period. art arena, focuses on immigrants and their issues; “Desire” exhibited an exclusive anthology. “Desire” exhibition also In the spring and summer, an intensive program was gathered book lovers in a special event. Leylâ Erbil’s books prepared at Borusan Contemporary with three exhibitions which were the inspiration to the exhibition led the way during April 4 – August 23, 2015: “Carsten Nicolai: Strange to a distinct art dialogue by enhancing the bond between Attractors”, “Essential Matters” and “Common Ground: Air” contemporary art and creative literature through “Leylâ Erbil brought together distinguished examples of contemporary Book Readings” event that took place in November 14-15, art from around the world. Borusan Contemporary enriched 2015 at Borusan Contemporary. The exhibitions that were the world of art with two new exhibitions entitled “What Lies on view from September 5, 2015 to February 21, 2016 Beneath” and “Desire in addition to 14th İstanbul Biennale presented the viewers exclusive examples of contemporary in September. art. Borusan Contemporary contributed to Contemporary İstanbul Expo in November by exhibiting one of the pieces in Borusan Contemporary Art Collection in the Plug-in area where new media art is exposed. Borusan Contemporary contributed 56 The workshops conducted in parallel with the exhibitions at to the development of the ancient city of Ephesus and its Borusan Contemporary continued in 2015. The workshops, international promotion. The Foundation strives to raise funds organized throughout the year, brought together both for the protection and preservation of ancient Ephesus and children and adults with art. Through “Soma Has Dreams” bring awareness of this marvel around the world. In 2015, project, we hosted children from Soma at Perili Köşk and the Ephesus Foundation continued to support the excavation with Derviş Baba and ESGEV institutions we organised art works in the city. This year, wall paintings and floor mosaics workshops for children. Borusan Contemporary initiated protection project, bringing unique, 2000 year-old Serapis “Contemporary Arts Readings” at universities at the end of temple to its feet and Ancient City of Ephesus documentary de 2015. In addition, we invited many university clubs to shooting projects are conducted. Perili Köşk to view exhibitions free of charge. Furthermore, Borusan Contemporary hosted Guggenheim Museum and Istanbul Tennis Champions at Perili Köşk and introduced Borusan Contemporary Art Collection and temporary exhibitions to a prominent crowd. Support for the Excavation Works in the Ancient City of Ephesus The Ephesus Foundation was established under the leadership of Borusan Holding with the aim of contributing 57 FİKRET ÇAM OUR RESOURCES ARE LIMITED… EVEN ONE DROP IS IMPORTANT… 58 ‘The Earth Is Our Home’ Start from somewhere… I grow tomatoes, watermelon, strawberry needs according to its characteristics and pepper at my balcony. I use drip and the weather conditions. irrigation system. Water actually is the legacy we must While using traditional flood irrigation, we pass to our children. don’t take into accout characteristics of the plant and how permeable the soil is. Thanks to drip irrigation system, we use our sources more efficiently and In drip irrigation system, we have the chance economically. to measure the amount of water the plant If I can do it in 2 or 3 square meter area, everyone can do it easily. #EcologicalBorusan 59 Appendix Memberships Duty of Borusan Institution Name Company Name Representative ADR-Türk Borusan Oto Member All Auto Leasing Institutions Association (TOKKDER) Borusan Otomotiv Premium Kiralama Member Anel Doğa Borusan Oto Member Association of Automotive Parts and Components Manufacturers Borçelik Member (TAYSAD) Association of International Forwarding and Logistics Service Borusan Lojistik Member Providers(UTİKAD) Authorized Automotive Dealers Association OYDER Borusan Oto Member Automotive Distributers’ Association Borusan Otomotiv Member Boiler And Pressure Vessel Manufacturers Association Borusan Mannesmann Member Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Borçelik Member Bursa Industry and Business Association (BUSİAD) Borçelik Member Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Borçelik Member Clean Sea Association Borusan Holding Member Corporate Communication Association Borusan Holding Member Corporate Risk Management Association Borusan Danışmanlık Associate Member of the Board Borusan Holding, (Middle East Business DEİK Foreign Economic Relations Board Executive Board, Member Council) Borusan Mannesmann, Borçelik Economic Development Foundation Borusan Holding Member Education Reform Initiative Platform Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation Member Electricity Producers Association Borusan EnBW Enerji Member Energy Traders Association Borusan EnBW Enerji Member English Chamber of Commerce in Turkey Association Borusan Holding Member Gemlik Chamber of Commerce and Industry Borçelik Member Global Relations Forum Association Borusan Holding Member Hydroelectricity Producers Industry and Business Association Borusan EnBW Enerji Member International Investors Association (YASED) Borçelik Member Istanbul Chamber of Industry Borusan Oto, Borçelik Member 60 Institution Name Company Name Duty of Borusan Representative İstanbul Chamber of Certified Public Accountants (ISMMMO) Borçelik Member İstanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Associations (İMMİB) Borusan Mannesmann Board Member İstanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Associations (İMMİB) Borçelik Member Materials Handling, Storage & Industrial Equipment Association Borusan Makina ve Güç Member of TURKIYE (İSDER) Sistemleri Pet-der Borusan Otomotiv Member Port Operators Association of Turkey Borusan Lojistik Member Private Sector Volunteers’ Association Borusan Holding Board Member Railway Transport Association Borusan Lojistik Founding Member SAHA Association for Supporting Contemporary Life Borusan Holding Vice Chairman (Founding Member) Steel Exporters’ Association (ÇİB) Borusan Mannesmann Board Member Supply Chain Management Association Borusan Holding Auditor TEMA Foundation Borusan Holding Member The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey Borusan Mannesmann Member (TOBB) The Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey Borusan EnBW Enerji Member Energy Assembly Third Sector Foundation of Turkey Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation Member Turkey Construction Machinery Manufacturers and Distributors Borusan Makina ve Güç Member Association ( İMDER ) Sistemleri Turkish Constructional Steel Association (TUCSA) Borusan Mannesmann Auditor/Member Board Turkish Constructional Steel Association (TUCSA) Borçelik Member Borusan Holding, Borusan Turkish Corporate Governance Association Member EnBW Enerji Turkish Employers’ Association Of Metal Industries Borçelik Member Borusan Danışmanlık, Borusan Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society Member Otomotiv Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM) Borusan Mannesmann General Assembly Member Turkish Green Building Council (ÇEDBİK) Borusan Mannesmann Member Borusan Holding, (Borusan Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen’s Association High Advisory Board Member EnBW Enerji Working Group) 61 Duty of Borusan Institution Name Company Name Representative Turkish Internal Auditing Institute Association Borusan Holding, Borusan Lojistik Member Turkish Marble, Natural Stone and Machinery Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri Member Manufacturers Association (TÜMMER) Turkish Personnel Management Association Borçelik South Marmara Board Member Turkish Personnel Management Association Borusan Otomotiv Member Turkish Personnel Management Association Borusan Holding Member Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Borusan Holding Member Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Borçelik Board Member (Auditor) Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Borusan Lojistik Member Turkish Steel Pipe Manufacturers Association (ÇEBİD) Borusan Mannesmann Member Board Chairman, participation in Business Council of Sustainable Development Turkey Borusan Holding work groups Business Council of Sustainable Development Turkey Borçelik OHS Committee Member Business Council of Sustainable Development Turkey Borusan Lojistik Member Turkish Tunnelling Society Borusan Mannesmann Member Turkish Wind Energy Association Borusan EnBW Enerji , Borusan Lojistik Member Tümaküder Borusan Otomotiv Member UN Global Compact Turkey Network Borusan Holding Board Member White Goods Supplier Association (BEYSAD) Borçelik Member YenidenBiz Borusan Holding Member Turkish Wind Energy Association Borusan EnBW Enerji , Borusan Lojistik Member Third Sector Foundation of Turkey Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation Member English Chamber of Commerce in Turkey Association Borusan Holding Member Association of International Forwarding and Logistics Borusan Lojistik Member Service Providers(UTİKAD) UN Global Compact Turkey Network Borusan Holding Board Member Turkish Constructional Steel Association (TUCSA) Borçelik Member International Investors Association (YASED) Borçelik Member YenidenBiz Borusan Holding Member 62 Awards Award Name Award Institution Awarded Company Awarded Project Golden Compass / Corporate Social Responsibility TÜHİD Borusan Holding My Mom’s Job is My Future 2015 Suppliers Summit Koç Holding Borusan Lojistik Business Partner Who Creates Efficiency and Solutions Ambassador of Excellence Award KALDER Borusan Holding Ambassadors of Excellence Digitalization Index Accenture Borusan Mannesmann Industry Digital Leader Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Economic Value Created and Distributed Unit 2014 2015 GRI Economic Value Created (Revenues) TRY 1,000 9,836,953,587 11,911,210,090 EC1 Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders Operating Cost (Benefits to Suppliers) TRY 1,000 8,793,473,523 10,687,844,442 EC1 Benefits to Employees TRY 1,000 540,435,473 559,554,054 EC1 Benefits to Government TRY 1,000 85,187,634 114,664,763 EC1 Benefits to Capital Providers TRY 1,000 120,214,369 146,856,678 EC1 Benefits to Community TRY 1,000 17,055,489 33,320,067 EC1 Financial Assistance from Government Unit 2014 2015 GRI Tax deductions/loans TRY 1,000 129,233 151,451 EC4 Incentives TRY 1,000 415,589 443,796 EC4 Financial Incentives TRY 1,000 36,147,198 83,291,039 EC4 63 Environmental Performance Indicators ENERGY and EMISSION Supsan Borçelik & Kerim Çelik Non-renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Fuel Oil litre 7,191 7,701 48,151 45,162 Diesel Oil litre 17,394 17,200 68,836 88,741 EN3 Natural Gas Sm3 297,650 320,559 43,583,747 47,086,054 Non-renewable Indirect Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Electricity kWh 6,034,522 7,677,718 165,680,279 171,047,097 EN3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 803 783 80,113 87,996 EN15 Indirect CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 2,739 3,485 76,165 77,545 EN16 ENERGY and EMISSIONS Lojistik Borusan Mannesmann Gemlik Non-renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Fuel Oil litre 92,565 69,481 0 0 Diesel Oil litre 6,664,371 5,128,789 137,327 147,507 EN3 Natural Gas Sm3 121,834 93,420 4,414,248 3,887,425 Non-renewable Indirect Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Electricity kWh 9,180,961 9,386,530 73,528,718 78,879,337 EN3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 18,676 14,048 8,884 7,895 EN15 Indirect CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 4,742 4,837 36,397 39,045 EN16 64 Borusan Makina ve Güç ENERGY and EMISSIONS Borusan EnBW Enerji Sistemleri Non-renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Fuel Oil litre md NA NA 26,127 Diesel Oil litre NA 88,148 NA 87,373 EN3 Natural Gas Sm3 NA 67,493 NA 2.5 m3/m 2 Non-renewable Indirect Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Electricity kWh NA 2,304,774 NA NA EN3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 e NA 614 NA NA EN15 Indirect CO2 Emissions t CO2 e NA 991 NA NA EN16 ENERGY and EMISSION Borusan Mannesmann Halkalı Otomotiv Non-renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Fuel Oil litre NA NA 227,445 252,514 Diesel Oil litre 42,289 40,234 136,032 148,012 EN3 Natural Gas Sm3 4,165,863 4,407,344 593,107 608,804 Non-renewable Indirect Energy Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Electricity kWh 18,549,744 NA* 13,309,928 14,009,621 EN3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Direct CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 8,176 8,637 NA NA EN15 Indirect CO2 Emissions t CO2 e 11,445 11,944 NA NA EN16 *Borusan Mannesmann Halkalı premise provides its energy requirement from wind power. Electricity consumption was 11,445 kWh in 2014 and 11,944 kWh in 2015. NA: Data not available 65 Total Waste Borusan EnBW Enerji Borusan EnBW Enerji By Type Unit 2014 2015 GRI Waste Grease: 2.2138 T Waste Batteries: 121 pieces Waste Accumulators: 100 pieces Effluents (antifreeze water): 9.760 T Hazardous Waste Ton Contaminated waste (used diapers, etc.): Contaminated waste (used diapers, etc.): 0.245 T 3.31522 T Waste filter: 0.3127 T EN23 Waste Paper: 0.1437 T Paper, plastic, metal, glass: 2.867 T Waste Plastic: 0.0944 T Domestic Waste: 1.0435 T Non-hazardous Waste Ton Waste Metal: 9,500 T Electronic waste: 0.0175 T Domestic Waste: 0.780 T By Disposal Unit Method Recovery Ton 9.74 2.88 1.04 EN23 780 kg Other Disposal Method Ton (domestic waste is delivered to (domestic waste is delivered to municipality) municipality) Total Waste Supsan Borusan Lojistik Borçelik & Kerim Çelik By Type Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Hazardous Waste Ton 415,922 237,990 22,861 17,476 1,111 1,921 EN23 Non-hazardous Waste Ton 19,966 10,032 269,835 123,415 64,930 54,921 Total Waste Ton 435,888 248,022 292,696 140,891 66,042 56,842 By Disposal Method Unit Energy Recovery Ton 9,250 41,240 NA NA 281 106 Recovery Ton 398,272 170,764 269,835 123,415 64,686 56,272 Dump Site Ton NA NA 22,861 17,476 1,075 208 EN23 Incineration Ton NA NA NA NA 0 0 Other Disposal Method Ton 28,366 36,018 NA NA 0,032 0,025 Total Waste Disposed Ton 435,888 248,022 292,696 140,891 66,042 56,586 NA: Data not available 66 Borusan Mannesmann Borusan Mannesmann Borusan Makina ve Total Waste Gemlik Halkalı Güç Sistemleri By Type Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Hazardous Waste Ton 2,431 3,610 643 629 NA 239,950 EN23 Non-hazardous Waste Ton 1,578 16,754 607 9,212 NA NA Total Waste Ton 4,010 20,364 1,250 9,841 NA 239,950 By Disposal Method Unit Energy Recovery Ton 0 0 0 0 NA 13,695 Recovery Ton 2,985 20,120 676 9,258 NA NA Dump Site Ton 1,024 243 0 0 NA 161,325 EN23 Incineration Ton 0,37 1 0,016 0,039 NA 0 Other Disposal Method Ton NA NA 574 583 NA 64,930 Total Disposed Waste Ton 4,010 20,363 1,250 9,841 NA 239,950 Hazardous waste amount at Borusan Otomotiv in 2015 was 456,933 tons. 2014 data is not available. NA: Data not available Social Performance Indicators WORKFORCE TOTAL By Category Unit 2014 2015 GRI White Collar Women Person 946 1,047 White Collar Men Person 2,845 3,272 G4-10 Blue Collar Women Person 16 20 Blue Collar Men Person 2,382 2,338 TOTAL Person 6,189 6,677 By Contract Type Unit 2014 2015 GRI Permanent Women Person 960 1,054 Permanent Men Person 5,198 5,416 Temporary Women Person 2 13 G4-10 Temporary Men Person 29 194 TOTAL Person 6,189 6,677 67 WORKFORCE TOTAL By Age Group Unit 2014 2015 GRI Women 204 229 18 30 Years Ratio 3.30 3.43 Men 726 861 Ratio 11.73 12.90 Women 544 588 31 40 Years Ratio 8.79 8.81 Men 2,500 2,660 Ratio 40.39 39.84 Women 195 226 41 50 Years Ratio 3.15 3.38 LA12 Men 1,627 1,669 Ratio 26.29 25.00 Women 15 21 51 – 60 Years Ratio 0.24 0.31 Men 331 380 Ratio 5.35 5.69 Women 4 4 60 + Years Ratio 0.06 0.06 Men 43 39 Ratio 0.69 0.58 TOTAL Person 6,189 6,677 68 WORKFORCE TOTAL By Gender Unit 2014 2015 GRI Men Person 5,227 5,610 Ratio 84.46 84.02 LA12 Women Person 962 1,067 Ratio 15.54 15.98 TOTAL Person 6,189 6,677 By Management Level Unit 2014 2015 GRI Women 8 7 Ratio 0.13 0.10 Senior Men 44 46 Ratio 0.71 0.69 Women 64 67 , Ratio 1.03 1.00 Mid-level LA12 Men 205 226 Ratio 3.31 3.38 Women 890 1,054 Ratio 14.38 15.79 Other Men 4,978 5,277 Ratio 80,43 79,03 TOTAL 6,189 6,677 69 WORKFORCE TOTAL Other Unit 2014 2015 GRI Women 0 0 Foreign Ratio 0.00 0.00 Men 9 9 Ratio 0.15 0.13 LA12 Women 23 28 Ratio 0.37 0.42 Disabled Men 110 112 Ratio 1.78 1.68 TRAINING INVESTMENTS All Trainings By Employee Category Unit 2014 2015 GRI Senior Managers Man*Hour 224 552 Senior Managers Person 15 20 Mid-level Managers Man*Hour 9,120 12,379 Mid-level Managers Person 227 211 LA9 Other Employees Man*Hour 43,463 90,110 Other Employees Person 2,099 2,189 By Employment Type Unit GRI Blue Collar Man*Hour 50,294 40,660 Blue Collar Person 2,355 1,593 White Collar Man*Hour 61,253 108,278 White Collar Person 3,592 2,623 LA9 Contractor Employees Man*Hour 17,152 9,942 Contractor Employees Person 2,450 1,454 By Gender Unit GRI Men Man*Hour 94,094 124,473 Men Person 3,891 4,683 Women Man*Hour 17,830 34,405 LA9 70 Women Person 763 985 All Trainings Unit 2014 2015 GRI Occupational Development Hour 52,744 105,065 Personal Development Hour 36,242 25,753 OHS Hour 26,451 14,101 LA9 Other (Leadership) Hour 6,550 5,848 TOTAL Hour 121,987 150,767 Borusan Mannesmann, Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri, Borusan Endüstriyel Sistemler, Borçelik, Kerim Çelik, Borusan EnBW Energy, Holding, Danışmanlık, Sigorta, Lojistik, Oto/Otomotiv, Supsan WORKFORCE TOTAL Recruitment and Turnover Unit 2014 2015 GRI New Hires TOTAL Person 1,204 1,588 White Collar Person 632 1.073 Blue Collar Person 572 515 Leaving Employees TOTAL Person 1,050 966 LA1 White Collar Person 544 561 Blue Collar Person 506 504 By Gender Unit 2014 2015 GRI Person 1,023 1,342 Men New Hires Ratio 16.5 20.10 Person 910 813 Men Dismissals Ratio 14.7 12.18 LA1 Person 181 246 Women New Hires Ratio 2.9 3.68 Person 140 153 Women Dismissals Ratio 2.3 2.29 71 WORKFORCE TOTAL By Age Group Unit 2014 2015 GRI 18 30 Years New hires Person 619 938 Ratio 10.0 14.05 18 30 Years Dismissals Person 210 224 Ratio 3.40 3.35 31 – 40 Years New hires Person 436 502 Ratio 7.00 7.52 31 40 Years Dismissals Person 513 438 Ratio 8.30 6.56 41 – 50 Years New hires Person 128 104 Ratio 2.10 1.56 LA1 41 – 50 Years Dismissals Person 214 158 Ratio 3.50 2.27 51 60 Years New hires Person 19 38 Ratio 0.30 0.57 51 60 Years Dismissals Person 98 122 Ratio 1.6 1.83 60 + Years New hires Person 2 6 Ratio 0.00 0.09 60 + Years Dismissals Person 15 24 Ratio 0.20 0.36 TOTAL 2,254 2,554 72 Employees Who Take Maternity Leave TOTAL Women Men GRI (2014-2015) Employees who earned maternity leave right Number 92 183 Employees who take maternity leave Number 92 183 Returning employees after maternity leave Number& Ratio 76 people 83% 183 people 100% LA3 Employees who return and work for at least Number 76 183 12 months after maternity leave Borusan OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Borçelik Kerim Çelik Oto/Otomotiv Mannesmann Accidents Group Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Accident Frequency Company Rate 28.82 16.80 13.30 11.90 18.32 51.70 0.00 9.64 Rate Subcontractor Rate 41.96 23.59 15.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 LA6 Company Number/Year NA NA 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Subcontractor Number/Year NA NA 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost Days Group Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Lost days ratio due Company Ratio 0.63 0.74 0.15 0.09 0.37 0.49 0.00 204.00 to occupational accidents Subcontractor Ratio 0.91 1.04 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 LA6 Lost days ratio Company Ratio NA NA 1.57% 1.51% NA NA NA NA due to disease and Subcontractor Ratio NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA other reasons NA: Data not available 73 Borusan EnBW OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY BMGS&BESYS* Lojistik Supsan Enerji Accidents Group Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Accident Frequency Company Rate 0,00 0,00 0,00 9,00 6,40 0,73 15,70 8,15 Rate Subcontractor Rate 10,49 1,39 0,00 0,00 13,63 11,89 NA NA LA6 Company Number/Year 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 1 0,00 NA NA Fatality Subcontractor Number/Year 0,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 1 0,00 NA NA Lost Days Group Unit 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GRI Lost days ratio due Company Ratio 0,00 0,00 0,00 6,23 0,523 0,052 145 195 to occupational accidents Subcontractor Ratio 48,96 27,82 0,00 0,00 0,999 1,020 NA NA LA6 Lost days ratio 1,98% Company Ratio 0,00 0,00 NA NA NA NA 193,0% due to disease and (K&E) other reasons Subcontractor Ratio 0,00 0,00 NA NA NA NA NA 0,08% • NA: data not available • OHS data is available by gender only at Supsan and Borusan Otomotiv Group • No occupational diseases are encountered in any of our companies in this report • During the reporting period, one of our woman employees died in an accident of Borusan Oto Esenboğa branch personnel vehicle. After then, all vehicles are installed GPRS, all drivers were trained again and wearing safety belt became mandatory for all employees *BMGS: Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri & BESYS: Borusan Endüstriyel Sistemler 74 GRI G4 Content Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 (CEO Letter) Pages 4-5 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 (Organization name) Page 3 G4-4 (Brands, products and services) Page 8 G4-5 (Location) Istanbul, Turkey G4-6 (Countries) Page 6 G4-7 (Legal form) Incorporation G4-8 (Markets) Page 6 G4-9 (Scale) Pages 6-7 G4-10 (Employee profile) Page 67 G4-11 (Collective bargaining) Page 41 G4-12 (Supply chain) Pages 11, 43, 52 G4-13 (Changes) No changes occurred in the share structure. G4-14 (Precautionary approach) We comply with all environmental laws and regulations. G4-15 (External principles) Page 3 G4-16 (Memberships) Pages 60-62 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 (Entities reported) Page 3 G4-18 (Process of aspect boundaries) Page 16 G4-19 (Material aspects) Page 16 G4-20 (Aspect boundaries within) Page 3 G4-21 (Aspect boundaries outside) Page 3 G4-22 (Restatements) Management approaches are restated. G4-23 (Changes in scope and boundaries) Page 3 75 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 (Stakeholders engaged) Page 17 G4-25 (Identification of stakeholders) Pages 16-17 G4-26 (Engagement methods and frequency) Page 18 G4-27 (Key topics of stakeholders) Page 18 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 (Reporting period) Page 3 G4-29 (Previous report) 2014 G4-30 (Reporting cycle) Page 3 G4-31 (Contact point) Page 77 G4-32 (GRI Info) Pages 75-76 G4-33 (External assurance) Not externally assured. GOVERNANCE G4-34 (Governance structure) Pages 10-15 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 (Values) Page 11 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material Aspects DMA and Indicators Exclusion Economic Performance Pages 19-26 None Employment Pages 35-37 None Occupational Health and Safety Pages 42-45 None Employee/Human Rights Page 41 None Energy and Emissions Pages 28-29 None Effluents and Waste Pages 30 None 76 CONTACTS Borusan Holding A.Ş. Rumelihisarı, Baltalimanı Hisar Caddesi No:5 34470 Sarıyer / İstanbul T: +90 (212) 393 52 00 F: +90 (212) 393 00 01 For more information and comments on the report: Ayşe Yeşer BALMUMCU ybalmumcu@borusan.com Sustainability and Reporting Consultant SERCOM Consutling Elif Özkul Gökmen elif@sercomconsulting.com T: +90 533 648 07 40 Design Fikriferah İletişim Özge Kaner ozgekaner@fikriferah.com T: +90 533 273 14 96 DISCLAIMER The information and analyses contained in the BORUSAN HOLDING sustainability report (hereinafter “report”) have been compiled from resources and information deemed as accurate and reliable within the timeframe the report was prepared for informative purposes only, and not to be used as a basis for any investment decision. The company, its managers, employees, and other persons and organizations who contributed to the drafting of this report cannot be held responsible for the damages that may arise from the use of the information contained herein. All rights of this report belong to BORUSAN HOLDING. 77 Our report is prepared in the digital environment and is not published. www.borusan.com
