TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO UNITED NATIONS Human Rights Labour GLOBAL COMPACT Environment Anti-corruption COMMUNICATION ProData Consult fact-sheet ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2017 Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO Human Rights CEO statement Labour Since 2014, we have been a proud than EURO 93 million, and we are With this annual report we want member of the United Nation Global represented in Denmark, Norway, reconfirm and recommit ourselves Environment Compact. When we joined the Sweden, Holland, Poland and to the ten principles of the United United Nation Global Compact we Germany. Nations Global Compact Initiative Anti-corruption incorporated the ten principles as covering Human rights, Labour, the an integrated part of our Code of At ProData Consult we Environment and Anticorruption and ProData Consult fact-sheet Conduct, and the principles are acknowledge and accept the urge other companies to do the therefore a big part of the values responsibility which follows when same. we live and the way we run our you manage a larger European organization. company. We take our role of August 1, 2017 contributing to our local community ProData Consult is a Danish around Europe very serious. Søren Rode, CEO based Business and IT Consulting Company. We deliver some of the We continuously work hard to strongest and most advanced uphold out existing initiatives taken business and IT consultants to the past years, but we also have an cutting edge technology projects ongoing effort in taking new actions Expert Business & IT Consultants in Europe. In 2016 we grew to abide by the ten principles. www.prodataconsult.com significantly and grossed more TABLE OF CONTENT HUMAN RIGHTS Message from the CEO PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect Human Rights the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Labour Environment PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Anti-corruption human rights abuses. ProData Consult fact-sheet Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ACTIONS: • The internationally proclaimed human rights are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a central part of those values on which we build our company. • Our participation in the UN Global Compact, our Code of Conduct and the full UN Human Rights TABLE OF CONTENT Declaration have a permanent page on our websites. Message from the CEO • The Code of Conduct is the first thing you see when you enter our office. This way we are reminded Human Rights every day, which values our company is built upon. Labour • ProData Consult has a publicly known policy of not delivering to any public administration or company Environment abusing human rights. Anti-corruption • The Company has internal policies and processes where any client or project potentially violating MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: ProData Consult fact-sheet above human rights have to be approved by • No violations of human rights have Management. been detected. • ProData Consult is financially supporting • Thank you letters from receiving Amnesty International, Youth for Human Rights organizations, promoting and and Unicef with a yearly donation. Thus we protecting human rights, were are directly contributing to organizations received acknowledging our advocating and working on protecting human donations. rights. We have done this since 2014. • More than 600 visits on our website • The Code of Conduct has during 2016 been page, describing the full UN Human Expert Business & IT Consultants added to our employee handbook, which is Rights Declaration. www.prodataconsult.com required for all new employees to read. TABLE OF CONTENT LABOUR Message from the CEO PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the Human Rights freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Labour collective bargaining. Environment PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced Anti-corruption and compulsory labour. ProData Consult fact-sheet PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ACTIONS: • ProData Consult fully supports freedom of association and all employees have the right to collective bargaining. • We support the elimination of all forms of forced or TABLE OF CONTENT compulsory labour. • ProData Consult financially supports Unicef and Message from the CEO thus an organization working on abolishing child labour in all its forms. Human Rights • Non-discrimination and labour rights are an integral Labour part of our Code of Conduct. Environment • We do not discriminate due to race, political or religious beliefs or sexual observation and have a Anti-corruption no tolerance policy on any cases of discrimination MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: discovered. ProData Consult fact-sheet • No instances of forced and compulsory • ProData Consult welcomes a diverse labour labour nor child labour were detected. force and sees differences as strengths. We work towards having a diversified labour • No cases of discrimination were force. detected. • All employees have once a year an • Although we operate in a traditionally employee development interview and male dominated business segment (IT), conversation with the line manager, we have an administration with +50% with the purpose to give the employees women employed by 2017. the opportunity to influence on their own Expert Business & IT Consultants personal and professional development, in the • No work injuries were reported. www.prodataconsult.com company. TABLE OF CONTENT ENVIRONMENT Message from the CEO PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Human Rights approach to environmental challenges. Labour PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption PRINCIPLE 9 ProData Consult fact-sheet Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT ACTIONS: • We are delivering to and contributing to a large Message from the CEO number of IT projects focused around energy savings and environmentally friendly technologies. Human Rights This includes several large Scandinavian energy providers and public power suppliers, thus directly Labour contributing and being an instrumental partner in both the development and diffusion of new and Environment innovative technologies directly benefitting our environment. Anti-corruption • We have digital contract system making our ProData Consult fact-sheet contract flow 100% paperless. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: • Internally we recycle all paper. • All paper is recycled. • All our major vendors are certified CO2 neutral. • For a fourth year in a row, we have managed to reduce our paper usage. • More than 75% of our purchased groceries are organic. • An increased internal awareness about the environment, and how you affect • We are encouraging reduced printing and we the environment in your everyday consider the environment in all outgoing mails Expert Business & IT Consultants work, has been created. from all employees in all countries. www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT ANTI-CORRUPTION Message from the CEO PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support a precautionary Human Rights approach to environmental challenges. Labour Environment Anti-corruption ProData Consult fact-sheet Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT ACTIONS: Message from the CEO • Working against all forms of corruptions are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a Human Rights central part of those values on which we build our company. Labour • We run an honest, open and transparent company Environment with these values as core values for our company. We only want to win business based on delivering Anti-corruption best quality service for best price, nothing else. ProData Consult fact-sheet • All expenses related to building relations with clients and sub-contractors have to be approved by Management (CEO level). MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME: • We support Transparency International financially. • No incidents of corruption were detected and Management can guarantee that no • We advise and support our freelance business such incidents have occurred. partners within taxation and revision, in order to make sure they abide by the tax regulation and • An increased internal awareness about rules. This year we have likewise made two events anti-corruption has been created. about this topic. Expert Business & IT Consultants • Two events about correct taxation and www.prodataconsult.com revision with more than 250 participants. ProData Consult awards A growing consulting company TABLE OF CONTENT Founded in 1994 by IT consultants, ProData ProData Consult Consult is now owned by a leading group of Message from the CEO Business and IT consultants employees and board members. The company has experienced steady growth over the years, Human Rights and has continuously expanded a national and international network of consultants in Labour ProData Consult is one of the largest independent Scandinavia and Europe. We deliver consistent consultancies in the Nordic region. The company positive financial results. Environment is headquartered in Copenhagen, with branches / subsidiaries in Denmark, Sweden and Norway as well as In 2016, ProData Group grossed €93 million. Anti-corruption Germany, the Netherlands and Poland. ProData Consult fact-sheet Our extensive national and international network of business and IT consultants enables us to identify and 100 present the right consultant for your business. We 90 ensure that our consultants have industry-relevant experience and possess the right skills to do the job. ProData Consult is a consulting company characterized by competitive pricing, flexibility, quick delivery, security and stability as well as the highest standards of IT competencies. We believe cooperation and personalized service is paramount. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com
