KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Contents Message KAITEKI REPORT 2017 “Pursue Growth and Continuous Reforms” Value Creation Message 03-12 Toward Realizing KAITEKI 03 Numeric data for the MCHC Group 07 Value Creation Approach It is because we are in these times of 04 Review of Fiscal 2016 for the MCHC Group 09 Expanding KAITEKI Value 05 Transition of Portfolio Transformation uncertainty that we will continue to Strategy leverage our combined strength to propose solutions to the issues facing people, 13-28 Continue to propose solutions capitalizing on Group’s comprehensive capabilities and transform into growing organization society and the Earth, and to grow under on our own strength our own strength. 13 Message from the President 25 Special Feature New-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation 17 Dialog between the President and Investor 27 Message from the CIO 21 Message from the CFO 28 Message from the CSO Management 29-34 Transforming into Management Structure that Enhances Sustained Growth Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO 29 Management Structure 31 Directors 30 Message from the Chairperson 33 Message from Outside Director Performance Business 35-58 35 Financial Summary 37 Financial/Non-Financial Highlights 43 Overview of Business Domains 43 Summary 51 Industrial Materials Domain 41 Shareholder Information 45 Fiscal 2016 Results by Domain 55 Health Care Domain The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group is (AI), robotics, mobility, medical and healthcare and so 47 Performance Products Domain a corporate group striving to become THE KAITEKI on, advances in science and technology have brought Performance Innovation & ESG COMPANY with global recognition throughout the industry. about accelerated change. These areas will potentially 59-79 59 Innovation 63 Sustainability 73 Corporate Governance 77 Risk Management 79 Compliance To that end, from a foundation in chemicals we contribute lead to profound innovations in the years ahead, to sustained worldwide development and achieve our own and hint at the possibility of reorganizing the power Financial Information continued growth by offering solutions to the key issues relationships that have persisted to date. 80-173 80 Financial Information 80 Consolidated Financial Summary 93 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position facing people, society and the Earth across the three It is during these times of uncertainty that we, the 82 Segment Information 95 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity business domains of performance products, industrial MCHC Group, seek to marshal our combined strength 84 Management‘s Discussion and Analysis 97 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows materials and healthcare. To facilitate understanding and embrace the basic approach of continually offering 88 Business Risks 99 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 91 Consolidated Statement of Income 173 Independent Auditor’s Report of our efforts in this regard, this report highlights our solutions to the issues faced by people, society and 92 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income achievements with a focus on business activities in fiscal the Earth. To that end, we believe it is crucial that Corporate Information 2016, and also shares our vision for the future. we steadily implement the action plan laid out in our 174-177 174 Corporate Data 175 Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates 176 Main Businesses 177 Global Network Looking back on fiscal 2016, we saw rising medium-term management plan APTSIS 20 and seize protectionism and resistance to globalization around opportunities for growth. In fiscal 2016, we largely Editorial Policy the world. Rising geopolitical risks also became developed our roadmap for structural reforms of the In addition to reporting on financial results, the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (MCHC) Group publishes the KAITEKI Report. With a particular focus on our progress and outlook for corporate activities evident through disarray in the Middle East and Asia. petrochemical business and other areas. And in fiscal aimed at the realization of KAITEKI*, this report summarizes items to be shared with our stakeholders as well as what we determine to be highly pertinent to our criteria for decision making and results of materiality assessments for corporate activities. In preparing this report, we referred to the International Integrated Reporting Framework promoted by the International Integrated Reporting Council. Under such an uncertain global political climate, it 2017, we find ourselves at the start line of the “high This report can be perused in conjunction with more detailed information available on MCHC’s website. For detailed financial information, please refer to our securities reports filed with the Financial Services Agency. For detailed governance information, please refer to our corporate governance report to the will continue to be difficult to gauge the direction of growth, high profit” target of APTSIS 20. Moving Tokyo Stock Exchange. the global economy. Moreover, with the issues of forward, we will mobilize all manner of measures without Period Covered by Fiscal 2016 (April 2016–March 2017). Some information from fiscal 2017 is included. the Report Securities Reports climate change and weather disasters attributed to ever dropping our guard, seize growth opportunities http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/ir/library/stock_securities_report.html Reporting This report covers information relating to MCHC and the MCHC Group. For matters global warming and social issues such as escalation with our own hands, and faithfully discharge our Corporate Governance Reports Boundary with a different reporting scope, we clearly specify the covered reporting scope. http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/english/pdf/governance.pdf of medical costs due to the aging population, the responsibilities to shareholders and all stakeholders. Accounting MCHC has decided to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), Standards effective from the first quarter of fiscal 2016, the financial year ended March 31, 2017. In sustainability of our daily lives is also at risk. We hope you understand the concept of the * KAITEKI means “a sustainable condition which is comfortable for people, this report, consolidated results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and mediumterm targets of management indicators after the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 are society and the Earth, transcending time and generations.” MCHC aims to Meanwhile, in the fields of information and MCHC Group’s value creation and thank you for your contribute to the sustainable development of society while sharing its values based on IFRS. However, other figures are based on J-GAAP unless otherwise noted. with stakeholders through our corporate activities. communication technology (ICT), artificial intelligence continued support and cooperation. 01 02 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Numeric data for the MCHC Group Review of Fiscal 2016 for the MCHC Group As of the end of March 2017 Continued reform of portfolio for sustainable growth I N P U T O U T P U T Measures for Performance High-performance Acquisition of U.S.-based Piper Plastics, Inc. engineering plastics: sustainable growth Products domain Total assets Revenue PET film: Reinforce production capacity in the U.S. in fiscal 2017 4,463.5 3,376.1 Lithium-ion battery Determined to form a joint venture of electrolyte business in China materials: with Ube Industries, Ltd. billion yen billion yen Making The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. Optical films: a wholly owned subsidiary Core operating income Performance Making Nippon Kasei Chemical Company Limited a wholly materials: owned subsidiary Number of countries/regions of Group sites 307.5 billion yen Carbon fibers: Reinforce production capacity in Japan from mid-2017 Acquisition of the SGL Carbon Fibers LLC’s plant in the U.S. 37 Cash dividends Industrial Materials domain Industrial gases: Acquisition of part of the U.S. business of Air Liquide and its assets of related businesses Acquisition of Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd. in Australia 29.0 Number of employees (consolidated) Health Care domain Vaccine: Basic agreement on establishment of joint venture for vaccine 69,291 billion yen manufacturing with The Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University (BIKEN Foundation to be established in September, 2017) Payout ratio Pharmaceuticals: U.S. FDA’s examination on Radicava as the indication for the 18.7 treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) (Approved in May 2017, launched in August) % (three years average: 26.6%) Measures for Performance Number of subsidiaries (consolidated) PET resins: Restructuring of production sites for PET resins in Japan continuous Products domain reforms 510 Industrial Materials Basic petrochemicals: Retention of single naphtha cracker in Mizushima in cooperation Growth rate of comfort-oriented domain with Asahi Kasei Corporation products (MOS Index) Terephthalic acid: Business sell-off in India and China 4.4 Health Care domain Number of R&D personnel Pharmaceutical Sell-off of API Corporation’s Fukuroi Plant intermediates: 4,883 % Pharmaceuticals Sale of generics business Provision of products contributing to the achievement of healthy and hygienic lifestyle (MOS Index) Announcement of the growth strategy of the new-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Overall Management 7.0 Reinforcement of Clarification of the separate roles of oversight and execution management and (Replaced the Management Committee with the Corporate Executive points Officers Committee) structure: Amount of capital expenditures Enhancement of Corporate Strategy Division (establishment of four 206.5 strategy offices* and KAITEKI Promotion Office) Amount of GHG reduction through products (MOS Index) Enhancement of generating of innovation (establishment of Emerging billion yen Technology and Business Development Office) R&D expenses 45.6 million t-CO 2e * Performance Products Strategy Office, Industrial Materials Strategy Office, Industrial Gases Strategy Office, Healthcare Strategy Office 126.3 billion yen Provision of water available for daily life and industrial use (MOS Index) Further promotion of KAITEKI Management and improvement of the assessment of corporate value to create a virtuous cycle Assessment results of corporate value including ESG Energy consumption 160 million tons Development Bank of Japan Dow Jones FY 2016 FTSE Russell FTSE Blossom FY 2017 Loans based on environmental ratings Sustainability Indices FTSE 4 GOOD Japan Index 39.0 Ranked A/Received Continued improvement of scores. Continued inclusion New inclusion GHG emissions (Scope1, 2) a special award*1 Selected in Asia/Pacific 7.2 TWh Morningstar RobecoSAM MSCI Socially responsible investment CSR ratings Japan Empowering Women Index Scope1 million t-CO 2e Continued inclusion*2 Received Bronze Class Award New inclusion*3 Water usage (Notes) 1. In November 2016, we received financing based on the Environmentally Rated Loan Program which was developed by the Development Bank of Japan since our environment-focused measures 189 7.0 were evaluated as “particularly advanced” and we were also granted a special award as a model company. Scope2 2. As of February 10, 2017 Million m 3 million t-CO 2e 3. The inclusion of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation in the MSCI Index and the use of the MSCI logo, trademark, service mark, and the name of the index on this page do not denote the support, recommendation, or promotion of Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation by MSCI and its affilated companies. MSCI Index is MSCI’s exclusive property and MSCI as well as the name and logo of the index are the trademark or service mark of MSCI and its affilated companies. 03 04 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Transition of Portfolio Transformation Pursuit of business scale through M&As and integrations, Aim to become a corporate group We promote a value restructuring of unprofitable businesses with a high growth and high profitable business structure through the Performance Products, creation cycle in pursuit Raised the ratio of Strengthened the Health Care Stabilized earnings of the Industrial Materials and Health Care domains Strengthened Expanded Shifted to a high of sustainable growth the pharmaceutical business domain by concentrating Industrial Materials domain the pharmaceutical the Performance added-value Accelerated in growth of performance and strengthened earnings less healthcare businesses contributed by the industrial -realizing KAITEKI-, business Products domain business portfolio product groups through integrations affected by economic fluctuations excluding pharmaceuticals gases business taking into account social October 2005 October 2007 April 2008 March 2010 April 2014 November 2014 April 2017 Establishment of MCHC Establishment of MTPC Integrated MPI, MCC’s Conversion of MRC into a Establishment of LSII Conversion of TNSC into a trends and stakeholder’s Establishment of MCC and Mitsubishi Pharma Corporation Tanabe Seiyaku and functional products consolidated subsidiary consolidated subsidiary the new-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation requirements. (current MTPC) established jointly a Mitsubishi Pharma merged business, and three May Withdrawal from March Production optimization of Integration of the three chemical operating holding company through a stock-foraffiliate companies April Formed a joint venture to 2010 Nylon chain business 2014 polyolefin (March 2015) companies (MCC, MPI and MRC) stock exchange 2016 operate the Mizushima May Retain a single naphtha cracker March Withdrawal from MCHC: Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (current MCC) 2011 PVC chain business naphtha cracker at the July Decided on the equity interest New-MCC: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (Apr. 2017-) MPI: Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. (current MCC) Kashima Plant (closed transfer of the terephthalic acid TNSC: Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation MRC: Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. (current MCC) Withdrawal from SM chain business one cracker) business in India and China LSII: Life Science Institute, Inc. (Core) Transition of Steady Revenue Operating Income Billions of yen Billions of yen 5,000 500.0 Portfolio Transformation 4,500.0 Revenue (left axis) 4,000 400.0 (Core) Operating Income (right axis) 3,650.0 3,376.1 380.0 (IFRS) 3,000 280.0 300.0 307.5 310.0 (IFRS) (IFRS) 226.4 2,000 200.0 133.6 128.5 125.0 130.5 110.4 165.6 90.2 1,000 100.0 8.1 66.3 0 0 Change in Operating Income by Domain 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2030 J-GAAP up to FY 2015. Industrial Gas 17% IFRS for FY 2016 results (after updating segments), FY 2017 forecast and FY 2020 plan Stable revenue due to healthy market conditions in Industrial Industrial Materials Domain stabilized due to Sustainable growth through a good Establishment of MCHC Materials Domain and stronger Health Care Domain structural reforms and linking of industrial gases balance across the three domains Performance Products Domain 52% Performance Products Domain 16% Performance Products Domain 31% Performance Products Domain 33% Petrochemical Domain 23% Industrial Materials Domain 47% Industrial Materials Domain 37% Industrial Materials Domain 34% Health Care Domain 25% Health Care Domain 37% Health Care Domain 32% Health Care Domain 33% 05 06 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Value Creation Approach We promote a value creation cycle in pursuit of The MCHC Group’s Value Creation Approach sustainable growth -realizing KAITEKI-, taking into Realizing THE KAITEKI COMPANY Putting KAITEKI Management into Practice account social trends and stakeholders’ requirements. with a truly global recognition Vision for 2020 Establish the foundations for “THE KAITEKI COMPANY” through improved profitability, pursuit of innovation and Contributing to achievement of the Contribution to contributions to sustainability. SDGs through corporate activities circular and sustainable society Message from the President P13 Message from the CSO P28 based on innovation and Dialog between the President and Investor P17 Message from the Chairperson P30 Message from the CIO P27 Message from Outside Director P33 global well-being 2 Sustainable Development Goals Materiality Assessment Identify material issues to realize KAITEKI Establishing the Overview of Business Domains P47 P51 P55 foundations for Sustainability Corporate Governance P63 P73 1 THE KAITEKI COMPANY Management’s Discussion and Analysis P84 Sustainability Global environment with a truly global Globalization recognition Health and Market medical care economies Health Comfort Social Trends and Environmental Society Awareness Water and food Decision Criteria for Corporate Activities 3 Sustainability P63 2020 2030 Introduction of IT Socialization Established three sets of decision criteria Quality of life Resources and energy for contributions to resolution of global and social issues Medium-term Management Plan New APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan for FY 2016 to FY 2020 Review 5 Group Philosophy Formulate and implement management plans to realize what we aspire to be Message from the President P13 Message from the President P13 Overview of Business Domains – Results by Domain P43 P45 Message from the CFO P21 Corporate Governance P73 Overview of Business Domains: Growth Strategies P49 P53 P57 4 APTSIS 20 The Five Focus Markets and Businesses 1 2 3 4 5 Automobiles, Aircraft Packaging, Labels, IT, Electronics, Displays Medical, Food, Bio Environment, Energy (Mobility) Films including 3D Printing and Robotics Products Execute KAITEKI Management Lightweight composites Flat panel display materials Battery materials Food ingredients Shared Values Food packaging films Environment-friendly Semiconductor-related Water treatment systems and Pharmaceutical materials, Industrial-use films Share the values of three axes and realize materials materials devices medical-related products sustainable growth with stakeholders Fundamental Materials Petrochemicals / Carbon Products / MMA Overview of Business Domains P43 Sustainability P63 Innovation P59 Financial Information P80 07 08 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Expanding KAITEKI Value Reducing energy consumption and E x p a n d i n g environmental impact of society as a whole To reduce the energy consumption and environmental impact of a society as a whole, composite and multitiered solutions that consider the big picture of the value chain are essential. The MCHC Group leverages its combined strengths in functional V a l u e design and molecular design as part of its commitment to providing solutions in which a wide variety of high-performance materials and components play a key role. For example, in the automotive field, the MCHC lineup includes a broad array We are expanding solutions to improve both of solutions embracing lighter weight, eco-friendliness and added or reinforced social and economic value, which help to functionality as key concepts, including various high-performance polymers, carbon fiber and compound materials, composite products, alumina fiber, realize KAITEKI MAFTEC, lithium-ion battery materials and hydrogen stations. We incorporate the demands of customers and society as we steadily expand our business operations. MCHC also works on developing the key materials contributing to energy-saving and lifestyle-enriching products that have spread throughout society, such as Expectation for the development of a circular society which organic EL materials for displays, and gallium nitride substrates for LED lighting. represents itself as a characteristic solution for various issues concerning climate change, resources and energy. The MCHC Group has positioned KAITEKI as the responsive approach, and we work to realize it in concert with all stakeholders. Carbon Fiber Alumina Fiber, Lithium-ion Battery Organic EL Materials Gallium Nitride Composite Products MAFTEC Materials Substrates Establishing foundations of sustainable circulation by diversifying raw materials Advancing the diversity of raw materials for chemicals, the basis of a wide range of industries, offers a way to reduce impacts on the environment by greenhouse gas Example of DURABIO Applications: emissions and other factors, and provides a response to Car instrument panels the depletion of fossil resources. To the chemical industry, this is an important theme which has significant meanings Bio-based engineering plastic, Embracing coexistence with nature while protecting biodiversity DURABIO in both reducing risks and creating growth opportunities. The MCHC Group employs synthesis technologies, We regard coexistence with nature, and the conservation of biodiversity in particular, process development technologies and plant control as one of the key shared values not only for sustainability of the global environment technologies as part of its efforts to diversify the raw but also for corporate sustainability. The MCHC Group selects product lines that materials used in its main chemical products. For instance, contribute to the protection of biodiversity based on scientific grounds, shares this MMA now has the top share in the world market. We value with customers and works with customers to promote its diffusion in the market. are exploring manufacturing techniques that use shale GOBIMAT prevents the erosion of soil in rivers, ponds and other waterways gas and biomass as raw materials in addition to naphtha which are caused by wind, rain and running water. It contains many air cavities, and working to cement our position as the No.1 supplier. providing an environment for vegetation above the water’s surface and a habitat and Acrylic Resins Moreover, the new bio-based engineering plastic, DURABIO, GOBIMAT block mat for soil erosion prevention breeding grounds for fish and aquatic insects below the surface. As technologies which takes advantage of the properties of biomass raw offering superior workability, economy and environmental friendliness, GOBIMAT materials, is a material boasting performance that could MMA is registered with New Technology Information System (NETIS) operated by the not be achieved through conventional petroleum-derived Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and has become a longresins. For instance, DURABIO strikes a high-dimensional running product over more than four decades. balance between various properties including transparency, X-sheet, a type of concrete formwork material for construction, leads to the weatherability, strength and optical qualities. conservation of timber resources as a substitute for wooden formwork that has MCHC is also working on the development of artificial traditionally been used. As X-sheet can be used repeatedly, it offers lower running photosynthesis, viewing it as the dream technology of the costs than wooden plywood does. Moreover, since the material is semi-transparent, carbon cycle. the work site enjoys natural illumination effects, which helps improve work safety. X-sheet 09 10 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Expanding KAITEKI Value E x p a n d i n g V a l u e Water is the source of all life on the planet. It is an indispensable resource that is vital to our lives. JAPAN The MCHC Group, as “a provider of total solutions for water resource issues,” Creating a robust social infrastructure that is is working toward the realization of a sustainable society by developing and providing a broad range resilient against disasters of solutions related to water resources. It is now possible to ensure water supply lifelines using groundwater membrane Global roll-out of water resource management and solution proposalfiltration systems during a disaster, based projects that utilize distributed water supply systems secure drinking water for local residents Instead of large-scale concentrated facilities including water purification plants, distributed water supply facilities maintain and enhance the operational continuity small-scale, independent water supply functions using local sources of water such as rainwater and groundwater. Wellthy of hospitals and government offices. Corporation, which provides this system, obtained Resilience Certification operated by the Association for Resilience During the 7.3-magnitude Kumamoto Japan for the first time in December 2016 as a groundwater purification business. Earthquake that struck in April 2016, all Groundwater membrance filtration system that continued to operate during the systems were activated in the disasterKumamoto Earthquake (Musashigaoka Hospital) stricken region, while the public water KENYA supply was cut off. In addition to installed facilities, water was supplied Creating communities with safe water to local residents and hospitals. The Working on a joint basis with the United Nations Development system is not only useful during an Program (UNDP), we installed “slow filtration equipment” that is easy emergency. Under normal conditions, it to operate and manage and uses no electricity for a small agricultural is expected to offer the effects of lower community in Kenya that comprises around 40 households. Since water supply and sewage rates, and a 2013 we have been providing local residents with this filtration lower environmental impact. To date, Emergency taps used during the Groundwater membrance filtration system system, which purifies canal water, making it safe to drink. We more than 1,200 systems have been Kumamoto Earthquake and a sign about disaster lifeline facilities also introduced a drip irrigation system. The system reuses the installed in various regions. (Musashigaoka Hospital) active carbon used in the water purification process to improve soil conditions, enabling the cultivation of high value-added plants and traditional vegetables. In this way, we developed a comprehensive Traditional leafy green vegetables widely used in the MYANMAR surrounding region business model where the villagers sell the purified water and Creating a high-reliability water resource infrastructure vegetables at local markets to earn monetary income. As it suffers from the effects of climate change, Myanmar is seeing an impact in the areas of water and hygienic environments with rising river water turbidity due to torrential rains, deteriorating water quality from tap water due to high salinity, and increased river effluent from plant and facility wastewater. Meanwhile, the environmental management technologies to appropriately grasp these impact are still not sufficiently developed. The MCHC Group launched a Myanmar site in 2017 and will contribute to improving the sustainable water resources by developing water resource infrastructure Raw water for slow filtration device (left) and the treated water (right) centered around distributed water supply systems in conjunction with water quality analysis projects that ensure high reliability, and through the expanded introduction of RO unit for desalination environmentally-friendly technologies. Resilience Certification is operated by the Association for Resilience Japan, which the National Resilience Promotion Office of the Cabinet Secretariat established in February 2016 based on the Guidelines Concerning Certification For Groups Contributing to National Resilience. Under the scheme, companies, schools, and various organizations such as hospitals are certified as “groups contributing to national resilience” for supporting the purpose of national resilience and actively engaging in initiatives concerning their own business continuity. Scenes of treated water sales at a market 11 12 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from the President Progress of Medium-term Management Plan believe that we have now achieved a transformation to a corporate structure that will enable us to aim for high growth APTSIS 20 and high profit going forward. Furthermore, based on the viewpoint of improving With the limited economic Fiscal 2016 Results sustainability (MOS: Management of Sustainability) for the purpose of sustainable growth, we have created indices to Earnings achieved good progress due in part to the development in this low growth growth of performance products. As structural reforms monitor reductions in CO2, resource saving and energy saving through corporate activities, and we are implementing the era, we need to grow based have run its course, we have now reached the starting initiative of quantitatively evaluating progress in these areas. line of establishing a highly profitable earnings structure. on our own efforts. We will In fiscal 2016, we enhanced these activities, for example In the fiscal year ended March 2017, the appreciation in the process of selecting MOS index items, we closely steadfastly strive to achieve the of the yen had an impact on the MCHC Group’s overall coordinated with the APTSIS 20, and reflected the materiality results. Nevertheless, in the Performance Products domain, assessment in the selection. (See Page 63 for details.) medium-term management plan profit increased due to strong sales of high-performance in order to establish a highly films for displays and battery materials. In the Industrial Fiscal 2017 Earnings Forecasts Materials domain also, in spite of the expansion of periodical profitable financial position. turnaround, profit increased due in part to a favorable trend We forecast profit growth. Thanks to structural reforms, in the market condition of methyl methacrylate (MMA). we have shifted to a corporate structure that will be In the Health Care domain, although sales volume in the resilient to fluctuations in market conditions. We expect pharmaceutical business rose, profit declined, mainly due to performance products, especially high-performance the impact of NHI drug price revision and a decrease in lumpfilms, to display a strong upward trend, and we will also sum revenue recorded in the previous fiscal year. put a highly profitable MMA plant into operation in Saudi In addition to the above, MCHC implemented measures Arabia in the middle of the year. to review unprofitable businesses such as transferring and withdrawing from the terephthalic acid business (India and Looking at MCHC’s business environment for fiscal 2017, while China), and to promote integration within the MCHC Group both the Japanese economy and the world economy are likely by turning The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. to continue to record a moderate recovery, there are concerns and Nippon Kasei Chemical Co., Ltd. into wholly-owned regarding the rise of protectionism and geopolitical risk. subsidiaries. The Group also carried out measures for structural We expect that foreign exchange rates and crude oil reforms such as the acquisition of an industrial gas business in prices will shift to comparative stability if the above risks are the U.S. and for strengthening profitability. As a result of these not to be realized and that the impact of market changes measures, core operating income reached an all-time high of will remain small compared to the past as a result of the ¥307.5 billion, an increase of 2.4% from the previous fiscal year. implemented structural reforms. In this environment, we In addition, net profit attributable to owners of the parent was believe that Performance Products domain will achieve higher ¥156.3 billion, an increase of 204.3% from the previous fiscal profit than in the previous fiscal year, as demand is firm for year. This mainly reflected the absence of impairment losses automobile products, flat panel displays, food packaging related to the terephthalic acid business that were recorded in materials and battery materials. In the Health Care domain, the previous fiscal year, and lower taxes associated with the we are forecasting a slight decline in profit due to an increase recording of deferred tax assets related to the transfer of the in R&D and other expenses, but in the Industrial Materials same business. Return on equity (ROE) was approximately 15%. domain, we expect profit to increase due in part to the In fiscal 2016, now that the transfer of the terephthalic earnings contribution resulting from the start-up of our highly acid business (India and China) is completed, the structural competitive MMA plant. As a result, we are projecting core reforms of unprofitable businesses based on the previous operating income of ¥310.0 billion and net profit attributable medium-term management plan reached a conclusion. We to owners of the parent of ¥137.0 billion. Results of Fiscal 2016 and Forecasts FY 2015 FY 2016 FY 2017 FY 2020 (Forecast) (Final Year of medium-term management plan) Revenue ¥3.5 trillion ¥3.4 trillion ¥3.65 trillion ¥4.5 trillion Core operating income ¥300.4 billion ¥307.5 billion ¥310.0 billion ¥380.0 billion Hitoshi Ochi Net profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥51.4 billion ¥156.3 billion ¥137.0 billion ¥180.0 billion Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO ROE 5.2% 15.1% 12.0% 12.0% (10% or higher) 13 14 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from the President Current and Future Measures under Medium-term Management Plan: billion as business integration synergies by 2020 through we will appoint specialists from outside the Company and “Pursue Growth and Continuous Reforms” such initiatives at the earliest possible stage. In the Performance Products domain especially, we intend create new businesses as the world around us changes dramatically in the future. to thoroughly strengthen products that are highly competitive As a result of the withdrawal from unprofitable businesses and growth in performance products, earnings are increasing steadily. However, as the Japanese economy and the world economy are unlikely to record substantial due to their technological prowess such as materials and Health management initiatives growth, the MCHC Group will continue the following measures in the current fiscal year in order to achieve growth with ingredients with high flexibility in processing and excellent our own efforts and solidify our business structure to generate high earnings and to steadfastly achieve the mediumfunctionality. Strategic priority areas will be materials that We regard the revitalization of individual employees just term management plan. lighten the weight of automobiles such as carbon fiber and as important as business strategy. By building a system in growth in the world economy, we need to promote growth composite materials and performance polymers, electronics which all duties are reviewed and employees can concentrate Evolution of the management system and strategies based on our own efforts. Mainly in Europe and and display materials, high-performance films, battery on what is truly necessary, we are aiming to increase our thorough execution of portfolio management the U.S., customers’ needs for products have become materials, water treatment systems, and medical-related employees’ sense of fulfillment and sense of satisfaction From fiscal 2017, the Management Committee, which was more sophisticated. Therefore, the merger of these three materials mainly used for artificial joints. The Performance through efficient ways of working. We believe this will enhance an advisory body to the President, will be changed to the companies allows us to combine their technological bases, Products domain already generates nearly 50% of MCC’s the physical and mental health of every employee. Enhancing Corporate Executive Officers Committee, which will be a sales channels and human resources, and I am convinced overall operating income, but we aim for further growth of this the health of individuals and the organization represents two decision-making body where corporate executive officers will that we will be able to more immediately provide the market domain in the future. sides of the same coin in terms of improving the efficiency, make decisions. Thus, it will lead to more decisive and swifter with solutions using excellent materials. productivity and creativity of work. Based on the cooperative business execution. Furthermore, we will clarify the respective Three former companies were comprised a total of relationship between management, the manager of each Acceleration of operating companies’ strategies roles of the MCHC and operating companies. The MCHC will nearly 60 SBUs (Strategic Business Units), but we have workplace and employees, we aim to produce results in about formulate fundamental mediumand long-term strategies, concentrated them into fewer than half the number of Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) plans to three years. (See Page 69 for details.) while each operating company will devise and execute shortunits and reorganized them into 10 business divisions. We establish its business base in the U.S. Life Science Institute, and medium-term strategies based on these fundamental identified five markets that we expect to grow going forward, Inc.(LSII) aims to establish a health and medical ICT business Security, Safety and Compliance strategies. We will also step up our reform of the business united SBUs targeting the same markets to form one division and accelerate R&D in regenerative medicine (Muse cells). portfolio, and as part of this we will establish management if possible, and thereby developed an integrated organization Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation aims to expand its industrial Whatever kind of corporate management is conducted, the targets such as ROE and ROIC for each business domain. to strive together. (See the diagram below) gases business in the U.S. and Asia and broaden its new fact that thorough security, safety and compliance are the Owing to the divisional reorganization based on market product lineup. In the ethical pharmaceuticals business foundation of all corporate activities of the Group remains category, we will be able to farsightedly view the industry particularly, we see overseas expansion as a really urgent unchanged. No matter how many facilities and systems for The birth of Mitsubishi Chemical: “Creating a from the perspective of “towards what direction final products challenge in light of the severity of the business environment security, safety and compliance are put in place, they will framework for growth based on our own efforts” for customers should evolve, and how needs for materials in Japan and rapid changes in the market. not be sufficient without the human resources and time to In April 2017, three chemical-related companies under the and ingredients will change following that direction.” At the In May 2017, MTPC obtained approval for Radicava, a use them effectively. Therefore, it is essential to establish a control of MCHC — Mitsubishi Chemical, Mitsubishi Plastics same time, it will be easier to draw up strategy for R&D, and treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the U.S. framework that enables management and every employee and Mitsubishi Rayon — merged to form Mitsubishi Chemical our ability to respond to technological progress in the market We plan to expand our presence in the U.S. market with to identify problems, and draw up and implement response Corporation (MCC). Amid the unlikelihood of substantial will also be enhanced. We intend to achieve the target of ¥50 a basis of Radicava’s sales. In July 2017, MTPC reached measures. With this aim, we plan to conduct comprehensive an agreement with NeuroDerm Ltd., which has leading reviews this fiscal year by returning to the starting point and The new MCC will focus its marketing activities on five markets, and accelerate growth through orchestration among the 10 business development capability for Parkinson’s disease medications, evaluating whether desirable actions and work have been divisions. It will fully utilize management resources (human resources, technology, information, etc.), increase management efficiency where MTPC initiates the procedure of acquiring NeuroDerm thoroughly established at all work places. and, through higher productivity, stronger competitiveness, it will generate a total of ¥50.0 billion in synergy effects by fiscal 2020. as a wholly owned subsidiary. Focus markets/businesses Major Business Domains Growth Drivers View regarding Shareholder Returns Lightweight composites Advanced polymers Promoting orchestration and integration by Challenge to make use of IoT, AI and big data 1 Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Environment-friendly materials High-performance chemicals strengthening market access In regard to shareholder returns, we are aiming for a dividend Advanced moldings & composites (Cross-sectional approach and consolidation of organization) In April 2017, we newly established the “Emerging Technology payout ratio of 30% as a medium-term level, by maintaining Food packaging films Advanced polymers 2 Packaging, Labels, Films Industrial films High-performance films and Business Development Office” at MCHC. It will make use an appropriate balance with investment in growth businesses Combination, integration, providing solutions IT, Electronics, Displays Flat panel display materials Information, electronics & display of Internet of Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI) and big and the reinforcement of the financial structure. In addition, 3 (incl. 3D printers, robotics) Semiconductor-related materials Advanced moldings & composites Battery materials Environment & living solutions Enhancing overseas development data, and be responsible for creating new businesses while we will consider stable dividends for the implementation. 4 Environment, Energy Water treatment systems and devices New energy combining them with our own technologies. It aims to create This policy has not been changed since we introduced Advanced polymers M&A, alliance Food ingredients High-performance films new business models with free ideas from the angle of data International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in fiscal 5 Medical, Food, Bio Products Pharmaceutical materials Advanced moldings & composites science. It will also target different markets in addition to the 2016. For fiscal 2016, we made payments for the annual Medical-related products High-performance chemicals R&D, innovation Environment & living solutions mere extension of current businesses such as system control dividend of ¥20 per share. For fiscal 2017, we plan to pay an Petrochemicals for factories, and make proposals to operating companies. interim dividend of ¥12 per share and a year-end dividend of Intensifying competitiveness by improving Fundamental Materials Carbon productivity and efficiency MMA Therefore, as the internal personnel in the Company with ¥12 per share, which equates to ¥24 for the full year. conventional ideas are unable to go beyond existing ideas, 15 16 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Dialog between the President and Investor Integration of three chemicalrelated companies, to form organization of people with different technological capabilities and expertise Market Business Units (MBUs) into 10 in MCC. Will you explain your core ideas on how you delegate authority to these business divisions, as well as the management structure within the business divisions including the decision making process, and integration of common functions? I understand that MCHC aims at transition to the “resolute, speedy Ochi: Since the target market and business category are unified management” through replacing the Management Committee in the newly organized business divisions and these business by the Corporate Executive Officers Committee. divisions involve with the businesses of the MCHC Group companies, it is now possible to assemble information which Ochi: Previously, it appeared that the holding company used to be scattered throughout the three operating companies supervised operating companies, but now, going forward, we and MCHC Group companies. This facilitates deeper and clarify that it is a MCHC’s responsibility to formulate mediumand broader discussions on technologies, business direction long-term strategies and based on these strategies, operating Mr. Hiroyuki Horii Hitoshi Ochi Chief Stewardship Officer and Representative Corporate and investment judgment and therefore prompt decisions. companies plan their shortand medium-term strategies. We Head of Stewardship Development Department, Executive Officer, In addition, as business divisions are business-focused will make sure that the strategies made by both sides interact Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank President and CEO organizations, it is relatively easy to delegate authority. This also properly. As the whole Group has established a stable base with engenders a sense of speed in the course of management. each of our businesses having expanded corporate scale, we In the meantime, common functional departments, such are now entering a growth phase. We should have a structure Bringing together wisdom of people and as general affairs and accounting, have been consolidated in which MCHC clarifies the future directions so that operating moving into new growth stage for rationalization from separate departments in each of the companies can take drastic actions with a sense of speed. three companies. For example, in the area of human resource management, we can now deliberate on the development of Horii: I see. I would like you to explain financial synergies. Your the requirements of solving problems such as represented by 42,000 employees within a framework of a single organization. target is ¥50 billion as synergy effects from the integration of 1. Integration of three chemical companies climate change, energy issues, and rising demand for medical In this regard, the Executive Management Meetings can discuss chemical-related companies. In general, integration has the (establishment of MCC) care and fiscal issues caused by an aging population. It means issues from even higher, broader perspectives than in the image of slimming down or cost cuts. However, what you said Horii: Restructuring of unprofitable business, which was one that we may miss the opportunity to keep up with trends if we previous separate three companies, and do so from a more of a seems to suggest that you aim to generate synergies from of the main issues of the previous medium-term management just continue to follow conventional growth trends. We therefore mediumand long-term viewpoint. topline growth and prompt development of business projects. plan, was finally concluded, by withdrawal from the terephthalic need new ways of looking at things and a different kind of acid business. As an investor, I highly regard the restructurings motivation. This is precisely what we have aimed at through Ochi: That is basically correct. Newly-established business 2. Group management strategies, governance that you have executed after Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings the integration of the three companies. In an independently divisions have the big mission of developing a new technology structure, etc. Corporation (MCHC) was established, which not only structured entity, they tend to only look at their own products market through “orchestration,” in addition to pursuing organic includes exiting from unprofitable businesses but incorporates and areas of expertise. However, if people with different Horii: What kind of changes are you expecting to occur at MCHC? growth of existing businesses. Given our expectation for this, out acquisition of stable businesses such as pharmaceuticals and technological capabilities and expertise get together, they will of potential synergies of ¥50 billion, ¥35 billion is estimated to be industrial gases. By merging three chemical-related companies necessarily look at products from various aspects and take generated from growth and ¥15 billion, from rationalization. to create MCC in April 2017, you have now finally established perspective toward the next generation. The three-company a structure to aim at high growth and high profits. In my view, integration has therefore aimed at transforming a homogeneous Horii: You have identified benchmarks for portfolio business integration could generally bring negative effects organization into an organization which consists of diverse management. I believe that any business goes through some due to differences in corporate culture/climate but could also human resources, or in other words to create an entity of stages: incubation, success, growth, maturity and decline. generate positive effects as blending of different cultures could multiple talents. These stages can be applied to the markets or technologies. create diversity. As a member of the management team, how How are you reflecting such business stages in the portfolio do you plan to control positive and negative effects, which may Horii: I remember the phrase “bring together the wisdom management by each business unit? occur at the workplaces? of people.” So you attempted to generate positive effects to encourage a challenging spirit and motivation among Ochi: We have reorganized the entire MCHC Group from Ochi: As a basic premise, society is changing rapidly. Science employees by breaking down the corporate boundaries. approximately 60 SBUs into 30, and then to 13 business and technology are advancing at amazing speeds, to meet By the way, you have consolidated 56 SBUs into 26 and units. In the past, we have fallen into a vicious cycle wherein 17 18 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Dialogue between the President and Investor Shift to market-oriented from seeds-oriented development to stimulate present, we need a system to deliberately foster specialists and 4. IoT, AI and health management to motivate them, including personnel we bring in from outside discussion for future to pursue their career. This may mean changing the existing Horii: The current medium-term management plan mentions personnel system. In addition to expertise, we should take into the use of the IoT and AI. What specific measures do you have consideration of nationalities and gender. in mind? businesses in smaller units were forced to slim down in order to apply your technology to actual businesses. Is it fine if I to achieve their respective performance target which is to be assume that, by becoming an organization to “bring together Horii: Overseas development is another subject of interest. Ochi: We have just established the Emerging Technology and evaluated in each business, and ended up by not growing. By the wisdom of people” in the form of MCC, it has become easier Recently, there have been cases of problems that arose Business Development Office and appointed Chief Innovation reorganizing these units as business units, each business units to apply technology to businesses? from the acquisition of an overseas company by a Japanese Officer (CIO), Chief Digital Officer (CDO), and Chief Marketing can think about how they can grow from a perspective of new company. As an investor, I am concerned over the management Officer (CMO). Given the rapid progress of the Internet and technologies and new markets. Eyeing the potential over the Ochi: First of all, I admit that it was a problem to find business of overseas subsidiaries. Will you share your thoughts, including data technology, there is a need to switch from the conventional next five or ten years, business units can develop mapping for from the seeds. We are now shifting into a market-oriented or lessons learned from the past? logic-driven mindset to a data-based mindset and ideas in the each business stage. solution-oriented approach. For example, the business division discussions on products and businesses. that has consolidated teams engaged in automotive related Ochi: As a bitter experience of about 20 years ago, we had Let me give you an example of plant automation. About 25 business now accumulate more information on the automobile a situation where we could not see what was going on at years ago, there was a dynamic change in plant control method 3. Growth strategy and investment market and they have begun discussing the outlook for car some overseas businesses. This was because we delegated from simple control to multivariable and complex control. Horii: A company can raise ROE in the short term if it sacrifices business in 2025. A medium-term management plan usually responsibility to a regional headquarter (RHQ) in a halfway Since then, this has logically become so complex that it could future expenditures. However, this is not what mediumand covers the upcoming five years at most, but that is not enough manner. Since then, we made the business department directly not advance any further. In the meanwhile, the Internet and long-term investors want. The same is true for shareholder anymore. We can come up with new themes for R&D by the responsible for its overseas business without relying on the data technology have achieved rapid growth. Pursuing the returns. I want the company to invest for the future as well. long term forecast on five focus markets . RHQ. However, there is still a drawback of not being able to conventional logic will not make further progress. Instead, we pay attention to the details. We are therefore considering a new are now required to shift to an inductive approach of improving Ochi: Yes, we have been transitioning to the concept of ROIC Horii: Next, let us talk in a longer term perspective. I would like structure in which a major RHQ member monitors an overseas technology by analyzing data results. The IoT and the AI will from the conventional methods with the aim to improve capital to ask about the investment of human resources development. group company as an outside director. Going forward, RHQs promote further rationalization and energy conservation. I efficiency. The UP!20 activities for higher productivity, which will be What are your thoughts on nurturing employees for future will be responsible for marketing, personnel management, am also convinced that chemical synthesis reactions and introduced to MCC (see page 25 for details), specifies the ROIC management roles? environment and safety, and other common functions, while effectiveness of catalysts will move up to a higher level in five to reverse tree formula, sets the targets, and pursues its optimal figure business divisions will focus on businesses. Under such a ten years from now. for each SBU. We consider that this will allow us to lay out a Ochi: Specialists in management tend to be highlighted, but for system, information sharing is inevitable. This is why a RHQ is scheme for more proactive uses of money for future development. a manufacturer, specialists in R&D, manufacturing technology, also now required to participate in the Executive Management Horii: Concerning health management, you aim to achieve facility management and other areas are just as important. Meeting in addition to the head of business divisions and results in about three years. What kind of benchmark or Horii: I believe that investment is indispensable for raising During the high growth period when many people entered the the head of the shared function division. I am expecting that indicator are you thinking to use to ensure a good outcome? corporate value and that the main investment target should be company, experienced various positions and grew, becoming this structure will allow more useful information to reach the facilities and equipment for the medium term, R&D for the long a generalist used to be one of the popular career paths. At management with faster speed. Ochi: In deciding on an indicator of health management, term, and human resources development for the ultra-long we need to make a comprehensive assessment of not only term. Let me now move on to R&D investment. What do you health data, but also work performance, work satisfaction think are the best measures to produce efficient R&D outcome? and other factors. Low productivity of Japanese companies is viewed as a problem but what I find more important is to Ochi: R&D themes should be thoroughly decided by the produce creative work, rather than to merely raise the speed management and are currently being discussed between the of work. When each of us becomes more creative, the management and the heads of business divisions. From this organization should get stronger. year, however, we are changing the approach to managing R&D activities through what we call the Stage Gate Meeting Horii: I can see that you truly aim for such corporate culture and management by use of the MOT Indices (one of the three with the KAITEKI management. I think the concept of KAITEKI management axes of KAITEKI Management which aims to management is quite close to that of Environmental, Social create innovation). While the Stage Gate Meeting checks R&D and Governance (ESG). In order to prolong contribution to steps of each theme and manages the progresses, what is sustainable society, the company should find a favorable important is not management but achievement. The Groupapproach for its own sake. Win-win relationships that are good wide achievement is monitored by using MOT Indices, such for both society and your company are what you should aim at. as the number of new themes or projects in progress, rate of I believe that KAITEKI management enables you to achieve that. development into market application, speed and expenses. Ochi: Our KAITEKI management seeks “a comfortable Horii: I have been observing your business for many years and condition for people, society and the Earth.” I believe this is an I am impressed with your outstanding technological strength important concept for achieving sustainable growth. but at the same time, I feel you are facing a challenge on how 19 20 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from the CFO Toward strengthening “return control” in addition to “risk control” Kenkichi Kosakai Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy CEO, Chief Financial Officer Q2 Please explain the progress of APTSIS 20. A Steadily improving KPIs Results of fiscal 2016 Outlook for fiscal 2017 For core operating income*2, which was introduced upon In the fiscal 2017 outlook we announced at the beginning of the the application of IFRS from fiscal 2016, we posted a record term, the expected core operating income is ¥310 billion (an ¥307.5 billion, while ROS was 9.1%. Net profit attributable to increase of ¥2.5 billion year-on-year) and the expected net profit owners of the parent also significantly increased to ¥156.3 attributable to owners of the parent is ¥137 billion (-¥19.3 billion billion (increased ¥104.9 billion year-on-year). In terms of Key year-on-year). Performance Indicator (KPI) results, we recorded ROE of 15.1% In the Performance Products segment, though we expect (+9.9% year-on-year), net D/E ratio of 1.06 times (-0.11 yearhigher earnings in optical films, PET films, carbon fiber and on-year), and ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent alumina fiber and so on, as these are areas where we have (equivalent to shareholders’ equity ratio in J-GAAP) of 24.5% boosted production capacity. At the same time we estimate a Q1 Please tell us about the aims and pillars of the financial strategy in the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20. (+1.5% year-on-year), showing improvement across all these contraction of sale and purchase difference due to rising raw A financial metrics compared to the previous year. material costs associated with some products and a higher Establishing a stable and robust financial base Noting that while ROE achieved a significant improvement burden of common administrative expenses. Meanwhile, in the up to 15.1% in fiscal 2016, there were special factors Chemicals segment, we expect steady performance thanks to Over the medium-to long-term, we would like to expand to strengthen our portfolio while improving profitability (MOE*1) involved, including a temporary reduction in tax expenses, the contribution of the new Middle Eastern plant for our MMA our corporate value in a sustainable fashion and meet our through the appropriate allocation of resources. we will continue to actively pursue measures aimed at business scheduled to go online in the middle of the year, and commitments to shareholders and all stakeholders. Not only by investing in and developing the Performance expanding stable earnings. as a result of solving problems which occurred at the domestic In APTSIS 15 (fiscal 2011 to 2015), our previous medium-term Products and Health Care domains, both of which contribute In terms of cash flow, although we undertook ¥206.5 petrochemical plant in the previous period. management plan, we managed to develop the foundations high growth and profitability, but by demonstrating business billion of investments, we managed to maintain free cash In terms of fiscal 2017 KPIs, we expect to hit ROS of 8.5% for sustained growth by expanding the business scale synergy thanks to the integration of the three companies (MCC, flow of ¥103.7 billion in real terms. Based on this, we (-0.6% year-on-year), maintaining a level above the 8% target through M&A activities and by conducting structural reforms MPI and MRC) and improving operational efficiency through endeavor to improve our financial position. laid out in the medium-term management plan, along with in businesses with fluctuating revenue. Under APTSIS 20, our workstyle reforms, we will raise profitability and meet the goals ROE of 12% and net D/E ratio of 1.0 times. medium-term management plan that runs from fiscal 2016 laid out in APTSIS 20. We will also make use of the cash earned to 2020, we are focusing on growth and profitability in the from operations in a well-balanced manner, allocating it in Change in Consolidated Performance Change in Consolidated Financial Indicators Performance Products domain and Health Care domain, and investing in sustainable growth for the future, improving the Net Sales / Revenue Operating Income / Core Operating Income Ratio of Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent IFRS Operating Income Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent Net D/E Ratio ROE we are in a stage of transition to an even higher corporate financial base, and offering appropriate and stable shareholder (Billions of yen) 307.5 (Billions of yen) (%) (times) value. Our main goals are ROE of 10% or higher, core operating return. For the investment strategy in APTSIS 20, some ¥1.7 4,000 3,823.1 300.4 310.0 300 30.0 3.0 income of ¥380 billion and net profit of ¥180 billion. We are trillion for capital expenditures (including ¥500 billion investment 290.0 25.8 3,656.3 24.6 24.5 seeking to expand our corporate value based on a stable and in maintaining and updating equipment) and for investment in 3,543.4 268.7 268.6 3,650.0 22.6 22.9 23.0 3,500 3,498.8 200 20.0 2.0 robust financial base even after fiscal 2020, which is the final growth through M&A is planned. 280.0 3,376.1 15.1 year of the current medium-term management plan. Specific financial targets aimed at bolstering our financial 3,088.6 1.15 1.25 3,000 165.7 156.3 137.0 100 10.0 1.11 1.10 1.17 1.0 1.06 In APTSIS 20, we clarified the role of MCHC. Specifically, MCHC position are as follows. 90.2 110.5 60.9 46.4 6.4 18.6 determines business strategy, devises and manages medium-to 32.2 51.4 2.3 3.7 4.8 5.2 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2,500 0 0 0 long-term management plans, and allocates resources based on Shareholders’ Equity Ratio Net D/E Ratio (end of FY 2020) (end of FY 2020) 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3* 3 2017/3*4 2018/3 2013/3 2014/3 2015/3 2016/3 2017/3 them. For portfolio management, by incorporating ROIC Indices in (Plan) each business domain in addition to growth potential and the core 30% 0.8 times *1 Stands for “Management of Economics,” one of the three axes of KAITEKI Management. This axis aims to enhance economic value, as represented by business performance, through the management with a focus on the efficient allocation of capital. (end of FY 2016: 24.5%) (end of FY 2016: 1.06 times) operating margin on revenue (return on sales, or ROS), we aim *2 To ascertain ordinary operating income and loss, expenses associated with structural reforms and income/loss resulting from extraordinary factors such as disasters are deducted to derive “core operating income.” Core operating income is used as an indicator in the external explanation and business administration. *3, 4 Figures pertaining to non-continuing businesses for March 2016 IFRS and March 2017 have been deducted. 21 22 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from the CFO Q3 Please explain the details about “strengthening the portfolio.” Q4 Please specify your measures aimed at improved capital efficiency. A Toward strengthening “return control” in addition to “risk control” A Toward more advanced utilization of capital In APTSIS 20, to improve capital efficiency we have aimed effort to develop more advanced capital utilization. One of Strengthening Management Structure Strengthening Portfolio Management to squeeze out 300 to 500 billion yen in capital by reducing the primary purposes of the global roll-out is to pool and To coincide with the establishment of Mitsubishi Chemical As noted above, we clarified the roles of MCHC and working capital and selling off assets such as crosscontrol the cash uniformly in each region so that governance Corporation following the integration of the three chemical the operating companies as “business management” shareholdings reduction. We would like to use the funds function of subsidiaries can perform through cash. CMS was companies in April 2017, we have made changes to the and “business execution,” respectively, and to increase obtained through improved capital efficiency in a well-balanced introduced in Europe from fiscal 2016. It will be introduced management structure of the Board of Directors and management speed further, we have delegated a great deal of manner, allocating them in investments for future growth, in the U.S. from fiscal 2017 and in Asia, where cash is Corporate Executive Officers Committee of MCHC to clarify authority to the operating companies. improving financial base, and offering shareholders return. managed across multiple currencies, we plan to achieve the roles of MCHC and each operating company. MCHC We reduced the numbers of SBUs we manage from about One of our specific measures for capital efficiency is the unified management around fiscal 2020. Ultimately, by also set up strategy offices for each of the four segments 60 to 30. Each SBU was reallocated into four quadrants (nextglobal roll-out of cash management system (CMS). We will working to globally centralize the management of these four (Performance Products Strategy Office, Industrial Materials generation businesses, growth businesses, cash-generating expand the system, which has been deployed in Japan regions, we will aim to achieve even greater efficiency. Strategy Office, Industrial Gases Strategy Office, Healthcare businesses and businesses to be restructured). We will adopt to date, to the sites in the U.S., Europe and Asia, in an Strategy Office), as well as the Emerging Technology and management indicators (sales growth rate, ROS, ROIC) that Business Development Office involved with the development reflect each business domain to enable fine-grained business of next-generation businesses such as IoT and AI, and management and allocate resources more appropriately. the commercialization of cutting-edge technologies. In terms of ROIC management, we will set target figures Through these changes, MCHC will bolster its portfolio by domain and manage them as KPIs for improving profit management by devising medium-term strategies for each margin. We also include revenue in growth businesses KPI business domain, further enhancing its monitoring of the and free cash flow in cash-generating businesses KPI. In medium-term management plan, and allocating resources the past, we tended to focus on unprofitable businesses as appropriately. Under this strengthened management problems, but moving forward, low-profit businesses whose Management Roadmap Toward Achieving the Medium-term Management Plan: Portfolio Management structure, each operating company can focus on carrying ROIC falls below weighed average capital cost (WACC) will out business activities based on its basic strategy. certainly be examined. Positioning of each business and affiliate companies based on domain-specific indicators In the Performance Products segment, we are pursuing We biannually perform numerical investigations and growth and high profitability including synergy effects. For the evaluations on progress of action plans and investment plan Implementation of regular monitoring to accelerate resource allocation and portfolio optimization Chemicals segment, we aim to boost profits by developing of the medium-term management plan and management greater stability and functionality. In the Industrial Gases indicators. As for unachieved targets, we discuss in-depth Next-generation Businesses Growth Businesses Indicators segment, in addition to stable growth, we are looking to expand the necessity of structural reforms and then review our into the performance domain. In the Health Care segment, we portfolio and resource allocation accordingly. Advanced polymers Growth Potential will accelerate growth, including expansion in the U.S. Based on such reinforcement of management structure Healthcare solutions High-performance chemicals (Sales growth rate) (Life science: next-generation healthcare) and portfolio, we endeavor to strengthen the return control Bio solutions High-performance films ≥4%/year system in addition to the traditional risk control system. (Projected global economic growth rate: Gas solutions Environment and living solutions 3.5%*) M&As New energy and highAdvanced moldings and composites Alliance performance materials New energy Profitability Solutions integrating Ethical Phmaceuticals (ROS) big data and ICT Life science (healthcare and medical ICT) Performance Products ≥8% Industrial Materials ≥5% Health Care ≥14% Cash-generating businesses Capital Efficiency Information, electronics and display (ROIC) Petrochemicals MMA Withdrawal Businesses to be restructured Performance Products ≥8% Carbon Industrial Materials ≥5% Industrial gases Health Care ≥5% Life science (drug development solutions) Performance Products domain Industrial Materials domain Health Care domain Next-generation business themes * Average IMF predication for 2016 to 2020 23 24 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Special Feature New-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation On April 1, 2017, former Mitsubishi Chemical, Mitsubishi Plastics Introduction to Activities Underway at Work Sites (MPI) and Mitsubishi Rayon were merged to form the newly integrated Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation (MCC). As the core “ROIC Activities” at Ryobi Techno Corporation FY 2016 operating company of the Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Group, MCC seeks to provide solutions to environmental and social issues and strive to achieve the concept of KAITEKI, which Ryobi Techno Corporation (RTC) is a group company engaged worked together to thoroughly determine the cause. As a result, facilitates the sustainable development of people, society and in the development and manufacturing of construction improvements were made on the equipment side by properly the Earth. and housing materials under the Advanced Moldings and tuning the roller equipment supplying the ink, and making This newly formed MCC maintains diversity of human resources Composites Business Domain of MCC. RTC develops and changes to ink supply methods, ink quality and transfer roller and technology platforms, and operates businesses globally. manufactures Hishicarbo polycarbonate sheets for exterior materials. In addition, as it had become difficult to update the While leveraging these resources and achieving sustained growth, use, which are essential for increasingly diverse homes and plate cylinders both physically and in terms of cost, by using a MCC hopes to steadily achieve the medium-term management apartment complexes, as well as the Deckboard eaves system new material, excellent character legibility was realized ink dregs plan APTSIS 20 formulated by MCHC. In addition to growth and for gutters, gables and fascia board. Its products are trusted blockages were eliminated and marking defects were reduced cost reductions across existing businesses, MCHC aims to add and loved by a wide range of customers. to zero. This achieved one-week unadjusted operation while an additional 50 billion yen in core operating income by fiscal 2020 also helping to reduce capital expenditure. through business synergy worth 35 billion yen, and efficiency From April 2017, the MCC began its UP!20 ROIC activities. improvements worth 15 billion yen under APTSIS 20. To expand company-wide activities and activities involving full To meet these growth targets, MCC has adopted the task Eaves system participation, a caravan team mainly comprising members from of achieving high-efficiency management as one of its basic the Corporate Planning Dept., Employee Relations Dept. and policies and has started a full participation-oriented companyTechnology Coordination Dept. was formed. The team directly wide productivity improvement activity named UP!20. MCC will visited 16 business sites, seven R&D centers and four branch inherit the structure of activities that were ongoing at the former offices to explain the need for and importance of ROIC activities operating companies, such as the “MoRoic Activities” undertaken and promote UP!20 activities. This is an important activity of Hishicarbo at the former MPI to improve ROIC. At the same time, in order to realizing “growth and high profitability” as part of the current achieve absolute values for core operating income, an important medium-term management plan, and an area in which MCC is element of MOE axis and a source of competitive strength, and currently making concerted company-wide efforts. improve ROIC (return on invested capital), the UP!20 activity is aimed to boost business efficiency through the synergetic effect with workstyle reforms under the health management raise Deckboard ROIC Tree productivity by 20% and enhance the creativity. Each employee is supposed to put figures into ROIC tree Marginal Profit ratio so that they can understand how their individual targets lead New-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation to higher ROIC. By linking individual goals with management An example of ROIC improvements worked on in fiscal 2016 Variable cost reductions • Improving loss rate by reducing targets and offering greater insight into improvements to core is an effort to improve marking work on extruded products like marking defects Prevailing ROICoperating income and ROIC, MCC is adopting an innovative approach that will encourage individuals to develop a high Deckboard, where a horizontal printer is used for ink transfer printing of information such as the company name, product • Reducing labor costs by improving productivity 93 % ROS based Management level of motivation and pursue UP!20 activities proactively. To ensure the core operating income and ROIC targets set name and lot number. In terms of the factors causing defects, marking work ranked the second worst defective followed by Fixed production cost ratio SG&A ratio out in APTSIS 20 are met, each business unit will regularly molding trouble. If these defects in marking work were reduced at Work Sites monitor and take action on the elements that make up ROIC (marginal profit ratio, fixed production cost ratio, SG&A ratio, to zero, defective goods could be reduced by a scale of ten tons a year, and yield will improve to 96%. Defective marking R&D ratio ROIC turnover ratio of working capital turnover ratio of fixed assets, could involve (1) insufficient definition in the characters, making Full participation-oriented UP!20 activities aimed at and so on). Meanwhile, MCC headquarters, R&D centers and them hard to read, or (2) having the ink stick and dirty the Turnover ratio of fixed assets achieving core operating income and ROIC targets departments common to business sites and branch offices will product. For this reason, production adjustments were required Curbing capital expenditure target higher productivity and greater operational efficiency. during operation, causing in production losses. • Rate of reduction due to Kanji Okada MCC aims to achieve a 20% boost in productivity and This case had been brought up countless times in the past careful selection of capital investment 93 % Capital turnover ratio asset efficiency through the UP!20 activities by fiscal 2020, as an improvement theme, but the true cause had never been Managing Executive Officer, Turnover ratio of working capital Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation and build a highly profitable business entity based on found. This time, the manufacturing and administrative sections optimal asset management. 25 26 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from the CIO Message from the CSO We will strengthen our Leveraging 10 years of KAITEKI innovation capability by Management, we will orchestrate introducing new perspectives, the challenges of each individual embracing risk, and deepening with the advancement of MOS our global connections. to achieve further growth and maximization of KAITEKI Value. Larry Meixner Shushichi Yoshimura Managing Corporate Executive Officer, Senior Managing Corporate Executive Officer Chief Innovation Officer Chief Sustainability Officer In April 2017, the MCHC Group implemented two innovation emanating from Information Technology, we The concept of KAITEKI, which symbolizes the MCHC Group, In Japan, where the majority of employees of the MCHC Group major changes that increase our innovation power in created the new role of CDO (Chief Digital Officer) to lead was born in 2007 out of a desire to make an essential work, individual workstyles are being reassessed amid the complementary ways. First, the merger of MCC, MPI, the digital transformation of our company. We are adding contribution to a better future for people, society and the Earth. inevitable trends of globalization, diffusion of IT/AI, declining fertility and MRC included the integration of R&D resources and data scientists not only to enhance current business The MCHC Group has defined its corporate value as identifying rates and population aging. As uncertainty about the future capability across these three companies. The resulting operations, but also to conceive new ways of using the issues to be addressed for future society and delivering increases, it becomes more important for each individual shared knowledge and efficiency gains will enable us to vast trove of data from our operations and business solutions continually. We have performed our corporate employee to take on more challenges through their duties and to better develop adjacent markets, reduce costs, and identify transactions. In the area of venturing, the company will set activities based upon this KAITEKI Value for the last 10 years. cooperate with each other to tackle social issues, resulting in future business strategies. aside resources for strategic investment and partnerships, Now that internal understanding and empathy for Management promotion of MOS and enhancement of KAITEKI Value. We The second change within the MCHC Group reflects the allowing ETBDO to operate in a risk-tolerant “start-up mode” of Sustainability (MOS) has been enhanced and a firm basis for believe that respecting diversity and supporting the health and rapidly evolving nature of corporate innovation worldwide. In in potentially disruptive areas. promoting MOS has been established, it is possible to conduct workstyles of each individual will drive the growth of the MCHC this new environment, we must consider not only incremental For large companies in this era of rapid change, simply doing corporate activities aimed at maximizing KAITEKI Value. We feel Group and lead to the creation of social value. Previously, as part technology development, but also disruptive innovation, which “more of the same” is no longer sufficient to ensure consistent that we have gained an understanding and appreciation for our of MOS, we have championed workstyle-related initiatives in areas can completely redefine the winners and losers in an industry. growth, or even survival. By aggressively connecting with initiatives from our stakeholders. such as work-life balance and promotion of diversity. From fiscal Because such developments generally emerge from beyond global centers of innovation and broadening our approaches In recent years, awareness of various environmental and 2017, KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management has started the incumbents’ traditional point of view, they represent a to new business development, we aim to create the seeds of a social problems has increased. The idea that countries across in earnest to further push ahead with workstyle reform. We hope persistent threat even to companies that have provided stable new culture of global innovation within the MCHC Group. the planet will join forces to solve those issues is becoming that we can rely on your unwavering support for the MCHC Group earnings for many years. Indeed, such innovations are often more widespread, as illustrated by the United Nations as it continues to rise to the challenge of creating KAITEKI Value. rejected at an early stage precisely because they conflict with Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Expectations of the established thinking and processes that were successful Extending the Innovation Capabilities businesses are mounting accordingly. MCHC Group’s KAITEKI Management Structure in the past. Yet this natural bias interferes both with finding of the MCHC Group To ensure that the MCHC Group promotes initiatives designed MCHC new avenues for business growth and with seeing disruptive CIO to solve environmental and social issues as a responsible Board of Directors Chief Innovation Officer Submission/Reporting threats in time to avoid disaster. corporate citizen, we newly identified material issues under our Corporate Executive Officer, President and CEO The MCHC Group therefore created the new position of Emerging Technology and Business current medium-term management plan APTSIS 20 and set new Deliberation/ CIO (Chief Innovation Officer), and I was privileged to join the Development Office MOS Indices which reflect materiality. In fiscal 2016, which was Resolution Corporate Executive Officers Committee Consultation Reporting company in April 2017 to serve in this role. Our new Emerging the first fiscal year under the medium-term management plan, we Proposal of priority Technology and Business Development Office (ETBDO) reviewed the definition and operation of the KAITEKI Promotion matters for deliberation*1 CTO CMO CDO KAITEKI Promotion Committee aims to significantly extend the innovation capabilities of the Chief Technology Officer Chief Marketing Officer Chief Digital Officer Committee, the Group’s highest-level body related to KAITEKI, Introduce disruptive Define and create Promote the MCHC Group by intensifying our engagement with global innovation new global market 4th Industrial and established the structure for maximizing corporate value from leaders from both market and technology perspectives. A (technology and opportunities Revolution through a non-financial viewpoint, aiming to further enhance MOS. business model) AI, IoT Enhancement of Enhancement of major difference from the past is the addition of several corporate value corporate value Review of KAITEKI Promotion Committee from a financial from a non-financial senior executives from outside the MCHC Group, outside perspective perspective Oversees improvement in corporate value from a non-financial Bottom line ESG*2 the traditional chemical industry, and even outside of Japan. Diverse outlook Aggressive, risk-tolerant perspective Capital efficiency Innovation*3 (beyond chemical industry, beyond Japan) approach to innovation Deliberates and reports matters related to KAITEKI as an advisory body Portfolio management Health management These changes are designed to expand our world view and of the MCHC President and CEO our presence as a global innovator. Strategic global investment Transformation to Submits and reports on material proposals to the Corporate Executive Officers Committee and the Board of Directors For example, reflecting the increasing share of disruptive and partnerships “Digital Native” company Each division (each office)/operating company *1 Where necessary *2 Governance issues are mainly addressed by committees such as the Nominating Committee. *3 Determination of the direction of technologies, etc. 27 28 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Management Structure Message from the Chairperson MCHC’s New Management and Execution organizations, and create new businesses. Through the development of this new management structure, Structure 1. Review of Fiscal 2016 we will further clarify the roles and functions of MCHC and MCHC transitioned to a company with a nominating committee, etc., Starting from April 2017, MCHC launched a new management operating companies. Each operating company will be in June 2015. Recognizing supervision of management as the central and execution structure. responsible for embodying and executing business strategies function of the Board of Directors, MCHC has invited outside directors To strengthen MCHC’s mediumto long-term strategy based on basic strategies set up by MCHC, and MCHC will with extensive experience and high level of expertise in different fields to formulation function, we newly established the Corporate appropriately monitor their businesses to accelerate the Group’s bring their independent and diverse viewpoints to the Board of Directors Strategy Division. Within this division, we deployed the offices growth strategies. so as to improve its effectiveness. in charge of four business segments (Performance Products, In fiscal 2016, Mr. Takayuki Hashimoto, who had served as the President Industrial Materials, Industrial Gases and Healthcare), and Structural changes of the Board of Directors and the Chairperson at IBM Japan, Ltd. (now Honorary Executive these offices set up the Group’s management strategy for each Advisor of IBM Japan, Ltd.) was newly appointed as an outside director business segment and plan basic policies on resource allocation MCHC made some changes to the structure of the Board of of the Board of MCHC. With the addition of Mr. Hashimoto, it seems that according to the strategy. Directors based on the approval of the General Meeting of discussions at the Board of Directors have been further activated and that it We also replaced the Management Committee which was an Shareholders held in June 2017, welcoming three Corporate has created a stronger sense of tension on the management execution side. advisory body to the President, with the Corporate Executive Executive Officers in charge of corporate strategy, corporate In this situation, the Board of Directors met 10 times in fiscal 2016, Officers Committee which is a decision making body based on management & finance, and compliance & governance as holding lively discussions on issues such as withdrawal from unprofitable the consensus of Corporate Executive Officers, thus ensuring new Directors. The purpose of these changes was to meet businesses and investment in growth overseas. transparency in the formulation of Group-wide strategies and the need to strengthen the holding company’s management decisions on resource allocation. and supervision functions, that is, to promote the group 2. Initiatives for Further Improvement As a general rule, a company with a nominating committee, etc. delegates Furthermore, we actively appointed human resources from management by clarifying functional differences between the decisions on individual business execution to the management execution outside the company, and newly established the Emerging holding company and operating companies within the structure side to a large extent while the Board of Directors will discuss corporate Technology and Business Development Office, which will of the Board of Directors, as elsewhere. strategies for the sustainable enhancement of corporate value. For MCHC’s explore the latest advanced technologies including IoT, With the help of its new members, MCHC’s Board of Board of Directors, how to improve discussions on the mediumto long-term and will promote to utilize these technologies, strengthen Directors will conduct even livelier discussions to ensure the direction of management was an important issue together with strengthening business competitiveness through collaboration with outside Group’s sustainable development. the management supervision function. Regarding this issue, the Board of Directors repeatedly discussed with the management execution side and in April 2017, MCHC changed the decision-making process for the execution of Management and Execution Structure important businesses. We newly established a decision-making body based on the consensus of the Corporate Executive Officers (Corporate Executive General Meeting of Officers Committee), and by seeking to strengthen the Corporate Strategy Shareholders KAITEKI Promotion Office Health & Productivity Management Division, MCHC also developed a structure for examining mediumto longCorporate Planning Office Project term business strategies from a holding company perspective. The Board Board of Directors Performance Products Strategy Office of Directors also partially reviewed its structure and in June welcomed new Nominating President & Chief Corporate Strategy Committee Executive Officer Division Corporate Executive Officers in charge of corporate strategy, corporate Industrial Materials Strategy Office management & finance, and compliance & governance. As a result of these Compensation Corporate Executive Industrial Gases Strategy Office initiatives, discussions at the Board of Directors are now livelier and more Committee Officers Committee in-depth, also covering the proceedings and results of discussions at the Healthcare Strategy Office Audit Committee Corporate Executive Officers Committee, and information asymmetry is also KAITEKI Promotion Committee Emerging Technology & starting to improve. Office of Business Development Office Moving forward, we will examine efficient and effective operation of Audit Committee the Board of Directors, including utilizing ICT and holding discussions Information Systems Office based on quantified information, to further enhance the timely provision Corporate Management Office of appropriate information especially to outside directors. Public Policy & Relation Office 3. Aiming for Realization of KAITEKI In the future, the MCHC Group will also need to utilize technical Public Relations & Investor Relations Office Aiming for realization of innovations such as the IoT and AI in our manufacturing technology, Legal Office sustainable society and and we need to establish business strategies for the realization of a new sustainable society with a speed and impact never seen before. Administration & enhancement of corporate The Board of Directors will continue to hold thoroughgoing discussions Human Resources Office value with President Ochi and others on the management execution side, and will support decisive decision-making by senior management to achieve Internal Control Office further enhancement of corporate value. Internal Audit Office Yoshimitsu Kobayashi Chairperson 29 30 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Directors Directors (As of June 27, 2017) Chairperson of the Nominating Committee Director of the Board, Chairperson Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Director of the Board, Senior Managing Corporate Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Member of the Nominating Committee Yoshimitsu Kobayashi President and Chief Executive Officer Shushichi Yoshimura Chairperson of the Audit Committee Hitoshi Ochi Noriyoshi Ohira Kenkichi Kosakai Member of the Audit Committee Dec.1974 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1975 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1976 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Apr. 1979 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Chairperson of the Compensation Committee Jun. 2003 Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2007 Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2006 Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, MTPC Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, MCC Member of the Compensation Committee Apr. 2005 Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2010) Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2010 Director of the Board, Apr. 2012 Managing Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2006 Director of the Board, MCHC Apr. 2009 Director of the Board, MPI (until Mar. 2011) Jun. 2009 Director of the Board, Executive Officer, MCC Managing Executive Officer, MTPC Apr. 2013 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, Feb. 2007 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2009 Director of the Board, Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2010 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC MCC (until Jun. 2016) Apr. 2007 Director of the Board, Jun. 2010 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Director of the Board, MTPC (until Jun. 2015) Jun. 2016 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, MRC (until Jun. 2011) Apr. 2014 Senior Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2015 Senior Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Senior Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, Apr. 2011 Director of the Board, MCHC (until Jun. 2011) Director of the Board, Senior Managing Executive Officer, MCC Director of the Board, MRC (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2017 Director of the Board, Senior Managing Corporate Executive President and Chief Executive Officer, MCC Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2012) (until Mar. 2015) Jun. 2015 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Senior Managing Officer, MCHC (current) Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, Chairperson, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, MRC Director of the Board, LSII (current) Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Director of the Board, TNSC (current) Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, Chairperson, MCHC (current) (currently MCC) (current) Jun. 2015 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Senior Managing Jun. 2016 Director of the Board, MPI (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2012 Director of the Board, MCHC Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Apr. 2015 Director of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Officer, MCHC Jun. 2017 Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Jun. 2017 Director of the Board, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Deputy Chief Executive Officer, MCHC (current) Director of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Glenn H. Fredrickson Yoshihiro Umeha Hisao Urata Jan. 1990 Associate Professor, Departments of Chemical Engineering and Apr. 1977 Joined Mitsubishi Chemical Industries Limited Jan. 1991 Joined Mitsubishi Kasei Corporation Materials, University of California, Santa Barbara (UCSB) Jun. 2008 Executive Officer, MCC Jun. 2011 Executive Officer, MCHC Jul. 1991 Professor, Departments of Chemical Engineering and Materials, Apr. 2012 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCC Executive Officer, MCC (until Mar. 2014) UCSB (current) (until Mar. 2015) Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC May 1998 Chairperson, Department of Chemical Engineering, UCSB Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Jun. 2015 Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC (until Mar.2016) (until Jul. 2001) Corporate Auditor, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2016 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Mar. 2001 Director of Mitsubishi Chemical Center for Advanced Materials Corporate Auditor, MRC (currently MCC) (current) Corporate Auditor, MPI (until Mar. 2017) at UCSB (current) Jun. 2016 Corporate Auditor, LSII (until Mar. 2017) Apr. 2017 Corporate Auditor, LSII (current) Apr. 2014 Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2014 Director of the Board, Managing Executive Officer, MCHC Jun. 2015 Director of the Board, Managing Corporate Executive Officer, MCHC Apr. 2017 Director of the Board, MCHC (current) Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Outside Director of the Board Takeo Kikkawa Taigi Ito Kazuhiro Watanabe Hideko Kunii Takayuki Hashimoto Apr. 1987 Associate Professor, School of Business, Aoyama Gakuin University Jan. 1970 Joined Tsuji Audit Corporation Apr. 1974 Appointed as a Prosecutor May 1982 Joined Ricoh Company, Ltd. Apr. 1978 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. Oct. 1993 Associate Professor, Institute of Social Science, The University of Tokyo May 1973 Registered as a Certified Public Accountant Jul. 1998 Assistant Vice-Minister of Justice, Ministry of Justice Jun. 2005 Corporate Senior Deputy CEO, Ricoh Company, Ltd. (until Mar. 2008) Apr. 2000 Director of the Board, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 1996 Professor, Institute of Social Science, The University of Tokyo Feb. 1989 Representative Partner, MISUZU Audit Corporation Apr. 2001 Prosecutor, The Supreme Public Prosecutors Office Apr. 2008 Chairperson, Ricoh Software Co., Ltd. Apr. 2003 Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 2007 Professor, Graduate School of Commerce and Management, Jul. 2004 Deputy Chairperson, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Jan. 2002 Chief Prosecutor, The Nara District Public Prosecutors Office (currently Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd.) Jan. 2007 Senior Managing Executive Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Hitotsubashi University Accountants (JICPA) (until Jun. 2007) Sep. 2004 Chief Prosecutor, The Maebashi District Public Prosecutors Office Apr. 2009 Associate Director, Ricoh Company, Ltd. (until Mar. 2013) Apr. 2008 Director of the Board, Senior Managing Officer, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jun. 2013 Outside Director, MCHC (current) May 2006 Executive Board Member, MISUZU Audit Corporation (until Jul. 2007) Sep. 2005 Chief Prosecutor, The Nagoya District Public Prosecutors Office Jul. 2009 Chairperson, Ricoh IT Solutions Co., Ltd. (until Mar. 2013) Jan. 2009 Director of the Board, President, IBM Japan, Ltd. Apr. 2015 Professor, Graduate School of Innovation Studies, Tokyo University Apr. 2009 Professor, The Graduate School of Accounting, Waseda University Jun. 2007 Chief Prosecutor, The Yokohama District Public Prosecutors Office Apr. 2012 Professor, Graduate School of Engineering Management, Shibaura May 2012 Director of the Board, Chairman, IBM Japan, Ltd. of Science (current) (until Mar. 2013) Jul. 2008 Superintending Prosecutor, The Sapporo High Public Prosecutors Office Institute of Technology (current) Apr. 2014 Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jan. 2012 Chairperson, Disciplinary Committee of JICPA (until Aug. 2016) (Retired in Jul. 2009) Apr. 2013 Deputy President, Shibaura Institute of Technology (current) Jan. 2015 Vice Chairperson, IBM Japan, Ltd. Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor, MCHC Sep. 2009 Registered as a lawyer Oct. 2013 Director, Center for Promotion of Educational Innovation Gender Jun. 2016 Outside Director, MCHC (current) Corporate Auditor, MCC (until Mar. 2017) Professor, The Law School of Tokai University (until Mar. 2017) Equality Promotion Office, Shibaura Institute of Technology (current) May 2017 Honorary Executive Advisor, IBM Japan, Ltd. (current) Jun. 2015 Outside Director, MCHC (current) Jun. 2010 Corporate Auditor, MPI (until Mar. 2017) Jun. 2015 Outside Director, MCHC (current) Jan. 2011 Lawyer, Counselor, Higashimachi LPC (current) Jun. 2014 Outside Corporate Auditor, MCHC Jun. 2015 Outside Director, MCHC (current) 31 32 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Message from Outside Director We will enhance advisory and governance functions in the Board of Directors and support persistent challenges aimed at growth. Takayuki Hashimoto Outside Director of the Board Q1 Current state of MCHC A year has passed since you assumed the post of Q2 Status of Board of Directors and Outside Director Liaison Committee Q3 Your own role as outside director Having held positions as the President and Q4 Expectations for MCHC Group in future We started by asking you what you thought about outside director in the first year of the mediumIn fiscal 2016, the Board of Directors focused on Chairperson of IBM Japan, Ltd., in light of your the current state of the MCHC Group. Now we term management plan APTSIS 20. How do you promoting discussions concerning the medium-to insight into corporate management and the would like to ask you what expectations you have see the MCHC Group today? long-term direction of management, strengthening utilization of ICT, how do you see your own role as for the Group in the future, now that the foundations the supervisory functions for the medium-term an outside director at MCHC? for future growth have been established. management plan, and further improving reporting items. How did the actual discussions go? A A A A When I assumed this role, there were two Regarding the themes such as utilization of An outside director has two roles. One is The direction as the Group, to provide major themes to be discussed. The first was AI, digitization, health management and risk to fulfill an advisory role, and the other is solutions that meet the needs of the market, redefining the roles of MCHC and operating management, MCHC recognizes that it should a governance role. In the advisory role, I has already been shown, but in any event, in companies to clarify what MCHC should do in its capacity. determine the medium-to long-term direction of these areas hope to create ideas related to IT, global operations and the times ahead we will have to transform from a productThe second was determining how to execute management and we actually discuss them. Moving forward, we will apply diversity based on my experiences. Generally, digitization out approach to an issue solution-oriented approach. I including the newly integrated company. As a holding the discussion results across the operating companies and of manufacturing sites and provision of products and think the MCHC Group is highly capable of seeking out company which owns under its umbrella the operating put them into practice. services utilizing IT may have been beyond imagination what the issues are. It is also engaged in aspirational companies with large business scale and different In monitoring the progress of the medium-term management of chemical companies. I would like to discuss with the research such as artificial photosynthesis where solar industries, we have thoroughly discussed the major pillars plan, we consider it indispensable to examine not only the result newly assigned Chief Digital Officer (CDO) on how we can energy and photocatalysts are used to generate hydrogen of a growth strategy, namely, portfolio management, of KPIs but also the process of KPIs. For the businesses deviating create new value by moving closer to those fields. and oxygen from water. We have to investigate what delegating authority to operating companies, synergies below their targets, I have recommended that process reforms In terms of governance role, among other functions, technology can be applied to solve an issue, and if such and management of overseas businesses. Now I such as discussions with the executive side are necessary. Also, as a member of the Nominating Committee, I proposed a technology does not exist, acquire it from outside by recognize that our management framework has been in the interest of enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of interviewing candidates and implementing assessments way of open innovation and suchlike. I expect that kind of developed over this past year. In that sense, we can Directors, it is important to operate the Board of Directors more by a third-party organization as part of the process process will be applied more in the future. move into the execution phase from here on out since the efficiently, by providing advance briefings for example, to ensure of appointing the leaders of the next generation. It is Another expectation is diversity. Diversity needs foundations for future growth are established. sufficient time to discuss essential issues. It is also important to extremely important to clarify the nominating process “inclusion” (to be accepted) for the first thing. Then, it Also, my honest impression was that MCHC has long thoroughly provide information by properly sharing discussions and ensure its objectivity, and this will be the first time moves towards the next phase; “innovation.” An effect been a bottom-up type company. Up to now, each of the held by the Corporate Executive Officers Committee for MCHC has incorporated third-party perspectives with of the integration of the three companies is a mixture of operating companies has delivered various reports and example, in order to eliminate the asymmetry of information. regard to candidates. In the future, I also hope to explore human resources adept in different technologies and it was the role of MCHC to consolidate them. However, The directors discuss quite lively at the Board of Directors, new systems to provide education if a candidate lacks specialized fields. When this blend sparks discussion, I under that structure, each operating company would where they feel comfortable to speak out. As an outside experience or skills in a certain area. expect that new things will be created. only do what it was allowed. We have now devised a director, I should offer advice on internal common practices, I have suggested to Chairperson Kobayashi and I would also like MCHC to make efforts with a mind to new management framework, in which MCHC is no and to that end, communicating with other outside directors President Ochi that it is beneficial to make greater use becoming a strong company. Chemical companies tend to longer a mere holding company; it now indicates the regularly through the Outside Director Liaison Committee of outside directors. The outside directors at MCHC are be influenced by the external environment such as exchange direction and goals of management, and plays the role is productive. However, in terms of one area where the highly diverse and each is specialized in his or her own rates and crude oil market conditions. To survive within that of the headquarters. This is a substantial innovation. The company needs to exercise caution, I think we need to fields. I think that the knowledge of each director should environment, I hope that MCHC maintains an insatiable question now is whether these management policies discuss matters with one another thoroughly to ensure that be made the best of. desire to take on challenges for growth. and goals will filter down to the front lines and function conflicts do not develop between the inside and outside properly down the road. directors and create new value. 33 34 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Summary J-GAAP (FY 2006 – FY 2015) International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS FY 2015 – FY 2016) Increase or 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 decrease (%) 2016 Thousands of For the Year Millions of yen For the Year Millions of yen U.S. dollars Net sales 2,622,820 2,929,810 2,909,030 2,515,079 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 3,498,834 3,656,278 3,823,098 Revenue 3,543,352 3,376,057 (4.7%) 30,143,366 Operating income 128,589 125,046 8,178 66,342 226,493 130,579 90,241 110,460 165,681 280,026 Core operating income 300,410 307,522 2.4% 2,745,732 Income (loss) before income taxes and 137,802 217,791 (44,002) 43,311 169,552 127,474 82,900 116,594 165,621 198,248 Profit before tax 252,791 258,343 2.2% 2,306,634 minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries Net income (loss) attributable to owners of 100,338 164,064 (67,178) 12,833 83,581 35,486 18,596 32,248 60,859 46,444 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 51,358 156,259 204.3% 1,395,170 the parent Total comprehensive income 37,513 86,742 64,199 94,900 134,016 173,692 7,695 Comprehensive income 34,302 226,493 560.3% 2,022,259 Capital expenditures 130,855 170,051 139,011 119,025 117,806 116,145 132,221 133,339 165,057 176,508 Capital expenditures 213,134 206,482 (3.1%) 1,843,589 Depreciation and amortization 83,270 102,172 119,230 129,574 148,697 145,695 129,549 131,571 151,253 180,374 Depreciation and amortization 182,656 174,040 (4.7%) 1,553,929 R&D expenditures 91,177 112,064 127,802 136,863 130,825 138,545 134,723 134,260 132,217 138,364 R&D expenses 126,782 126,290 (0.4%) 1,127,589 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 63,343 156,173 76,149 116,073 288,853 217,954 206,504 177,027 329,776 388,663 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 299,612 396,643 — 3,541,455 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (133,434) (177,985) (189,233) (327,006) (101,064) (63,404) (169,758) (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (234,078) (289,056) — (2,580,857) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 74,492 70,871 179,526 94,437 (149,493) (164,146) (26,250) (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (40,945) 1,411 — 12,598 At Year-end At Year-end Total assets 2,318,832 2,765,837 2,740,876 3,355,097 3,294,014 3,173,970 3,307,758 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 Total assets 4,223,774 4,463,547 5.7% 39,853,098 Property, plant and equipment 724,438 852,806 834,046 1,167,073 1,088,369 1,032,738 1,061,551 1,118,050 1,498,146 1,390,727 Property, plant and equipment 1,403,437 1,431,681 2.0% 12,782,866 Short-term and long-term debt 739,673 822,520 1,033,239 1,454,126 1,304,589 1,164,128 1,198,799 1,258,186 1,603,595 1,465,752 Interest-bearing debt 1,579,575 1,693,742 7.2% 15,122,696 Total net assets 758,752 1,095,927 940,114 1,032,865 1,114,003 1,144,954 1,203,316 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 972,197 1,091,398 12.3% 9,744,625 Per Share Yen Per Share Yen U.S. Dollars Net income (loss)—basic 73.25 119.51 (48.81) 9.32 58.72 24.06 12.61 21.89 41.40 31.70 Basic earnings per share 35.06 106.73 204.4% 0.95 Net assets 520.05 601.45 486.09 490.99 514.30 522.77 553.54 611.95 669.77 636.43 Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share 663.71 758.30 14.3% 6.77 Cash dividends 14.00 16.00 12.00 8.00 10.00 10.00 12.00 12.00 13.00 15.00 Cash Dividends per share 15.00 20.00 33.3% 0.18 Major Index Major Index Return on assets (ROA) (%) 6.1 8.5 (1.5) 1.4 5.1 3.9 2.6 3.4 4.2 4.7 Return on assets (ROA) (%) 5.9 5.9 0% — Return on equity (ROE) (%) 14.6 21.3 (8.9) 1.9 11.6 4.6 2.3 3.7 6.4 4.8 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 5.2 15.1 190.4% — Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 30.7 29.9 24.4 20.0 23.0 24.2 24.6 25.8 22.6 22.9 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 23.0 24.5 6.5% — Other Other Number of employees 33,447 39,305 41,480 53,907 53,882 53,979 55,131 56,031 68,263 68,988 Number of employees 68,988 69,291 0.4% — (Millions of yen) (Millions of yen) 4,000,000 3,823,098 400,000 Left axis Net sales 3,498,834 3,656,278 Left axis Revenue 3,543,352 3,376,057 Right axis Operating income 3,166,771 3,208,168 3,088,577 Right axis Core operating income 3,000,000 2,929,810 2,909,030 280,026 300,000 2,622,820 2,515,079 300,410 226,493 307,522 2,000,000 165,681 200,000 128,589 125,046 110,460 1,000,000 90,241 100,000 66,342 130,579 8,178 0 0 (FY) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2016 Medium-term management plan transition 2005–2007 KAKUSHIN Plan: Phase 2 2008–2010 APTSIS 10 2011– 2012 Step 1 2013 – 2015 Step 2 APTSIS 15 APTSIS 20 (Notes) 1. In this report, the fiscal year refers to the period beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year. Fiscal 2016 refers to the year ended March 31, 2017. (Notes) 4. Return on equity (ROE)(%) is calculated by dividing net profit attributable to owners of the parent and the average of the beginning and ending balances of equity attributable to owners of the parent. 2. U.S. dollar amounts are converted from yen at the rate of ¥112 = U.S. $1.00. 5. When non-recurring depreciation on non-current assets is recorded, the amount is included in depreciation and amortization. 3. Return on assets (ROA)(%) is calculated by dividing profit before tax and the average of the beginning and ending balances of total assets. 35 36 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Financial Index Total assets and ROA Free cash flow With the start of the new medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, we have adopted IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) beginning in fiscal 2016. For fiscal 2015, the IFRS-base figures (Billions of yen) Total assets (Left axis) ROA (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) are also indicated for comparison. 5,000 8 200 Core operating income is calculated as operating income (loss) excluding certain gains and expenses attributable to non-recurring factors (losses incurred by business withdrawal and contraction, etc.). 185.8 4,463.5 We disclose core operating income as our unique gains/losses incurred by staged gains/losses, considering the comparability with the operating income of J-GAAP. 4,223.0 4,223.8 4,061.5 3,750 6 150 3,479.3 (Billions of yen) Net income and ROS/ROE (%) 3,307.7 4.7 5.9 5.9 400 20 107.5 2,500 4 100 4.2 Left axis (Core) Operating Income Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 3.4 65.5 1,250 2 50 52.5 Right axis ROE ROS 2.6 36.7 307.5 300 300.4 15.1 15 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP 17.2 IFRS 0 0 0 280.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Total assets were ¥4,463.5 billion, rising ¥239.7 billion from the year earlier, As a result of the increase in profit before tax, cash flows from operating primarily because of the increase in assets due to acquisitions in the activities improved. In cash flows from investing activities, outflows increased due industrial gases business. ROA was 5.9%, about the same level as in the to investments and loans and capital expenditures associated with M&A mainly previous fiscal year, due to the increase in income. in the industrial gases business, but FCF improved by ¥42 billion y/y to ¥107.5 billion, 200 10 exceeding the target of ¥100 billion at the beginning of the fiscal year. 165.6 8.5 9.1 156.3 6.4 7.3 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent Net interest-bearing debt and Net D/E ratio 110.4 3.7 (%) (Billions of yen) Net interest-bearing debt (Left axis) Net D/E ratio (Right axis) (Times) 100 90.2 5.2 5 40 1,600 1.6 2.9 4.5 4.8 60.8 46.4 51.4 1,228.2 3.1 30 1,200 1.15 1.11 1.10 1,134.4 1,155.9 1.2 2.3 32.2 25.8 1.25 18.5 24.6 22.6 22.9 23.0 24.5 938.6 998.0 1,024.0 1.17 1.06 0 0 20 800 0.8 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) J-GAAP (IFRS) International Financial Reporting Standards 10 400 0.4 As a result of the business portfolio reforms along with the previous medium-term management plan APTSIS 15 for the period from fiscal 2011 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 to fiscal 2015, we posted record operating income in fiscal 2015 based on the Japanese standards. In fiscal 2016, despite decreased profit 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) associated with a stronger yen, the adverse effect of NHI drug price revision in the Health Care domain and expansion of the scale of periodic repairs in the Industrial Materials domain, we increased core operating income further from fiscal 2015 thanks to the increase in sales volume As a result of increase in income, of total liabilities and assets, equity Net interest-bearing debt stood at ¥1,155.9 billion. It was up by ¥21.5 billion attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥119.2 billion from the y/y because of asset purchases in the industrial gases business, however, mainly in the Performance Products domain. As a result, we increased core operating income by ¥7.1 billion (+2.4% y/y) to ¥307.5 billion and previous fiscal year to ¥1,091.4 billion. Consequently, the ratio of equity partly because of the increase in equity attributable to owners of the parent due improved ROS by 0.6% y/y to 9.1%. Net profit attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥104.9 billion (+204.3% y/y), to ¥156.3 billion, attributable to owners of the parent was 24.5%, up 1.5% from the previous to the increase in income, the net D/E ratio was 1.06, improving by -0.11 y/y. We partly due to much lower taxes associated with the recording of deferred tax assets. As a result, ROE rose substantially to 15.1%. fiscal year. We will continuously aim to achieve 30%, the target set in the will continue our efforts to achieve the target of 0.8 set in the APTSIS 20. APTSIS 20. Revenue and ratio of overseas revenue Overseas revenue by region Net income per share and cash dividends per share R&D expenses and capital expenditures (Billions of yen) Revenue (Left axis) Ratio of overseas revenue (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) Asia Paciﬁc North America Europe Others (Yen) Net income per share Cash dividends per share (Billions of yen) R&D expenses Capital expenditures 213.1 4,000 60 2,000 120 200 206.5 3,823.0 3,656.2 3,498.8 3,543.4 106.73 176.5 3,376.1 1,659.0 165.0 3,000 3,088.5 45 1,500 1,467.2 1,519.0 1,430.0 90 150 1,333.7 134.7 132.2 134.2 133.3 138.3 132.2 126.8 43.4 39.5 126.3 35.9 41.5 40.4 1,107.5 2,000 39.5* 30 1,000 60 100 41.40 35.06 1,000 15 500 30 31.70 50 21.89 20.00 12.61 12.00 12.00 13.00 15.00 15.00 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) Revenue decreased by ¥167.3 billion (-5% y/y), primarily because sales prices Despite the increase of revenue due to acquisitions in the industrial gases Net income per share was ¥106.73, primarily because of growth in R&D expenses were ¥126.3 billion and we continued to work on improving our fell due to lower raw material prices and impacts of the strong yen (-11.5¥/$ y/y). business and growth of the MMA business mainly in Asia, as well as the income. Cash dividends per share was ¥20 per year, up ¥5 y/y, based current technologies and on developing new technologies. Capital The ratio of overseas revenue also decreased to 39.5% (-0.9% y/y). increase in sales volume principally in the Performance Products domain, on a comprehensive evaluation of our financial situation, future business expenditures decreased by ¥6.6 billion y/y, which had recorded an increase in overseas revenue decreased from the year earlier, primarily because of the development and improving shareholder returns. capital expenditures for the introduction of technologies in the Health Care * The influence of ¥145.6 billion due to the unification of the accounting period is excluded. huge impact of exchange loss on foreign currency due to a stronger yen. domain in the preceding period. In total, capital expenditures reached ¥206.5 billion, mainly reflecting the maintenance and updating of facilities, especially in the Industrial Materials domain, as well as the construction of a new plant in the Middle East in the MMA business. 37 38 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial/Non-Financial Highlights Non-Financial Index Energy consumption Water usage and emissions of water (GWh) (Million m3) Water usage Emissions of water 40,000 200 183 181 34,935 174 171 166 32,501 32,164 30,000 30,277 30,243 150 GHG emissions 118 (1,000 t-CO2e) Left axis Japan Outside Japan Right axis Per unit of sales (t-CO2e/100 millions of yen) 105 20,000 100 104 103 92 20,000 500 10,000 50 426 0 0 15,000 375 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) In fiscal 2016, energy consumption in Japan was 30,243GWh. By In fiscal 2016, we used 166 million m 3 of water and discharged 92 promoting the stable operation of processes together with energymillion m 3 of water in Japan, a reduction of 5 million m 3 and 11 million m 3 3,826 saving measures, we will further accelerate the reduction in energy from the previous fiscal year, respectively. We will make progress with consumption. In fiscal 2016, the calculation method is revised to efforts to effectively utilize water resources and reduce consumption respond to global standard. Regarding previous period’s results, the in our corporate activities, and continue to contribute to the improved 10,000 250 recalculated figures are plotted in the graph. sustainability of water resources. Number of clinical testing and medical checkups / Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) 14,268 Heath information 13,006 13,324 13,141 12,238 12,054 Number of BM diagnoses Number of clinical testing 5,000 10,443 125 provided year-on-year (%) Number of medical checkup information 160 1.00 146 120 110 0.75 100 101 102 97 0 0 80 100 0.50 0.48 92 2005 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 Plan (FY) 0.32 0.32 (Base year) 0.30 40 0.25 0.25 GHG emissions in fiscal 2016 (Scope 1 + Scope 2) were 14,269,000 t-CO2e, per unit of sales was 426t-CO2e/100 millions of yen. Emissions from the four main operating companies and their domestic groups was 10,443,000 t-CO2e, and 1,611,000 t-CO2e decreased from the 0 0 previous fiscal year. During fiscal 2016, in the course of smooth operations, we steadily implemented measures including energy conservation 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) efforts to reduce GHG emissions, and contributed to reducing overall Group emissions by restructuring the Mizushima naphtha cracker, withdrawing from the terephthalic acid business (in India and China), and so on. Toward achieving the 2030 reduction targets set by the Paris The number of clinical testings and health checkups or health information Due to a decrease in the number of lost-time accidents, the index reached provided was 102% and 146% respectively for each MOS Indices 0.30 point, improving by 0.18 point from the previous fiscal year. By Agreement adopted at COP21, we have devised and promoted measures to reduce GHG emissions. compared with BM year (fiscal 2014). We will appropriately respond to the thoroughly enforcing measures to prevent recurrence and employing rising interest in health and trends such as increased self-medication, and various measures to ensure work safety, we are striving to reduce the risks aim to achieve the fiscal 2020 targets set as MOS Indices. of accidents and the number of occurrence. Number of R&D personnel and R&D expenses per Number of directors and outside directors Percentage of female employees / Percentage of Employee satisfaction R&D personnel female managers (Persons) Number of R&D personnel R&D expenses per R&D personnel (Millions of yen) (Persons) Directors (executive) Directors (non-executive) Independent (outside) directors (%) Percentage of female managers 6,000 40 16 Corporate auditors Outside corporate auditors 16 Percentage of female employees 4.00 5,040 5,130 5,040 4,883 15.1 15.1 4,920 14.7 4,500 30 12 13 14.2 14.4 3.75 3.74 3 3 3 5 3.67 4 3.66 5 3.63 3.62 27.4 26.6 27.4 25.8 26.3 2 2 2 3,000 20 8 10 3.50 1 1 3 3 4 8 7 7 7.4 7.7 1,500 10 4 6 6 7 7.1 3.25 4 6.1 5.6 0 0 0 4 3.00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) The number of R&D personnel in fiscal 2016 was 4,883, a reduction of MCHC transitioned to a company with a nominating committee, etc. in The percentages of female employees and female managers were Employee satisfaction was 3.62 points, a 0.12 point drop compared to 157 from the previous fiscal year. R&D expenses per personnel were June 2015. 15.1%, an increase of 0.4%, and 7.7%, an increase of 0.6% respectively, the previous fiscal year. Since fiscal 2011, employee satisfaction has ¥26.3 million, a decrease of ¥1.1 million. compared to the previous fiscal year. We have continued to promote a remained at a largely favorable level. We will seek to further improvement range of measures aimed at female empowerment, and in recent years by actively promoting related measures including health management the percentage of female employees among those joining main career and workstyle reform. track positions has trended upwards. 39 40 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Shareholder Information Aim to improve shareholder value by enhancing corporate value Stock Information (As of March 31, 2017) Major Shareholders Number of Shares In dividend policy, consider the balance between growth Stock listing Tokyo Stock Exchange Name (Thousands) Percentage (%) Basic Policy The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 90,090 6.3 on Shareholder investment and improving financial position Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 69,593 4.8 Returns Securities code 4188 • Target a consolidated dividend payout ratio of 30% as a benchmark, Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 64,389 4.5 taking the medium-term profit into account Nippon Life Insurance Company 42,509 3.0 • Aiming for making stable payment of dividends Shares per unit 100 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 5) 25,928 1.8 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 24,149 1.7 Authorized shares 6,000,000,000 EPS / Cash dividends per share Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Co., Ltd. 23,338 1.6 (Yen) (Yen) Outstanding shares 1,506,288,107 State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 21,780 1.5 EPS (Left axis) Cash dividends per share (Right axis) 120 24 25 Japan Trustee Service Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 21,411 1.5 106.73 Number of shareholders 165,467 State Street Bank and Trust Company 505225 21,037 1.5 96 20 95.19 20 (Notes) 1. In addition to the above, MCHC holds 67,025 thousand shares of treasury stock, but these shares are General meeting of non-voting pursuant to the provisions of Article 308, Paragraph 2 of the Companies Act. Annually in June shareholders 2. Percentage is calculated excluding treasury stock (67,025 thousand shares). 3. In addition to the above, equity investments of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. in MCHC include 72 15 15 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and 2,375 thousand shares of stock (representing a percentage of 0.2%) held in the name of “The Nomura Transfer agent Trust and Banking Co., Ltd. (Retirement Benefit Trust The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Account)” over 13 Banking Corporation 12 12 which The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. retains the right to issue instructions regarding the exercise of the relevant voting right. 48 10 41.40 Governments and Local Governments 0.0% Securities Corporations 31.70 Composition of Shareholders 2.0% Foreign Shareholders Japanese Individuals and Others* 24 21.89 5 Japanese Financial Institutions Other Japanese Corporations 12.61 FY 2016 39.5% 5.2% 32.5% 20.8% As of March 31, 2017 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 (FY) (Forecast) (Plan) FY 2012 42.3% 10.8% 21.6% 24.1% As of March 31, 2013 J-GAAP (IFRS) International Financial Reporting Standards 1.0% 0.0% * Shares held by the Company as treasury stock (fiscal 2012: 2.0%, fiscal 2016: 4.4%) are included in “Japanese Individuals and Others.” Stock Price/Stock Trading Volume FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Stock price ¥435 Stock price ¥429 Stock price ¥698.6 Stock price ¥587.5 Stock price ¥861.4 IR Report PER 34.4 times PER 19.5 times PER 16.8 times PER 18.5 times PER 8.1 times MCHC has an active and constructive dialog with shareholders, customers and other stakeholders through various opportunities and aims to cooperate for realization of KAITEKI by sharing issues and goals. In dialog with shareholders and investors, we will ensure appropriate disclosure so (Yen) PBR 0.7 times PBR 0.7 times PBR 1.0 times PBR 0.9 times PBR 1.1 times (Yen) 1,000 40,000 as to gain the trust of our shareholders and encourage long-term holding of our shares. We also intend to engage in active dialog with shareholders and reflect it in our corporate activities. MCHC stock price (Left axis) Nikkei stock average<closing price> (Right axis) 750 30,000 2016 2017 Activities Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar 500 20,000 1 Held on June 27, 2017 General Meeting Attendance: 1,535 persons of Shareholders (Reference: 1,714 attended in 2016) 250 10,000 Dec: Business briefings June: First IR Day “Briefings on IR briefings “Update on the Medium-term Major Businesses” Management Plan” 0 Top management’s dialog May: Small meetings Dec: Small meetings 2 July-Sep: Visits to investors Thousand shares with investors May-Jun: Visits to investors Oct: Visits to investors For domestic 250,000 Stock trading volume institutional investors and Conference call, analysts following the financial Held in May Held in Aug Held in Nov Held in Feb 200,000 results announcement 150,000 Jan: Mizushima, Tokuyama Visit to operating sites Sep: U.S. district 100,000 3 Held 14 briefings on business summary and future strategy for individual investors (hosted by securities companies) in 14 major For individual cities (Total attendance: 2,249 investors) 50,000 investors Jul: U.K., U.S. Overseas road show by top 0 Jun: HK, Singapore Jul: Europe management 4 Sep: U.S. 2012 Apr. 2013 Apr. 2014 Apr. 2015 Apr. 2016 Apr. 2017 Mar. For overseas investors J-GAAP IFRS Dialog at investors Apr: Credit Suisse Securities Sep: Mizuho Securities, Merrill Nov: Nomura Securities (Japan) conferences (HK) Lynch Japan Securities (Japan) * Stock price: As of March 31 PER: Share price as of end of March/Basic earnings per share (Net income (loss)-basic per share until fiscal 2015) PBR: Share price as of March 31/Equity attributable to owners of the parent per share (Net assets per share until fiscal 2015) 41 42 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Domains Overview of Business Domains * Figures for fiscal 2016 do not include discontinued operations. Percentage of Revenue by Domain Revenue / Revenue Growth Rate (Core) Operating Income / (Core) Operating Margin Total Assets / ROA* Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization R&D expenses / Ratio of R&D expenses to Revenue * ROA=(Core) Operating income / Total Assets (Annual average) Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Performance Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 27.0% 2,200 20.0 160 20.0 2,500 10.0 160 120 100 16 Products Domain 14.4 Revenue 7.9 8.1 1,650 10.0 120 15.0 1,875 7.5 120 90 75 12 ¥911.4 billion 1,100 1.6 0.6 4.1 0.0 80 74.7 78.6 10.0 1,250 5.7 5.0 80 60 50 8 924.5 930.1 968.2 911.4 4.6 51.0 8.6 961.1 46.3 48.3 47.2 Electronics Applications 807.9 864.5 930.4 954.8 937.5 44.2 53.3 33.5 31.6 -5.9 7.7 62.3 29.5 29.0 28.2 3.1% 57.9 59.6 550 -10.0 40 40.9 5.0 625 2.5 40 54.8 56.1 30 25 4 5.7 2.0 4.1 17.4 4.4 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.1 Designed Materials 2.2 23.9% 0 -20.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Industrial Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 51.3% 2,200 20.0 160 20.0 2,500 10.0 160 120 100 16 Materials Domain 2,094.7 2,246.8 111.2 1,813.5 1,974.0 2,237.2 104.3 14.8 130.8 2,040.6 Revenue 1,731.4 1,650 1,579.3 10.0 120 15.0 1,875 7.5 120 117.2 90 75 12 ¥1,731.4 billion 84.4 8.8 6.1 100.5 1,470.5 95.4 1,384.7 6.0 66.4 1,100 0.0 80 10.0 1,250 5.0 80 58.7 74.9 60 50 8 4.7 Polymers 7.6 51.0 20.9% -7.4 44.7 550 -10.0 40 35.9 5.0 625 2.5 40 30 25 4 19.3 17.5 16.9 18.1 16.8 4.8 1.9 Chemicals 1.2 -17.3 0 0 3.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 30.4% 0 -20.0 0 -0.1 1.8 0 0 0 0.2 0 0 0 0 0 0.2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS Revenue (Left axis) (Core) Operating income (Left axis) Total assets (Left axis) Capital expenditures (Left axis) R&D expenses (Left axis) Percentage of Revenue growth rate (Right axis) (Core) Operating margin (Right axis) ROA (Right axis) Depreciation and amortization (Right axis) Ratio of R&D expenses to revenue (Right axis) Health Care Revenue by Domain (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) 16.2% 2,200 20.0 160 20.0 2,500 10.0 160 120 100 15.6 16 Domain 9.8 18.7 14.9 15.1 15.1 14.1 18.0 9.0 86.3 Revenue 8.2 80.4 80.5 76.5 77.0 1,650 10.0 120 14.6 14.5 15.0 1,875 7.5 120 90 75 12 ¥547.0 billion 12.8 7.4 103.4 4.2 98.4 6.8 3.3 2.4 0.1 1,100 0.0 80 74.9 77.0 10.0 1,250 5.0 80 60 50 8 -1.3 68.2 971.6 1,028.6 1,050.9 1,059.0 1,101.5 Health Care 550 514.3 531.2 531.9 554.0 547.0 -10.0 40 5.0 625 2.5 40 30 25 4 16.2% 14.3 16.0 15.7 16.2 28.5 17.9 0 -20.0 0 0 0 0 0 15.5 20.3 24.6 21.3 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 43 44 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Fiscal 2016 Results by Domain Fiscal 2016 Results by Domain Performance Products Domain Performance Products Revenue (Core) Operating income Contributing factors to core operating income In polymer processing products, revenue decreased due to Electronics Applications the impact of the strong yen and lower sales prices, despite (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Buying and selling Volume Cost Other Electronics 120 118.8 115.6 115.7 104.7 0 0 difference difference reduction differences* The segment posted a decrease in both revenue and income. higher sales volumes of displays film and other products. In fine Applications 90 -0.8 -2 -1.0 3.5 Revenue fell ¥11.0 billion year-on-year, to ¥104.7 billion, and the core chemicals, demand of coating materials and other products 60 -1.6 -0.9 -1.0 -4 -0.7 -2.9 operating loss widened ¥1.9 billion year-on-year, to ¥2.9 billion. remained generally firm. In battery materials, sales volumes for 30 -2.4 -6 0.8 Revenue and core operating income decreased, reflecting automobile batteries increased. In composite materials, revenue 0 -3.2 -2.7 -2.9 -8 -5.5 lower sales prices in electronics-related materials including display decreased due to the impact of the strong yen, despite higher J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2015 2016 (FY) materials and the impact of the strong yen, in addition to lower sales volumes of alumina fibers. In food ingredients, revenue 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) sales volumes of optical photoconductor (OPC) drums and toners, increased, supported by the full-year revenue contribution (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Buying despite the effects of cost reductions in information materials. from Eisai Food & Chemical Co., Ltd. which was made into a Designed 1,000 100 100 Volume and selling difference difference Cost Other reduction differences* consolidated subsidiary in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. In Materials 811.4 852.6 825.6 806.7 81.5 5.9 81.5 750 75 75.7 75.0 75 75.0 11.2 Designed Materials fibers, sales volumes decreased substantially mainly due to a 56.0 -1.6 500 50 50 -9.0 The segment posted decreased revenue and increased income. deteriorating export environment. Core operating income grew 250 25 25 Revenue was down ¥18.9 billion, at ¥806.7 billion. However, with higher sales volumes as a whole and other factors, despite 0 0 0 core operating income rose by ¥6.5 billion, to ¥81.5 billion. the impact of the strong yen. J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) * Other differences include difference in receipt and delivery, and difference in profit and loss of investments accounted for using the equity-method. Industrial Materials Domain Industrial Materials Revenue (Core) Operating income Contributing factors to core operating income Liquide and a decline in raw material prices in industrial gases, Chemicals despite the larger scale of periodical turn around in basic Chemicals (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Buying (Billions of yen) and selling Volume Cost Other difference difference reduction differences* 1,600 60 57.3 57.7 58.9 60 57.7 15.7 58.9 The segment recorded decreased revenue and increased petrochemicals and chemical derivatives, in addition to a slump 1,321.1 1,200 1,139.4 1,081.6 1,025.2 45 45 -4.7 1.8 income. Revenue decreased by ¥56.4 billion, to ¥1,025.2 billion. in the needle coke market. 800 30 30 -11.6 Core operating income was up ¥1.2 billion, at ¥58.9 billion. In basic petrochemicals and chemical derivatives, revenue Polymers 400 15 9.2 15 0 0 0 decreased, reflecting lower sales prices stemming from a The segment posted decreased revenue and increased J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2015 2016 (FY) decline in raw material prices, as well as a larger scale of income. Revenue was down ¥60.1 billion, at ¥706.2 billion. Core 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) periodical turn around at the ethylene facilities compared to operating income grew ¥15.5 billion, to ¥71.9 billion. Buying (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) and selling Volume Cost Other the previous year. In carbon products including coke and In synthetic resins, revenue decreased due to the facts that Polymers 1,000 80 80 difference difference reduction differences* 71.9 14.5 71.9 others, revenue increased due primarily to increasing sales sales prices of polyolefin and other synthetic resins declined 834.6 773.7 766.3 750 706.2 60 56.4 60 56.4 3.1 price associated with a sharp rise in coking coal prices. In reflecting a lower raw material prices compared to the previous 43.3 500 40 40 -1.3 -0.8 industrial gases, revenue decreased mainly due to the strong year and that MMA monomer was affected by the strong yen 26.8 250 20 20 yen, despite the inclusion of the earnings of business which despite continued steady demand. Core operating income 0 0 0 we acquired from Air Liquide in the U.S. starting in the second increased due to continued steady market conditions of MMA J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2015 2016 (FY) quarter of fiscal 2016. Core operating income rose due to monomer, despite the impact of a larger scale of periodical turn 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) factors including the effects of business acquisition from Air around of facilities for polyolefin and other synthetic resins. Health Care Domain Health Care Revenue (Core) Operating income Contributing factors to core operating income in Japan, and thanks to an increase in royalty revenues from Health Care Gilenya, a treatment for multiple sclerosis, which was launched Health Care (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Buying Volume Cost Other and selling difference reduction differences* 600 531.9 554.0 548.4 547.0 120 112.2 120 112.2 difference The segment recorded decline in both revenue and income. overseas. Revenue from clinical testing and diagnostic reagents, 103.4 98.4 3.4 6.6 98.4 450 90 77.0 90 Revenue totaled ¥547.0 billion, a decrease of ¥1.4 billion. Core pharmaceutical development support, and pharmaceutical -14.9 -8.9 300 60 60 operating income was down ¥13.8 billion, at ¥98.4 billion. formulation materials, fell due in part to decreased sales volumes Pharmaceuticals, despite the impact of NHI drug price revision in of pharmaceutical formulation materials. Core operating income 150 30 30 April 2016, recorded growth in revenue due to higher sales volumes decreased mainly because of the effect of NHI drug price revision, 0 0 0 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 2015 2016 (FY) of Simponi, a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, and vaccines despite the increased revenue in the pharmaceutical business. 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 45 46 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Performance Products Domain Performance SWOT Analysis S W Products Strengths Weaknesses Optical films High-performance films Optical films High-performance films Strong market position and Technologies to add functions Ability to adapt to short-term Business development with ability to deliver solutions for including gas barrier, porous demand fluctuations which focus on the domestic market various optical applications control and multiple layers exceeds the expectation Performance Products Domain High-performance High-performance Carbon fibers Carbon fibers engineering plastics engineering plastics Business development through Widespread and direct impacts Focusing on five growing markets and seeking to orchestrate the Group’s wide range of products and technologies Global network across business vertically-integrated value chain from social/economical/foreign Exchange rate impacts due to groups from materials to mold which covers from carbon fibers while pursuing differentiation and improved performance, we will offer diverse solutions to each market. processing field to CFRP intermediate base exchange risks in different regions around the world the high ratio of overseas sales material/composites Focus Markets (Domains) Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Major Business Domains Advanced polymers / High-performance chemicals / O Opportunities T Threats 1 (Lightweight composites, Environment-friendly materials) Advanced moldings & composites Optical films High-performance films Optical films High-performance films Packaging, Labels, Films Increase in sophisticated market 2 (Food packaging films, Industrial films) Advanced polymers / High-performance films needs (greater demand for highRoll-out of high-performance Shrinkage of existing market Medium-term decrease in due to destructive technological performance and high-precision products to overseas businesses domestic demand innovation products) IT, Electronics, Displays 3 (Flat panel display materials, Semiconductor-related materials) Information, Electronics & Display / Advanced moldings & composites High-performance High-performance Carbon fibers Carbon fibers engineering plastics engineering plastics Environment, Energy 4 (Battery materials, Water treatment systems and devices) Environment & living solutions / New energy Expanded demand in industrial Expanded demand in industrial Shrinkage of existing market Intensified competition due to use (automobiles, wind power use (aircraft, semiconductors) due to dissemination of new quality improvement of products generation, pressure vessels Medical, Food, Bio Products Advanced polymers / High-performance films / Advanced moldings &composites and medical use technologies such as 3D printer of developing countries 5 and others) Food ingredients, Pharmaceutical materials, Medical-related products) High-performance chemicals / Environment & living solutions Major Businesses and Products Functional Products Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥744.6 billion Functional Chemicals Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥327.3 billion Information, electronics & display High-performance films Environment & living solutions Advanced moldings & composites Advanced polymers High-performance chemicals New energy Optical films High-performance films Aqua solutions High-performance engineering plastics Performance polymers Coating materials Lithium-ion battery materials We will swiftly respond to markets Through the optimal combination of Through offerings such as water The Quadrant Group offers engineering With a broad product range centered We provide added value under strong Targeting the increasingly sophisticated expanding globally and increasingly technologies including polymer material treatment chemicals, membranes and plastics as a leading global manufacturer around thermoplastic elastomers, consciousness of sustainability with needs of customers, we are developing sophisticated needs, such as polyester design, film forming, surface treatment ion-exchange resins, we cover the total that develops business in a wide range performance polyolefins and PVC polymers for paints, inks, adhesives, electrolytes and anode materials primarily films and optical clear adhesive sheets, and composition, we offer products water treatment process from drinking of fields such as industrial machinery, compounds, we contribute to customers’ hair care materials, and resist materials for the batteries equipped in electric and support the advancement of displays. with added “functionalities” such as gas water to wastewater, aiming to provide automobiles, aircrafts, and medical use. innovation in areas from healthcare and for semiconductors based on advanced vehicles based on comprehensive barrier property, weather resistance, solutions on a worldwide basis to any and industry to daily consumer goods. technologies of synthesis, formulation, and high levels of technology and a global moisture permeability, easy-opening, all water-related issues. evaluation. supply system covering from material applied in different markets including development to safety evaluation. food, industrial, and healthcare. Information and Electronics Materials Agricultural solutions Carbon fiber and composite materials Phenol and polycarbonate Food ingredients LED materials & Scintillator We will focus on developing and selling We offer agricultural materials such as We have realized one of the most Integrating our proprietary manufacturing We have expanded our business to Phosphors used in LED backlights and products and services that create new high performance films with superior integrated product chains in the world, process technologies with polymer a wide range of fields from food to lighting, gallium nitride (GaN) substrates value consistent with customers’ needs, durability for greenhouses, and plant covering from PAN-based and pitchdesign technologies and compound pharmaceuticals and cosmetics in product used in high-performance LED lighting including various materials for FPD(Flat factories of cultivating high-quality based carbon fibers to intermediates and technologies, we have expanded our groups such as emulsifiers—represented and lasers, and scintillators used for Panel Display) and precision cleaning for vegetables stably throughout the year. composite products using fibers as base business globally with one of the largest by our sugar ester which has the leading security and medical diagnostic purposes semiconductors. materials. market shares in Asia. global market share —and vitamin E. are all widely used. Aqua solutions High-performance engineering plastics Optical films Performance polymers Coating materials Lithium-ion battery materials High-performance films (Food packaging Separation materials Carbon fiber and composite materials Optical PVOH film Phenol and polycarbonate Epoxy resins LED materials materials, Industrial-use films, Medical and Separator and aqua chemicals Alumina fibers Precision cleaning Polybutylene terephthalate Resin additives (GaN substrates, phosphors) sanitary films) Agricultural solutions Functional moldings and composites Color resist Sustainable polymers Food ingredients Scintillator Infrastructure solutions Fibers and textiles 47 48 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Performance Products Domain Performance Products Domain APTSIS 20 Policies Accelerate growth by generating synergies, Plan Values Growth Strategy and supply high-performance products/solutions Core Operating Income globally to growth markets (billions of yen) Investment amount (Five-year plan, total) 150 ¥125.0 billion Provide various solutions to one of the five focus markets; ¥390.0 *2 Key Expand high-performance, high-value-added products billion Strategies business and solutions business 100 ¥94.2 billion (APTSIS 20 Original planned figures) Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility) Accelerate global development Strengthen innovation by integration of three chemical 50 R&D investment (Five-year plan, total) In the Performance Products domain, we will focus on the five materials, lithium-ion battery materials, and also functional operating companies markets of “Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility),” “Packaging, Labels, additive and strengthening material including thermoplastic Achieve profitability of new energy businesses at an early stage 0 2016 Results *1 2020 Plan (FY) ¥170.0 billion Films,” “IT, Electronics, Displays,” “Environment, Energy,” and “Medical, Food, Bio Products,” and accelerate growth. Here, we elastomers used for interior surfaces. Before the integration, these products had been developed *1 Since fiscal 2017, changes have been made to some product segments. will introduce our growth strategies for one of these five markets and sold through the independent routes of three different Fiscal 2016 results have been replaced with figures after the segment changes. *2 In December 2016, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by in the hope of the MCHC Groupʼs Automobiles, Aircraft (Mobility). companies. Through the integration of these companies, related between 100 and 200 billion yen on a company-wide basis. While the automobile market is expected to undergo significant business divisions are now working in close coordination growth in developing markets moving forward, particularly China, and accelerating synergy. For instance, by sharing marketing Growth Strategies of Information, Electronics & Display it is also expected that environmental measures such as reduced information, proposing distinctive composite products between dependence on fossil fuels and lower CO2 emissions will be businesses and consolidating sales routes, customers can now We will integrate the IT and electronics-related Sample Release film for surface protection CLEARFIT material businesses including color resist and various configuration Protection Panel Optical Clear Adhesive Sheet further advanced, leading to the widespread adoption of electric be presented with unified proposals. In fact, using the sales OCA optical film operations used for display applications, of liquid crystal Touch Panel vehicles and fuel cell vehicles, along with greater fuel efficiency route of the Quadrant group, a global leader in engineering displays OCA OPL Film through reduced vehicle weight. plastics, has started to yield results, including proposals strengthen access to the market by sharing marketing Release film for surface protection PVOH film for polarizing plate used in liquid crystal display information and customer needs, and adapt to Polarizer PVOH The MCHC Group carries numerous products that cater to for carbon fiber composite materials pitched to European Release film technological innovations in the marketplace in a Retardation film such market environments. For instance, as materials that help automobile manufactures. Moreover, by combining the matrix Color resist speedy and seamless fashion by accelerating efforts Liquid glass substrate reduce weight, we deal with carbon fiber composite materials resins and additives possessed by the High Performance Color Filter to develop products that match customer needs. Crystal used as structural components and polyethylene resins used in Chemicals Division with carbon fibers, we are considering Cell DIAFOIL glass substrate Optical biaxial oriented polyester films fuel tanks. We provide a broad range of solutions, in terms of proposing composite products with distinct qualities to growth In doing so, we will offer solutions to address many Retardation film different requirements of customers, such as reduced Release film environment-friendly materials including alumina fibers used markets. While orchestrating the efforts of related business Polarizer PVOH Phosphor and LED (New energy) as support mats for exhaust gas cleaning devices, bio-based divisions, we will continue to accelerate growth around the most thickness through a combination of materials and Release film for surface protection processing technologies, product development engineering plastics used as interior and exterior finishing effective growth drivers. Brightness enhancement film Prism sheet ACRYLITE (MMA) in response to the OLED market expansion, and Light guide panel for liquid crystal display backlights Diffuser plate reduced lead times and costs for customers through Light Light guide plate Lumirex Lightweight compounding and integration. source Functional Solutions Reflector film Optical reflective sheet Polypropylene resins Gas barrier resin films Engineering plastics ACRYPLEN acrylic film Carbon fiber and composite materials GMT, SymaLITE composite sheet Performance polymers Growth Strategies of High-performance Films Polyethylene resins DIAFIX IMD (In-mold decoration) molding film/sheet Taking advantage of polyester film sites in Europe By orchestrating different businesses such as Advanced ALPOLIC Aluminum composite material White LEDs, GaN substrates, LED epitaxial wafers and the U.S., accelerate global expansion of madein-Japan quality high-value-added products, while HISHIMETAL plastic film-laminated steel sheet polymers and High-performance chemicals, we will considering M&A and other measures Environmental Applications MC NYLON strengthen its product development capabilities and Priority areas: High-barrier food DURABIO bio-based engineering plastic promote new technologies and products to become a Carbon black wet master batch packaging (DIAMIRON), labels, Adblue high-quality urea aqueous solution for SCR systems strategic force at an early stage. In addition, for existing medical, cards, liquid detergent Water-soluble adhesives (Hi-Selon) AQSOA high-performance zeolite for SCR catalysts businesses, primarily packaging, labels, and films, we ACRYPET acrylic molding material Lithium-ion battery materials will realize growth strategies by fully utilizing the sites in DIANAL coating material ACRYLITE acrylic sheet Japan, the U.S. and Europe and our overseas network MAFTEC alumina fiber while actively promoting M&A, alliances and so on. Specifically, we are considering a roll-out of Japanese Establishing plants and sales sites for Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues high-value-added products with food barrier packaging the growing Southeast Asian markets utilizing European and the U.S.ʼs polyester film plants to including food packaging, etc. ·High-barrier food packaging films Carbon fiber materials (SMC) used for back doors of Prius PHVs the U.S.ʼs and European markets and expanding food Carbon fiber materials SMC (Sheet Molding Compound) are used in the frame of the back door of Food packaging films In Asia, promoting highpackaging materials aimed at the growing Southeast performance films and labels, by the new Prius PHV released by Toyota Motor Corporation in February 2017. Asian market. Euro-American products SMC developed by MCC is a type of intermediate material for CFRPs and a sheet-shaped material in which carbon fibers cut into several-centimeter lengths are dispersed in resin. The SMC offers advantages over other CFRP materials: it can be processed into a component in a short Growth Strategies of New Energy period of time, i.e. roughly 2 to 5 minutes, by press molding, allowing components with complex shapes to be molded. In addition, as its mechanical properties are almost uniform, carbon fibers We will promote early commercialization and profitability of new energy-related businesses that contribute to the realization of sustainable society, can be used relatively easily to obtain higher strength based on conventional component design and work to nurture businesses responsible for the next generation. We will respond to the increasingly sophisticated needs for lithium-ion battery expertise. Moreover, improved fuel efficiency from lighter vehicle weight contributes to reduce materials by developing high-performance electrolyte additives and anode materials. In the area of energy transduction materials, we will launch CO 2 emissions. new types of phosphors at an early stage, develop products that utilize the properties of GaN, and expand the businesses for scintillators used for security and medical diagnostic purposes. 49 50 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Industrial Materials Domain SWOT Analysis S Strengths W Weaknesses Industrial Materials Petrochemicals MMA Petrochemicals MMA Conducted structural reform Possesses three major of naphtha cracker. Now utility Susceptible to price fluctuation Fluctuating revenue due to manufacturing methods. Holds a reinforcement and promotion of impacts of commodities such as overseas market conditions and strong market position with the high-value-added products are crude oil raw material trends world’s top market share in progress Industrial Materials Domain Industrial Gases Carbon Products Industrial Gases Carbon Products MCHC will continue to advance the diversification of raw Holds a strong market position with the domestic top market Coking coal blending technologies and Coke quality Relatively expensive domestic Fluctuating revenue due to cost structure (electricity rates) volatile coking coal prices materials, including renewable resources, provide products share management technologies and technologies through a framework that reflects the needs of the time, and support growing markets. O Opportunities T Threats Petrochemicals MMA Petrochemicals MMA U.S. shale-based products and Knowledge business (technology Business network positioned to Chinese coal-based products license, catalysts) in overseas respond to global expansion of flowing into the Japanese Competition with other materials growth regions demand market in greater quantities than expected Industrial Gases Carbon Products Industrial Gases Carbon Products Greater opportunity to invest Expanding production of crude Oligopolization in overseas Integration of blast furnace along in North America, Asia and steel and demands for coke in markets by major European and with the restructuring of steel Oceania. Expanding demand for developing countries such as North American gas producers companies electronics and medical uses India Major Businesses and Products MMA Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥285.9 billion Petrochemicals Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥500.3 billion Carbon Products Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥197.9 billion Industrial Gases Fiscal 2016 Revenue ¥574.6 billion MMA Basic petrochemicals and basic chemical derivatives Coke Industrial gases We are the only company that employs all three main manufacturing Our ethylene plants are located in Kashima and Mizushima* in Japan. Coke supports the global steel industries, and various products We have a leading 40% share of the domestic market for industrial methods* and maintains a leading 40% share of the global market. We provide olefins such as ethylene and propylene, and aromatics are also produced from the tar created by the coke manufacturing gases, mainly oxygen, nitrogen and argon. We are expanding our With a globally established supply system that takes advantage of raw such as benzene and toluene. We also deal in various ethylene, process. Each year we import coals from countries around the world business areas overseas while focusing on North America, Asia and material availability for individual plants and cost competitiveness, we propylene and C4 derivatives, terephthalic acid, and more. and produce coke of different qualities by blending around 60-70 Oceania as key markets. aim to realize the most advanced and sophisticated operations. * The Mizushima ethylene plant is owned by Asahi Kasei Mitsubishi Chemical types of raw materials in various combinations. * Acetone cyanohydrin (ACH) method, C4 direct oxidation process, and new Ethylene, which is jointly owned by Asahi Kasei and Mitsubishi Chemical. ethylene process (Alpha Technology) PMMA Polyolefins Carbon black Industrial gas-related equipment and facilities PMMA (acrylic resin) has various excellent characteristics such as Our polyolefin (polyethylene and polypropylene) business offers high Carbon black is a material used for products found in daily life, such Besides our domestic production of Japan’s first air separation plant, superior transparency, strong weatherability and formability. We quality and high performance product lineups in a wide range of fields as tires, printing ink, and colored resins. We manufacture carbon we have earned a stellar reputation as a world’s top-class plant operate business with a variety of PMMA products including acrylic including automobiles, electrical wires, medical devices and food black under consistent quality control throughout the process manufacturer through the production of space-simulation chambers sheets for signs, display shelves and aquarium tanks, molding packaging based on proprietary catalyst and process technologies. beginning from raw material processing to the final products. and liquid helium-related equipment. materials for automotive products, optical components and home We are also expanding its business outside Japan as a global supplier electronic parts, and plastic optical fibers. of high performance materials while developing the growing global markets including the automobile industry. MMA, PMMA Basic petrochemicals, Basic chemical derivatives, Polyolefins Coke, Carbon material, Carbon black, Synthetic rubber Industrial Gases, Industrial Gas-related equipment and facilities 51 52 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Industrial Materials Domain Industrial Materials Domain APTSIS 20 Policies Stabilization of earnings by strengthening of costPlan Values Growth Strategy competitiveness Core Operating Income Acceleration of growth and strengthening of presence in (billions of yen) Investment amount (five-year plan, total) the global market 150 ¥130.0 billion Expansion of overseas business areas for industrial gases business ¥580.0 *2 ¥114.7 billion billion Key Strengthening of cost-competitiveness 100 (APTSIS 20 original planned figures) and sustainable growth of domestic businesses Strategies Acceleration of global development (MMA, industrial gases) Business rebuilding 50 R&D investment (Five-year plan, total) Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (“TNSC”) has a leading reinforce our industry-leading position. And overseas, we will 40% share of the industrial gas market in Japan. Having aggressively promote capital investment and M&A activities in 0 2016 Result *1 2020 Plan (FY) ¥80.0 billion expanded its business areas with focus on North America, Asia and Oceania as key markets, the company has developed an effort to expand our business areas. In fiscal 2016, TNSC acquired the U.S. industrial gas *1 Since fiscal 2017. Changes have been made to some segments. operations in 19 countries and regions around the world to date. business and assets of Air Liquide S.A., the biggest such Fiscal 2016 results have been replaced with figures after the segment changes. While the domestic industrial gas market has been acquisition in its history. The acquisition meant that in *2 In December 2016, MCHC announced that it would increase investments and loans by experiencing the medium-range low growth, in regions such as addition to its existing operations primarily in the southern between 100 and 200 billion yen on a company-wide basis. North America, Asia and Oceania, further growth is expected and Midwestern U.S., TNSC acquired a business network in in the future, and further oligopolization by major industrial the Eastern U.S. and a more robust operating network in the gas producers in Europe and North America has been taking Midwest. Moreover, with the acquisition of Supagas Holdings Growth Strategies of MMA place. To compete with those major industrial gas producers Pty Ltd in Australia, TNSC completed a sales network spanning To maintain its competitive advantage as the world’s MMA Production Sites and Market Share by Region in Europe and North America, we will pursue sustained growth the entire country. leading supplier of MMA monomers with a market domestically and seek to expand our overseas operations. TNSC plans to invest further ¥340 billion from fiscal 2017 to share of around 40%, we will seek to boost production Specifically, “structural reform,” “innovation,” “globalization” fiscal 2020, 70% of which it plans to allocate toward strategic capacity and optimize its production system. We and “M&A” will form the pillars of our strategy. By maximizing investments. TNSC will endeavor to fully utilize these investments Europe Asia Americas have established a joint venture with SABIC(Saudi Group synergy through the expansion and structural reforms to further expand its business areas primarily overseas and Basic Industries Corporation) in Saudi Arabia. Under of gas and gas-related businesses domestically, we will further achieve sustained growth in its domestic business. this joint venture, a plant with the world’s largest production capacity based on the competitive New Under Ethylene Method (Alpha Technology) using natural gasConsideration *2 Promotion of M&A strategy based raw materials, will start its operation in the middle of 2017. Construction of another plant that would use Total *1 shale gas-based raw materials is being considered for North America. We will continue to optimize its Japan India production systems based on the supply and demand China United States environment so as to ensure stable revenue. *1 Market share prior to launch of SAMAC (The Saudi Methacrylates Company) project September 2016 *2 Consideration of shale gas-based North American project Southeast Asia Acquired part of U.S. business and assets of Air Liquide Thailand Australia Strategic Approach to Strengthening Competitiveness of Petrochemicals May 2015 July 2015 Acquired Thai industrial gas producer Acquired Australian distributor Up to 2016, we pursued the consolidation of its APTSIS 10 APTSIS 15 APTSIS 20 After APTSIS 20 Air Products Industry Co., Ltd. Renegade Gas Pty Ltd domestic ethylene centers and the equity interest Cracker structural reforms Preparations for a raw material revolution transfer of its terephthalic acid businesses in India Unification of Naphtha Refinery alliances crackers at Kashima Preparation for raw material diversification December 2016 and China. We had specific aims in these structural Basic Unification of naphtha crackers at Mizushima Acquired Australian industrial gas producer Petrochemicals reforms, preparing ahead of its competitors for the Improving the value of all unutilized fraction Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd so-called “arrival of black ships” in which competitive Fuel Conversion Complex alliances Utility Alliances (Wide-area, Other Companies) Solutions for Environmental and Social Issues products using North American shale gas as raw materials entered the Asian markets. Looking ahead, Production optimization Established production facilities for liquefied carbon dioxide at Mizushima plant of Nippon Ekitan Corporation (Reorganization of production lines) we will continue to strengthen competitiveness by TNSC’s group company Nippon Ekitan Corporation handles liquefied carbon dioxide. Roughly 50% of carbon dioxide gas is used in iron Polyolefin welding as a shielding gas. It is also used in various other applications such as beverages, and the freezing or chilling of foods. further reinforcing the foundations of its production In recent years, due to the decreasing demand for fuel oil and the closure of domestic ammonia production facilities, the production of sites and optimizing production while seeking to PE/PP: Optimization of production system high-concentration carbon dioxide gas as a raw material has declined significantly, which caused tight supply-demand balance of finished maximize earnings through improved added value Withdrawal from Enhancing derivatives business (chain) products. Particularly, productions in the Chugoku and Shikoku regions have declined drastically, resulting in constant long-distance targeting the unutilized fraction between cracker and unprofitable derivatives Coordination with other business divisions transport from other regions. Production of high-concentration carbon dioxide gas as a raw material from this business category is expected Setting up EO center Basic Chemicals Increased EC production capacity to decline further in the future. derivatives, the development of high-performance Downsizing of TPA business Nippon Ekitan plans to establish liquefied carbon dioxide production facilities at the Mizushima plant in October 2017. The facilities will be polyethylene and polypropylene, and the expansion Restructuring of caustic soda and VCM able to collect the low-concentration carbon dioxide generated from the MCC Mizushima site on the same premises and effectively utilize it as Withdrawal from PTMG business (China) of technology licenses through a refinement of high-quality liquefied carbon dioxide. As the production process involves effectively utilizing carbon dioxide gas that would otherwise have been possessed technologies. Strengthening plants released into the atmosphere instead of generating new carbon dioxide, the facilities significantly contribute to reducing environmental load, and also help to reduce long-distance transportation by ensuring a more stable supply to users in the Chugoku, Shikoku and Kansai areas. Common issues Development of high-value-added products, technology licensing …Measures including establishment of new facilities …Restructuring, downsizing and suspension 53 54 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Health Care Domain SWOT analysis S Strengths W Weaknesses Health Care Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Capabilities for drug discovery and drug fostering and evolution Global business expansion (in North America in particular) has in the pharmaceutical business been in progress Presence in focus areas including autoimmune diseases Health Care Domain Life science Life science Broad business foundation covering from sick care to healthcare Leveraging the Group’s comprehensive strength and network, we have been providing and life care Various products and services that meet customers’ needs are Strong market position in the capsule business insufficient and developing pharmaceuticals, diagnostic instruments, clinical testing, health support Provide total solutions in clinical testing area services, pharmaceutical development support services, active pharmaceutical ingredients/ intermediates, and pharmaceutical formulation materials. O Opportunities T Threats Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Declining success rate for new drug development and increasing Diversification of medical needs R&D costs due to stricter drug approval process Expanding demand in the health care domain due to global aging Delayed global expansion Various measures to control medical expenditures by governments Life science Life science Upward trend in the use of big data through health and medical ICT Government incentives to maintain health, to prevent serious Lack of economic incentives in the healthcare business cases and to restrain medical expenditure Enhancing health awareness such as self-medication Major Businesses and Products Pharmaceuticals Fiscal 2016 Revenue: ¥423.9 billion Life Science Fiscal 2016 Revenue: ¥123.1billion Autoimmune diseases area Diabetes and Central nervous Vaccines Business for pharmaceutical development Business for capsules and pharmaceutical Self-health check services kidney diseases area system diseases area support and clinical testing processing equipments In the autoimmune diseases area, In the diabetes and kidney diseases In the central nervous system Regarding vaccines, we reached a Providing comprehensive solutions including We provide comprehensive solutions based on We developed Jibun Karada Club, a blood our company has strong sales area, we will establish our presence diseases area, the antidepressant basic agreement on the foundation clinical testing and support for testing operations our production technology accumulated for test kit with finger prick by customers at foundation based on a trust by obtaining evidence for Tenelia Lexapro was additionally approved of BIKEN Co., Ltd. (joint venture for in the clinical testing area, we have been many years, such as high quality and functional drugstores and contribute to maintain relationship with medical professionals, and Canaglu (indication: type 2 for the treatment of social anxiety the production of vaccines) with the contributing to the medical treatment and hard capsules and pharmaceutical processing people's health, in addition to other which has been established diabetes mellitus) and by expanding disorder in November 2015. Research Foundation for Microbial prevention/early detection of diseases. We also equipments. We have the top global share in treatment products. through one of our main products, sales channels. Centering on its effect on anxiety, Diseases of Osaka University in contribute to international sporting events as HPMC* capsules made from plant-derived raw Remicade (indication: inflammatory we will further promote this drug, November 2016 with a plan to start the only doping control laboratory in Japan and materials, as the first to successfully autoimmune diseases such as reinforcing the sales base in this operation in September 2017. Now, the first in Asia that is officially accredited by the commercialize them in the world. rheumatoid arthritis). We will area for the launch of new drugs in we will also strengthen cooperation World Anti-Doping Agency. * hydroxypropyl methylcellulose continue to maintain the largest the future. in production, enhance the market share in this area by production platform for which a maximizing the advantages of both larger supply is required and Remicade and Simponi (indication: contribute to the stable supply. rheumatoid arthritis, and others). Clinical testing Influenza vaccine Tetrabik Capsules Remicade / Simponi / Imusera Tenelia / Canaglu Lexapro / Radicut Diagnostic reagents and instruments Jibun Karada Club Varicella vaccine Pharmaceutical processing equipments Pharmaceutical development support 55 56 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Overview of Business Segments | Health Care Domain Health Care Domain APTSIS 20 Policies Worldwide growth in pharmaceutical business Plan Values Growth Strategy Establish and improve the health and medical business Core Operating Income utilizing ICT and the regenerative medicine products (Billions of yen) Investment amount (five-year plan, total) 150 ¥125.0 billion Establish a sustainable growth platform by Key Strategies Promote the development of overseas pharmaceutical business mainly in the U.S. Strengthen capabilities for drug discovery 100 ¥98.4 billion ¥560.0 billion expanding business in the U.S. Maximize values of new drugs and priority products by 50 Accelerate business in the U.S. with the approval of Radicava, first self-promoting product in the U.S. R&D investment (Five-year plan, total) strengthening capabilities of IKUYAKU (drug fostering and evolution) and marketing Expand the healthcare and medical business utilizing ICT 0 ¥440.0 billion ¥80.0 Expand the regenerative medicine business 2016 Results 2020 Plan (FY) Improve profitability and global expansiond of the 1 Numerical target (revenue in the U.S.) Fiscal 2020 Target of business scale: billion capsule business Growth Strategies in Pharmaceutical Business 2 Market trends (B$) Scale of the global pharmaceutical market 1,200 Our target for 2020 consists of four strategic priorities: Revenue in Japan (image illustration) maximizing the value of pipelines, strengthening capabilities Revenue The scale of the global pharmaceutical market is about 1,000 (image) of IKUYAKU (drug fostering and evolution) and marketing, 100 trillion yen. The U.S. is the largest pharmaceutical Others 800 accelerating U.S. business development (see details in market in the world and will be the same in the medium-to Other long-listed drugs 25% Europe “3” on page 58) and reforming operational productivity. long-term. It has outstanding ability to discover 600 45% 38% 30% We will implement strategic investment of more than 400 pharmaceuticals as well. MTPC is accelerating business 400 billion yen in R&D over 5 years, of more than 200 billion structural reform there to achieve sustainable growth of North America yen on the U.S. business expansion such as M&A, and 200 pharmaceutical business. of 100 billion yen on licensing-in and others, aiming to develop a business platform and to establish product lineup 0 Japan New drugs and 75% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 in the open shared business. In domestic market, we will priority products 55% 62% 70% Copyright © 2017QuintilesIMS enhance area marketing and initiate the development of Created based on World Review Analyst 2017 (from January 2012 to December 2016). Unauthorized reproduction prohibited. digital marketing to respond to changes in the Japanese medical environment, in order to strengthen domestic marketing as the fundamental business. With this strategy, 2015 2016 2017 2020 (FY) 3 Growth Strategy in the U.S. – to achieve the target of the U.S. business we aim to increase domestic revenue to 300 billion yen, and (Results) (Target) Strategic Investment of more than 200 billion yen to achieve achieve the product ratio of 75% for new drugs and priority Radicava was approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment revenue of 80 billion yen in the U.S. in fiscal 2020 products out of total domestic sales in fiscal 2020. of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) on May 5, and started STEP 3 promotion in August, 2017. We will expand our business Sustainable growth in the U.S. there based on the sales of Radicava. MT-1303 MT-7117 MT-8554 Medicago VLP (inflammatory (inflammatory (nervous system Growth Strategies in Life Science Business We will obtain new products in the nervous system autoimmune disease) autoimmune disease) disease) vaccine Illustration of application to myocardial infarction disease area and autoimmune disease area, following We will expand into the regenerative medical business as Radicava by M&A* or from other companies, and will also STEP 2 a next-generation healthcare business, aiming to obtain Expansively cultivating / Expansion of business in the U.S. early approval for a regenerative medical product using Pharmaceutical formulation develop our own products and plant-derived influenza Muse cells. Muse cells were discovered by the team led M&A In-licensed product vaccine, in order to strengthen our product lineup. by Professor Mari Dezawa of Tohoku University in 2009. * In July 2017, MTPC reached a definitive agreement with NeuroDerm Ltd. (Israel), which STEP 1 Muse cells exist in human body, such as bone marrow and has research infrastructure for Parkinson’s disease and others, pursuant to which First step in business in the U.S. skin (dermis), and these stem cells can be differentiated MTPC will acquire all of their outstanding shares. NeuroDerm will become a whollyowned subsidiary in October this year. MCI-186/ Radicava (ALS therapeutic drug) into various cells which build parts of the body. Muse cells Muse cells Muse cell preparations migrate to a damaged organ in order to repair the cells when injected into human body. Cell therapy Solutions for social and environmental issues Muse cell preparations that we are currently under development have the following advantages: Establishment of Searchlight Support Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharm America, Inc., a distributor of Radicava in the U.S., will work to Intravenous infusion decreases the physical burden provide Radicava to all patients who need it, and will also establish Searchlight Support for Less likely to form tumors Single Muse cell preparation can be applied to supporting the patients to whom Radicava was prescribed. Searchlight Support provides multiple diseases treatment management system suitable for each patient, support for obtaining insurance reimbursement and 24-hour clinical nurse hotline support. We are currently investigating the efficacy and safety in animal studies, planning to initiate clinical testing for patients with acute myocardial infarction in fiscal 2017. 57 58 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Innovation Innovation At the MCHC Group, we identify environmental and social issues along with market needs, and leverage Core Technologies Molecular Design Functional Design The MCHC Group maintains a wide range of unique Technologies Technologies our core technologies to create new value chains and innovative lifestyles. Thus, we provide and realize technologies and expertise—its core technologies—which Organic molecules Fiber spinning / comprehensive solutions. Film technology serve as the source of tens of thousands of competitive Our efforts extend beyond component and material research and the development of technologies. Inorganic molecules products and services from materials to consumer goods. Molding technology We pursue innovation in manufacturing processes and distribution channels, and set our sights on Moreover, working on this foundation we are continually striving Polymers Coating / proposing new uses of existing solutions. In so doing, we create things of value for customers, our to strengthen our existing core technologies and create new Catalysts Surface treatment technology Composite / business partners throughout the value chain, and all of the regions in which the MCHC Group is active. ones to address rapidly changing market needs and offer Biotechnologies Formulation technology solutions to social issues. Synthesis Analysis Simulation Mechanical design / Control engineering Business Opportunities and Environmental Product evaluation / Safety evaluation Corporate Brand and Social Issues Solutions Evaluation and Reputation Business, Products and Services Governance Research and Development Management MCHC embraces various approaches to strengthen core Examples of MOT Indices and Results technologies which is the basis of innovation and generate new innovations, including internal R&D, external R&D, venture MOT Indices Success Ratio MOS investments, open shared business (OSB*) and M&A activities. Elevated stage success ratio Management Moreover, by developing systems to promote information R&D Index (development stage to launch stage) 105% Aimed at Improved sharing between operating companies and reduce the risk Impacts on Society Sustainability Environmental and of information leaks, MCHC accelerates the synergy among Overseas patent Enhancement of Social Capital Social Issues its core technologies and engages in R&D management that Intellectual applications ratio Fulfillment of Social (Needs) visualizes the progress using the MOT Indices. Property (percentage of overseas 91% Responsibility Index applications out of total number of The MOT Indices are comprised of twelve indices which applications) were selected from the viewpoint of three indicators: efficiency of research and development (the R&D Index), technological New product ratio MOE MOT superiority (the Intellectual Property Index), and compatibility Market Index (percentage of new products and 117% services out of total revenue) Management Management Pursuing with social needs (the Market Index). The indices were Prioritizing Improved the Innovation introduced on a trial basis in fiscal 2013 and reviewed during Capital Efficiency formulation of APTSIS 20. The new indices began operation * Open Shared Business (OSB): OSB is the MCHC’s original framework where MCHC from fiscal 2016. (Table on the right shows achievement ratio of works with organizations outside the Group to advance collaboration in both R&D and business while developing a distinctive value chain. the representative indices in fiscal 2016 against the targets) Core “OSB”: MCHC registered trade mark No. 5585432 Profitability Technologies Open Innovation Product / Technology competitiveness To provide the products and services demanded by markets and society in a timely fashion, MCHC not only makes full use of its core Solution technologies, but also actively pursues collaboration with partners in possession of sophisticated technologies, efficient production systems, sales channels and so on. Through such collaboration, we fuse our own technologies with those of others in an effort to reach an even higher technological level. In the course of this type of open innovation, across all business domains, we identify the areas to be shut down (closed) and the areas to be put outside (opened) for cooperation with other companies. Thus, we endeavor to quickly develop competitive business models. MOE (Management of Economics) Business Model / Business Processes / MOS (Management of Sustainability) Allocation of Research Resources MOT (Management of Technology) 59 60 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Innovation Example of Innovation Participation in the Artificial Photosynthesis Project Utilization of Venture Companies What is artificial photosynthesis? The MCHC Group actively invests in and coordinates with venture Artificial photosynthesis is defined as a converting process from energetically little-value materials such as water and carbon dioxide Contributions to the Artificial companies with the aim of creating and accelerating innovation. (CO 2 ) into high energy substances such as hydrogen and organic compounds under the sunlight irradiation. It has attracted a lot of Photosynthesis Project attention as a technology to greatly contribute to the mitigation of CO2 emissions and fossil resource consumption. Examples of Venture Company Utilization in Recent Years 1 In photocatalyst design, we have developed semiAcquisition of U.S.-based Gemini Composites LLC Outline of the Artificial Photosynthesis project conductor type photocatalytic materials, co-catalysts MCC (carbon fiber material component designer and manufacturer) and modules that greatly enhance solar energy Photocatalytic water splitting to provide H2 and O2 H2 separation from H2 /O2 mixed gas by means Olefin production from CO2 and solar hydrogen TNSC Investment in U.S.-based Optomec, Inc. under visible light irradiation of separation membrane using synthetic catalyst conversion efficiency. At the beginning of the project, (3D metal printer manufacturer) it was only about 0.2%. An intermediate target of 3% Solar Investment in China-based Jijin OLED Material Tech Co., Ltd. Energy 1 2 in 2016 was realized on schedule. Currently, further (OLED material manufacturer) Semi-conductor Separation membrane by type photocatalyst H2 +O2 molecular sieving H2 3 research is going on with the aim of achieving energy Investment in U.S.-based Sulfa Trap LLC Synthetic catalysts C2 C4 conversion efficiency of 10%, the final goal of the (desulfurization sorbents manufacturer) H2O for olefin production Olefins project in fiscal 2021. Acquisition of Japanese firm Clio, Inc. LSII Power (regenerative medicine) currently it is taken over Plant Chemical CO2 Plant 2 For high performance of separation membranes, 3D Printer Initiatives three types of membrane materials, zeolite, silica In order to expand its industrial gas business and accelerate the Organization of the Artificial Organization of the Artificial Photosynthesis Project (FY 2016) and carbon, have been developed, all of which development of new businesses in high growth industrial segment, Photosynthesis Project demonstrated the intermediate target for their Instructions and TNSC is acquiring high-value added products and is providing new MCC has been participating in the Artificial NEDO Consultation Project Leader permeability. In addition, we have started to develop Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation services through partnership with venture firms. TNSC has already Photosynthesis Project commissioned Tohru Setoyama, unprecedented methods avoiding the combustion invested in various segments, such as clean technology, electronics by the New Energy and Industrial Commission Corporate Executive Officer (explosion) of hydrogen and oxygen in module. and additive manufacturing (AM) to create synergies with the Technology Development Organization industrial gas business. (NEDO), as a member of the Japan ARPChem 3 In the development of high performance synthetic The University of Tokyo In the projects on desulfurization sorbents with Sulfa Trap and Technological Research Association of Development of solar hydrogen Kyoto University catalysts for olefin production, we have successfully Joint high-purity OLED materials with Jilin OLED, TNSC has been Artificial Photosynthetic Chemical Process manufacturing process Research Tokyo University of Science developed a hyper-stable zeolite catalyst for producing Meiji University recognized sales record through our global sales network. (ARPChem) established in October 2012. R&D of photocatalysts, etc. light olefins from methanol derived from hydrogen National Institute of Advanced Industrial In April 2017, TNSC established partnership with 3D metal printer The Artificial Photosynthesis Project INPEX CORPORATION/ FUJIFILM Corporation Science and Technology (AIST) and CO2 with high yield and high productivity, and Mitsui Chemicals, Inc. / MCC / TOTO LTD. manufacturer Optomec (a U.S.-based venture company) in the AM is working on joint research and confirmed their reliability and the scalability at a smallindustry that is growing rapidly in the U.S. and Europe. Since 3D development with many Japanese Nagoya Institute of Technology scale pilot plant. Furthermore, we are developing an R&D of hydrogen separation Yamaguchi University metal printer is also known as micro-welding, TNSC is able to adopt companies and research institutions, as membranes, etc. Joint innovative catalytic reaction process using separation Research National Institute of Advanced Industrial our accumulated welding technologies for the AM businesses and it shown in the organizational chart on the MCC / Japan Fine Ceramics Center Science and Technology (AIST) membranes for methanol synthesis. These technologies enables to provide solutions with high quality and higher productivity right, under the direction of the project are highly expected to contribute to the realization of for customers. leader Tohru Setoyama (MCC’s Corporate Development of carbon dioxide olefin production process using CO2 as a resource. Joint Tokyo Institute of Technology utilization process Research Based on this strategic alliance, TNSC, as an industrial gas Executive Officer). MCC is working on all University of Toyama MCC / Sumitomo Chemical Co., Ltd. company to deliver the innovative solutions for global customers, will subjects of the project. be able not only to acquire new customers but also to provide high valued services for existing customers. Message from partner Moving forward, TNSC will continue to actively pursue This is truly a dream project involved the conversion of water and CO 2 using solar energy to chemical raw materials investment and partnership with venture companies having unique necessary for life. I appreciate this process as a technology that should be pursued today for the sake of the future, even though this cannot be practically applied right away. technologies and services. TNSC will focus on the fields of gas This project comprises three themes, photocatalyst, separation membrane, and synthetic catalyst, and MCC has technology, medical participated in every theme through its research and development. In synthetic catalysts for olefin production, MCC and biotechnology has successfully made reliable achievements on schedule from the developments of catalysts and processes to their while developing new demonstrations on a small-scale pilot plant. Also, Mr. Setoyama, the project leader, has created worthwhile concepts business models and and scenarios aimed at practical application as well as the directions of the research. MCC is an integrated chemical company representative Japan, and I have the impression that MCC plays a crucial maximizing operating role as one of suppliers of materials and components that are vital to industry and society. This project enters into its profit. Environment Department, NEDO latter half stage, where it is required to establish unprecedented processes, modules and systems, with improving their Project Manager performances, which would be a keen up-hill research phase in a sense. I hope that MCC contributes to the association Takashi Hattori with other companies and universities in this project and to the achievements using the wisdom by their integration. Metal processing using a 3D Small-scale pilot plant for the production of light olefins metal printer of Optomec 61 62 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Sustainability Sustainability Based on its unique Management of Sustainability (MOS) management approach, the MCHC Group develops Connection between the MOS and SDGs “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable We have taken U.N. 17 Sustainable Development Goals with 169 associated targets to be achieved by 2030 with the management issues we see as important, arranging them Development” adopted by the United Nations in September in terms of their relationship to materiality. To maximize technologies and delivers products and services that contribute to people, society and the sustainability of the 2015 and “the sustainable development goals (SDGs)” its contributions to both solutions, the MCHC Group will planet, and drives corporate activities to improve manufacturing technologies and achieve other advancements. targets correlates with many aspects of the MCHC Group’s continue to promote and advance the MOS. KAITEKI vision and its efforts to realize a sustainable society. Materiality Assessment MCHC has identified the important issues in its materiality assessment for the medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, and has Materiality Recognized Opportunities and Risks MCHC Group Management Related SDGs prioritized these issues based on their impact on corporate activities and other factors. This materiality assessment and its accompanying matrix are used as a compass for our corporate activities. Key Issues Related to the Global Environment Transformation and diversification of resources and energy Address the depletion of natural resources and energyKey management issues that the MCHC Group should address through supply sources Key Issues Related to the saving by switching to renewable raw materials, curbing its corporate activities, innovation, and provision of products and Practical application of renewable energy and accelerated Global Environment the use of rare metals, reducing raw fuel consumption and PROCESS 1 services in the aim of achieving comfort for the Earth. Energy and resources technological development promoting 3R and zero-emission. Depletion of rare metals and other natural resources Set issues to be researched Increasing risk of extreme weather events and natural and analyzed Key Issues Related to Key management issues that the MCHC Group should address through disasters associated with climate change Reduce GHG emissions, promote LCA and utilize lowAs a starting point, ordered corporate activities its corporate activities, innovation, and provision of products and Formation of international consensus and effectiveness of carbon resources and energy, while striving to create and Social Systems services in the aim of creating a more comfortable society. under APTSIS 20 by analyzing macro trends. measures to prevent global warming expand business opportunities that mitigate or adapt to Climate change Expand products and businesses to adapt and mitigate climate change. Reviewed material issues identified in the climate change previous assessment and added new issues. Key Issues Related to Key management issues that the MCHC Group should address in its Expanding water stress due to higher demand, climate Work to use water resources efficiently and clean the Company and Its internal operations and external relations as a corporate group aiming change and other factors wastewater while contributing in finding solutions to water Organizational Structure to realize KAITEKI. Increasing health risk due to shortages of hygienic water resource issues by providing safe and clean water through Water Expanding businesses such as water purification and recycling our products and services. PROCESS 2 Most Important Key Management Issues Related Compliance, Process Safety, Key Issues Related to Social Systems Assess issues from the to the MCHC Group’s Existence: Corporate Governance Increasing incidence rate for adult-onset diseases and viewpoint of stakeholders rising mortality Promote the use of health information and disease prevention by improving lifestyle habits through self-medication and Ordered and quantitatively assessed the Increasing risk of failing health insurance systems expanding healthcare products and services, and contribute importance of the issues based on public Health and wellness Expanding health information service market Extremely High to the advancement of people’s health. sustainability data, questionnaires, and Energy and resources (shift from treatment to prevention) interviews with experts. Manifestation of unmet medical needs Improve patient QOL and help people’s lives and health Water Climate change Advancing digitization of data on medical treatment and by developing pharmaceuticals that respond to unmet health information through ICT medical needs and contributing to the sophistication of Human development Medical care Growing forays into the medical and healthcare fields from medical care through regenerative medicine and remote Food and agriculture and training other industries medicine technologies. PROCESS 3 Occupational health Contribute solutions to food and agricultural issues by Identify and prioritize material Diversity and inclusion and safety Population growth and increasing urban lifestyles preserving food resources, resolving maldistribution, and management issues the MCHC Increasing shift to factory-produced foods providing products and services that improve agricultural Group needs to address Product responsibility Food and agriculture productivity. MCHC management identified material issues accounting for management strategies, policies and activities under APTSIS 20 and Key Issues Related to the Company and Its Organizational Structure Importance for Stakeholders prioritized them (three issues of highest Growing interest in the quality, safety and environmental To ensure that customers can use products and services priority related to the MCHC Group’s existence Health and wellness performance of products and services in relief, pursue initiatives to ensure the quality and safety and 21 materiality issues to be addressed). Reducing the use of chemicals and harmful substances, of products throughout lifecycle and minimize the adverse Product responsibility and demands for information disclosure effect on the environment. Medical care Very High CSR in supply chain Contribution to Developing the capabilities of human resources based on Seek to offer equal opportunity in hiring, placement, communities medium-term human resource development policies advancement and skill development, while pursuing the Human rights awareness PROCESS 4 Human development Enhancing the return on investment from human resource acquiring and development of human resources based on a and training development mediumtolong-term perspective. Information security Create the materiality matrix and privacy Implement safety management in accordance with national Ensure the health and safety of employees, while improving Created the matrix along the two axes and regional laws and regulations and develop safe productivity and ensuring business continuity by preventing of importance (the magnitude of effect) Occupational health workplace environments while maintaining and advancing accidents for stakeholders and importance for the and safety the physical and mental health of employees. MCHC Group. Rising concerns over human rights violations through Respect the dignity and rights of all people in corporate corporate activities activities and require that business partners refrain from violating Biodiversity Human rights Emerging risks to human rights in the supply chain human rights or engaging in inappropriate discrimination. awareness Digitizing all manner of information including corporate Recognize the importance and responsibilities associated Smart society Fulfilled living information and personal information with protecting information assets and manage information Social infrastructure Information security Increasing information security risks due to the widespread adequately to prevent the confidential information of customers, PROCESS 5 Stakeholder engagement Initiative and leadership and privacy adoption of IT/IoT business partners, MCHC or other parties from being leaked. Company approval procedures Information and Incorporate a diverse range of human resources and views Discussed and approved the process of communication technology Retain and cultivate talented employees based on a human without regard to their nationality, age or belief, and promote materiality assessment and the materiality High Diversity and inclusion resource strategy that respects diversity diversity and inclusion through our corporate activities in enhancing corporate value. matrix in the MCHC Management Committee and the Board of Directors. Building relationships of trust by actively engaging in Broadly contribute to society through business activities High Very High Extremely High exchanges with and contributing to communities in areas while deepening understanding of various communities and Importance for the MCHC Group Contribution to communities where we conduct business continually responding to their requests and expectations. 63 64 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Sustainability APTSIS 20 Progress of the MOS Indices APTSIS 20 MOS Indices Performance Evaluation List Begun in fiscal 2011, the MCHC Group’s MOS Indices are Outline of C Indices Assessment Criteria FY 2016 FY 2016 FY 2020 Annual SelfPoint Related MOS Indices management benchmarks for visualizing the degree of In terms of preventing accidents and injuries (C-1-2), where (Units) Plan Result Target Assessment allocation materiality theme contribution to “Sustainability for people, society and the Earth.” we set ourselves ambitious targets, we surpassed our targets Index that need to be achieved Achieve zero occurrences of serious accidents and compliance violations The MCHC Group has selected and systemized quantifiable concerning safety incidents but fell far short of the targeted lostReduce burden on initiatives where we can have a large impact on solving time injuries frequency index. In terms of the employee wellness S-1-1 the atmospheric environment Per-unit impact on the environment (LIME / ¥100 million) 640.1 563.2 591.9 ★★★ 10 environmental and social issues that will emerge in the future. index (C-2-3), we continued to improve and enhance our Contribute to reducing Reduce burden on Per-unit impact on the environment For the MOS Indices incorporated into the current performance concerning long working hours, the rate of work S-1-2 (LIME / ¥100 million) 7.1 7.3 6.1 ★★ 8 environmental impact the water environment medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, we have made absences due to illness and injury, the percentage of female Reduce burden on the soil Per-unit impact on the environment S-1-3 (LIME / ¥100 million) 7.0 5.9 5.1 ★★★ 10 environment improvements including selection of index items that reflect employees advancing to assistant manager level and above and materiality, upgrading of indices related to products that the percentage of female managers, and met our annual targets S-2-1 Promote activities to Energy-saving effects 13,969 14,849 66,000 ★★★ 13 conserve energy (equivalent tons of heavy oil) contribute to KAITEKI, and expansion to monitored Group in these areas. For comfort value provision index (C-3-1), the Reduction of resource volume companies inside and outside Japan. In fiscal 2016, the first percentage of monitoring products that satisfy our annual (equivalent tons of heavy oil) 2,326 1,965 12,000 ★★ Efficient use of Convert to resource-saving year of APTSIS 20 resulted in an annual target achievement target stalled at 25% and we failed to meet the targets of this S resources and energy S-2-2 and reusable materials 13 Growth rate in provision 9.2 14.2 28 ★★★ rate of 87%, earning 99 points. index as a whole. of resource recycling services (%) Volume of renewable energy S-2-3 Promote use of renewable energy generated and supplied (Mw) 36.2 42.0 50 ★★★ 13 Related Articles Outline of S Indices S-3-1 Provide products and services that Contribution to the reduction of GHG emissions (hundreds of millions of 0.56 0.46 1.5 ★★ 13 Prevent accidents and injuries: lost-time injuries frequency Contribute to the contribute to reducing GHG emissions tons-CO2 equivalent) With many high-utilization factories, we have strived to index (C-1-2) sustainability of the Provide products and services that Volume of reused water supplied achieve stable operation, and by making progress in environment and S-3-2 (hundreds of millions of tons) 2.05 1.56 17 ★★ 10 Non-financial indicators: (See page 39) help solve water resource problems resources through reducing emissions that place a burden on the environment, products and services Improve evaluation by stakeholders (C-2-2) Provide products and services that Growth in sales of related S-3-3 7.1 -0.7 30 ★ 10 we have achieved good progress in reducing environmental help solve food problems products and services (%) The MOS Indices Topics: (See page 67) impact on the atmosphere and soil environment (S-1-1, 3). Contribution index for H-1-1 Pharmaceuticals provision pharmaceuticals provision (points) 5.25 5.66 15 ★★★ 15 However, we did not achieve notable progress in helping to Contribute to medical treatment solve food problems (S-3-3). In fiscal 2017, the MCHC Group will continue to deepen and broaden H-1-2 Provide clinical testing services Contribution index for providing clinical testing services (points) 2.25 2.06 15 ★★ 15 the MOS promotion activities it has pursued to date. Further, to coincide with the formation of MCC and the full-scale launch of Health Contribute to the H-2-1 Provide vaccines Vaccine provision index (points) 0.41 0.85 14 ★★★ 14 Related Articles prevention and Productivity Management, we will expand the range of products and early detection of Increase frequency of health Promote activities to conserve energy (S-2-1) H diseases H-2-2 Provide health management and information provisions 110 145 325 ★★★ 14 that contribute to KAITEKI in coordination with growth strategies, health checkup information (compared to base year, %) Non-financial indicators: (See page 39) promote the building of a dynamic and cooperative organization in H-3-1 Provide products for the health field Improve sales of 5.43 3.02 14 ★★ 14 Promote use of renewable energy (S-2-3) applicable products (points) concert with Health and Productivity Management and proceed Contribute to achieving The MOS Indices Topics: (See page 67) healthy and hygienic Provide products for the Growth rate in sales of with initiatives to strengthen MOS coordination at overseas Group lives through products H-3-2 sanitation field applicable products (%) 20.9 -0.6 60 ★ 14 companies as we strive to achieve the annual targets. and services Provide products for Growth rate in sales of Outline of H Indices H-3-3 the medical field applicable products (%) 27.7 20.5 60 ★★ 14 Although we achieved good progress in providing The MOS Indices Annual Trend Diagram Improve awareness Compliance awareness C-1-1 improvement index (points) 21.0 15.8 21 ★★ 21 of compliance pharmaceuticals, supplying vaccines and offering health The MCHC Group introduced the MOS Indices as management and health checkup information (H-1-1, H-2-1 management benchmarks in fiscal 2011. To coincide with Reduction rate of 100 safety incidents (%) 47.3 57.9 60 ★★★ the formulation of APTSIS 20, we undertook a revision of and H-2-2), we failed to meet our annual targets in terms the MOS Indices and set updated targets. The results in Reduction rate of of providing products in the health, sanitation and medical the final fiscal year of APTSIS 15, earned 82 points based Endeavor to earn C-1-2 Prevent accidents and injuries environmental incidents (%) 80 60 100 ★★ 19 greater recognition fields (H-3-1, H-3-2 and H-3-3). on the revised MOS Indices. For the current medium-term of corporate trust management plan APTSIS 20, we are working towards Improvement rate of lost-time from society injuries frequency index (%) 52.4 -30.8 50 ★ achieving 300 points as a final year target. Related Articles Customer satisfaction 47 25 47 ★ Initiatives to provide products index (points) S Indices 100 Provide health management and health checkup H Indices C C-1-3 and services 17 trusted by society Improvement rate in the information (H-2-2) C Indices number of complaints (%) 18.3 24.2 50 ★★★ 31 Non-financial indicators: (See page 39) Promote communication Communication improvement 22 C-2-1 index (points) 30.4 36.9 83 ★★★ 7 with business partners Provide vaccines (H-2-1) APTSIS 15 APTSIS 20 30 31 Promote communication The MOS Indices Topics:(See page 67) 8 23 and work in concert C-2-2 Improve evaluation by stakeholders External evaluation index (points) 11.0 9.3 11 ★★ 11 70 17 with stakeholders 18 100 Build a dynamic and 97 80 C-2-3 Employee wellness index (points) 3.53 6.57 16 ★★★ 16 cooperative organization 68 57 50 Contribute to achieving Provide products and services 77 a more comfortable Growth rate in the comfort C-3-1 that contribute to a comfortable value provision index (%) 8.8 4.4 40 ★ 9 society and better society and better lifestyles 2015 2016 2016 2017 2020 (FY) lifestyle Result Plan Result Plan Plan 65 66 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Sustainability The MOS Indices Case 1 Providing solutions for environmental and social issues through products and services SDGs The MCHC Group handles more than 20,000 products and services in the 4th Platinum Vision Award, while the X-sheet from Quadrant S Indices S-2-3 Promote use of renewable energy Materiality Energy and resources and offers a range of solutions to current environmental and social Plastic Composites Japan Ltd. won the Let’s Select Award in the issues. In “the SDG Industry Matrix”, which summarizes cases Biodiversity Action Award Japan 2016. In the areas of disaster where companies have contributed to the SDGs, REPELARK prevention and mitigation, selected products were compiled into We set the new MOS Indices as a benchmark for contributions to encouraging carbon fiber sheets for steel and concrete reinforcement, BioPBS a booklet along with opinions from experts in the industries, the use of renewable energies that poses no concerns over the depletion of biodegradable polymer and Hydro Shuttle package type hydrogen government, academia and private sectors and used as internal and resources and promise to prevent global warming. In fiscal 2016, the MCHC Group station were listed. MCHC also compiled examples of its solutions external communication facilitated the equivalent of 42MW of renewable energy, a 16% increase over the being used to address issues such as healthcare, biodiversity, tools. Moving forward, disaster prevention and disaster mitigation, and released the MCHC will strive to find annual planned levels, due to strong supply of large tow carbon fiber for use in information via its website and so on. Products contributing to solutions to global agenda wind power generation. In wind power generation for offshore facilities and low biodiversity have been recognized by experts from both a scientific items such as SDGs wind velocity regions, as generator blades have become larger in recent years, and comprehensive perspective, including direct contributions and realize the KAITEKI there has been increasing demand for light and rigid blades. This had led to the to ecosystems and the environmental impact over the product concept by rolling out increased use of high-performance large tow carbon fiber in place of glass fiber. lifecycle, and selected as products with high levels of contribution. products that contribute to In addition to strengthening its supply system for carbon fiber in fiscal 2016, the Among these, an “groundwater membrance filtration system KAITEKI in a deeper and “developed by Wellthy Corporation was awarded the Grand Prize broader fashion. MCHC Group established a European joint venture to manufacture and sell carbon fiber composite materials for turbine blades. Thus, the Group is making progress with efforts to further expand the use of renewable energies. SDGs Case 2 Initiatives to create a future in which anyone can enjoy sports H H-2-1 Provide vaccines Indices Materiality Health and wellness The MCHC Group is pursuing a number of initiatives aimed at a lead-up to the 2020. On future in which anyone can enjoy sports. Aiming to create a world another front, the antiin which people with disabilities can embrace their individuality doping laboratory of LSI The vaccine provision index provides a quantitative assessment of the number and achieve whatever they desire, The KAITEKI Institute, Inc. is Medience Corporation is of infectious disease cases, the number of people vaccinated to prevent engaged in the development of prosthetic legs for sports. MCHC the first in Asia and the increased disease severity and halt the spread in groups, the effective period signed a sponsorship agreement with athlete Kaede Maegawa, only body in Japan to be of pharmaceutical benefits, and other factors. In fiscal 2016, the MCHC Group who competes in athletics events with a prosthetic leg (placed certified as a doping test achieved a 13.9% increase over the annual planned levels and 18.9% of progress 2nd in women’s long jump T42 and 5th in the women’s 100 meter specimen analysis facility sprint T42 at World Para Athletics Championships London 2017). by the World Anti-Doping toward its medium-term management plan target thanks to strong shipments of As well as supporting Maegawa’s athletic activities, we receive Agency. Through the Mearubik, a measles and rubella combined vaccine. In May 2017, a final agreement feedback based on prosthetic leg usage results and advice for promotion of anti-doping activities and related research, we are was reached on the establishment of BIKEN, a vaccine manufacturing joint venture product development while pursuing further development in the contributing to the sound development of sports. with the Research Foundation for Microbial Diseases of Osaka University, with plans to commence operations in September. This development will reinforce production infrastructure and contribute to the stable supply of vaccines. Moreover, through the development of more effective vaccines, we will strive to achieve the targets set for Case 3 Initiatives to empower local communities fiscal 2020 to realize healthy lifestyles and communities. Embracing the concept of “continuing to act ethically to contribute to the development of regional environments and economies and to MCCI’s CSR Roadmap SDGs improving the lives of workers, their families and local communities,” C C-2-2 Improve evaluation by stakeholders Indices Materiality Stakeholder engagement PT. Mitsubishi Chemical Indonesia has been undertaking systematic MCCI have Roadmap of External CSR program for 2007-2023: efforts to help improve the living infrastructure, educational 0 Level of Project 1st Level of Project 2nd Level of Project 3rd Level of Project Pilot Project (Awareness) (Involving) (Model) environment, health and sanitation in the village of Gerem in Merak, In fiscal 2016, regarding comfort index to improve stakeholder satisfaction, we 1. Goat Project Sustainable Program Community Empowerment Banten Province, Indonesia, where the company has operated 2. Deep Well achieved 84.4% of progress in the final fiscal year of APTSIS 20. In recognition 3. Zero Waste Initial Program to Achieving high Establishment a plant since 2007. With the roadmap extending to 2023, the Enhance community of Economic of the management we have pursued to date on sustainability, MCHC was the company’s activities to steadily empower the local community community’s participation & Organization economic begin to establish In Community only Japanese company to be awarded Bronze Class in the Chemical Sector of have been highly regarded by the local government. In 2012, the potentials micro-economic (parallel with education organization “RobecoSAM’s Sustainability Award 2017.” MCHC also obtained the highest rank company received the “Platinum Award” from the government of & health program) We Are Here in the Development Bank of Japan’s environmental rankings for the first time since the Republic of Indonesia for “the Deep Well Project” to supply 2007-2008 2009-2013 2014-2018 2019-2023 water to people living in areas with harsh terrain, helping Indonesia 2013, and also received a special commendation. In this environmental ranking 2 years 5 years 5 years 5 years meet its MDG targets. In 2014, the company won the Gold Prize in assessment, MCHC was regarded highly for strengthening the links with MOE Indonesia’s CSR Awards operated by the government of Indonesia PILLAR PROGRAMS financial information in its MOS Indices while setting quantitative targets related to for “the SAUNG AKSARA” CSR program in the village of Gerem. the provision of products and services in light of international trends such as the These activities have attracted attention from Japan and overseas, HEALTH EDUCATION ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). and are visited by many observation groups each year. 67 68 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Sustainability Message from Chief Health Officer (CHO) KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management Every worker get on with their work independently, fully demonstrating their abilities and realizing how much value Initiatives to maximize active they have managed to create for society. Such a situation would give each individual a sense of fulfilment and satisfaction, energize the organization, and also lead to high levels of creativity and productivity. This participation of “workers” is what we want to achieve through KAITEKI Health Management. Following the President’s declaration to promote health management in fiscal 2016, MCHC has formulated a roadmap from now through to fiscal 2020, hinging on health support and workstyle reform and has begun taking concrete action. The MCHC Group recognizes that “people” are the driving force behind the sustainable growth of society and business, We are promoting health and productivity management in the basic belief that if the health of employees, and considers human resources as one of its most important management resources. health in the workplace and the health of families and society as a whole can positively impact each other, We refer to initiatives that fully utilize people’s skills and maximize the active participation of workers as KAITEKI Health then the entire company will be able to grow and continue to create significant value for society. and Productivity Management*, and we promote such initiatives as part of KAITEKI Management. * “Kenkokeiei,” which means Health and Productivity Management in Japanese. is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee, an NPO. In terms of using “KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management,” the trademark is authorized to be used by Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy CEO, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Health Officer Noriyoshi Ohira PLAN DO Definition KAITEKI Health and Productivity Management refers to initiatives which maximize the active What is KAITEKI participation of “workers” one of the most valuable assets from the perspective of health. Health and It has two main strands – “health support” and “workstyle reforms” for the employees and the What we aim to achieve Setting themes that embody the target Productivity workplaces. To realize KAITEKI, we are extending the scope of the Health and Productivity Management? Management to encompass the wellness of families, communities and society as a whole, and we Provide support for good health to help diverse Increase in health awareness human resources work with energy and vitality Establishment of appropriate lifestyles plan to integrate and utilize various innovative technologies such as ICT and IoT in these healthHealth Develop high levels of creativity and productivity support Measures against work accidents oriented initiatives. Contribute to promoting the health of families, focusing on human factors communities and society Creation of safe and healthy workplace PDCA Objectives To become a company where diverse human resources work with energy and vitality. Work reform To become a company with high levels of creativity and productivity. Provision of diverse, flexible ways of Workstyle To become a company which also contributes to promoting the wellness of families of Health and working reform communities and society. Productivity Effective capability development Improvement of Proper management of working hours Energization of productivity Improvement of Management organization satisfaction Enhancement of Compliance external evaluation Families’, communities’ Workplace ACTION CHECK Self wellness Proposal and execution of countermeasures Monitoring and verification of effects and society’s wellness wellness Examples Examples Management leadership Level of health of employees Health exercise/Promotion of teleworking/ Level of energization of organization Lights out from 7:00 pm work-life balance Improvement of meeting efficiency Health support Workstyle reform Use of ICT/IoT Distribution of wearable devices Use of ICT/IoT Examples of Activities 2022 2021 Promotion of efficient use of time Utilization of ICT Roadmap 2020 Changing health awareness through Challenge to halve duration of meetings 2019 visualization of the level of activity and sleep 2018 We conducted the survey to find out how managerial personnel, The first step to good health is to notice your own health condition 2017 Increase in creativity and competitiveness such as section chiefs of manufacturing departments and and lifestyle habits, to recognize them as something that concerns managers of business departments, allocate their working time. yourself, and to ensure an appropriate amount of exercise, a ・MCHC Group operates a sound and 2016 resilient business with the active The results revealed that they spend a great deal of time in balanced diet, and good sleep. MCHC is creating an ICT system (i2 creation of innovation, which is the meetings, preparing documents for meetings and contacting Healthcare) to support this health PDCA cycle. We centralize the Official launch source of our competitiveness. people by email. Based on top-down instructions for improvement, data of health condition and workstyle, link those data with Energization of organization ・Improvement in productivity Declaration of we review the meaning and attendees of meetings, shorten exercise and sleep data measured by wearable devices distributed per employee is achieved and Promotion of Health ・All employees autonomously focus maintained. meeting time and simplify meeting to employees, and visualize the data and Productivity on maintaining and improving documents. Not only for managers results in real time, thus helping to Management their own health, health in the but for the entire workforce, we improve their health awareness workplace, and the health of their Enhancement of employee satisfaction families. develop the systems including and behavior. We are using this i2 ・Employees help achieve the goals teleworking and promote efficient Healthcare system as the basis ・Awareness of the concept of of the organization with a real KAITEKI Health and Productivity ways of working so that for health support. sense of fulfilment and their own Management spreads to each group employees can concentrate on growth. company, and the concept starts to high priority work. be used throughout the Group. ・The majority of employees are proactively engaged in health and a win-win-situation for both employees and the company is established. 69 70 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Sustainability Indicators with this icon have been assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. for fiscal 2016. Environmental Data Scope of data The data for fiscal 2014 covers the three operating companies (MCC, MTPC, and LSII) as well as their domestic Group companies. The data for aggregation: fiscal 2015 covers the three major operating companies, TNSC and their domestic Group companies, and the data for fiscal 2016 covers these four operating companies and their domestic and overseas Group companies. (Group companies are directly-owned consolidated subsidiaries). FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Energy consumption/ Greenhouse gasses (GHG) *1 GHG emissions (1,000 t-CO2e) *2 8,764 12,054*4 14,269*4 Energy consumption (GWh) *3 30,277*4 34,935*4 38,950*4 *1 Energy consumption and CO2 emissions used for generating electricity and steam sold externally had been excluded until fiscal 2015 results, but in conformity with the GHG protocol, they are not excluded starting in fiscal 2016. *2 The emission factor of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures is used for the calculation of emissions in Japan. Regarding GHG emissions that are not subject to reporting under the Act, a specific calculation rule based on the balance of chemical reactions, etc. is set separately. Regarding emissions overseas, for Scope 1 emissions, the emission factor is based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures or IPCC, and for Scope 2 emissions, the emission factor specific to each supplier or the emission factor for each country (2014 value) announced by IEA is used for calculation. *3 The unit heating value of energy is based on the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and IPCC and is indicated as a higher heating value. Regarding electricity, the value converted to the amount of primary energy is used until fiscal 2015 results, but the amount of electricity purchased is used starting in fiscal 2016 results. For comparison with past data, the energy in fiscal 2014 and 2015 is recalculated using the amount of electricity purchased without being converted to primary energy. *4 The fiscal 2015 results include GHG emissions of 1.65 million tons and energy consumption of 1,942 GWh by affiliate companies that are closely associated in terms of energy management, but the fiscal 2016 results exclude GHG emissions and energy consumption of these companies. In addition, regarding electricity, the value converted to the amount of primary energy is used until fiscal 2015 results, but the amount of electricity purchased is used starting in fiscal 2016. For comparison with past data, the energy in fiscal 2014 and 2015 is recalculated using the amount of electricity purchased without being converted to primary energy. Environmental impact NOx emissions (1,000 tons) 8.88 8.04 8.96 SOx emissions (1,000 tons) 3.06 3.08 4.77 *5 COD emissions (1,000 tons) 1.75 1.74 2.00 *5 Total nitrogen emissions in drained water (1,000 tons) 5.68 5.53 6.06 *5 Total phosphorous emissions (1,000 tons) 0.06 0.05 0.09 *5 Total COD emissions, total nitrogen emissions and total phosphorous emissions each show total volume of emissions discharged into rivers, lakes and oceans. Exclude emissions into sewage systems. Water use Water consumption (million m3 ) (excluding seawater) 174 171 189 Social Data FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 Constitution of employees (MCHC Group) Number of consolidated employees 68,263 68,988 69,291 Number of employees by district In Japan — 44,858 44,034 Outside Japan — 24,130 25,257 Aggregation period: Each fiscal year from April 1 to March 31, or as of March 31 Scope of data In fiscal 2014, the figures show those employed by the two operating companies (MCC and MTPC). In fiscal 2015, the figures show those aggregation: employed by the three operating companies with the addition of TNSC, excluding those seconded to other companies but including those seconded from other companies. There are no employees in LSII other than those seconded from the Group. Diversity / Work-Life Balance / Occupational Safety Number of employees 20,886 22,508 21,736 Number of employees by gender Male 17,742 19,194 18,459 Female 3,144 3,314 3,277 Percentage of females (%) 15.1 14.7 15.1 *6 Percentage of female managers (%) 7.4 7.1 7.7 Paid leave utilization rate (%) 66.9 66.8 67.6 Lost-time injuries frequency rate (LTIFR) *7,*8 0.32 0.48 0.30 *6 Percentage of female employees out of all employees at assistant manager level and above. *7 Scope of data aggregation: Figures from domestic operations of the four operating companies (MCC, MTPC, LSII and TNSC) and their Group companies with operating divisions active within Japan. *8 The LTIFR is the number of lost-time injuries and fatalities per million hours worked. 71 72 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Corporate Governance MCHC aims to contribute to the sustainable development of society and the Earth, in addition to solving environmental outside directors, there are four non-executive directors among Concept of roles and constitution the internal directors who do not execute business for MCHC and social issues through corporate activities for the realization of KAITEKI. of Board of Directors or its core operating companies. Accordingly, a majority of With eyes on these objectives, we are focusing efforts on establishing a better corporate governance structure by improving management transparency through proper disclosure and dialog with stakeholders, while updating systems The Board of Directors determines basic management policies the directors are in non-executive roles, establishing a system such as medium-term management strategies and annual enabling the proper supervision of the execution of duties. for enhancing both the soundness and efficiency of management. budgets, and supervises the execution of business by the MCHC’s Articles of Incorporation restrict the number of corporate executive officers, who are in principle delegated to directors to less than 20. As of June 27, 2017, there were 13 Corporate Governance Structure for Sound responsibility to decide about business execution based on directors, including five outside directors and four directors Management and Greater Efficiency (As of June 27, 2017) these basic policies, with the exception of matters that must be who also serve as corporate executive officers. The term of MCHC is a company with a nominating committee, etc., which legally resolved by the Board of Directors. each director is one year, which helps to clarify management management supervision is now undertaken by the Board of separates functions for the supervision and execution of To reflect diverse opinions in management as well as to responsibilities and to establish a management structure that is Directors and three committees; the Nominating Committee, business in a bid to enhance management transparency and strengthen supervisory functions, MCHC has elected not able to swiftly respond to changes in the business environment. Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee, corporate openness, to strengthen supervisory functions, and to improve only internal directors who have an intimate knowledge of executive officers make business decisions and are in charge of management agility through prompter decision-making. While the Group’s business domains along with specialized fields business execution. Constitution of Board of Directors(As of June 27, 2017) including management planning, finance, general affairs, HR Internal directors 62% Outside directors 38% and R&D, but also five outside directors with experience in corporate management, expertise in social and economic Non-executive directors Executive directors 69% General Meeting of Shareholders issues as well as science and technology, and accreditations 31% Of which, 1 director is non-Japanese as certified public accountants and attorneys. In addition to the and 1 director is a woman Board of Directors(13 directors of which 5 are outside directors) Delegation of Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Outline of Evaluation Results on Effectiveness of Board of Directors for Fiscal 2016 decision on business Audit Committee Audit execution and (5 directors of which 3 are (5 directors of which 3 are (5 directors of which 3 our outside directors) supervision of outside directors) outside directors) business execution 1. Implementation of evaluation on effectiveness of the businesses on the premise of conducting more productive discussions Board of Directors among the Board of Directors, periodic information exchange sessions Audit The Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines have been conducted between outside directors and MCHC corporate MCHC’s execution Committee Chief Compliance Decisions on important Corporate Executive matters are made at departments require MCHC to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors executive officers. We will revise how these sessions are operated and Secretariat Officer Cooperation Audit Officers Committee Corporate Executive each year and disclose an outline of the results. This year, MCHC make use of ICT in information sharing to reduce the asymmetry in Officers Committee President analyzed and evaluated the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a internal and external information. whole with “utilizing outside directors” serving as a major theme. (2) Efficient operation of the Board of Directors Corporate Executive Corporate Executive Officers in charge of 2. Analysis and evaluation method Suggested improvement: We will revise how to provide prior explanation Officers the Internal Control Division A written survey was conducted among all directors including the to ensure sufficient time for substantive discussions during board Accounting Internal Chairperson (the major question (1) “About the role of outside directors” meetings. We will also endeavor to improve the efficiency of meeting Auditor Financial Audit Office Internal and (2) “About enhancing discussions on the mediumtolong-term operation, by using explanatory materials that clarify points of discussion audit audit Departments Internal Control Division direction of management”). Based on the responses, directors not from the perspective of a holding company. Supervision of (Internal Control Office) operational status involved with the execution of business (Chairperson of the Board, outside directors and internal Audit Committee members) analyzed the 4. Efforts to address the results of the previous evaluation Management administration, internal controls, auditing, etc. current situation and discussed future issues and points that need to be The evaluation on effectiveness conducted in the previous year identified MCHC subsidiaries improved. In light of these discussions, the Chairperson evaluated the the issues; i) enhancement of discussion over the direction of mediumInvestigation effectiveness of the MCHC Board of Directors and reported the results to and-long-term direction of management, ii) reinforcement of monitoring the Board of Directors in June 2017. over the progress of the medium-term management plan, and iii) further efforts to improve the reporting items. History of Strengthened Corporate Governance 3. Outline of evaluation results We took the following measures in response. For i), we newly The evaluation concluded that MCHC’s Board of Directors is being established the Corporate Executive Officers Committee as a councilMonth / Year Initiatives Objective managed appropriately and that its effectiveness is being duly format body made up of corporate executive officers, set up departments maintained, primarily through management supervisory functions. In responsible for managing business strategy in the four business domains, Introduced stock-based compensation particular, in response to the previous year’s evaluation results, the and deepened discussions on the direction of mediumtolong-term June 2006 To link director’s remuneration to share price management from a holding company’s perspective, leading to revitalized (stock option) plans provision of information to the Board of Directors was improved by taking the measures listed in 4 below. Further, through the facilitation discussions in board meetings. With regard to ii), we began managing the of substantive and lively discussion by having outside directors pose progress of the medium-term management plan through the new business June 2013 Appointment and inauguration of an outside director To strengthen the system of management supervision appropriate questions and express their views from diverse viewpoints, monitoring methods introduced from April of this year. For iii), in addition the effectiveness of the Board of Directors was confirmed to have to business plans and progress reports, we revised reporting guidelines improved compared to the previous year. to ensure that negative information such as accidents and compliance June 2014 Appointment and inauguration of a foreign director To improve diversity in directors However, toward enhancing discussions on the medium-to long-term breaches are reported to officers overseeing the holding company and the direction of management, it was recognized that there is further room for Board of Directors in a swift and appropriate manner. Appointment and inauguration of a female director To improve diversity in directors improvement with regard to (1) and (2) below. June 2015 Transition to a company with a nominating To enhance management transparency and fairness, MCHC will continue its efforts to enhance and revise the committee, etc. to strengthen management supervision functions (1) Improvement of provision of information to outside directors operation of the Board of Directors and endeavor to make further Suggested improvement: To deepen knowledge of the Group’s major improvements to its effectiveness. June 2016 Increase number of outside directors To improve diversity in directors 73 74 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Corporate Governance Nominating Committee Audit Committee Business Execution System MCHC and the MCHC Group, the committee monitors MCHC The Nominating Committee nominates candidates for directors The Audit Committee audits the execution of duties by Corporate executive officers make decisions regarding business Group’s businesses based on the medium-term management and corporate executive officers, as well as the presidents corporate executive officers and directors, and reviews execution and take responsibility for business operations based plan, annual budgets, and so on. of major directly-owned subsidiaries that are not listed the Group’s internal control systems, etc. In principle, the on the basic management policies determined by the Board of Audit Committee members and the presidents of operating subsidiaries: MCC and LSII. In consideration of transparency committee meets once a month. The Audit Committee consists Directors (medium-term management plan, annual budgets, companies also attend Corporate Executive Officers Committee and fairness in the process of nominating candidates, an of five members, including three outside directors. With two fulletc.). Important matters concerning the management of the meetings, where they can freely express their opinions. outside director serves as the chairperson of the committee. time members, the Audit Committee collaborates closely with MCHC Group are deliberated and decided by the Corporate the accounting auditor, the Internal Audit Office which conducts Executive Officers Committee, a council-format body made up Director Remuneration Compensation Committee internal audits, and the Internal Control Office which formulates of corporate executive officers. By segregating duties among The remuneration for each director and corporate executive The Compensation Committee determines the remuneration and promotes policies on maintenance of internal control each corporate executive officer and by clearly defining the officer is decided by the Compensation Committee based on amount of individual director and corporate executive officer. systems, to reinforce the audit system administered by the Audit decision-making authority of each corporate executive officer in the following policies. It also determines the amount of remuneration for each of the Committee. An internal director who is a full-time member of the charge of specific areas, we have established a system where The remuneration standards and the ratio of individual presidents of major directly-owned subsidiaries that are not Audit Committee serves as the chairperson of the committee decisions are made in an appropriate and efficient manner. remuneration and performance-based remuneration are listed subsidiaries. Moreover, an outside director serves as the to ensure the smooth collection of information and sufficient The Corporate Executive Officers Committee is made up of continually deliberated and the policies are reviewed at the chairperson of the committee to increase transparency and cooperation between departments. all corporate executive officers. In addition to deliberating and Compensation Committee as necessary. fairness in the decision-making process. deciding on important matters concerning the management of Policies on Deciding Remuneration for Directors and Remuneration Amount Corporate Executive Officers Activities of Outside Directors Directors Remuneration, etc. Attendance at Meetings of the Board of Category Number of Amount Paid Name Activities Directors and Committees (FY 2016) Persons (millions of yen) Remuneration Base Remuneration Board of for Directors (Fixed) At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Kikkawa makes remarks as necessary based 9 of 10 meetings 90% Directors (internal) 8 205 Directors on his profound insight into company management from the perspective of Remuneration for directors consists only of basic Directors (outside) 5 60 Takeo business history and his experience as an expert in theories on the energy industry. Nominating 8 of 8 meetings 100% remuneration (fixed remuneration) Kikkawa As the chairperson of the Nominating Committee, he takes care of committee Committee Basic remuneration is based on title and procedures and reports the findings to the Board of Directors. As a member of the classification such as full-time or part-time. Corporate 8 297 Compensation Committee, he expresses his opinion as necessary at meetings. Compensation Executive Officers 6 of 6 meetings 100% The amount of remuneration is determined at a necessary level for Committee securing personnel suitable for carrying out the responsibilities of a director of a company with nominating committee, etc., while Total 21 562 At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Ito comments as necessary, utilizing his Board of 10 of 10 meetings 100% also taking into consideration the levels of other companies. experience and strong perceptions as a certified public accountant. As a member Directors (Notes) 1. Directors who concurrently serve as corporate executive officers receive * When a director concurrently serves as a corporate executive officer, remuneration as a remuneration, etc. as a corporate executive officer. of the Audit Committee, he proposes audit plans, monitors audits in progress and Taigi Ito Audit Committee 13 of 13 meetings 100% corporate executive officer is applied. 2. The above amount paid as remuneration, etc. to directors (internal) includes their results, and expresses his opinions as required. As the chairperson of the ¥6 million of remuneration in the form of stock options. Also note that this Compensation Committee, he oversees meeting procedures and reports the results remuneration was paid as performance-based remuneration for work performed Compensation as a corporate executive officer to directors (internal) who served as corporate to the Board of Directors. 6 of 6 meetings 100% Committee executive officers in the preceding period. Corporate Executive Officers 3. The above amount paid as remuneration, etc. to corporate executive officers Board of includes performance-based remuneration of ¥29 million in the form of stock 10 of 10 meetings 100% options. Directors 4. In addition to the aforementioned remuneration paid to directors (internal) and At Board of Directors meetings, Mr. Watanabe makes remarks as needed, Base Remuneration corporate executive officers, directors (internal) and corporate executive officers utilizing his experience and profound insight as a prosecutor and lawyer. As Nominating (Fixed) who concurrently serve as executive officers of MCHC subsidiaries received the 2 of 2 meetings 100% Kazuhiro a member of the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee, Committee Remuneration for following remuneration from those subsidiaries: directors ¥330 million, corporate executive officers ¥169 million. Watanabe he expresses his opinion as necessary at meetings. As a member of the Audit Corporate Executive 5. In addition to the aforementioned remuneration paid to directors (outside), directors Audit Committee 13 of 13 meetings 100% Officers (outside) who concurrently serve as corporate auditors of MCHC subsidiaries Committee, he proposes audit plans, monitors audits in progress and their Performance-based received remuneration of ¥11 million from MCHC subsidiaries: Mitsubishi Chemical results, and expresses his opinions if necessary. Remuneration (Variable) Corporation and Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. Compensation 6 of 6 meetings 100% Committee * Variable within the range of 0-200%. At Board of Directors meetings, Ms. Kunii makes remarks as necessary, utilizing Board of Remuneration for corporate executive officers consists of basic 10 of 10 meetings 100% remuneration (fixed remuneration) and performance-based remuneration her extensive experience as a corporate manager and an expert in information Directors (variable remuneration). processing, as well as her profound insight into diversity promotion. As a member Nominating Basic remuneration is based on title and duties such as having the right Hideko Kunii 8 of 8 meetings 100% of the Nominating Committee, she expresses her opinion as necessary at meetings. Committee of representation. As a member of the Audit Committee, she proposes audit plans, monitors audits in The amount of remuneration is determined at a level necessary for progress and their results, and expresses her opinions on necessity. Audit Committee 13 of 13 meetings 100% securing outstanding personnel and improving MCHC’s competitiveness, while also taking into consideration the levels of other companies. Utilizing his extensive experience in corporate management and profound insight Board of Performance-based remuneration entails stock options as stock-based 6 of 7 meetings 85.7% Takayuki into ICT, Mr. Hashimoto expresses his opinions as required at Board of Directors Directors remuneration (¥1 per share stock options) to enhance sustainable mediumto long-term corporate value as well as create incentives Hashimoto meetings. As a member of the Nominating Committee, he also expresses his Nominating opinions as needed at Nominating Committee meetings. 4 of 6 meetings 66.7% associated with shareholder value. Committee 75 76 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Risk Management While the word risk can be defined in various ways, the MCHC Group defines risks as “potential events that could, during the Measures Against Major Risks course of corporate activities, undermine public trust in or the corporate value of the MCHC Group”. We recognize, analyze, and evaluate risks and prevent materialization of significant risks. We take measures to minimize the personal, economic and social damage arising in case of materialization. The MCHC Group has isolated the following categories of risks as take measures to avoid their incidence or to minimize the warranting priority measures. After identification of such risks, we resulting damage if the risks materialize. Compliance Accidents in our facilities and injuries in workplace Charter of Corporate Behavior In order to entrench compliance within the Group, we have Each operating site endeavors to prevent facility-related accidents compiled rules and standards, such as the MCHC Group Charter of by ensuring the soundness of facilities and equipment and proper Corporate Behavior, published a compliance guidebook, provided operation of them through their appropriate maintenance as well as The MCHC Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, consisting of principles for sustainable development, our approach for major education, training and seminars on compliance, performed audits, extensive education and training of operators. If an accident occurs, thirteen chapters, explicitly declares that we act with sound ethics issues in contributing to the realization of KAITEKI, and the and opened a compliance hotline. At overseas Group companies the Group works to avoid recurrence by analyzing the cause, taking and good common sense in every aspect of our corporate activities. basic ideas and initiatives on the realization of KAITEKI, with our as well, we endeavor to strengthen compliance by compiling rules measures, and verifying their effectiveness through inspections It also stipulates that we share the fundamental behavioral business partners and others. and codes of conduct in accordance with the laws, regulations and or maintenance patrols. Moreover, the Group works to prevent social norms of each country. accidents by applying these measures laterally to similar facilities and equipment or operations. Legal Compliance and Awareness and Accountability and Valuing Respecting Human Employment and Environment and Fairness, Equitability, Responsibility Transparency Stakeholders Rights Labor Safety Information security Natural disasters and Integrity Fair Business Customer Information Science and Community Shared Standards MCHC has formulated an Information Security Policy in order to Learning lessons from the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011, Practices Satisfaction Management Technology Involvement protect its information systems and assets from internal and external which damaged a number of our business sites and facilities, threats, with the aim of maintaining and improving corporate value. MCHC has made improvements to its business continuity plan We have established the Information Security Committee according (BCP). In the event that it is impossible to continue operations to this policy and charged it with reinforcing the management at the head office of MCHC (Tokyo), we have made plans to Risk Management Risk Management Process of information security at our business sites inside and outside transfer head office functions to a temporary backup site with Japan. We periodically conduct educational and training sessions the aim of minimizing damage and ensuring business continuity The MCHC Group is engaged in corporate activities with the objective of raising its corporate value. These activities are 1 Identification of risks Identification of risks is undertaken by each department for all employees including those overseas on our policy to ensure employee awareness and compliance with the Policy. For example, in a disaster situation. We are examining ways to maintain the procurement of raw materials and the responsibilities for supply of related to social situations, the global environment and other of every company in the Group based on the degree based on the “Cyber Security Management Guidelines” formulated products by procuring from several suppliers as a part of business various external environments, but they involve potential risk. of impacts and frequency. When identifying risks, by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI), we are continuity plan. due consideration is paid to risks arising from internal striving to collect the latest information and establish an emergency conditions based on the type of business and response system, in cooperation with outside institutions, so as Risk Management System to prevent problem occurrence as much as possible and keep characteristics of each company and external conditions such as the country’s political and social situations. damage to minimum if anything should occur. MCHC has in place a risk management system whereby the Furthermore, a unified system for each operating MCHC president is responsible for risk management across Overseas business development risks company has been established to capture the overall the entire Group based on the MCHC Group Risk Management risks within the company and to address to them. Becoming more active overseas business, we are taking various In order to prevent lapses in awareness of any serious risks Basic Rules. The status of management of significant risks and 2 Risk assessment and measures initiatives to reduce risks related to the particular laws, regulations including such cases, we have created a Global Risk Map as a policy for risk management that affect the entire MCHC Group and systems of the country in which we do business. For example, collection of publicly available case studies of significant problems Each operating company prioritizes identified risks are reported and discussed by the Management Committee. in the business domain of polyolefin used for food packaging and legal violations that have occurred in each country. We in order of importance for each company, examines The contents of discussion are reported to the Board of countermeasures, and takes action at relevant materials, if the raw materials did not conform with the regulations distribute this map to overseas Group companies overseas, and in Directors, as needed. management departments to mitigate risks. Senior of an export destination country, significant risks of not being able fiscal 2016, delivered it to 22 countries, five more than the previous The presidents of operating companies are in charge of risk managers also review the risks and undertake screening to sell or losing trust of customers could occur. In order to prevent fiscal year. We aim to enhance these activities. In addition, we have for risks (major risks) that could have a major impact on such a case from occurring, we have adopted rules on confirmation established a communication system for local companies, the head management at their respective Group companies, embedding Group management via businesses and operations under procedures and have made them known in all companies and we offices of operating companies, and MCHC to use in the event of the risk management systems at their Group and addressing their control. The relevant departments then implement thoroughly put them into practice. disruption in the country, such as political turmoil. issues through the Risk Management Committees of their appropriate risk measures as instructed. respective operating companies. Recognizing the importance of fostering risk control Risk Measures at Shinryo Corporation for awareness of all officers, managers and employees, in addition 3 Detailed examination of risk measures Risk measures are periodically scrutinized, and measures for Kumamoto Earthquake to those in risk management divisions, everyone is expected major risks in particular are reported to the MCHC president. Shinryo, one of the MCHC Group companies, had prepared its business continuity to be involved in risk management from their respective plan, based on the experience of its Iwate Plant at the time of the Great East Japan standpoints. Earthquake of March 2011. When Shinryo’s Kumamoto Plant was struck by the Kumamoto Earthquake happened in April 2016, we were able to act in accordance with 4 Auditing To ensure the proper administration of risk management plans, making the initial response after the quake and carrying out restoration work as intended. As a result, damage was minimized. Concerning securing raw materials during systems, including these related processes, the Internal the restoration period, Shinryo arranged procurement in coordination with Mitsubishi Audit Office at MCHC periodically audits the risk Chemical Logistics Corporation and other plants within the Group, which resulted in a Preparation to provide raw materials management system, and reports its findings to the quick supply of products to respond to the requirements of customers. MCHC president. 77 78 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Compliance Financial Information The MCHC Group recognizes the word “Compliance” as a broad term covering corporate ethics and general social Consolidated Financial Summary norms, not only basic legal adherence. Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries We regard compliance as one of the most important managerial issue to achieve continuing existence as a company Years ended March 31 IFRS that merits the trust of the public, and we take measures to embed a compliance culture in the entire Group. Millions of yen April 2015 2016 2017 (Transition date) For the Year: Hotline Systems Compliance Promotion Structure Revenue — ¥3,543,352 ¥ 3,376,057 Profit before tax — 252,791 258,343 The Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) of the Group is appointed The Group operates hotline systems with the internal Net profit — 104,858 216,515 by the Board of Directors of MCHC. The Internal Control Office control promotion departments of MCHC and main Net profit attributable to owners of the parent — 51,358 156,259 supports the CCO, acting as a secretariat dealing with compliance operating companies, and with external lawyers as Total comprehensive income — 34,302 226,493 matters on a Group-wide basis. To support Group activities, the contact points. In fiscal 2016, 127 cases were reported via Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent — 253 165,709 secretariat compiles standard education tools, arranges training the hotline systems. We respond to the reported issues Net cash provided by operating activities — 299,612 396,643 courses, and has established hotline systems for overseas through our investigation teams headed by the internal Net cash used in investing activities — (234,078) (289,056) Group companies. Furthermore, it aims to ensure compliance in control promotion department managers. In case of any Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities — (40,945) 1,411 accordance with regional conditions through the regional control issue, we take corrective measures promptly in line with Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 252,749 267,148 363,510 companies established in the Americas, Europe and China. the MCHC Compliance Hotline Operation Rules under Each operating company has its own Compliance Promotion CCO’s direction. Committee and internal control promotion department to serve At Year-End: as the secretariat. They operate hotline systems and implement Equity attributable to owners of the parent 993,011 972,197 1,091,398 Measures and Results in Fiscal 2016 training courses and seminars, business audits and compliance Total assets 4,368,998 4,223,774 4,463,547 perception surveys based on the MCHC Group Compliance In fiscal 2016 in Japan, we outsource to an external agency Yen Promotion Rules. In the event that any company within the Group surveys of compliance awareness among all employees Per Share: has caused compliance violations, it is required to report to within the MCHC Group in order to continuously monitor Equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥677.98 ¥663.71 ¥758.30 and consult with its internal control promotion department and the spread of compliance awareness. Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Basic — 35.06 106.73 Internal Control Office of MCHC, and take corrective actions and The surveys are conducted overseas as well and Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted — 36.03 105.95 measures to prevent recurrence. we can recognize that our employees’ compliance awareness has been growing each year. For example, Ratios: Initiatives for Fair Business Practices mainly in the Asian region, we held 20 local training Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) 22.7 23.0 24.5 courses to spread and entrench awareness of Ratio of earnings attributable to owners of the parent (ROE) (%) — 5.2 15.1 We established the MCHC Group Global Anti-Bribery Policy and compliance. Going forward, we will continue compliance Price earnings ratio (Times) — 16.8 8.1 the MCHC Group Global Antitrust Policy in 2014, and drew up the promotion activities having viable face-to-face guidelines to supplement the Global Anti-Bribery Policy for China communication with local associates in charge. Other: in 2015 and for Asia in fiscal 2016. As a result of these initiatives, Concerning self-guided training, we intend to translate Number of employees (People) 68,263 68,988 69,291 there were no major violations of relevant laws and regulations training materials in various languages to further promote (Temporary employees in parentheses) (People) (6,101) (6,967) (6,878) during fiscal 2016. initiatives to raise employees’ awareness on compliance. Going forward, we will continue to take measures to ensure Having established the hotline system in the Americas, Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in keeping with International Accounting Standards ( IFRS ) since the fiscal year, ended March 31, 2017. not only to prevent bribery and violations of antimonopoly law Europe, China, Thailand, and Taiwan, the MCHC Group 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. 3. In line with the July 27, 2016, announcement of a decision to transfer terephthalic acid operations in India and China, the Company classified the from a global perspective and to also ensure legal adherence in added new contact points in Singapore and Indonesia in businesses in both regions as discontinued, reclassifying its presentation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. Sales revenue and profit before tax each country. 2016. accordingly represent amounts for continuing operations after excluding discontinued operations. 4. ROE is calculated as profit attributable to owners of parent divided by average equity attributable to owners of the parent. Looking ahead, Japan, the Americas, Europe, China and Asian regions will exchange more information about compliance, and through this network, we aim to advance compliance further as the Group. 79 1 80 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Segment Information Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended/as of March 31 Japan GAAP The Overview of Reporting Segments is detailed in Note 4 (Segment Information). Millions of yen 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Segment Profit (Loss) Revenue Core Operating Income For the Year: Millions of yen Millions of yen Net Sales ¥3,088,577 ¥ 3,498,834 ¥3,656,278 ¥3,823,098 ¥3,432,398 REPORTING SEGMENT 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ordinary income 87,054 103,092 163,059 270,616 258,073 Electronics Applications ¥ 115,731 ¥ 104,707 ¥ (972) ¥ (2,918) Designed Materials 825,631 806,692 74,965 81,515 Profit attributable to owners of the parent 18,596 32,248 60,859 46,444 113,237 Health Care 548,408 547,032 112,187 98,401 Total comprehensive income 94,900 134,016 173,692 7,695 205,319 Chemicals 1,081,557 1,025,229 57,695 58,869 Net cash provided by operating activities 206,504 177,027 329,776 388,663 333,150 Polymers 766,256 706,137 56,387 71,921 Net cash used in investing activities (169,758) (159,789) (277,223) (202,796) (264,566) Others 205,769 186,260 7,144 7,204 Subtotal 3,543,352 3,376,057 307,406 314,992 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (26,250) (8,307) (2,061) (156,957) 40,123 Corporate costs — — (6,996) (7,470) Cash and cash equivalent at end of period 153,120 179,556 243,055 263,770 360,012 Total ¥3,543,352 ¥3,376,057 ¥300,410 ¥307,522 * Inter-segment revenue and transfers are not included. At Year-End: Segment Assets Depreciation and Amortization Total net assets 1,203,316 1,314,870 1,588,601 1,554,528 1,608,324 Millions of yen Millions of yen Total assets 3,307,758 3,479,359 4,323,038 4,061,572 4,295,260 REPORTING SEGMENT 2016 2017 2016 2017 Yen Electronics Applications ¥ 102,853 ¥ 100,456 ¥ 6,013 ¥ 5,168 Per Share: Designed Materials 867,494 860,650 41,723 41,985 Health Care 1,084,694 1,101,469 17,702 17,930 Net assets ¥553.54 ¥611.95 ¥669.77 ¥636.43 ¥691.18 Chemicals 1,330,030 1,443,042 65,892 65,821 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Basic 12.61 21.89 41.40 31.70 77.35 Polymers 792,197 803,803 42,808 38,488 Net profit attributable to owners of the parent —Diluted 12.11 21.45 41.37 31.68 76.78 Others 648,015 950,892 3,061 2,918 Subtotal 4,825,283 5,260,312 177,199 172,310 Corporate assets and eliminations (601,509) (796,765) 1,622 1,564 Ratios: Total ¥4,223,774 ¥4,463,547 ¥178,821 ¥ 173,874 Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 24.6 25.8 22.6 22.9 23.2 Return on equity (ROE) (%) 2.3 3.7 6.4 4.8 11.8 Capital Expenditures R&D Expenditures Price earnings ratio (Times) 34.4 19.5 16.8 18.5 11.1 Millions of yen Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT 2016 2017 2016 (J-GAAP) 2017 Electronics Applications ¥ 4,960 ¥ 6,341 ¥ 7,223 ¥ 6,107 Other: Designed Materials 50,378 49,763 21,751 22,092 Number of employees (People) 55,131 56,031 68,263 68,988 69,291 Health Care 32,840 28,507 86,339 76,969 (Temporary employees in parentheses) (People) (5,378) (5,208) (6,101) (6,967) (6,878) Chemicals 75,145 70,216 4,787 4,727 Polymers 44,755 47,006 13,247 12,109 Notes: 1. The consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, are based on Japanese standards, and have not been audited pursuant to Paragraph 1 of Article 193-2 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Others 3,515 4,266 341 298 2. Sales revenues do not include consumption taxes. Subtotal 211,593 206,099 133,688 122,302 3. ROE is calculated as profit attributable to owners of parent divided by average shareholders’ equity. 4. Shareholders’ equity, when used in the calculation of ROE and shareholders’ equity ratio, represents the sum of total shareholders’ equity and total Corporate R&D and other 1,541 383 4,676 3,988 accumulated other comprehensive income. Total ¥213,134 ¥206,482 ¥138,364 ¥ 126,290 Employees Number REPORTING SEGMENT 2016 (J-GAAP) 2017 Electronics Applications 2,529 2,471 Designed Materials 17,635 18,405 Health Care 12,876 12,116 Chemicals 18,915 19,340 Polymers 8,052 8,285 Others 8,229 8,016 Subtotal 68,236 68,633 Corporate R&D and other 752 658 Total 68,988 69,291 81 2 3 82 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Management‘s Discussion and Analysis Results of Revenue and Core Operating Income Operations Looking at the operating climate for the MCHC Group in fiscal 2016, ended March 31, 2017, results of operations in the Performance Products and Industrial Materials domains were bolstered by strong domestic and overseas Net Sales demand, despite the effect of a stronger yen compared with the previous fiscal year. Meanwhile, in the Health Care Millions of yen domain, sales remained solid, offsetting negative factors such as the effect of NHI drug price revision in April 2016. GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2016 2017 In this environment, revenue in the year under review was ¥3,376.1 billion, falling ¥167.3 billion from the previous fiscal year, reflecting the negative impact of the yen’s appreciation and the like. Japan ¥2,498,927 ¥ 2,408,535 Core operating income in the year under review was ¥307.5 billion, increasing ¥7.1 billion year on year. The ratio Overseas 1,044,425 967,522 of core operating income to revenue was 9.1%, surpassing the year-ago level of 8.5%. Total ¥3,543,352 ¥ 3,376,057 As a result of its decision to transfer the terephthalic acid business in India and China (announced on July 27, 2016), MCHC classified this business in both regions as discontinued operations. Accordingly, revenue, core Operating Income operating income and operating income are the figures for continuing operations excluding discontinued operations. Millions of yen The results for the previous fiscal year have also been revised to reflect these changes. GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT 2016 2017 Japan ¥232,356 ¥ 211,456 Results by Segment Electronics Applications Overseas 68,054 96,066 Segment revenue fell ¥11.0 billion year on year, to ¥104.7 billion. The core operating loss increased ¥1.9 billion year Total ¥300,410 ¥ 307,522 on year, to ¥2.9 billion. In information materials, sales volumes of optical photoconductor drums and toner were down, offsetting the effects of costs reductions. In electronics-related materials, the sales prices of display materials and other products Millions of yen declined. These factors combined with the effect of a stronger yen caused segment revenue and core operating OVERSEAS SALES 2016 2017 income to decline. Overseas sales ¥1,429,970 ¥1,333,679 Overseas sales as a percentage of consolidated net sales 40.4% 39.5% Designed Materials Segment revenue decreased ¥18.9 billion year on year, to ¥806.7 billion. Core operating income soared ¥6.5 billion, to ¥81.5 billion. Revenue from polymer processing products fell due to the effect of a strong yen and decline in sales prices, which offset increased sales volumes of displays film and other products. In fine chemicals, demand for products such as coating materials was mostly firm, while in battery materials, sales volumes for automobile batteries increased. Revenue from composite materials fell due to the effect of a stronger yen, despite higher alumina fiber sales volumes. Revenue from food ingredients increased due to a full-year revenue contribution from Eisai Food & Chemical, which was made into a consolidated subsidiary in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal year. Sales volumes of chemical fibers fell sharply, mainly due to the deterioration of the export environment. Core operating income increased largely owing to overall growth in sales volumes, which offset the impact of a stronger yen. Health Care Segment revenue was down ¥1.4 billion year on year, to ¥547.0 billion. Core operating income fell ¥13.8 billion, to ¥98.4 billion. Revenue from pharmaceuticals increased due to growth in sales volumes of products such as Simponi, a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, and vaccines in Japan, and gains in royalty revenues for Gilenya, a treatment for multiple sclerosis, overseas, all of which offset the impact of NHI drug price revision in April 2016. Revenue from clinical testing and diagnostic reagents, pharmaceutical development support, and pharmaceutical formulation materials declined mainly due to lower sales volumes of pharmaceutical formulation materials. Core operating income fell, reflecting the impact of drug price revision, despite higher revenue from pharmaceuticals. Net Profit attributable to owners of the parent Revenue and Ratio of Overseas Revenue Core Operating Income and ROS and Basic earnings per share Revenue (Left axis) Core Operating Income (Left axis) Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the (Billions of yen) Ratio of overseas revenue (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) ROS (Right axis) (%) (Billions of yen) Parent (Left axis) (Yen) 4,000 60 400 20 200 Basic earnings per share (Right axis) 120 3,823.0 3,656.2 3,543.4 106.73 3,498.8 3,376.1 3,088.5 3,000 45 300 300.4 307.5 15 150 156.3 90 43.4 280.0 39.5* 41.5 39.5 40.4 35.9 2,000 30 200 10 100 60 8.5 9.1 165.7 7.3 41.40 35.06 110.5 31.70 1,000 15 100 5 50 30 90.2 5 4.5 21.89 60.8 51.4 12.61 46.4 3.1 32.2 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP 2.9 IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 18.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) * The influence of ¥145.6 billion due to the unification of the accounting period is excluded. 83 4 84 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Chemicals Income Tax Expense / Net Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent and Net Profit Attributable Segment revenue decreased ¥56.4 billion year on year, to ¥1,025.2 billion. Core operating income climbed ¥1.2 to Non-Controlling Interests billion, to ¥58.9 billion. Income tax expense decreased ¥29.7 billion, to ¥44.4 billion, reflecting lower taxes associated with the recording of Revenue from basic petrochemicals and chemical derivatives was down primarily because sales prices fell to deferred tax assets in connection with the transfer of the terephthalic acid business in India and China. The effective reflect lower raw material prices compared with the previous fiscal year, and because period repairs to ethylene rate after applying tax-effect accounting was 17.2%, whose difference from the statutory rate was 13.6%. facilities were on a larger scale than in the previous fiscal year. Revenue from coke and other carbon products Profit from discontinued operations increased ¥76.4 billion year on year, to ¥2.6 billion. increased due to higher sales prices associated with soaring coking coal prices. Revenue from industrial gases As a result of the above factors, net profit attributable to owners of the parent grew ¥104.9 billion, to ¥156.3 declined mainly due to the impact of a stronger yen, despite the incorporation of the earnings of business acquired billion. Meanwhile, net profit attributable to non-controlling interests increased ¥6.7 billion, to ¥60.3 billion. from Air Liquide in the U.S. from the second quarter of the fiscal year under review. Core operating income increased, reflecting the effect of the incorporation of business acquired from Air Liquide in the industrial gases business and the R&D Expenditures contribution of falling raw materials and fuel prices, offsetting the increased scale of periodic repairs in basic MCHC Group companies maintain independent R&D programs and collaborate closely with each other by sharing petrochemicals and chemical derivatives, and sluggish market conditions for needle coke in carbon products. technology and market information, conducting joint research, and undertaking and outsourcing R&D. They are also working proactively with businesses outside the Group to refine and develop technologies. The Group has 4,883 Polymers R&D employees and, in fiscal 2016, R&D expenditures totaled ¥126.3 billion, down ¥12.0 billion from fiscal 2015. Segment revenue declined ¥60.1 billion year on year, to ¥706.2 billion. Core operating income rose ¥15.5 billion, to ¥71.9 billion. Financial Policies Liquidity and Revenue from synthetic resins declined due to falling sales prices for polyolefin and other synthetic resins, reflecting a The medium-term management plan APTSIS 20, under which fiscal 2016 is the first fiscal year, sets out a basic policy of drop in raw material prices from the previous fiscal year, and the effect of a strong yen on MMA monomer sales despite firm Sources of Funds “Aim to become a corporate group with a high-growth and high-profit business structure through the Performance demand. Core operating income rose thanks to firm market conditions for MMA monomers, which offset decreased profit for Products, Industrial Materials and Health Care domains.” The MCHC Group has set numerical targets, core operating polyolefin and other synthetic resins mainly caused by the increased scale of periodic repairs. income, ROS (ratio of core operating income to revenue), net profit attributable to owners of the parent, ROE (ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent) and net D/E ratio. While maintaining an appropriate balance between investing Others in growth businesses, enhancing shareholder returns and strengthening financial position, we seek to improve corporate Revenue of the Others segment declined ¥19.5 billion year on year, to ¥186.3 billion yen. However, core operating value. income climbed ¥0.1 billion, to ¥7.2 billion. The MCHC Group funds working capital and capital expenditures largely by drawing on internal reserves, loans Although revenue declined, reflecting fewer orders received from outside the Group in the engineering business and bonds. The Group deployed a cash management system to employ its funds efficiently and cut financial and the overall impact of a stronger yen, core operating income was mostly unchanged from a year earlier largely expenses, and also introduced this system to Europe from fiscal 2016. Going forward, management will pursue due to cost reductions. Group-wide improvements in capital efficiency by consolidating Group fund procurement and management functions. Other Operating Income / Other Operating Expenses / Share of Profit of Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method and Operating Income Financial Position Other operating income in the year under review decreased ¥7.9 billion from a year earlier, to ¥10.7 billion, chiefly At March 31, 2017, total assets were ¥4,463.5 billion, up ¥239.7 billion from a year earlier. This increase was due due to a decrease in the gain on sales of non-current assets. primarily to a temporary increase in cash on hand due to the business transfer of Taiyo Nippon Sanso, a Other operating expenses were down ¥6.1 billion year on year, to ¥53.7 billion, primarily due to a decrease in consolidated subsidiary of MCHC and the issuance of bonds with warrants. special retirement expenses. At year-end, total liabilities were ¥2,765.3 billion, up ¥137.7 from a year earlier, mainly due to an increase in Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method rose ¥3.0 billion year on year, to ¥17.0 billion. interest-bearing debt. As a result of the above factors, operating income for the year under review was down ¥0.1 billion year on year, Total equity was ¥1,698.2 billion, up ¥102.0 billion from a year earlier, due to an increase in retained earnings to ¥268.6 billion. as result of the recording of net profit attributable to the owners of the parent of ¥156.3 billion. As a result of the above factors, ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent at the end of fiscal 2016 Finance Income / Finance Costs and Profit Before Tax increased 1.5% from a year earlier, to 24.5%. Finance income declined ¥1.8 billion year on year, to ¥7.2 billion, primarily due to a decrease in dividend income The balance of main account items at March 31, 2017 and details of increases and decreases are as follows. associated with the sale of share-crossholdings following a review of their significance. Finance costs decreased ¥7.4 billion, to ¥17.4 billion, largely owing to a decrease in foreign exchange loss. As a result of the above factors, profit before tax for the consolidated accounting period under review rose ¥5.5 billion year on year, to ¥258.3 billion. Total Equity and Equity attributable to owners of Net Interest-bearing Debt and Net D/E Ratio R&D Expenses Reference Total Assets the parent Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) Ratio of Equity attributable to owners of the parent Domestic naphtha average price of Foreign exchange (Exchange rate at each fiscal year-end) Total Equity (Left axis) Net Interest-bearing Debt (Left axis) (Billions of yen) each fiscal Year (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Equity attributable to owners of the parent (%) (Billions of yen) Net D/E Ratio (Right axis) (%) 150 120 (JP¥/US$) 120 80,000 (JP¥/KL) 5,000 2,000 (Left axis) 40 1,600 Net D/E Ratio (incld. minority interests) 1.6 Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the (Right axis) 134.7 134.2 132.2 138.3 103 4,463.5 113 4,323.0 parent (Right axis) 126.8 126.3 112 67,300 4,223.8 1,596.2 1,698.2 94 4,000 4,061.5 1,228.2 1,134.4 63,500 1,588.6 1,554.5 90 60,000 57,500 1,500 30 1,200 1.15 1.11 1,024.0 1,155.9 1.2 3,479.3 100 3,307.7 1,314.8 24.5 1.25 1,203.3 22.6 23.0 998.0 1.17 3,000 22.9 938.6 1.10 1.06 42,800 24.6 25.8 1,091.4 60 40,000 1,000 900.8 980.9 932.2 972.2 20 800 0.8 34,700 2,000 815.5 0.76 0.78 0.71 0.77 50 0.68 0.66 30 6 20,000 5,00 7 10 400 0.4 1,000 J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS J-GAAP IFRS 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 85 86 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents rose ¥96.4 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥363.5 billion due to a Business Risks temporary increase in surplus funds within the Group. The MCHC Group (“the Group”) faces the following key risks, which could adversely affect its operating results and financial position. This section Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets contains forward-looking statements based on information deemed relevant at March 31, 2017. The business risks presented are not Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets rose ¥59.9 billion from a year earlier, to ¥1,658.9 billion. all-encompassing. In recognition of exposure to risks such as those detailed below, the Group conducts risk assessments once a year. Based on these assessments, risk management systems are established and revised in consideration of the risks faced by specific businesses. In this Goodwill Goodwill increased ¥45.1 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year, to ¥313.0 billion. manner, the Group is working to prevent the risks from occurring and minimize the impacts of such risks be realized. Interest-bearing Debt Changes Affecting Many of the Group’s products can be impacted by demand and product markets domestically and abroad; pricing At March 31, 2017, interest-bearing debt was ¥1,693.7 billion, up ¥114.1 billion from the end of the previous fiscal year. Operating Results and procurement volumes for crude oil, naphtha, utilities, and other raw materials and supplies; foreign exchange Retained Earnings rates; and relevant laws and regulations. The principal assumed risks for each business domain are as follows. Retained earnings increased ¥150.5 billion year on year, to ¥761.4 billion, mainly due to the recording of net profit attributable to owners of the parent. (a) Performance Products Domain These products must satisfy high-quality and performance requirements, and the Group must develop and supply Cash Flows them at the appropriate times to meet market needs. Group business results (“results”) may be adversely affected if Cash Flows from Operating Activities market needs change far more than the Group envisages, or if the Group is unable to ensure the timely supply of Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥396.6 billion, up ¥97.0 billion, owing primarily to inflows from profit products that meet market needs, including issues with the availability of raw materials. If supply is interrupted for before tax, depreciation and amortization and a decrease in working capital associated with higher costs for raw raw materials that can only be procured from certain areas or specific suppliers, then this could adversely affect materials and fuel, which offset the impact of income taxes paid, net. results. The Group outsources production of most information and electronics-related materials to other Asian Cash Flows from Investing Activities manufacturers, so disasters or other issues with those facilities could disrupt the supply structure, adversely Net cash used in investing activities was ¥289.1 billion, up ¥55.0 billion. This reflected outflows for capital expenditures, payments for transfer of business and purchase of investments in subsidiaries, which offset inflows affecting results. Specifically, film and sheet products rely greatly on demand for liquid crystal display (LCD) panels, resulting from the sale of shareholdings. so drastic fluctuations in demand for LCD panels could adversely affect results. Cash Flows from Financing Activities (b) Health Care Domain Net cash provided by financing activities was ¥1.4 billion yen, up ¥42.3 billion, largely because of inflows from an The results of the pharmaceuticals business are subject to the Group being unable to reach revenue and earnings increase in interest-bearing debt such as bonds, which offset outflows from dividends paid, payment for acquisition of subsidiaries’ interests from non-controlling interests, and the acquisition of treasury stock. targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or rationalizing operations in response to As a result of these factors, free cash flow comprising cash flows from operating and investing activities, was lower prices from periodic revisions in National Health Insurance prices of pharmaceuticals. Results are also subject inflow of ¥107.5 billion, up ¥42.0 billion. Cash and cash equivalents at end of period were ¥363.5 billion, an increase to government policies in each country to constrain medical expenditures. of ¥96.4 billion. In general, lead times for drug research and development are far longer than in other industries, whereas the percentage of drugs receiving approval is not high. It is therefore difficult to produce accurate forecasts for the Capital Expenditures certainty or timing of commercialization. Results are thus subject to drugs not being commercialized as planned. Capital expenditures for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 were ¥206.5 billion, a decrease of ¥6.6 billion from a Even where drugs are commercialized, results are subject to sales volumes being lower because of intensified year earlier. These expenditures were largely applied to the construction of new facilities or the expansion and competition with rival offerings, volumes declining on reports of new side effects when usage of these drugs renewal of existing facilities, and rationalization investments in other facilities. The major new or expanded facilities included carbon fiber manufacturing facilities expansion at Mitsubishi becomes broad-based, generic drugs are commercialized after patents expire, or when approval is withdrawn. Rayon Carbon Fiber and Composites, Inc. in the U.S, new alumina production facilities at Mitsubishi Plastics, and Results are subject to supply disruptions on some raw materials for which the Group relies on external sources polyvinyl alcohol film production facilities expansion at The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry in the Designed and can be influenced by an inability to secure adequate supplies of pharmaceuticals. Materials segment, formulation building expansion at Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Factory Ltd. in the Health Care In clinical testing and diagnostic reagents and instruments, results can be affected by periodic revisions in segment, the new liquefied carbon dioxide gas production facilities at NIPPON EKITAN Corporation and new air medical treatment fees and drug price revisions. Results in these businesses are subject to the Group being unable separation facilities at Taiyo Nippon Sanso in the Chemicals Segment, and the new MMA monomer and PMMA to reach revenue and earnings targets by adequately expanding sales volumes of existing treatments or production facilities of The Saudi Methacrylates Company in the Polymers segment. rationalizing operations in response to lower fees or prices. In the pharmaceutical intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients business and the capsules for pharmaceutical products, results are subject to lower sales volumes of customers’ pharmaceuticals following revisions in National Health Insurance prices or patent Net Cash Provided by (used in) Operating Net Cash Provided by (used in) Investing expiries on customer products. Depreciation and Amortization Activities Activities and Capital Expenditures Net Cash Provided by (used in) investing Activities Capital Expenditures (c) Industrial Materials Domain (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 213.1 206.5 400 388.6 396.6 200 176.5 200 In this area, MCHC consumes large volumes of naphtha and other raw materials, and uses considerable amounts of 165.0 180.3 182.6 electricity and steam in production processes. For those reasons, drastic fluctuations in the costs of naphtha, fuels, 132.2 133.3 174.0 329.7 and other resources owing to changes in crude oil prices; the demand and supply balance for raw fuels or naphtha; 100 300 299.6 150 151.2 or the impact of foreign exchange rates could adversely affect results if MCHC is not fully able to adjust its product prices, or if there are delays in such adjustments. MCHC relies on suppliers from certain areas for its raw fuels, and 129.5 131.5 0 an inability to secure required fuels at the right times could adversely affect results. A worldwide recession or 206.5 J-GAAP IFRS increased production capacity among rivals could adversely affect results if it becomes impossible to maintain the 200 177.0 100 product demand and supply balance or MCHC is unable to generate revenues and earnings or reach goals that are -100 commensurate with its capital expenditures. MCHC relies heavily on certain business partners for some products in the Industrial Materials domain. For 100 8 50 -200 -159.7 example, the coke business depends greatly on specific steelmakers, so if the steel output of those companies -169.7 -202.7 declines, such as because of dramatic fluctuations in the demand and supply of raw steel, the performances of such J-GAAP IFRS -234.1 J-GAAP IFRS business partners could adversely affect MCHC’s results. -277.2 -289.1 0 -300 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (FY) 87 9 88 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information (d) Others Changes in Foreign The Group endeavors to minimize the short-term impact of fluctuations in foreign currency transactions, primarily for The Group includes companies offering engineering and logistics services. Those companies secure some external Exchange Rates exports and imports, notably by using forward foreign exchange contracts. Changes in exchange rates in the short, orders. Significant fluctuations in demand within and outside the Group, or in market conditions worldwide, could medium, and long terms may affect results. adversely affect results. The Group engages in production and sales in Asia, Europe, North America, and other locations overseas. It translates sales, expenses, assets, and other items denominated in foreign currencies in such regions into yen in its consolidated financial statements. Even if the foreign currency valuations of such items remain unchanged, the yen (e) Overall Operations equivalents could change after conversion from other currencies, so foreign exchange rate fluctuations could affect The Group aims to grow, innovate, and leap ahead by orchestrating its strengths. It is therefore reinforcing its the Group’s results and financial position. structure and implementing growth strategies (including to deliver high performance and added value), while cultivating innovative businesses. Changes in the economic or business climates (including social demands relating to climate change measures and other aspects of the environment) that are far greater than projected could Laws and The Group’s operations are subject to related laws and regulations in Japan and abroad. Such laws and regulations adversely affect results. Regulations may govern security and safety, the environment and chemical substances, pharmaceutical safety policies, and The Group’s broad overseas activities include exporting products and manufacturing around the world. Risks in other areas relating to Group operations. countries or regions relating to Group businesses, notably of conflicts, terrorism, civil wars, riots, demonstrations, The Group maintains voluntary rules that are stricter than legal provisions while pursuing thorough compliance deteriorating security, and other international geopolitical problems, unforeseeable issues with regulations, taxation, to satisfy laws and regulations in engaging in business activities. Dramatic changes in laws and regulations or working conditions, customs, and other country risks, large-scale natural disasters, difficulties hiring and retaining strengthened legislation could further restrict the Group’s activities or increase its costs. Furthermore, should the employees, inadequate supplies from utilities or other infrastructural shortfalls, changes in the economic and Group violate laws or regulations, it could be ordered to halt operations at plants, and trust from society could be financial climates, or other risks impacting specific countries or regions could adversely affect results. lost. All these factors have the possibility of influencing results. Interest-Bearing The Group aims to balance its growth and innovation strategies with efforts to enhance its financial position. Product Liability The Group manufactures and sells products that conform with standards as ISO 9001, the international standard for Debt MCHC’s results could be adversely affected in a situation where interest payments on interest-bearing debt rises, quality management systems. The Group endeavors to prevent product liability problems from arising when such as because interest-bearing debt increases, interest rates rise, or MCHC’s credit rating declines owing to launching products or improving quality by previously evaluating such liability risks. The Group cannot guarantee, fluctuating Group performances. Results could also be adversely affected if it becomes essential to procure funds to however, that all of its products will be free of defects. It therefore has product liability insurance to cover possible upgrade facilities and the Group must obtain financing at unfavorable terms. accidents. Regardless, product defects that could cause major product liability exposure with damages exceeding the range of such insurance could adversely affect results. Risks Associated Results could be adversely affected if mergers, acquisitions, or joint ventures created in Japan or abroad to expand with Acquisitions, scale or overhaul MCHC’s business portfolio fail to deliver anticipated synergies or other benefits, or if the Group’s Accidents and The Group regularly inspects its plants and otherwise endeavors to prevent accidents at facilities. It cannot, Mergers, or financial burden thereby increases or, if after mergers or acquisitions, the Group encounters new debt or other Disasters however, completely prevent or mitigate accidents at such facilities, nor natural disasters such as earthquakes. Restructuring issues that it did not initially envisage. Other factors that could adversely affect results include reorganizations as Accidents that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or create environmental pollution could part of business selection and concentration initiatives, through which MCHC withdraws from unprofitable adversely impact production activities and reduce social trust in the Group, thereby adversely affecting results. businesses or liquidates affiliates. Natural disasters that damage property, cause human suffering or loss of life, or significantly damage or functionally degrade the social infrastructure and chronically affect the Group’s activities could affect results. Deferred Tax Assets The Group records deferred tax assets for deductible temporary differences on tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax Information The Group strictly manages corporate and personal information in its possession. Problems resulting from leaks of assets are calculated based on various predictions and assumptions about future taxable income. If results differ Management such information could decrease competitiveness or reduce social trust in the Group, which may adversely affect from such predictions and assumptions, or if tax rates change in line with changes to the tax system, MCHC would results. Although the Group has taken various measures to safeguard against cyber attacks, if problems were to need to recalculate deferred tax assets, which could adversely affect results. arise with the plant control systems of business sites, it would take steps that include adjusting production volumes to maintain safety, which could adversely affect results. Impairment of The Group holds marketable securities, mainly as a non-controlling shareholder in customer companies or financial Securities institutions to maintain long-term relationships with them. Major declines in the market values of such securities Research and The Group deems research and development as pivotal to supporting sustainable corporate growth, and has long could adversely affect its financial position. Development undertaken solid R&D. It intends to deploy resources in a planned and sustainably stable manner from long-term perspectives. Results could be adversely affected, however, if the fruits of R&D are far less than anticipated. Impairment of Fixed Because the Group has applied accounting standards related to fixed asset impairment, it could incur impairment Assets losses owing to dramatically deteriorating performances or major declines in property values, which could adversely Intellectual Property The Group takes ample precautions to avoid violating the intellectual property of third parties. Nonetheless, affect results. Although the Group conducts impairment tests on goodwill acquired through business integrations, if injunctions or damages claims by third parties on the basis of patent or other infringements could adversely affect carrying amounts exceed recoverable amounts owing to lower profitability, it could incur impairment losses, which results. could adversely affect results. Litigation The Group maintains various businesses, as mentioned in Changes Affecting Operating Results. In engaging in Pension and The Group calculates retirement benefit obligations and expenses for current and former employees based on business, or in reorganizing or restructuring operations, the Group could face litigation from business partners or Severance Plans actuarial assumptions, investment returns on plan assets, and other factors. A decline in the value of pension other third parties relating to intellectual property or the Group’s products. It is impossible to predict or assess the assets, fluctuations in the interest rate climate, and changes in retirement benefit obligations and expenses owing to results of such lawsuits, which could adversely affect results. changes in the retirement plan and pension systems could adversely affect results and its financial position. Litigation proceedings to which the Group is currently subject is as follows: Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation was a codefendant with the Japanese government in damages lawsuits Impact of Inventory The Group states inventory assets principally at cost based on the moving average method. Declines in the costs of over blood products tainted with hepatitis C virus. In September 2008, the defendants concluded a basic agreement Valuations naphtha or raw materials during the fiscal period could detract from earnings by affecting relatively expensive with nationwide plaintiff groups and their attorneys to resolve this case in response to the Act on Special Measures inventories at the start of a term, thereby increasing the cost of sales. Earnings would conversely rise if fuel costs concerning the Payment of Benefits to Relieve the Victims of Hepatitis C Infected through Specified Fibrinogen rose during the fiscal period. Changes in fuel costs could therefore affect results. Any book value write-down based Concentrates and Specified Coagulation Factor XI Concentrates. The plaintiffs began dropping litigation against the on lower profitability could adversely affect results. company, and in April 2009 the company decided to pay costs to the hepatitis C sufferers according to the payment apportionment standards of the above act. 10 11 89 90 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Years ended March 31 Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 Net profit ¥104,858 ¥216,515 Continuing operations: Revenue (Note 4) ¥3,543,352 ¥ 3,376,057 Other comprehensive income: Cost of sales (2,528,303) (2,366,658) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss: Gross profit 1,015,049 1,009,399 Net gain (loss) on revaluation of financial assets measured at fair value (Note 25) (8,866) 14,391 Remeasurements of defined benefit pensions plans Selling, general and administrative expenses (719,084) (714,715) (22,045) 17,324 (Note 25) Other operating income (Note 9) 18,603 10,695 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of Other operating expenses (Note 9) (59,805) (53,722) investments accounted for using the equity method (55) (207) (Note 25) Share of profit of investments accounted for using the 13,983 16,964 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (30,966) 31,508 equity method (Note 4) Operating profit (Note 4) 268,746 268,621 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Finance income (Note 10) 8,919 7,155 (Note 25) (35,701) (20,405) Finance costs (Note 10) (24,874) (17,433) Net gain (loss) on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (Note 25) 346 840 Profit before tax 252,791 258,343 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of investments accounted for using the equity method (4,235) (1,965) Income tax expense (Note 11) (74,064) (44,414) (Note 25) Profit from continuing operations 178,727 213,929 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit (39,590) (21,530) or loss Discontinued operations: Total other comprehensive income (net of tax) (70,556) 9,978 Profit (loss) from discontinued operations (Note 6) (73,869) 2,586 Total comprehensive income ¥ 34,302 ¥226,493 Net profit ¥ 104,858 ¥ 216,515 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Net profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥ 253 ¥165,709 Owners of the parent ¥51,358 ¥ 156,259 Non-controlling interests 34,049 60,784 Non-controlling interests 53,500 60,256 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Net profit ¥104,858 ¥ 216,515 Earnings per share: Basic (Note 12): (Yen) Continuing operations ¥84.15 ¥ 104.97 Discontinued operations (49.09) 1.76 Basic earnings per share attributable to owners of the parent ¥35.06 ¥ 106.73 Diluted (Note 12): (Yen) Continuing operations ¥84.09 ¥ 104.20 Discontinued operations (49.06) 1.75 Diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of the ¥35.03 ¥ 105.95 parent The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 91 12 13 92 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Millions of yen Millions of yen April 1, 2015 April 1, 2015 (Transition date) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 (Transition date) Liabilities and Equity Assets Current assets: Liabilities Current liabilities: Cash and cash equivalents (Note ¥ 252,749 ¥ 267,148 Trade payables (Note 33) ¥ 452,856 ¥ 394,065 ¥ 437,914 ¥ 363,510 21) Bonds and borrowings 742,712 706,705 577,737 Trade receivables (Note 20) 754,335 769,094 776,191 (Note 29) Inventories (Note 19) 593,780 549,461 538,131 Income tax payable 34,181 36,434 21,287 Other financial assets (Note 17) 171,089 214,485 215,446 Other financial liabilities 236,783 185,940 184,909 (Note 30) Other current assets (Note 18) 57,427 53,191 58,184 Provisions (Note 28) 3,572 3,603 6,057 Subtotal 1,829,380 1,853,379 1,951,462 Other current liabilities Assets held for sale (Note 22) 8,752 3,338 16,916 126,656 114,955 116,691 (Note 32) Total current assets 1,838,132 1,856,717 1,968,378 Subtotal 1,596,760 1,441,702 1,344,595 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale — — 5,307 (Note 22) Total current liabilities 1,596,760 1,441,702 1,349,902 Non-current liabilities: Bonds and borrowings 859,216 872,870 1,116,005 (Note 29) Other financial liabilities 29,559 29,019 27,489 (Note 30) Retirement benefit liabilities 133,889 144,179 128,338 (Note 27) Provisions (Note 28) 21,372 23,616 25,018 Other non-current liabilities 34,657 41,387 38,439 Non-current assets: (Note 32) Property, plant and equipment 1,485,225 1,403,437 Deferred tax liabilities 1,431,681 91,165 74,850 80,159 (Note 14) (Note 11) Goodwill (Note 13) 245,675 267,850 312,950 Total non-current liabilities 1,169,858 1,185,921 1,415,448 Intangible assets (Note 13) 198,345 195,536 227,169 Total liabilities 2,766,618 2,627,623 2,765,350 Investments accounted for using 129,269 129,072 136,734 the equity method (Note 16) Equity Common stock: (Note 23) 50,000 50,000 50,000 Other financial assets (Note 17) 339,876 251,802 252,921 Additional paid-in capital 318,185 317,544 321,703 Other non-current assets 46,893 30,389 (Note 23) 39,079 (Note 18) Treasury stock (Note 23) (16,236) (16,240) (43,587) Deferred tax assets (Note 11) 85,583 88,971 94,635 Retained earnings (Note 23) 582,794 610,909 761,364 Total non-current assets 2,530,866 2,367,057 2,495,169 Other components of equity 58,268 9,984 1,918 Total assets (Note 4) ¥4,368,998 ¥4,223,774 ¥4,463,547 (Note 23) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Equity attributable to owners of 993,011 972,197 1,091,398 the parent Non-controlling interests 609,369 623,954 606,799 Total equity 1,602,380 1,596,151 1,698,197 Total liabilities and equity ¥4,368,998 ¥4,223,774 ¥4,463,547 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 93 14 15 94 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Millions of yen Millions of yen Common Additional Treasury Retained Common Additional Treasury Retained stock paid-in capital stock earnings stock paid-in capital stock earnings Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥50,000 ¥ 317,544 ¥ (16,240) ¥610,909 Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥50,000 ¥ 318,185 ¥ (16,236) ¥582,794 Net profit — — — 156,259 Net profit — — — 51,358 Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Other comprehensive income (Note 25) — — — — Total comprehensive income — — — 156,259 Total comprehensive income — — — 51,358 Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (30,033) — Purchase of treasury stock (Note 23) — — (48) — Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — 3,035 2,686 — Disposal of treasury stock (Note 23) — (10) 11 — Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (23,437) Cash dividends (Note 24) — — — (20,507) Issue of Convertible bond-type bonds with Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 58 — — subscription rights to shares — 3,099 — — Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (689) — — Share-based payment transactions (Note 26) — 71 — — Business combinations or business — — 33 — Changes in interests in subsidiaries — (2,046) — — divestitures Changes in scope of consolidation — — — 117 Changes in scope of consolidation — — — 85 Transfer from other components of equity to 17,516 Transfer from other components of equity to (2,821) — — — — — — retained earnings retained earnings Total transactions with owners — 4,159 (27,347) (5,804) Total transactions with owners — (641) (4) (23,243) Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥50,000 ¥321,703 ¥(43,587) ¥761,364 Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥50,000 ¥317,544 ¥(16,240) ¥610,909 Other components of equity Other components of equity Net gain Net gain Equity Net gain Net gain RemeasureExchange RemeasureExchange Equity (loss) on (loss) on attributable Non(loss) on (loss) on ments of differences ments of differences attributable Nonrevaluation derivatives revaluation derivatives defined on to owners controlling Total equity defined on to owners controlling Total equity of financial designated Total of the interests of financial designated Total benefit translation benefit translation of the interests assets as cash parent assets as cash pensions of foreign pensions of foreign parent measured flow measured flow plans operations plans operations at fair value hedges at fair value hedges Balance at April 1, 2015 ¥60,322 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ (2,054) ¥58,268 ¥993,011 ¥609,369 ¥1,602,380 Balance at April 1, 2016 ¥37,054 ¥ — ¥(25,246) ¥(1,824) ¥9,984 ¥972,197 ¥623,954 ¥1,596,151 Net profit — — — — — 51,358 53,500 104,858 Net profit — — — — — 156,259 60,256 216,515 Other comprehensive Other comprehensive (7,829) (18,260) (25,246) 230 (51,105) (51,105) (19,451) (70,556) 12,538 14,755 (18,640) 797 9,450 9,450 528 9,978 income (Note 25) income (Note 25) Total comprehensive Total comprehensive (7,829) (18,260) (25,246) 230 (51,105) 253 34,049 34,302 12,538 14,755 (18,640) 797 9,450 165,709 60,784 226,493 income income Purchase of treasury Purchase of treasury — — — — — (48) — (48) stock (Note 23) — — — — — (30,033) — (30,033) stock (Note 23) Disposal of treasury Disposal of treasury — — — — — 1 — 1 stock (Note 23) — — — — — 5,721 — 5,721 stock (Note 23) Cash dividends (Note Cash dividends (Note — — — — — (20,507) (23,323) (43,830) 24) — — — — — (23,437) (28,013) (51,450) 24) Share-based Issue of Convertible payment transactions — — — — — 58 — 58 bond-type bonds with — — — — — 3,099 — 3,099 (Note 26) subscription rights to Changes in interests shares — — — — — (689) 1,864 1,175 Share-based payment in subsidiaries transactions (Note 26) — — — — — 71 — 71 Business combinations or — — — — — 33 1,858 1,891 Changes in interests in — — — — — (2,046) (49,533) (51,579) business divestitures subsidiaries Changes in scope of Changes in scope of — — — — — 85 137 222 consolidation — — — — — 117 (393) (276) consolidation Transfer from other Transfer from other components of equity (15,439) 18,260 — — 2,821 — — — components of equity to (2,761) (14,755) — — (17,516) — — — to retained earnings retained earnings Total transactions with Total transactions with (15,439) 18,260 — — 2,821 (21,067) (19,464) (40,531) owners (2,761) (14,755) — — (17,516) (46,508) (77,939) (124,447) owners Balance at March 31, 2016 ¥37,054 ¥ — ¥(25,246) ¥(1,824) ¥ 9,984 ¥972,197 ¥623,954 ¥1,596,151 Balance at March 31, 2017 ¥46,831 ¥ — ¥(43,886) ¥(1,027) ¥ 1,918 ¥1,091,398 ¥606,799 ¥1,698,197 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 95 16 17 96 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (10,497) (13,144) Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 14,092 95,854 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 252,749 267,148 Millions of yen Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 transfer to assets held for sale — (247) Cash flows from operating activities: Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents resulting from 307 728 Profit before tax ¥252,791 ¥258,343 change in scope of consolidation Earnings(loss) before taxes from discontinued operations (73,047) 2,300 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents resulting from merger and — 27 acquisition Depreciation and amortization 182,656 174,040 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period (Note 21) ¥267,148 ¥363,510 Share of net profit of associates (13,983) (16,964) The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. Interest and dividend income (8,837) (6,593) Interest expense 18,448 16,060 Impairment loss 81,058 16,861 Loss on sales and retirement of property, plant and equipment 7,037 7,457 Environmental measures costs — 6,781 Loss on sales of shares of associates 1,404 1,007 Gain on sales of shares of associates (1,717) (2,347) Gain on sales of non-current assets (3,883) (1,205) Gain on step acquisitions, net (1,861) — (Increase) decrease in trade receivables (15,950) (11,264) (Increase) decrease in inventories 37,602 (9,224) Increase (decrease) in trade payables (53,072) 43,992 Increase (decrease) in net defined benefit assets and liabilities (3,275) 761 Other, net (24,612) (3,727) Subtotal 380,759 476,278 Interest received 3,458 2,809 Dividends received 13,703 13,666 Interest paid (18,757) (15,741) Income taxes (paid) received, net (79,551) (80,369) Net cash provided by operating activities 299,612 396,643 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of property, plant and equipment (199,218) (197,100) Proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment 11,114 8,905 Purchase of intangible assets (19,714) (8,684) Purchase of other financial assets (149,245) (314,982) Proceeds from sales/redemption of other financial assets 250,193 207,280 Purchase of investments in subsidiaries (38,519) (26,276) Proceeds from sales of investments in subsidiaries — 10,748 Net (increase) decrease in time deposits (92,195) 117,294 Payments for transfer of business (156) (77,774) Other, net 3,662 (8,467) Net cash used in investing activities (234,078) (289,056) Cash flows from financing activities: Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 2,237 (129,692) Net increase (decrease) in commercial papers 4,000 10,000 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 143,374 217,446 Repayment of long-term borrowings (183,222) (143,867) Proceeds from issuance of bonds 59,707 220,408 Redemption of bonds (20,040) (40,010) Net (increase) decrease in treasury stock (47) (30,035) Dividends paid (20,507) (23,437) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (23,323) (28,453) Proceeds from stock issuance to non-controlling interests 3,695 2,812 Payment for acquisition of subsidiaries' interests from non-controlling (2,764) (48,837) interests Other, net (4,055) (4,924) Net cash used in financing activities (40,945) 1,411 18 19 97 98 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information • Recoverability of Deferred Tax Assets (Note 11, Income Taxes) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements • Measurement of Defined Benefit Obligations (Note 27, Retirement Benefits) Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries • Fair Value of Financial Instruments (Note 34, Financial Instruments) • Contingent Liabilities (Note 38, Contingent Liabilities) Note 1 6. Early Application of New Standard The Group applied IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” in its entirety at the IFRS transition date. Reporting Entity Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (the “Company”) is a corporation domiciled in Japan, whose shares are listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The 7. New Standards and Interpretations Not Yet Applied registered address of its Head Office is presented on its website (http://www.mitsubishichem-hd.co.jp/). The Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements Standards and interpretations that have not been applied by the Group as of March 31, 2017 for the years ended March 31, 2017 comprise those of the Company, its subsidiaries and because application was not mandatory among key standards and interpretations issued by associates, and interests under joint arrangements (collectively, the “Group”). The Group’s the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements are as follows. three principal domains are Performance Products, Health Care, and Industrial Materials. The impacts on the Group's consolidated financial statements from applying such Further details are presented in Note 4 Segment Information. standards and interpretations are being evaluated and cannot currently be estimated. Mandatory Year of Application Standards and Interpretations Application by Overview of Introduction or Revision Note 2 (Hereafter, the Group Starting Year) Accounting standards and disclosure Basis of Presentation 1. Compliance with IFRS methods for revenue recognition have Revenue from been revised. The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in IFRS 15 Contracts with January 1, 2018 Year ending Specifically, revenue is recognized accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the March 31, 2019 based on the rights expected to be Customers International Accounting Standards Board. The provisions of Article 93 of the Ordinance on received in exchange for transferring goods or services to customers. Terminology, Forms, and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial Statements apply, Accounting standards and disclosure as the Company meets the requirements for a “Specified Company applying Designated methods for handling leases have International Financial Reporting Standards” prescribed in Article 1-2 of said ordinance. been revised. Year ending Specifically, under a single model, the The Group adopted IFRS from the fiscal year beginning April 1, 2016. The date of IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 financial statements must generally March 31, 2020 transition to IFRS (the “transition date”) was April 1, 2015. The effects of the transition to reflect asset usage rights and payment IFRS on the Group's financial position, results of operations, and cash flows on the transition obligations for borrower leases exceeding 12 months. date and comparative periods are presented in Note 39 First-Time Adoption. Note 3 2. Approval of Consolidated Financial Statements Significant 1. Basis of Consolidation The Group's consolidated financial statements were approved on June 27, 2017, by Hitoshi Accounting Policies (1) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group has control over an entity if it has Ochi, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, President and Chief Executive Officer, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to and Kenkichi Kosakai, Representative Corporate Executive Officer, Deputy CEO, and Chief affect those returns through its influence over the investee. Financial Officer. In preparing its consolidated financial statements, the Company based the financial statements of each Group company prepared as of the same closing date based on common Group accounting 3. Basis of Measurement policies. Subsidiaries’ financial statements are adjusted, if necessary, when their accounting policies The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, except for differ from those of the Group. certain financial instruments measured at fair value presented in Note 3 Significant The Group consolidates entities from the date on which it acquires control until the date on Accounting Policies. which it loses control. All intergroup balances, outstanding receivables and obligations, unrealized gains and losses are eliminated on consolidation. 4. Presentation Currency A change in ownership interest of a consolidated subsidiary, without a loss of control, is The consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen, which is the accounted for as an equity transaction. Differences between adjusted non-controlling interest Company’s functional currency, rounded to the nearest million yen. amounts and fair value are recognized directly as equity attributable to owners of the parent. 5. Use of Judgments, Estimates and Assumptions In the event of a loss of control, the Group measures and recognizes any remaining Management has made a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions relating to the investments at fair value. Any gain or loss arising from a loss of control is recognized in application of accounting policies, reporting of revenues and expenses and assets and profit or loss. liabilities in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with Non-controlling interests in a subsidiary's net assets are recognized separately from IFRS. those under the Group's control. The comprehensive income of consolidated subsidiaries is attributed to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests even if this results in the Estimates and underlying assumptions are continually evaluated. The effect of changes non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. to accounting estimates is recognized in the reporting period in which the revision was made and in future periods. (2) Associates Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence over the financial and Information regarding judgments, estimates, and assumptions used in applying operational policies but does not have control or joint control. Normally, the Group is accounting policies that could materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial assumed to be able to exercise significant influence when it holds 20% to 50% ownership. statements is included in the following notes: Other factors considered in assessing whether or not the Group can exercise significant influence include sending any of its officers being on the Board of Directors. In such cases, • Impairment of Non-Financial Assets (Note 13, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Note 14, the Group may be considered to be able to exercise significant influence over an associate Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 15, Impairment Losses) 21 99 20 100 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information even if its investment accounts for less than 20% of voting rights. If a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group reassesses the equity of The Group accounts for investments in associates under the equity method. Such the acquiree before acquisition of control at fair value on the acquisition date, and investments are recognized at cost upon acquisition. After acquisition, the Group's share of recognizes the resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. The Group accounts for the equity net assets of associates is adjusted and recorded in the consolidated statement of financial interest of the acquiree booked in other comprehensive income before the acquisition on position. the same basis as would be required if the Group had disposed directly of the previously The consolidated financial statements reflect the Group's share of earnings in held equity interest. associates. If amounts recognized in other comprehensive income of associates change, Goodwill is measured as the difference by which total value recognized as transferred the Group's share with respect to those changes is also recognized in other consideration and non-controlling interests exceeds the net value of identifiable assets comprehensive income. acquired and liabilities assumed. The Group's consolidated financial statements have been adjusted to eliminate its If the total amount recognized as transferred consideration and non-controlling share in unrealized gains and losses arising from transactions between it and associates. interests is less than net amount of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Associates prepare their financial statements for the same reporting period as the Group recognizes the difference as profit or loss. Group, adjusting their accounting policies to align with those of the Group. After initial recognition, the Group does not amortize goodwill acquired through a In the event that the Group loses significant control over an associate, it assesses and business combination, but records goodwill at cost less any accumulated impairment loss. recognizes the remaining investment at fair value as of the day on which it lost such The Group conducts impairment tests annually or when there are signs of impairment. influence. Gains and losses arising from the loss of significant influence are recognized in profit or loss. 3. Foreign Currency Translations In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the requirements of local laws and The consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented in Japanese yen, which shareholder agreements made it effectively impossible to match reporting dates of all is the Company's functional currency. associates to that of the Group. For certain associates for which it was impracticable to In addition, each company in the Group determines its individual functional currency provisionally settle accounts on the Group's reporting date owing to business or other and measures transactions using these functional currencies. factors, the Group uses relevant provisional financial statements for the period ending Foreign currency denominated transactions are translated into functional currencies at December 31. Significant transactions or events between the reporting dates of those spot exchange rates as of the transaction dates or at similar rates. associates and the consolidated closing date are reflected in the consolidated financial Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into the functional statements. currency using the spot exchange rate on the date of end of the consolidated reporting period. Exchange differences arising from translations or settlement are recognized in (3) Joint Arrangements profit or loss. However, exchange differences arising from financial instruments designated A joint arrangement is an arrangement in which unanimous consensus from the parties as hedging instruments of net investments in foreign operations (foreign subsidiaries, etc.), that have joint control of decision-making over related activities is required. financial assets measured through other comprehensive income and cash flow hedges are A joint venture is a joint agreement through which parties with joint control over an recognized in other comprehensive income. arrangement have rights to the net assets of an arrangement. The Group translates assets and liabilities of foreign operations using the spot The Group uses the equity method to account for its equity interests in joint ventures. exchange rate at the end of the reporting period, and revenue and expenses using the spot A joint operation is one in which parties with joint control of an arrangement have exchange rate on the transaction date or an approximate rate in Japanese yen, rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the joint arrangement. respectively. The Group accounts for any exchange differences arising in such If the Group holds an interest in a joint operation, the Group recognizes assets, retranslation in other comprehensive income. liabilities, revenues and expenses generated from joint operating activities only to the On the disposal of a foreign operation, accumulated exchange differences related to extent of its interest. Inter-company transactions among the Group’s companies as well as the foreign operation are recognized in profit or loss in the corresponding period of receivable and payable balances and unrealized gains and losses arising from such disposal. transactions are eliminated. The principal joint operation is The Saudi Methacrylates Company, in which the Group 4. Revenue and Saudi Arabia have a 50-50 interest. That company is constructing production facilities, (1) Recognition of Revenue and plans to manufacture methyl methacrylate monomer, acrylic resin, and other offerings The Group recognizes revenue when it is probable that future economic benefits will (Manufacturing facilities are under construction as of the end of March 2017, scheduled to flow to the Group and these benefits can be measured reliably. The Group measures start commercial operation in the middle of the same year). revenue at the fair value of a consideration received or receivable after deducting the amount of any trade discounts, volume rebates and value-added taxes. 2. Business Combinations The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations. (2) Sale of Goods If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting The Group recognizes revenue from the sale of goods when it has transferred the period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts and adjusts significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, it retains neither the amounts in a measurement period that does not exceed one year from the acquisition continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership date. nor effective control over the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured The Group measures the cost of an acquisition as the aggregate of the consideration reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will transferred, measured at acquisition-date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling flow to the Group, and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction interest in the acquiree. can be measured reliably. For each business combination, the Group measures components of non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or the amounts of non-controlling interests in the (3) Rendering of Services acquiree's identifiable net assets. When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering of services can be The Group accounts for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which estimated, revenue associated with the transaction is recognized according to the such costs are incurred. stage of the transaction's completion. In principle, the Group applies the method to When the Group acquires a business, the Group classifies or designates the estimate the stage of completion in proportion of the incurred cost at the closing date to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of the contractual terms, the estimated total cost. If a milestone is specified at the start of a contract, the Group economic conditions and other pertinent conditions as they exist at the acquisition date. In applies measurements using that milestone. When the stage of completion cannot be principle, the Group generally measures the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities estimated reliably, the Group recognizes costs incurred as an expense in the reporting assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. period and recognizes revenue only to the extent that recognized expenses are 22 23 101 102 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information recoverable. treasury stock during that period. The Company calculates diluted earnings per share by adjusting the effects of all potentially dilutive shares. (4) Interest and Dividends The Group recognizes interest using the effective interest method and recognizes 9. Cash and Cash Equivalents dividends when shareholder rights to receive payments are established. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, demand deposits, and short-term investments that are readily convertible to cash, which are subject to insignificant risks of (5) Construction Contracts changes in value, and whose maturities are three months or less from the date of If the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue associated acquisition. with the contract is recognized according to the stage of completion of the construction at the end of the reporting period. If the outcome of a construction contract cannot be 10. Inventories estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only to the extent that it is probable contract The cost of inventories comprises all purchase costs, processing costs, and all costs costs incurred will be recoverable. If total contract costs will likely exceed total contract incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. revenue, the expected loss is immediately recognized as an expense. Inventories are measured at the lower of acquisition cost and net realizable value. The Company mainly uses the weighted average cost formula to calculate costs. The Company 5. Government Grants calculates net realizable value by deducting the estimated selling price in the ordinary Government grants are recognized at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that course of business from the estimated costs required to make a sale. the Group will comply with grant terms and that the grant will be received. Government grants related to income are recognized as income on a systematic basis 11. Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations over the periods in which the Group recognizes as expenses the related costs for which The Company classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its the grants are intended to compensate. carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather Government grants relating to assets are deducted from asset acquisition costs. than through continuing use. This applies only if the asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition and a sale is highly probable within one year. 6. Borrowing Costs The Company measures a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale The Group capitalizes borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value, less the cost to sell. construction or production of assets that require considerable time before use as intended The Group does not depreciate or amortize property, plant or equipment or intangible or sale as part of the cost of that asset. The Group recognizes all other borrowing costs as assets classified as held for sale. expenses in periods incurred. Discontinued operations include units that have been disposed of or are classified as held for sale. The Group recognizes an operation as discontinued if it is a Group business 7. Income Taxes and is scheduled for disposal. The Group calculates current tax liabilities or assets for the current and prior periods as amounts that it expects to pay to or recover from taxation authorities. The Group uses tax 12. Property, Plant and Equipment rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by the end of a reporting period to The Group applies the cost model to measure property, plant and equipment. determine tax amounts. The Group carries property, plant and equipment at cost less accumulated depreciation The Group uses the asset and liability method to record deferred taxes for differences and accumulated impairment losses. between carrying amounts of assets or liabilities on the accounts at the end of the reporting The acquisition cost includes direct costs of acquisition, estimated costs of period and the tax basis (temporary differences). dismantlement, removal and restoration, and borrowing costs that satisfy capitalization In principle, the Group recognizes deferred tax liabilities for all future taxable temporary criteria. differences. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probably that taxable Except for land, property, plant and equipment, less the residual value at the end of the income will be available against which deductible temporary differences and for tax credits reporting term, is depreciated using the straight-line method. and tax loss carryforwards can be used. Depreciation is computed over the following estimated useful lives for the following As exceptions, however, the Group does not recognize deferred tax assets or deferred major classes of assets: tax liabilities for the following temporary differences: Buildings and structures 3 to 50 years  The initial recognition of goodwill Machinery, equipment and vehicles 2 to 22 years  The initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are not business combinations and do not affect profits in the accounts at the time of transactions or Tools, furniture and fixtures 2 to 25 years taxable profits or losses.  Deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and 13. Intangible Assets associates, and interests in joint ventures to the extent that it is probable that the timing The Group uses the cost model to measure intangible assets. of the reversal of the temporary difference in the foreseeable future and it is not Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be utilized. losses.  Taxable temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries and associates, Separately acquired intangible assets are initially recognized at cost. The acquisition and interests in joint ventures to the extent that the timing of the reversal of the cost of an intangible asset acquired in a business combination is measured at fair value at temporary difference is controlled and that it is probable the temporary difference will the acquisition date. not reverse in the foreseeable future. Expenditure on an internally generated intangible asset is recognized as an expense when it is incurred, excluding development expenditures that satisfy the criteria for The Group reviews the carrying amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities (including capitalization. unrecognized deferred tax assets) at the end of each reporting period. The Group The Group amortizes intangible assets with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis calculates deferred tax and liabilities based on tax rates that have been enacted or over their useful lives. It tests intangible assets when there are indications of impairment. substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, estimating tax rates at the time Amortization periods and methods for intangible assets with finite useful lives are reviewed assets materialize or liabilities are settled. at year-end. Any changes are applied to the future as changes in accounting estimates. Amortization is over the following estimated useful lives for the following major classes 8. Earnings per Share of intangible assets: The Company calculates basic earnings per share by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares, adjusted for 24 25 103 104 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Technology-related intangible assets 4 to 20 years benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the amount of the obligation can Customer-related intangible assets 5 to 20 years estimated reliability. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is measured at Software 3 to 5 years the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle obligations. The discount rate used in measuring the present value is a pre-tax rate that reflects current The Group does not amortize intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, and annually market assessments of the time value of money and risks inherent in the liability. conducts impairment tests individually or by cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) where there are indications of impairment. 17. Retirement Benefits The Group operates a defined benefit plan and defined contribution plan as employee 14. Impairment of Assets retirement benefit plans. (1) Impairment of Non-Financial Assets The Group uses the projected unit credit method to determine the present value of its The Group assesses whether indications of asset impairment exist at the end of each defined benefit obligations and the related current and past service costs for each plan. reporting period. If there are such indications and annual impairment testing is necessary, The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations is determined by the Group estimates recoverable amounts, which are the higher amount of fair value less referring to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. costs of disposal and value in use. If a recoverable amount of an asset cannot be The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined estimated, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit or benefit obligation in determining the amount of the net defined benefit liabilities or assets of group of cash-generating units of the asset class. If the carrying amount of an asset defined benefit plans. exceeds its recoverable amount, the Group recognizes an impairment loss and reduces Remeasurements of liabilities and assets associated with defined benefit retirement the carrying amount of the asset to its recoverable amount. In measuring value in use, the plans are recognized in other comprehensive income in the period incurred and Group determines the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted by pre-tax immediately reflected in retained earnings. Prior service costs are recognized as expenses rates reflecting current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific in the periods incurred. to the asset. The Group estimates future cash flows using a business plan for five years or The Group recognizes contributions payable to defined contribution plans as expenses less, in principle. Cash flow projections beyond the business plan period use at the time of contribution. long-term-average growth rates according to individual circumstances. The Group uses an appropriate valuation model supported by an available fair value 18. Capital index to measure fair value less costs of disposal. (1) Ordinary Shares The Group allocates goodwill after acquisition dates to individual or groups of cash The Company allocated the issue price of ordinary shares between common stock and generating units expected to benefit from corporate combination synergies. additional paid-in capital. For goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet (2) Treasury Shares available for use, the Group tests for impairment annually and when there are indications Acquired treasury stock is recognized at cost and deducted from equity, while the of impairment. difference between the carrying value of treasury stock and its value at the time of sale is recognized in additional paid-in capital. (2) Reversal of Impairment Loss For assets other than goodwill, at the end of each reporting period the Group evaluates 19. Share-Based Payment whether assumptions used to measure recoverable amounts have changed for impairment The Group calculates fair value of share options as of the grant date using the losses recognized in prior periods and if there are indications that such losses have Black-Scholes model as an appropriate valuation model. decreased or disappeared. The fair value measured as of share option grant dates after considering projected If such indications exist, the Group reverses impairment losses if recoverable amounts numbers of vested stock option shares is recorded as an expense using the straight-line exceed the Group's carrying amounts of assets or cash-generating units. Any reversal is method over the vesting period and is recognized in additional paid-in capital. limited to the lower of the estimated recoverable amount or the carrying value that would The Group revises the estimated number of share options expected to be vested each have been determined, net of accumulated depreciation, had no impairment loss been period. Revisions to estimates corresponding to the effects of revised estimates are recognized in prior periods. recognized in profit or loss in the period such that the revised estimates are reflected in Impairment loss reversals are recognized in profit or loss. accumulated expenses. Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed. 20. Financial Instruments 15. Leases (1) Financial Assets (Except Derivatives) A lease contract is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement rewards incidental to ownership of a leased asset to the Group. An operating lease is a The Group initially recognizes trade receivables at the date of occurrence. The Group lease other than a finance lease. initially recognizes all other financial assets on the transaction dates on which the Group In finance lease transactions, leased assets and lease obligations are recognized in the becomes a contract party. consolidated statement of financial position at the lower of the fair value of the leased Financial assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through property or the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the profit or loss or other comprehensive income and financial assets measured at inception of the lease. Lease payments are apportioned between the financial cost and amortized cost. The Group determines classifications at initial recognition. reduction of lease obligations based on the interest method. Financial costs are Debt financial instruments are classified as financial assets measured at amortized recognized in profit or loss. Leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the cost if both of the following conditions are met. useful lives or lease term, whichever is shorter. • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial In operating lease transactions, lease payments are recognized as an expense in the assets to recover contractual cash flows Consolidated Statement of Income on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that Contingent rents are charged as expenses in the period when they are incurred. are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts outstanding Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance Debt financial instruments meeting the following conditions and measured at fair of the arrangement regardless of whether it takes the legal form of a lease. value are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Otherwise, they are classified as financial assets measured at 16. Provisions fair value through profit or loss. A provision is recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) • Financial assets are based on a business model where the aim is to hold financial as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic 26 27 105 106 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information assets to collect contractual cash flows and sell assets follows: • Contractual terms of financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that (a) Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss are solely payments of principal and interest on principal amounts outstanding Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss are measured at Equity instruments other than those for trading purpose are designated as measured fair value. After initial recognition, portions of changes in fair value and interest cost at fair value through profit or loss or as measured at fair value through other attributed to the change in credit risk of the Group are recognized in other comprehensive income. Such designations are applied subsequently on a consistent comprehensive income, and the balance is recognized in profit or loss. basis. (b) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost Except for financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss, financial After initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are instruments are measured at fair value plus transaction costs attributable directly to measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortization under them. the effective interest method and gains or losses on derecognition is recognized in (ii) Subsequent Measurements profit or loss. After initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the following (iii) Derecognition classifications: Financial liabilities are derecognized when the obligation is discharged, canceled or (a) Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost expired, or when they are exchanged with substantially different terms or their terms Financial assets measured at amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using are modified substantially. the effective interest method. (b) Other Financial Assets (3) Complex Financial Instruments Financial assets other than those measured at amortized cost are measured at fair The Group measures and initially recognizes hybrid financial instrument liabilities at the fair value. value of similar liabilities that do not have equity conversion options. Equity is measured Changes in the fair value of financial assets measured at fair value are and initially recognized at fair value after deducting the fair value of the liabilities of recognized in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. complex financial instruments overall. Direct transaction costs are allocated according to Changes in the fair value of equity instruments designated as measured at fair value initial book value ratio of liabilities and equity. After initial recognition, complex financial through other comprehensive income are recognized in other comprehensive instruments liabilities are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. income and the amount in other comprehensive income is transferred to retained The Company does not remeasure complex financial instrument equity after initial earnings when equity instruments are derecognized or when the fair value of equity recognition. instruments declines significantly. (iii) Derecognition (4) Offsetting of Financial Instruments The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented as a net amount in the flows from the financial asset expire or when the Group transfers the financial asset consolidated statement of financial position only when there is a legally enforceable right to and the substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are set off the recognized amounts and the Group intends either to settle on a net basis or to transferred. realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred asset and retains control of the transferred asset, the Group (5) Derivatives and Hedge Accounting recognizes the residual interest in the transferred asset and the associated liability to be The Group uses derivatives, including forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate payable to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement. swap contracts, to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate risks. These derivatives are (iv) Impairment initially measured at fair value when contracts are entered into and are subsequently At each closing date, the Group assesses whether the credit risk on a financial asset or remeasured at fair value. a financial asset group measured at amortized cost or a financial guarantee contract Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss, although gains has increased significantly since initially recognizing the impairment of a financial asset or losses on hedging instruments relating to the effective portions of cash flow hedges and or financial guarantee contract. hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recognized in other comprehensive If, at the closing date, the credit risk of a financial asset or a financial asset group has income. not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss At the inception of hedging relationships, the Group formally designates and allowance for that financial asset at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit documents relationships to which hedge accounting applies and the objectives and losses. However, the Group recognizes the expected credit losses of trade receivables strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedges. The documentation includes over the remaining period from the initial recognition. identifying hedging instruments, the hedged items or transactions, the nature of the risks If a credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group being hedged and how the hedging instrument effectiveness (including its analysis of the recognizes an expected credit loss over the remaining period as a loss allowance. sources of hedge ineffectiveness and how it determines the hedge ratio) is assessed in The Group assesses whether the credit risk has increased significantly using the offsetting the exposure to changes in hedged item fair value or cash flows attributable to change in the risk of default, and assesses whether the default risk has changed mainly hedged risks. When designating a hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis, the using delinquent (past due information). Group analyses whether a derivative used to a hedge transaction is effective to offset the The Group measures a credit loss using the discounted present value of the change in the fair value or the cash flow of a hedged item. The Group specifically difference between the contractual amount receivable and the estimate amount determines that a hedge is effective when the economic relationship between the hedged receivable based on the past credit loss. item and the hedging instrument is offset. Hedges that meet the requirements for hedge accounting are classified in the following (2) Financial Liabilities (Except Derivatives) categories and accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”. (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement Financial liabilities are classified into financial liabilities measured at fair value through (a) Fair Value Hedges profit or loss and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The Group determines Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in profit or loss. For changes in classifications at initial recognition. the fair value of hedged items attributable to the hedged risks, carrying amounts of Although all financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition, financial hedged items are adjusted, with changes recognized in profit or loss. liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at cost after deducting, from the fair (b) Cash Flow Hedges value, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial liabilities. The effective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments is recognized in other (ii) Subsequent Measurement comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on classifications as or loss. 28 29 107 108 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Hedging instrument amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss when the transactions of the hedged items affect profit or Note 4 loss. Where hedged items result in the recognition of non-financial assets or liabilities, the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are accounted for as Segment Information 1. Overview of Reporting Segments adjustments to the original carrying amount of non-financial assets or liabilities. The Group’s reporting segments are the components for which separate financial When forecast transactions are no longer expected to occur, any related cumulative information is available, and the Board of Directors regularly assesses this information in gain or loss that has been recognized in equity as other comprehensive income is deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate results. No operating segments or reclassified to profit or loss. When hedging instruments expire, are sold, terminated or components have been aggregated in preparing the reporting segment information. exercised without the replacement or rollover of other hedging instruments, or when the hedge designation is revoked due to change in the risk management objective, The Company is a holding company for the corporate groups of the following six key accumulated amounts that have been recognized in other comprehensive income subsidiaries: Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, continue to be recognized in other comprehensive income until the forecast transactions Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc., Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd., Life Science Institute, Inc., and Taiyo occur. Nippon Sanso Corporation. The Company coordinates Group operations, categorizing each (c) Hedges of Net Investments in Foreign Operations company’s businesses by product and managing its portfolio based on those categories. Translation differences resulting from hedges of net investments in foreign operations Accordingly, the reporting segments comprise product-specific business categories. The are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains or losses five principal reporting segments are Electronics Applications, Designed Materials, Health on hedging instruments is recognized in other comprehensive income. The ineffective Care, Chemicals, and Polymers. portion is recognized in profit or loss. At the time of the disposal of the foreign operations, any related cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other The main products in each reporting segment are as follows. comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss. Reporting Segment Main Products Electronics Applications Recording media, Information and (6) Fair Value of Financial Instruments electronics-related materials, Imaging supplies The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active financial markets at the Designed Materials Food ingredients, Battery materials, Fine chemicals, Polymer fiscal year-end refers to quoted prices or dealer quotations. processing products, Composite materials, Inorganic If there is no active market, the fair value of financial instruments is determined referring to chemicals, Fibers appropriate valuation models or prices presented by related financial institutions. Health Care Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostic reagents and instruments, Clinical testing, Pharmaceutical formulation materials Chemicals Basic petrochemicals, Chemical derivatives, Synthetic fiber materials, Carbon products, Industrial gases Polymers Synthetic resins Accounting policies for reportable segments are identical to those Group accounting policies stated in Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies. Inter-segment sales and transfers are based mainly on prevailing market prices. In line with a decision announced on July 27, 2016, to transfer equity interests in purified terephthalic acid businesses in India and China, the Company classified both businesses as discontinued operations. Segment information for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 includes revenues and other operating results from continuing operations, excluding those of discontinued operations. Details of discontinued operations are described in Note 6, Discontinued Operations. 2. Revenues and Operating Results for the Group's Reporting Segments The Group evaluates results based on segment profits. As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments Electronics Designed Subtotal Consolidated Health Care Chemicals Polymers Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Applications Materials Segment assets ¥117,598 ¥ 842,067 ¥1,059,056 ¥ 1,412,781 ¥839,400 ¥ 4,270,902 ¥ 589,520 ¥ 4,860,422 ¥ (491,424) ¥ 4,368,998 Other items Investments accounted for 474 12,147 264 58,223 52,902 124,010 5,259 129,269 — 129,269 using the equity method Notes: 1. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes engineering, transportation, and warehousing operations. 2. The segment asset adjustment of ¥(491,424) million includes corporate assets of ¥249,477 million not allocated to reporting segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(740,901) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to reporting segments. 30 109 31 110 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Year ended March 31, 2016 Adjustments to profit before tax from segment operating results are as follows: Millions of yen REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments Millions of yen Electronics Designed Subtotal Consolidated Health Care Chemicals Polymers Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Year ended Year ended Applications Materials Revenue March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 External revenue ¥115,731 ¥825,631 ¥ 548,408 ¥1,081,557 ¥ 766,256 ¥3,337,583 ¥205,769 ¥3,543,352 ¥ — ¥3,543,352 Segment operating results ¥300,410 ¥307,522 Inter-segment revenue 4,296 33,657 2,264 121,277 69,024 230,518 125,128 355,646 (355,646) — Gain on sales of non-current assets 3,522 862 Total ¥120,027 ¥859,288 ¥ 550,672 ¥1,202,834 ¥ 835,280 ¥3,568,101 ¥330,897 ¥3,898,998 ¥(355,646) ¥3,543,352 Segment profit (loss) ¥ (972) ¥ 74,965 ¥ 112,187 ¥ 57,695 ¥ 56,387 ¥ 300,262 ¥ 7,144 ¥ 307,406 ¥ (6,996) ¥ 300,410 Gain on step acquisitions, net 1,861 — Core operating income Gain on sale of shares of associates 1,717 — (Note 3) Impairment loss (13,638) (15,024) Segment assets 102,853 867,494 1,084,694 1,330,030 792,197 4,177,268 648,015 4,825,283 (601,509) 4,223,774 Other items Environmental measures costs — (6,781) Depreciation and 6,013 41,723 17,702 65,892 42,808 174,138 3,061 177,199 1,622 178,821 Loss on sales and retirement of non-current amortization assets (1,459) (2,865) Share of profit of (121) 749 23 3,877 9,423 13,951 32 13,983 — 13,983 Early retirement program expenses (15,502) (2,501) investments accounted Loss during business interruption largely for using the equity stemming from earthquakes in Japan — (2,252) method Investments accounted 332 12,192 257 52,617 63,318 128,716 356 129,072 — 129,072 Share of loss of investments accounted for — (1,943) for using the equity using the equity method method (1,404) Loss on sale of shares of associates (1,006) Capital expenditures 4,960 50,378 32,840 75,145 44,755 208,078 3,515 211,593 1,541 213,134 Notes: Other (6,761) (7,391) 1. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes engineering, transportation, Operating profit 268,746 268,621 and warehousing operations. 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment of ¥(6,996) million includes corporate costs of ¥(6,749) million not allocated to reporting Finance income 8,919 7,155 segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(247) million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin testing, research, and Finance costs (24,874) other activities not allocated to reporting segments. (17,433) The segment assets adjustment of ¥(601,509) million includes corporate assets of ¥167,810 million not allocated to reporting Profit before tax ¥252,791 ¥258,343 segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(769,319) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to reporting segments. 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring factors, such as 3. Geographic Information losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income. The breakdown of external revenue and non-current assets is as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 External revenue Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended Year ended REPORTING SEGMENT Others Adjustments March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Electronics Designed Subtotal Consolidated Applications Materials Health Care Chemicals Polymers Total (Note 1) (Note 2) Japan ¥2,113,382 ¥2,042,378 Revenue U.S.A. 385,896 348,361 External revenue ¥ 104,707 ¥ 806,692 ¥ 547,032 ¥ 1,025,229 ¥ 706,137 ¥ 3,189,797 ¥ 186,260 ¥ 3,376,057 ¥ — ¥ 3,376,057 PRC 270,438 246,464 Inter-segment revenue 4,648 34,487 2,345 101,743 60,081 203,304 128,509 331,813 (331,813) — Other 773,636 738,854 Total ¥ 109,355 ¥ 841,179 ¥ 549,377 ¥ 1,126,972 ¥ 766,218 ¥ 3,393,101 ¥ 314,769 ¥ 3,707,870 ¥ (331,813) ¥ 3,376,057 Total ¥3,543,352 ¥3,376,057 Segment profit (loss) Core operating income ¥ (2,918) ¥ 81,515 ¥ 98,401 ¥ 58,869 ¥ 71,921 ¥ 307,788 ¥ 7,204 ¥ 314,992 ¥ (7,470) ¥ 307,522 Note: Revenue are based on the locations of customers. (Note 3) Segment assets 100,456 860,650 1,101,469 1,443,042 803,803 4,309,420 950,892 5,260,312 (796,765) 4,463,547 Non-current assets Other items Millions of yen Depreciation and 5,168 41,985 17,930 65,821 38,488 169,392 2,918 172,310 1,564 173,874 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, amortization (Transition date) 2016 2017 Share of profit of Japan ¥1,214,677 ¥1,212,391 ¥1,203,583 investments accounted (29) 880 24 5,872 12,121 18,868 39 18,907 — 18,907 U.S.A. for using the equity 281,644 272,588 366,745 method Other 447,827 393,892 410,653 Investments accounted Total ¥1,944,148 ¥1,878,871 ¥1,980,981 for using the equity 274 13,819 244 52,623 69,390 136,350 384 136,734 — 136,734 method Note: Non-current assets are based on the locations of the assets and do not include financial instruments, Capital expenditures 6,341 49,763 28,507 70,216 47,006 201,833 4,266 206,099 383 206,482 deferred tax assets and retirement benefit asset. Notes: 1. The Others category consists of businesses not included in reporting segments and mainly includes engineering, transportation, and warehousing operations. 4. Information about Major Customers 2. The segment profit (loss) adjustment of ¥( 7,470) million includes corporate costs of ¥(7,314) million not allocated to reporting This information has been omitted because no external customers account for more than segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(156) million. Corporate costs include expenditures on basin testing, research, and 10% of revenue. other activities not allocated to reporting segments. The segment assets adjustment of ¥(796,765) million includes corporate assets of ¥191,916 million not allocated to reporting segments and inter-segment eliminations of ¥(988,681) million. Corporate assets include financial assets not allocated to reporting segments. 3. Segment profit (loss) is Operating profit in accordance with IFRS after excluding earnings from non-recurring factors, such as losses from business withdrawals and downsizings, representing core operating income 111 32 33 112 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 5 (4) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed, principally at fair value Millions of yen Acquisition date Business Year ended March 31, 2016 (July 31, 2015) Combinations Current assets: 1. Acquisition of Renegade Gas Pty Ltd. by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 249 On July 21, 2015, the Board of Directors of consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Trade receivables 1,338 Corporation decided to acquire all of the shares of Renegade Gas Pty Ltd. (RGP), which Inventories 279 sells LPG and industrial gases in Australia, through TNSC (Australia) Pty Ltd. (in which Other 88 Non-current assets: Taiyo Nippon Sanso has 85% ownership), which was established to acquire and hold RGP’s Property, plant and equipment 7,787 shares. RGP became a consolidated subsidiary of the Company on July 31, 2015. Intangible assets 700 Acquired assets 10,441 (1) Overview of business combination Current liabilities 1,796 1. Name and business description of acquired company Non-current liabilities 4,623 Name: Renegade Gas Pty Ltd Liabilities assumed 6,419 Business description: Filling and sales of LPG and industrial gases, and sales Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 4,022 Goodwill (see note) 10,939 and rentals of related equipment Note: Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition 2. Main reason for business combination that do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not tax-deductible. Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation is exploring ways to expand its operations into new countries to broaden its regional scope as part of (5) Acquisition-related costs efforts to reach the globalization objectives that are part of its Ortus Stage 1 medium-term management plan. Australia has the 12th largest GDP in the world Acquisition-related costs were ¥305 million, and are included in selling, general and and a population growth rate of 1% to 2% annually, a high level among advanced administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. nations. Its economy is set to expand at around 3% annually over the next few years, reflecting growth in housing investment and personal consumption. The (6) Impact on the Group's results industrial gas market should benefit from steady growth in housing construction The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma and infrastructure-related demand and from new demand from mining and information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2015 is energy sectors. immaterial. Taiyo Nippon Sanso will position RGP as a step in developing the industrial gas markets of Australia and the rest of Oceania, leveraging that company’s Year ended March 31, 2017 existing network to broaden its product lineup and expanding its geographic 1. Acquisition of Industrial Gas Operations by Matheson Tri-Gas reach. Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon The Group will launch efforts to materialize synergies from RGP and Sanso Corporation, purchased part of the American industrial gas operations and related establish a solid footing in the Australian industrial gas business. business assets of Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP and Airgas, Inc. 3. Acquisition date July 31, 2015 (1) Overview of business combination 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company 1. Name and business description of acquired company Acquisition of shares for cash and exchange of shares through consolidated Names: Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP and Airgas, Inc. subsidiary TNSC (Australia) Business description: Gas separation, carbon dioxide, packaged gases and 5. Percentage of voting rights acquired nitrous oxide businesses 100% 2. Main reason for business combination The objective was to become a national supplier by expanding Matheson's gas separation business network in the East and Midwest of the United States, (2) Fair value of consideration transferred solidifying its position as a manufacturer, improving its supply stability and customer trust nationwide, reinforcing production capacity for its carbon dioxide Millions of yen business, and entering the packaged gas business in Alaska and the nitrous Acquisition date oxide business, thereby expanding into new domains and solidifying Matheson's (July 31, 2015) foundations and profitability through expansion in the United States, the world's Cash ¥12,717 TNSC (Australia) shares 2,244 largest industrial gas market. Cost of the acquisition ¥14,961 3. Acquisition date September 8, 2016 (3) Share exchange ratio by share class and its calculation method, and number of shares 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company issued Consolidated subsidiary Matheson Tri-Gas acquired part of the American 1. Share exchange ratio by share class industrial gas operations and related business assets of Air Liquide Industrial 1 share of RGP common stock for 100 shares of TNSC (Australia) common and Airgas. stock 2. Calculation method for share exchange ratio (2) Fair value of consideration transferred Calculated as a result of discussions with the relevant parties referring to stock Millions of yen valuation reports submitted by third-party appraisal institutions and other Acquisition date sources. (September 8, 2016) 3. Number of shares issued Cash ¥77,402 TNSC (Australia) shares: 15,868,013 Cost of the acquisition ¥77,402 35 34 113 114 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information (3) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed, principally at fair value 4. Method for gaining control of acquired company Consolidated subsidiary TNSC (Australia) acquired all of the shares and Millions of yen related properties of Supagas Holdings by purchasing shares for cash and Acquisition date exchanging shares. (September 8, 2016) 5. Percentage of voting rights acquired Current assets: 100% Inventories ¥ 406 Other 369 Non-current assets: (2) Fair value of consideration transferred Property, plant and equipment (see note 1) 28,911 Millions of yen Intangible assets (see note 1) 24,502 Acquisition date Acquired assets 54,188 (December 16, 2016) Current liabilities 12 Cash ¥20,737 Non-current liabilities 3,744 TNSC (Australia) shares 841 Liabilities assumed 3,756 Cost of the acquisition ¥21,578 Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 50,432 Note: In addition, the Group also made a cash loan of ¥7,686 million to the acquired company. This loan, which is Goodwill (see note 2) 26,970 repayable by the acquired company, is classified in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows within cash flows from investing activities as “Other, net.” The acquired company is using this loan to fund repayment of The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities assumed on the its debts. acquisition date based on fair value. As the cost allocation has yet to be completed, the amounts above are provisional fair values based on prevailing best estimates. Amounts (3) Number of shares transferred and method for measuring fair value thereof may be revised one year after acquisition following an assessment of additional information A total of 9,158,348 shares of common stock were transferred to the former owners of relating to facts and circumstances at the acquisition date. Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd and the fair value, based on the financial position, results, and other numbers for TSNC (Australia), was agreed between the parties. Notes: 1. Property, plant and equipment mainly include machinery and vehicles of ¥23,346 million. Intangible assets (4) Goodwill, assets acquired and liabilities assumed, principally at fair value Millions of yen include customer-related intangible assets of ¥24,502 million. 2. Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that Acquisition date (December 16, 2016) do not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is deductible for a certain period under full taxation. Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 717 (4) Acquisition-related costs Trade receivables 1,566 Acquisition-related costs were ¥421 million, and are included in selling, general and Inventories 334 administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Other 112 Non-current assets: (5) Impact on the Group's results Property, plant and equipment 10,048 Intangible assets 4,577 The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma Other 125 information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2016 is Acquired assets 17,479 immaterial. Current liabilities 1,189 Non-current liabilities 8,382 2. Acquisition of Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd by TNSC (Australia) Pty Ltd Liabilities assumed 9,571 Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 7,908 Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired Supagas Holdings Pty Goodwill (see note) 13,670 Ltd, an Australian industrial gases and LPG company, through subsidiary TNSC (Australia) Pty Ltd., making Supagas Holdings a consolidated subsidiary. The acquisition cost is allocated to acquired assets and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date based on fair value. As the cost allocation has yet to be completed, the (1) Overview of business combination amounts above are provisional fair values based on prevailing best estimates. Amounts 1. Name and business description of acquired company may be revised one year after acquisition following an assessment of additional information Name: Supagas Holdings Pty Ltd and related properties relating to facts and circumstances at the acquisition date. Business description: Sells LPG, industrial gases (including oxygen, nitrogen, argon, and carbon dioxide), and related equipment Note: 2. Main reason for business combination Goodwill mainly comprises anticipated synergies and excess earnings capabilities arising from acquisition that do Consolidated subsidiary Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation acquired Renegade not match specific recognition criteria. Goodwill is not tax-deductible. Gas Pty Ltd. in July 2015 to fully enter the Australian industrial gas market. Renegade Gas operates principally in New South Wales, Queensland, and (5) Acquisition-related costs elsewhere on Australia's east coast. Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation planned to Acquisition-related costs were ¥542 million, and are included in selling, general and further expand its operations in Australia. In acquiring Supagas Holdings, Taiyo administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Nippon Sanso augmented existing operations, including in Victoria and Western Australia, to complete a nationwide sales network. It was thereby able to (6) Impact on the Group's results reinforce its national account efforts and its user supply structure. In leveraging a nationwide sales network, Taiyo Nippon Sanso is positioned to capitalize on The revenue, and profit or loss subsequent to the acquisition date and pro forma infrastructural demand, which should continue to expand solidly, while cultivating information assuming that the business combination was completed on April 1, 2016 is new resources and energy-related demand. That company should also immaterial. materialize synergies with Renegade Gas to boost earnings and undertake activities to further expand its Australian business. 3. Acquisition date December 16, 2016 36 37 115 116 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Performance was sluggish at the terephthalic acid production facilities of Ningbo Note 6 Mitsubishi Chemical Co., Ltd., in China, and a recovery in the business climate was unlikely. Because it was unlikely that investments would therefore be recoverable, the book value Discontinued 1. Outline of Discontinued Operations was reduced to recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was measured at fair value Operations after deducting the cost of disposal. The fair value after such deduction was mainly On July 27, 2016, the Company announced its decision to transfer its interests in calculated in line with valuation techniques based on the market approach and classified as terephthalic acid businesses in India and China, completing the transfer in the period. The Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Company accordingly classified Materials Chemicals and Performance Intermediaries Private Limited (formerly, MCC PTA India Corp. Private Limited) and earnings related to Cash flows from discontinued operations are as follows: Ningbo Mitsubishi Chemical Co., Ltd., as discontinued operations in the year ended March 31, 2017, and presents corresponding information on discontinued and continuing Millions of yen operations in the consolidated financial statements. Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 2. Profit or Loss from Discontinued Operations Cash flows from operating activities ¥ (13,950) ¥ (709) Cash flows from investing activities (1,454) 3,327 Millions of yen Cash flows from financing activities (10,501) (60,829) Year ended Year ended Total ¥ (25,905) ¥ (58,211) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Profit or Loss from Discontinued Operations: Revenue ¥ 128,933 ¥ 66,794 Note 7 Cost of sales (131,051) (63,062) Gross profit (loss) (2,118) 3,732 Employee Benefit The breakdown of employee benefit expenses is as follows: Selling, general and administrative expenses (4,402) (2,588) Expenses Other operating income (Note 1) 452 2,872 Millions of yen Other operating expenses (Note 2) (63,777) (436) Year ended Year ended Operating profit (69,845) 3,580 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Finance income 231 58 Wages and salaries ¥ 543,430 ¥ 538,417 Finance costs (3,433) (1,338) Retirement benefit costs 44,835 29,464 Profit (loss) before tax (73,047) 2,300 Total ¥ 588,265 ¥ 567,881 Income tax expense (822) 286 Profit (loss) from discontinued operations ¥ (73,869) ¥ 2,586 Net profit (loss) attributable to: Note 8 Owners of the parent ¥ (71,902) ¥ 2,586 Non-controlling interests ¥ (1,967) ¥ — Research and Research and development expenses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2016 and Earnings (loss) Development 2017 were ¥126,782 million and ¥126,290 million, respectively. (Yen) Expenses per share: Basic ¥ (49.09) ¥ 1.76 Diluted ¥ (49.06) ¥ 1.75 Notes: Note 9 1. In the year ended March 31, 2017, this included ¥2,347 million from the sale of shares of a subsidiary from the transfer of the terephthalic acid business. Other Operating The breakdown of other operating income is as follows: 2. In the year ended March 31, 2016, other operating expenses included the following impairment losses. Income and Other Reporting Operating Expenses Use Location Category Impairment loss Segment Millions of yen Terephthalic acid production MCC PTA India Corp. Machinery and Chemicals ¥43,217 million Year ended Year ended facilities Private Limited equipment, Others March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 (West Bengal State, India) Rent income ¥ 2,690 ¥ 2,583 Terephthalic acid production Ningbo Mitsubishi Machinery and Chemicals ¥20,435 million Insurance income 1,650 1,901 facilities Chemical Co., Ltd. equipment, Others Gain on sales of non-current assets 3,883 1,205 (Zhejiang Province, China) Gain on step acquisitions, net 1,861 — Gain on sales of shares of associates 1,717 — Composition of Impairment Losses Other 6,802 5,006 • Terephthalic acid facilities (India) Total ¥ 18,603 ¥ 10,695 The impairment loss of ¥43,217 million includes ¥37,100 million for machinery and equipment, and ¥6,117 million for others. Performance was sluggish at the terephthalic acid production facilities of MCC PTA India Corp. Private Limited, and a recovery in the business climate was unlikely. Because it was unlikely that investments would therefore be recoverable, the book value was reduced to nominal amounts. The recoverable amount was based on the value in use, however discounted future cash flows were negative. Accordingly, the discount rate is not presented. • Terephthalic acid production facilities (China) The impairment loss of ¥20,435 million includes ¥18,652 million for machinery and equipment, and ¥1,783 million for others. 117 39 118 38 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 11 The breakdown of other operating expenses is as follows: Millions of yen Income Taxes 1. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Year ended Year ended As of March 31, 2016 and 2017, significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Impairment loss are as follows: ¥ 17,406 ¥ 16,822 Loss on sales and retirement of property, plant and equipment 7,003 7,451 Year ended March 31, 2016 Environmental measures costs — 6,781 Millions of yen Early retirement program expenses Amounts 15,367 2,349 Amounts recognized in Loss during business interruption largely March 31, stemming from earthquakes in Japan — 2,252 April 1, 2015 recognized in other Other (Note) 2016 profit or loss comprehensiv Loss on sales of shares of associates 1,404 1,007 e income Other 18,625 17,060 Deferred tax assets: Total ¥ 59,805 ¥ 53,722 Tax loss ¥ 62,596 ¥ (17,305) ¥ — ¥ (1,214) ¥ 44,077 carryforwards Net defined benefit 36,044 (442) 8,815 (789) 43,628 liabilities Note 10 Property, plant and 17,775 (1,641) — (119) 16,015 equipment Financial Income and The breakdown of financial income is as follows: Employees’ bonuses 13,018 539 — (16) 13,541 Financial Costs Employees’ paid leave 7,635 (199) — — 7,436 Inventory 5,233 241 — (77) 5,397 Millions of yen Other 55,241 7,886 135 1,054 64,316 Year ended Year ended Total ¥ 197,542 ¥ (10,921) ¥ 8,950 ¥ (1,161) ¥ 194,410 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Deferred tax liabilities: Financial income Property, plant and Interest income ¥ (71,823) ¥ 5,532 ¥ — ¥ 4,206 ¥ (62,085) equipment Financial assets measured at amortized cost ¥ 2,815 ¥ 2,527 Valuation of assets (52,287) 5,561 — (1,743) (48,469) Financial assets at fair value through profit or Securities and other 309 63 (47,301) 124 5,434 11,330 (30,413) loss investments Dividend income Other (31,713) (7,253) 343 (699) (39,322) Financial assets measured at fair value Total ¥ (203,124) ¥ 3,964 ¥ 5,777 ¥ 13,094 ¥ (180,289) through other comprehensive income 5,480 3,948 Net deferred tax assets ¥ (5,582) ¥ (6,957) ¥ 14,727 ¥ 11,933 ¥ 14,121 Other 315 617 Total ¥ 8,919 ¥ 7,155 Year ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Amounts Amounts recognized in The breakdown of financial costs is as follows: April 1, 2016 recognized in other Other (Note) March 31, 2017 Millions of yen profit or loss comprehensiv Year ended Year ended e income March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Deferred tax assets: Financial costs Tax loss ¥ 44,077 ¥ 20,416 ¥ — ¥ (129) ¥ 64,364 Interest expenses carryforwards Financial liabilities measured at amortized Net defined benefit 43,628 1,979 (6,775) (695) 38,137 cost ¥ 17,263 ¥ 15,605 liabilities Property, plant and Foreign exchange losses 5,478 502 16,015 1,255 — (109) 17,161 equipment Other 2,133 1,326 Employees’ bonuses 13,541 62 — (10) 13,593 Total ¥ 24,874 ¥ 17,433 Employees’ paid leave 7,436 (609) — (13) 6,814 Inventory 5,397 (957) — (20) 4,420 Other 64,316 (9,615) 568 440 55,709 Total ¥ 194,410 ¥ 12,531 ¥ (6,207) ¥ (536) ¥ 200,198 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and ¥ (62,085) ¥ (3,424) ¥ — ¥ 102 ¥ (65,407) equipment Valuation of assets (48,469) 1,925 — 347 (46,197) Securities and other (30,413) 639 (3,561) 186 (33,149) investments Other (39,322) (618) (662) (367) (40,969) Total ¥ (180,289) ¥ (1,478) ¥ (4,223) ¥ 268 ¥ (185,722) Net deferred tax assets ¥ 14,121 ¥ 11,053 ¥ (10,430) ¥ (268) ¥ 14,476 Note: Other includes exchange differences on translation of foreign operations. In recognizing deferred tax assets, the Group considers whether it can use all or part of future deductible temporary differences or unused tax loss carryforwards with respect to future taxable income. In evaluating the recoverability of deferred tax assets, the Group considers the planned reversal of deferred tax liabilities, expected future taxable income, and tax planning. There is a high probability of collecting recognized deferred tax asset benefits 40 119 41 120 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 12 based on historical taxable income levels and on future taxable income projections for the period in which it can recognize deferred tax assets. Per Share The bases for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to owners of Future deductible temporary differences not recognized as deferred tax assets as of April Information the parent were as follows: 1, 2015 (the transition date), March 31, 2016, and March 31, 2017 were ¥437,556 million, ¥522,104 million and ¥417,201 million, respectively. The unrecognized deferred tax assets 1. Basic Earnings per Share were ¥143,366 million, ¥160,368 million, and ¥123,209 million, respectively. Tax loss carryforwards not recognized as deferred tax assets as of April 1, 2015 (the Millions of yen transition date), March 31, 2016, and March 31, 2017 amounted to ¥467,801 million Year ended Year ended March (¥227,366 million for carryforwards exceeding five years), ¥441,687 million (¥171,730 million March 31, 2016 31, 2017 for carryforwards exceeding five years), and ¥444,675 million (¥174,094 million for Profit used to calculate basic earnings per share carryforwards exceeding five years). The unrecognized deferred tax assets were ¥88,185 attributable to owners of the parent million, ¥95,650 million, and ¥71,595 million, respectively. Profit from continuing operations attributable to ¥ 123,260 ¥ 153,673 owners of the parent Profit (loss) from discontinued operations attributable to As of April 1, 2015 (the transition date), March 31, 2016, and March 31, 2017, total temporary (71,902) 2,586 owners of the parent differences related to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 51,358 ¥ 156,259 were not recognized were ¥781,370 million, ¥792,640 million, and ¥908,573 million, Average number of ordinary shares during period 1,464,812 1,464,004 respectively. (thousands of shares) The Group does not recognize deferred tax liabilities related to temporary differences Basic earnings per share (Yen) Continuing operations ¥ 84.15 ¥ 104.97 when it can control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is highly Discontinued operations (49.09) 1.76 probable that temporary differences will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. Basic earnings per share ¥ 35.06 ¥ 106.73 2. Income Taxes 2. Diluted Earnings per Share The breakdown of income taxes is as follows: Millions of yen Millions of yen Year ended Year ended March Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 31, 2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share Income taxes ¥67,107 ¥55,467 attributable to owners of the parent Deferred income taxes 6,957 (11,053) Profit from continuing operations used to calculate ¥ 123,260 ¥ 153,673 basic earnings per share Total ¥74,064 ¥44,414 Adjustment — 1 Profit from continuing operations used to calculate 123,260 153,674 diluted earnings per share Deferred income taxes decreased by ¥3,284 million in the year ended March 31, 2016, Profit (loss) from discontinued operations used to calculate reflecting changes in domestic and foreign tax rates. The impact on deferred income taxes (71,902) 2,586 diluted earnings per share in the year ended March 31, 2017 was immaterial. Profit used to calculate diluted earnings per share attributable to ¥ 51,358 ¥ 156,260 owners of the parent 3. Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation Schedule Average number of diluted common shares during period The Company is principally subject to corporate taxes, resident taxes and business taxes. (thousands of shares) Average number of ordinary shares during period 1,464,812 1,464,004 The statutory effective tax rates that are the bases for these taxes were 33.1% and 30.8% Impact of potentially dilutive ordinary shares for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. For overseas subsidiaries, Convertible bond-type bonds with subscription rights to local corporate income taxes are imposed. — 9,866 shares Subscription rights to shares 887 964 Average number of diluted ordinary shares A reconciliation of the statutory tax rates to the effective tax rates for the years ended March 1,465,699 1,474,834 during period 31, 2016 and 2017, was as follows: Diluted earnings per share (Yen) Continuing operations ¥ 84.09 ¥ 104.20 Year ended Year ended Discontinued operations (49.06) 1.75 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Diluted earnings per share ¥ 35.03 ¥ 105.95 Statutory tax rate 33.1% 30.8% Unrecognized deferred tax assets (2.5) (7.5) Tax credits for research and development costs (2.5) (2.1) Share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity method (1.4) (2.0) Difference of statutory tax rate in overseas subsidiaries (1.4) (1.9) Permanent differences 2.2 0.5 Foreign taxes 0.5 0.3 Other 1.3 (0.9) Effective tax rate 29.3% 17.2% 42 43 121 122 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 13 Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses Millions of yen Goodwill and Intangible assets Technology-related Customer-related Intangible Assets 1. Schedule of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill intangible assets intangible assets Software Other Total As of April 1, The acquisition cost, accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses and ¥— ¥39,621 ¥20,171 ¥47,162 ¥25,956 ¥132,910 2016 carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets were as follows: Amortization — 5,816 6,308 7,188 476 19,788 Impairment Year ended March 31, 2016 losses — 42 39 131 65 277 Acquisition cost Exchange differences on Millions of yen translation of — 720 36 (4,613) 189 (3,668) Intangible assets foreign Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill Software Other Total operations intangible assets intangible assets As of March As of April 1, ¥— ¥46,199 ¥26,554 ¥49,868 ¥26,686 149,307 ¥245,675 ¥122,535 ¥79,205 ¥61,372 ¥50,020 ¥313,132 31, 2017 2015 Individual — 11,775 56 1,065 380 13,276 acquisition Acquisition Carrying amount through 24,276 2,480 4,938 269 16 7,703 business Millions of yen combinations Intangible assets Transfer — 42 — 4,892 (58) 4,876 Technology-related Customer-related Exchange Goodwill Software Other Total intangible assets intangible assets differences on As of April 1, translation of (2,101) (5,090) (1,067) (2,073) (2,311) (10,541) ¥267,850 ¥92,121 ¥62,961 ¥18,363 ¥22,091 ¥195,536 2016 foreign As of March operations ¥312,950 ¥92,257 ¥89,083 ¥20,215 ¥25,614 ¥227,169 31, 2017 As of March ¥267,850 ¥131,742 ¥83,132 ¥65,525 ¥48,047 ¥328,446 31, 2016 There were no material internally generated assets in the years ended March 31, 2016 and Accumulated amortization, accumulated impairment losses 2017. Millions of yen Intangible assets The amortization of intangible assets is included in Cost of sales and Selling, general and Technology-related Customer-related Goodwill intangible assets intangible assets Software Other Total administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. As of April 1, ¥— ¥32,540 ¥15,644 ¥43,601 ¥23,002 ¥114,787 2015 The carrying amounts of intangible assets above for which useful lives could not be Amortization — 6,372 5,278 6,624 2,965 21,239 Impairment determined were ¥37,622 million, ¥44,562 million and ¥48,285 million as of the April 1, 2015 — 2,014 18 118 1,828 3,978 losses (the transition date), March 31, 2016 and March 31, 2017, respectively. The main item was Exchange differences on in-process research and development expenses recognized when Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma translation of — (1,305) (769) (3,181) (1,839) (7,094) Corporation acquired Medicago Inc. (in the Health Care segment) in 2013, and which was foreign operations included in Technology-related intangible assets. Given that the assets are at the research As of March ¥— ¥39,621 ¥20,171 ¥47,162 ¥25,956 ¥132,910 and development stage, have yet to obtain marketing approval from regulatory authorities, 31, 2016 and cannot be used, the period in which they could deliver economic benefits is Carrying amount unforeseeable, so the assets are classified as intangible assets for which the useful lives cannot be determined. Millions of yen Intangible assets Goodwill Technology-related Customer-related Software Other Total 2. Significant Intangible Assets intangible assets intangible assets As of April 1, Significant intangible assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position include ¥245,675 ¥89,995 ¥63,561 ¥17,771 ¥27,018 ¥198,345 2015 technology-related intangible assets that the Company obtained in acquiring Mitsubishi As of March 31, 2016 ¥267,850 ¥92,121 ¥62,961 ¥18,363 ¥22,091 ¥195,536 Rayon Co., Ltd., in March 2010. The carrying amounts of these intangible assets were ¥30,375 million as of April 1, 2015 (the transition date), ¥26,803 million as of March 31, 2016, and ¥23,835 million as of March 31, 2017. The remaining amortization periods were 8 to 12 Year ended March 31, 2017 Acquisition cost years. Millions of yen The carrying amounts of technology-related intangible assets of Medicago Inc., which Intangible assets Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation acquired in September 2013, were ¥29,781 million as Goodwill Technology-related Customer-related Software Other Total of April 1, 2015 (the transition date), ¥27,271 million as of March 31, 2016, and ¥26,410 intangible assets intangible assets As of April 1, million as of March 31, 2017. Impairment tests are conducted every year, as these items are ¥267,850 ¥131,742 ¥83,132 ¥65,525 ¥48,047 ¥328,446 2016 classified as intangible assets whose useful lives cannot be determined. Individual acquisition — 8,005 — 2,359 1,221 11,585 For customer-related intangible assets of Taiyo Nippon Sanso Co., Ltd., which the Acquisition Company acquired in November 2014, the carrying amounts were ¥36,603 million as of April through 1, 2015 (on the transition date), ¥34,499 million as of March 31, 2016, and ¥32,395 million as 44,599 2,535 31,586 296 892 35,309 business combinations of March 31, 2017. The remaining amortization periods were 11 to 16 years. Transfer — (39) — 7,882 (168) 7,675 Exchange differences on 3. Impairment Losses translation of 501 (3,787) 919 (5,979) 2,308 (6,539) The Company conducts impairment tests at certain times of the year for intangible assets foreign operations whose useful lives cannot be determined, regardless of whether there are signs of As of March ¥312,950 ¥138,456 ¥115,637 ¥70,083 ¥52,300 ¥376,476 impairment. 31, 2017 In the impairment tests, the recoverable value of intangible assets is measured based on its value in use. The Company calculates value in use by using future cash flow estimates based on management-approved business plans. These plans are based on historical experience and external information. Except on justifiable grounds, the plans are, in principle, for up to five 44 123 45 124 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information years. The Company uses a pretax weighted average cost of capital (discount rate) of 6.2% Year ended March 31, 2017 to 10.5%. Acquisition cost Millions of yen The Group has recognized impairment losses of ¥3,978 million during the year ended Tools, March 31, 2016 and ¥277 million during the year ended March 31, 2017, in other operating Buildings and structures Machinery and vehicles furniture and fixtures Land Construction in progress Total expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. As of April 1, ¥1,068,618 ¥2,966,286 ¥304,767 ¥291,683 ¥126,078 ¥4,757,432 2016 Individual 29,585 118,354 18,172 1,392 29,966 197,469 Note 14 acquisition Acquisition through 5,600 53,185 11,419 2,360 1,242 73,806 Property, Plant and business The acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses and combinations Equipment carrying amount of property, plant and equipment were as follows: Transfer of (4,445) (28,152) (1,818) — (1,538) (35,953) business Sale or (9,783) (50,662) (12,168) (3,519) (629) (76,761) 1. Schedule of property, plant and equipment disposal Transfer (2,353) (4,505) (323) (1,831) (12,589) (21,601) Year ended March 31, 2016 Exchange differences on Acquisition cost translation of (11,442) (146,384) (5,707) (3,170) (1,314) (168,017) Millions of yen foreign operations Tools, As of March ¥1,075,780 ¥2,908,122 ¥314,342 ¥286,915 ¥141,216 ¥4,726,375 Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction 31, 2017 structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total As of April 1, ¥1,077,236 ¥2,966,112 ¥300,935 ¥292,423 ¥115,838 ¥4,752,544 Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses 2015 Individual Millions of yen 28,205 125,396 18,597 1,644 26,523 200,365 acquisition Acquisition Tools, through Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction 2,876 27,861 7,400 2,219 1,444 41,800 business structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total combinations As of April 1, Transfer of ¥728,580 ¥2,378,183 ¥236,911 ¥5,257 ¥5,064 ¥3,353,995 — (65) (844) — (43) (952) 2016 business Acquisition Sale or through (25,281) (82,873) (13,062) (3,755) (1,004) (125,975) 2,803 21,929 4,282 — — 29,014 disposal business Transfer (978) 11 (54) (550) (9,544) (11,115) combinations Exchange Transfer of differences on (4,011) (26,330) (1,747) — — (32,088) business translation of (13,440) (70,156) (8,205) (298) (7,136) (99,235) Depreciation 25,003 112,193 17,056 — — 154,252 foreign Impairment operations 6,012 7,372 318 2,346 536 16,584 losses As of March Sale or ¥1,068,618 ¥2,966,286 ¥304,767 ¥291,683 ¥126,078 ¥4,757,432 (8,534) (46,131) (11,591) — — (66,256) 31, 2016 disposal Transfer (1,132) (3,405) (248) (105) — (4,890) Accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses Exchange differences on Millions of yen translation of (8,815) (141,124) (3,394) (2,257) (327) (155,917) foreign Tools, operations Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction As of March ¥739,906 ¥2,302,687 ¥241,587 ¥5,241 ¥5,273 ¥3,294,694 structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total 31, 2017 As of April 1, ¥724,200 ¥2,299,906 ¥236,208 ¥5,012 ¥1,993 ¥3,267,319 2015 Carrying amount Acquisition through Millions of yen 1,127 17,256 1,941 — — 20,324 business combinations Tools, Transfer of Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction — (5) (805) — — (810) business structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total Depreciation 25,773 119,316 16,328 — — 161,417 As of April 1, Impairment ¥340,038 ¥588,103 ¥67,856 ¥286,426 ¥121,014 ¥1,403,437 6,935 65,137 441 518 4,049 77,080 2016 losses As of March Sale or ¥335,874 ¥605,435 ¥72,755 ¥281,674 ¥135,943 ¥1,431,681 (20,979) (73,282) (12,389) (1,557) (559) (108,766) 31, 2017 disposal Transfer (857) 13 (59) — — (903) Exchange Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is included in the Cost of sales and Selling, differences on translation of (7,619) (50,158) (4,754) 1,284 (419) (61,666) general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. foreign Expenditure on construction work in progress for property, plant and equipment is included in operations As of March construction in progress. ¥728,580 ¥2,378,183 ¥236,911 ¥5,257 ¥5,064 ¥3,353,995 31, 2016 2. Leased Assets Carrying amount Millions of yen The carrying amounts of leased assets included in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Tools, Millions of yen Buildings and Machinery furniture and Construction As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, structures and vehicles fixtures Land in progress Total As of April 1, (Transition date) 2016 2017 ¥353,036 ¥666,206 ¥64,727 ¥287,411 ¥113,845 ¥1,485,225 2015 Buildings and structures ¥1,758 ¥1,561 ¥1,621 As of March 31, 2016 ¥340,038 ¥588,103 ¥67,856 ¥286,426 ¥121,014 ¥1,403,437 Machinery and vehicles 4,333 3,830 3,673 Tools, furniture and fixtures 2,448 2,093 2,013 Total ¥8,539 ¥7,484 ¥7,307 125 46 47 126 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 15  Electrolyte production facilities The impairment loss of ¥3,076 million includes ¥2,804 million for machinery and equipment, Impairment Losses In principle, the Group determines its cash-generating units considering operational, and ¥272 million for others. production processes, regions, and other factors based on business units. The Group Sales volume had not grown at the electrolyte production facilities of MC Ionic Solutions recognizes impairment losses for idle assets by individual assets. UK, Ltd., and management decided to remit operations at the facilities because a large increase was unlikely in the foreseeable future. Because it was unlikely that investments Impairment losses recognized in the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017 are as follows. would therefore be recoverable, the book value was reduced to nominal amounts. The Impairment losses are included in Other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement recoverable amount was based on the value in use, however discounted future cash flows of Income. Millions of yen were negative. Accordingly, the discount rate is not presented. Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017  Recombinant human serum albumin production facilities Property, plant and equipment The impairment loss of ¥3,156 million includes ¥2,019 million for buildings and structures, Buildings and structures ¥ 4,674 ¥ 6,012 ¥548 million for machinery and equipment and vehicles, ¥421 million for land, and ¥168 Machinery and vehicles 7,355 7,333 million for others. Tools, furniture and fixtures 234 318 As the Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Group pushed ahead with preparations to restart Land 518 2,346 production of recombinant human serum albumin, it became clear that there would be delays Construction in progress 647 536 with these plans during the year ended March 31, 2016, prompting its management to revise Total of property, plant and equipment such plans. With a resulting shift in focus away from therapeutic to non-therapeutic ¥13,428 ¥16,545 applications, it became likely that there would be a greater business scaling back than Intangible assets 3,978 277 originally planned for the recombinant human serum albumin production facilities of Bipha Total impairment losses ¥17,406 ¥16,822 Corporation. Because the future cash flow estimate was below the book value, which was therefore reduced to nominal amounts. The main assets for which impairment losses were recognized are as follows:  Industrial gases production facilities The impairment loss of ¥1,386 million is all for machinery and equipment. Year ended March 31, 2016 It became apparent that the profitability of industrial gases production facilities at Leeden National Oxygen Ltd. in Singapore would decline owing to changes in the business climate. Reporting Impairment Because the future cash flow estimate was below the book value, which was therefore Use Location Category reduced to the recoverable amount. That amount was based on the value in use and segment loss calculated by discounting future cash flows by 10.1%. Toner production Mitsubishi Kagaku Buildings and Electronics ¥2,033 facilities, product Imaging Corp. structures, Applications million warehousing, and (Virginia, USA) Machinery and  Specialty resin production facilities common buildings equipment, Others The impairment loss of ¥1,145 million includes ¥1,102 million for machinery and equipment, and ¥43 million for buildings and structures. Electrolyte production MC Ionic Solutions UK, Machinery and Designed ¥3,076 Management decided to shut down specialty resin production facilities at Lucite facilities Ltd. equipment, Others Materials million (Stockton-on-Tees, International Inc. Because it was therefore unlikely that investments would be recoverable, United Kingdom) the book value was reduced to nominal amounts. The recoverable amount was based on the value in use, however discounted future cash flows were negative. Accordingly, the discount Recombinant human Bipha Corporation Buildings and Health Care ¥3,156 rate is not presented. serum albumin (Chitose, Hokkaido) structures, million production facilities Machinery and equipment, Year ended March 31, 2017 Vehicles, Land, Others Reporting Impairment Use Location Category segment loss Industrial gases Leeden National Machinery and Chemicals ¥1,386 production facilities Oxygen Ltd. equipment million Polytetramethylene ether MCC Advanced Polymers Machinery and Chemicals ¥3,121 (Singapore) glycol production facilities Ningbo Co., Ltd. equipment, million Buildings and Specialty resin Lucite International Machinery and Polymers ¥1,145 (Zhejiang Province, China) structures, production facilities Inc. equipment, Others million Others (West Virginia, USA) High-performance film Nagahama and Asai plants of Machinery and Designed ¥3,017 production facilities Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. equipment Materials million (Nagahama, Shiga Buildings, Composition of Impairment Losses prefecture) Others  Toner production facilities, product warehousing, and common buildings The impairment loss of ¥2,033 million includes ¥1,668 million for buildings and structures, Composition of Impairment Losses ¥255 million for machinery and equipment, and ¥110 million for others. Management decided to halt operations at the Mitsubishi Kagaku Imaging Corp.’s toner  Polytetramethylene ether glycol production facilities production facilities, product warehousing, and common buildings because profitability The impairment loss of ¥3,121 million includes ¥1,765 million for machinery and equipment, plummeted amid a deteriorating market environment. Because it was unlikely that ¥1,005 million for buildings and structures, and ¥351 million for others. investments would therefore be recoverable, the book value was reduced to the recoverable With the business climate changing, there was no prospect of an improvement in amount. That amount was based on the value in use and calculated by discounting future earnings for MCC Advanced Polymers Ningbo Co., Ltd. It would also become necessary to cash flows by 12.5%. make new investments for that company to continue operations independently after divestment, as it obtains utility supplies on the premises of Ningbo Mitsubishi Chemical Co., Ltd., where it is located. Management therefore decided to halt operations at MCC Advanced 48 49 127 128 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Polymers Ningbo and sell its stake in that company, reducing the book value to the Even if fluctuations in principal assumptions used to determine impairment are reasonably recoverable amount. The recoverable amount was measured at fair value after deducting predictable, management believes that there is a low probability of material impairment. selling costs. Fair value is based on a price negotiated with the buyer and classified as Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Note 16  High-performance film production facilities The impairment loss of ¥3,017 million includes ¥1,966 million for machinery and equipment, Individually The carrying amounts of individually insignificant investments in joint ventures accounted for ¥800 million for buildings and structures, and ¥251 million for others. Insignificant using the equity method are as follows: Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc., is restructuring operations because it expects that sales of some Investments high-performance films will decline substantially amid sluggish sales volumes. The book Accounted for Using value of facilities that were unlikely to be of use was reduced to nominal amounts. Equity Method The recoverable amount was based on the value in use, however future cash flows were negative. Accordingly, the discount rate is not presented. Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, (Transition date) 2016 2017 The carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to cash-generating units (groups of Carrying amounts of investments in joint ventures ¥56,731 ¥60,492 ¥65,380 cash-generating units) are as follows: Millions of yen Equity in earnings of joint ventures accounted for using the equity method for current Cash-Generating Unit comprehensive income is as follows: Reporting segment (Groups of March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Cash-Generating Units) High performance ¥ 18,121 ¥ 20,649 Millions of yen engineering plastics Performance Year ended Year ended March 12,256 12,256 March 31, 2016 31, 2017 Designed Materials chemicals Other 14,146 14,166 Share of profit using equity method ¥ 6,154 ¥9,003 Share of other comprehensive income using equity method (3,172) (595) Total ¥ 44,523 ¥ 47,071 Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥ 2,982 ¥8,408 Pharmaceuticals ¥ 48,117 ¥ 47,934 business Carrying amounts of individually insignificantly investments in associates accounted for Pharmaceutical 33,396 33,502 using the equity method are as follows: Health Care formulation materials Other 212 191 Total ¥ 81,725 ¥ 81,627 Millions of yen Chemicals Industrial gases ¥101,505 ¥144,276 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, MMA/PMMA 36,813 36,813 (Transition date) 2016 2017 Polymers Other 3,284 3,163 Carrying amounts of investments in ¥72,538 ¥68,580 ¥71,354 associates Total ¥ 40,097 ¥ 39,976 Total ¥267,850 ¥312,950 Equity in earnings of associates accounted for using the equity method for current comprehensive income is as follows: Millions of yen The recoverable value of goodwill in cash-generating units and groups of cash generating Year ended Year ended units is based on the value in use. March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 The value in use is based on a management-approved five-year plan reflecting previous Share of profit using equity method ¥ 7,829 ¥7,961 experience and external information. After considering future uncertainties after the five-year Share of other comprehensive income using equity method (1,118) (1,577) Share of total shareholders' equity in total comprehensive income ¥ 6,711 ¥6,384 period, the Company assumed a zero growth rate, with value equaling cash flows in the fifth year. The discount rates used for calculating recoverable value are as follows: Cash-Generating Unit Reporting segment (Groups of March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Cash-Generating Units) High performance engineering plastics Designed Materials 7.3％ 7.7% Performance chemicals Pharmaceuticals business Health Care 6.7％ 6.2% Pharmaceutical formulation materials Chemicals Industrial gases 5.3％ 5.4% Polymers MMA/PMMA 5.3％ 5.4% 50 51 129 130 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information As of March 31, 2017 Note 17 Company name Millions of yen TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. ¥8,326 Other Financial The breakdown of other financial assets is as follows: Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 6,144 Assets SUZUKEN CO., LTD. 5,651 Millions of yen JFE Holdings Corporation 4,662 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Tosoh Corporation 4,354 (Transition date) 2016 2017 Stocks and investments Alfresa Holdings Corporation 4,294 ¥270,824 ¥190,812 ¥200,835 Certificate of deposits MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 3,712 83,500 53,500 168,500 Accounts receivable ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO.,LTD. 3,655 40,910 30,684 31,736 Time deposits Daicel Corporation 3,441 30,131 121,012 3,852 Bonds Mitsubishi Corporation 3,356 20,160 7,169 7,150 Structured bonds 6,062 2,025 1,014 Other 60,826 62,453 56,740 As stocks are held mainly to maintain and strengthen business and collaborative ties and Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,448) (1,368) (1,460) financial transactions, they are designated as equity financial assets measured at fair value Total through other comprehensive income. ¥510,965 ¥466,287 ¥468,367 Current assets ¥171,089 ¥214,485 ¥215,446 The Company endeavors to enhance the efficiency and effective use of its assets by selling Non-current assets 339,876 251,802 252,921 (derecognizing) equity financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive Total ¥510,965 ¥466,287 ¥468,367 income. Fair values upon sales and cumulative gains or losses on sales are as follows. Cumulative gains or losses (after tax) recognized in other components of equity are Stocks and investments are mainly equity financial assets measured at fair value through transferred to retained earnings at the time of sale. other comprehensive income. Certificate of deposits, accounts receivable, time deposits and bonds are financial assets mainly measured at amortized cost. Structured bonds are Millions of yen financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. Year ended Year ended March March 31, 2016 31, 2017 The major issues and fair values of equity financial assets measured at fair value through Fair value ¥55,207 ¥11,475 other comprehensive income are as follows: Cumulative gains or losses 26,416 1,275 As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Dividend income from equity financial assets measured at fair value through other Company name Millions of yen comprehensive income is as follows: JFE Holdings Corporation ¥12,927 Millions of yen Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 8,993 Year ended Year ended March TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. 7,254 March 31, 2016 31, 2017 Mitsubishi Materials Corporation 7,240 Derecognized financial assets ¥1,460 ¥ 343 Mitsubishi Corporation 6,753 Financial assets held at year-end 4,020 3,605 Daicel Corporation 6,220 SUZUKEN CO., LTD. 5,674 Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd. 5,362 Note 18 T&D Holdings, Inc. 5,244 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 3,773 Other Assets The breakdown of other assets is as follows: Millions of yen As of March 31, 2016 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, (Transition date) 2016 2017 Company name Millions of yen Net defined benefit assets ¥ 31,990 ¥18,341 ¥29,898 TOHO HOLDINGS CO., LTD. ¥8,605 Prepaid expenses 31,954 28,323 25,596 ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO.,LTD. 7,556 Accrued income tax 10,508 13,476 20,068 JFE Holdings Corporation 7,384 Advance payment 11,221 9,630 7,694 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 6,105 Other 18,647 13,810 14,007 SUZUKEN CO., LTD. 5,922 Total ¥104,320 ¥83,580 ¥97,263 Alfresa Holdings Corporation 4,806 Current assets 57,427 53,191 58,184 Daicel Corporation 3,946 Non-current assets 46,893 30,389 39,079 Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. 3,866 Total ¥104,320 ¥83,580 ¥97,263 MEDIPAL HOLDINGS CORPORATION 3,788 Mitsubishi Corporation 3,004 52 53 131 132 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 19 Note 22 Inventory The breakdown of inventory is as follows: Assets Held for Sale The breakdowns of assets held for sale and directly related liabilities are as follows: and Liabilities Millions of yen Related Directly to As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Assets Held for Sale (Transition date) 2016 2017 Finished goods ¥336,574 ¥301,839 ¥295,903 Millions of yen Raw materials and supplies 174,458 171,320 169,291 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Work in process 82,748 76,302 72,937 (Transition date) 2016 2017 Total ¥593,780 ¥549,461 ¥538,131 Assets held for sale: Trade receivables ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 6,535 Inventories measured at net realizable value as of April 1, 2015 (the transition date), March Inventories 2,767 — 4,879 31, 2016, and March 31, 2017 were ¥127,747 million, ¥83,455 million and ¥79,989 million, Property, plant and equipment 5,983 230 2,443 respectively. Other financial assets — 3,108 2,256 In the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, write-downs of inventories recognized as Other 2 — 803 expenses were ¥8,655 million and ¥8,281 million, respectively. Total ¥8,752 ¥3,338 ¥16,916 Liabilities related directly to assets held for sale: Note 20 Trade payables ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,160 Bonds and borrowings — — 1,676 Trade Receivables The breakdown of trade receivables is as follows: Other — — 1,471 Total ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 5,307 Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Major assets held for sale as of April 1, 2015 (the transition date) are those for the transfer (Transition date) 2016 2017 of the Kashima Plant assets to reorganize domestic manufacturing units at consolidated Accounts receivable ¥758,554 ¥773,126 ¥780,542 healthcare subsidiary Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation and for the related transfer of Allowance for doubtful accounts (4,219) (4,032) (4,351) property by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, another consolidated subsidiary. Total ¥754,335 ¥769,094 ¥776,191 Assets held for sale as of March 31, 2017 and the directly related liabilities stemmed from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma concluding a share transfer agreement accompanied by a loss Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. of control in that subsidiary. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma resolved to transfer part of its generic drugs and some of its Note 21 long-listed products to wholly owned subsidiary Tanabe Seiyaku Hanbai Co., Ltd., through an absorption-type split. The move encompasses manufacturing and marketing approval, manufacturing contracts and related agreements, joint development agreements, Cash and Cash The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents is as follows: inventories, trademark rights, copyrights, and safety management information. On March 28, Equivalents 2017, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma also concluded an agreement to transfer all shares in Millions of yen Tanabe Seiyaku Hanbai. Assets and liabilities subject to the absorption split, and all assets As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, and liabilities held by the company, are presented as assets held for sale and liabilities (Transition date) 2016 2017 directly related thereto as of March 31, 2017. Cash and deposits ¥181,324 ¥176,441 ¥236,523 Assets and liabilities are measured at book value, as the fair value exceeds the book Short-term investments 71,425 90,707 126,987 value. Total ¥252,749 ¥267,148 ¥363,510 As of March 31, 2016 and 2017, other components of equity relating to assets held for sale stood at ¥(591) million and ¥238 million, respectively. Note 23 Capital 1. Common stock and Treasury Stock Number of shares authorized and issued is as follows: Thousands of shares Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Number of shares authorized 6,000,000 6,000,000 Number of shares issued: At the beginning of the term 1,506,288 1,506,288 Increase (decrease) — — At the end of the term 1,506,288 1,506,288 The Company's shares are ordinary shares without par value. The shares issued were fully paid. 133 54 55 134 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Changes in the number of shares of treasury stock during the year are as follows: Thousands of shares Note 24 Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Dividends Dividends paid to shareholders are as follows: At the beginning of the term 41,624 41,485 Increase (note 1) 64 33,418 Year ended March 31, 2016 Decrease (note 2) (203) (7,878) At the end of the term 41,485 67,025 Amount Amount per Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date Note: 1. The increase in the number of treasury shares came from the purchase of 64 Annual June 24, general Common March 31, June 25, thousand shares constituting less than one unit in the year ended March 31, 2016. The 2015 meeting of stock ¥10,253 ¥7 2015 2015 increase in the number of treasury shares came from the purchase of 48 thousand shares shareholders November 5, Board of Common September December 2, constituting less than one unit and the acquisition of 33,370 thousand shares by the 2015 Directors stock ¥10,253 ¥7 30, 2015 2015 resolution of the Board of Directors in the year ended March 31, 2017. Note: 2. The decrease in the number of such shares was from the sale of 2 thousand shares Year ended March 31, 2017 constituting less than one unit, a payout of 28 thousand shares from the exercise of stock Amount Amount per options, and 173 thousand shares of investments accounted for using the equity method in Date of Resolution Type of (Millions of share Entitlement Effective approval approved by shares yen) (Yen) date date the year ended March 31, 2016. The decrease in the number of such shares was from the May 18, Board of Common March 31, June 3, ¥11,718 ¥8 sale of 1 thousand shares constituting less than one unit, a payout of 133 thousand shares 2016 Directors stock 2016 2016 from the exercise of stock options, and a payout of 7,744 thousand shares from a share November 8, Board of Common September December 2, ¥11,718 ¥8 2016 Directors stock 30, 2016 2016 exchange in the year ended March 31, 2017. 2. Additional paid-in capital and Retained Earnings Dividends with a record date in the year ended March 31, 2017, and an effective date in the following fiscal year are as follows: Additional paid-in capital comprises amounts arising from capital transactions that are not included in common stock. The main component is legal capital surplus and other capital Year ended March 31, 2017 surplus. Retained earnings comprise legal retained earnings and other retained earnings. Amount Amount Date of Resolution Type of (Millions Paid per share Entitlement Effective The Japanese Company Law mandates that at least half of paid-in capital be appropriated approval approved by shares of yen) from (Yen) date date as common stock and the rest be appropriated as a legal reserve within the legal capital May 17, Board of Common ¥17,271 Retained ¥12 March 31, June 6, 2017 Directors stock earnings 2017 2017 surplus. Under that law, the legal capital surplus can be incorporated in common stock by resolution at a shareholders’ meeting. Amounts classified as equity elements at the time of issuance of convertible bond type bonds with stock acquisition rights are included in other capital surplus as a capital element of compound financial products. That law requires that 10% of the surplus appropriated for dividends be retained until the total amount of the legal capital surplus and legal retained earnings reaches a quarter of the normal value of common stock. The accumulated legal retained earnings can be appropriated for deficit disposition, and legal retained earnings may be available for dividends by resolution at a shareholders' meeting. 3. Other Components of Equity Other components of equity are as follows: (Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income) Unrealized gains on financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. (Remeasurement of Defined Benefit Pension Plans) This remeasurement is for differences between actuarial assumptions at the beginning of the year and actual experience and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions. This amount is recognized in other comprehensive income when it occurs and is immediately transferred from other components of equity to retained earnings. (Exchange Differences on Translation of Foreign Operations) These adjustments result from consolidating the financial statements of foreign operations. (Effective Portion of Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges) This is the cumulative amount of effective portions of hedges from gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of hedging instruments relating to cash flow hedges. 135 56 57 136 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Note 25 2. Changes in the Number of Stock Options Other Changes in each item of other comprehensive income during the year are as follows: Number of shares Comprehensive Year ended Year ended Income March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Outstanding at the beginning of the term 834,550 915,650 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Granted 109,500 155,400 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Exercised (28,400) (133,950) Financial assets measured Forfeited — — at fair value through other comprehensive Expired — — income: Outstanding at the end of the term 915,650 937,100 Amounts arising during term ¥(14,454) ¥ 17,360 Exercisable stock options outstanding at the end of the term 104,750 216,100 Tax effects 5,588 (2,969) Net amount ¥ (8,866) ¥ 14,391 Remeasurements of defined benefit pension The exercise price for all stock options is ¥1 per share. plans: The weighted average share prices for exercised stock options were ¥653.2 and ¥620.0 Amounts arising during term ¥(31,462) ¥ 24,739 in the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Tax effects 9,417 (7,415) The weighted average remaining contractual years of stock options outstanding at Net amount ¥(22,045) ¥ 17,324 year-end were 10.6 years and 11.4 years as of March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations: 3. Fair Value of Stock Options Amounts arising during term ¥(35,668) ¥ (8,463) The weighted average fair value of stock options granted in years ended March 31, 2016 Reclassification adjustments — (12,198) and 2017 as of the measurement date were ¥530 and ¥455, respectively. Tax effects (33) 256 The Company employs the Black-Scholes model to calculate the fair value of stock Net amount ¥(35,701) ¥(20,405) options, using the following assumptions. Effective portion of net change in fair value of Millions of yen cash flow hedges: Year ended Year ended Amounts arising during term ¥ (2,139) ¥ (1,893) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Reclassification adjustments 2,730 3,035 Share price ¥613.1 ¥523.7 Tax effects (245) (302) Share price volatility (note 1) 33.643% 33.744% Net amount ¥ 346 ¥ 840 Expected term (note 2) 6.75 years 4.81 years Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of investments accounted for using equity method: Expected dividends (note 3) ¥13 per share ¥15 per share Amounts arising during term ¥ (4,306) ¥ (2,172) Risk-free interest rate (note 4) 0.092% (0.318)% Reclassification adjustments 16 — Notes: 1. Calculated based on the daily share price over the past 6.75 years and 4.81 years for the fiscal years Net amount ¥ (4,290) ¥ (2,172) ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. Total other comprehensive income ¥(70,556) ¥ 9,978 2. Using a period up to the expected average exercise time from the grant date. 3. Based on the latest dividends for each fiscal year. 4. The yield on Japanese government bonds for the expected term. Note 26 4. Stock-Based Compensation Expenses Stock-based 1. Details of Equity-Settled Share-Based Compensation System Remuneration Based on a resolution of the Remuneration Committee, the Company issues share-based Stock option-related expenses were ¥ 58 million and ¥71 million, respectively, in the years compensation stock options as a form of performance-related payment to its corporate ended March 31, 2016 and 2017,respectively, and were posted in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income. executive officers and executive officers who will share with shareholders not only the For stock options that do not have vesting conditions, bulk expenses are applied at the benefits due to a rise in the Company’s stock price but also losses due to a decline in the time of grant. stock price as an incentive to boost corporate performance and enhance mediumto long-term corporate value taking into consideration the Company’s financial results for each fiscal year as well as the status of achieving of business targets by the corporate executive Note 27 officers or executive officers (including those who have the retired) based on their degree of contribution, etc. Retirement Benefits The Company's consolidated subsidiaries maintain lump-sum retirement and retirement Until the 10th fiscal period, the Company issued stock-based compensation stock options benefit plans. The retirement benefit plans are defined benefit (fundand contract-type) and to directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers (including those who retired) defined contribution plans. Some consolidated subsidiaries also maintain welfare pension for the same purpose with respect to corporate performance for each fiscal year taking into plans. consideration the status of achieving business targets by the directors or the executive officers based on their degree of contribution, etc. 1. Defined Benefit Plans All stock options that the Company issues are equity-settled share-based compensation. The defined benefit plans of the Company's consolidated subsidiaries are mainly cash There are no vesting terms. The exercise period is principally 20 years from the date of grant, balance pension plans. Benefits under these plans are based on such conditions as years of and is, in principle, effective for 5 years from the day after the first year after recipients lose service, points gained from results and contributions during employment. Investment yields their status as director, executive officer, executive, or corporate auditor of the Company are determined after taking into consideration the yields of 10-year national government and/or its subsidiaries. bonds. Cash balance pension plans are managed by corporate pension funds that are legally separated from the consolidated subsidiaries of the Company pursuant to Japan's Defined Benefit Corporate Pension Plan Act. Consolidated subsidiaries, or pension fund directors, 59 137 58 138 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: and pension investment management institutions are legally required to accord top priority Millions of yen to plan participants, and must manage plan assets based on prescribed policies. Year ended Year ended Contract-type cash balance plans are run in line with Bureau of Health and March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Welfare-approved pension provisions. The management and operation of reserve funds is Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥553,079 ¥525,215 through contracts with trust banks and other entrusted management institutions on the basis Interest income 7,307 6,830 of duty of care and damages stipulations for trustees. Remeasurements: Funded cash balance pension plans are run by corporate pension funds. If fund directors Return on plan assets (13,652) 25,916 neglect to faithfully discharge their duties concerning reserve management and operations, Contributions by the employer 19,229 14,784 they assume liability for fund damages. Benefits paid (31,833) (31,932) Exchange differences on translation of foreign (8,915) (8,973) Defined benefit plan amounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as operations follows: Outstanding at the end of the term ¥525,215 ¥531,840 Millions of yen The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate present values of defined benefit As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, (Transition date) 2016 2017 obligations are as follows: Present value of the defined benefit obligation ¥654,978 ¥651,053 ¥630,280 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Fair value of the plan assets (553,079) (525,215) (531,840) (Transition date) 2016 2017 Net defined benefit liabilities ¥101,899 ¥125,838 ¥ 98,440 Discount rate 0.66% 0.72% 0.56% Retirement benefit liabilities ¥133,889 ¥144,179 ¥128,338 Retirement benefit assets (31,990) (18,341) (29,898) In the event of a 0.5% increase or decrease in the discount rate, the principal actuarial Net defined benefit liabilities ¥101,899 ¥125,838 ¥ 98,440 assumption, the impact on the present value of defined benefit obligation as of March 31, 2016 and 2017 would be as follows. This sensitivity analysis assumes that all actuarial For defined benefit plans, amounts recognized as expenses in the Consolidated Statement assumptions other than that subject to analysis are held constant. of Income are as follows: Millions of yen Millions of yen As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 Year ended Year ended Increase by 0.5% ¥(37,387) ¥(35,873) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Decrease by 0.5% 29,754 31,639 Current service cost ¥19,208 ¥20,102 Note: The discount rate is determined by referring to yields on high-quality bonds with maturities similar to periods Prior service cost (268) 891 in which benefits are anticipated. The sensitivity analysis is therefore based on a minimum reasonable Interest expense 7,132 4,782 discount rate of 0%. Interest income (7,307) (6,830) The fair value of plan assets are as follows: Total ¥18,765 ¥18,945 As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Millions of yen Millions of yen Fair value with Fair value without Year ended Year ended quoted prices in quoted prices in Total March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 active markets active markets Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥654,978 ¥651,053 Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 14,125 ¥ — ¥ 14,125 Current service cost 19,208 20,102 Equity instruments Interest expense 7,132 4,782 Domestic equities 65,747 — 65,747 Remeasurements: Foreign equities 43,223 — 43,223 Actuarial gains and losses arising from Other — 83,567 83,567 changes in demographic assumptions (139) (945) Debt instruments Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 18,048 2,193 Domestic bonds 16,839 — 16,839 Other (99) (71) Foreign bonds 13,610 — 13,610 Benefits paid (39,001) (39,894) Other — 209,275 209,275 Prior service cost General accounts of life insurance (268) 891 — 73,670 73,670 companies Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (8,806) (7,831) Other — 33,023 33,023 Outstanding at the end of the term ¥651,053 ¥630,280 Total ¥153,544 ¥399,535 ¥553,079 60 61 139 140 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen 2. Defined Contribution and Public Plans Fair value with Fair value without Amounts recognized as expenses under defined contribution and public plans are as quoted prices in quoted prices in Total follows: active markets active markets Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 43,187 ¥ — ¥ 43,187 Millions of yen Equity instruments Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Domestic equities 49,757 — 49,757 Defined contribution plan cost ¥ 6,819 ¥ 5,874 Foreign equities 32,132 — 32,132 Public plan cost 17,649 18,643 Other — 62,414 62,414 Debt instruments Domestic bonds 14,612 — 14,612 Note 28 Foreign bonds 24,162 — 24,162 Other — 172,555 172,555 Provisions The breakdowns and schedule of provisions are as follows: General accounts of life insurance companies — 93,564 93,564 Other — 32,832 32,832 Year ended March 31, 2016 Total ¥163,850 ¥361,365 ¥525,215 Millions of yen Asset Provision for Provision for As of March 31, 2017 retirement environmental Other Total litigation Millions of yen obligations measures Fair value with Fair value without As of April 1, 2015 ¥12,485 ¥6,631 ¥2,338 ¥ 3,490 ¥24,944 quoted prices in quoted prices in Total active markets active markets Arising during the year 182 3,751 — 3,150 7,083 Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 20,469 ¥ — ¥ 20,469 Interest cost associated 362 — — — 362 Equity instruments with passage of time Domestic equities 57,629 — 57,629 Utilized (819) (1,103) (1) (1,458) (3,381) Foreign equities 30,926 — 30,926 Other — 75,858 75,858 Unused amounts reversed — (55) — (432) (487) Debt instruments Exchange differences on (556) (8) — (107) (671) Domestic bonds 6,251 — 6,251 translation of foreign Foreign bonds 30,878 — 30,878 operations Other — 163,006 163,006 Other (766) — — 135 (631) General accounts of life insurance companies — 95,641 95,641 As of March 31, 2016 ¥10,888 ¥9,216 ¥2,337 ¥ 4,778 ¥27,219 Other — 51,182 51,182 Total Current liabilities ¥ 84 ¥ — ¥ 3 ¥ 3,516 ¥ 3,603 ¥146,153 ¥385,687 ¥531,840 Non-current liabilities 10,804 9,216 2,334 1,262 23,616 The Company's consolidated subsidiaries secure the total investment returns required within an acceptable range of risk to sufficiently fund payments of pension benefits and Total ¥10,888 ¥9,216 ¥2,337 ¥ 4,778 ¥27,219 lump-sum payments, and endeavor to minimize long-term contributions and amass financing for payments of benefits. To achieve targeted rates of return, management sets percentages of policy assets based on mediumto long-term perspectives, reviewing them regularly, and endeavors to maximize returns in keeping with risk assumptions. Standard and special contributions to defined benefit plans cover the expenses necessary to provide benefits. In keeping with laws and regulations, the Company regularly recalculates pension financing to balance pension funding for the future. The recalculations review basal rates (including projected mortality, withdrawal, and interest rates) related to setting contributions, and validating premiums. Scheduled contributions to plan assets for the year ending March 31, 2018 are ¥10,244 million. The Company's consolidated subsidiaries may pay premium benefits to employees on retirement. Some domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established retirement benefits trusts. The weighted average durations of defined benefit plan obligations as of April 1, 2015 (the transition date), March 31, 2016, and March 31, 2017 were 13.0 years, 12.7 years, and 12.7 years, respectively. 141 62 63 142 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Reserve for environmental measures Year ended March 31, 2017 The Company records estimated losses to cover future losses from construction and Millions of yen environmental remediation activities. These expenses are expected to be paid after one Asset Provision for year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Provision for retirement environmental Other Total litigation obligations measures Note 29 As of April 1, 2016 ¥10,888 ¥9,216 ¥2,337 ¥4,778 ¥27,219 Arising during the year 4,137 415 20 2,304 6,876 Bonds and The breakdown of bonds and borrowings is as follows: Interest cost associated with Borrowings 409 11 — 68 488 passage of time Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Utilized (170) (1,530) (4) (1,287) (2,991) (Transition date) 2016 2017 Short-term borrowings ¥ 495,867 ¥ 381,090 ¥ 294,547 Unused amounts reversed (5) (79) — (1,193) (1,277) Current portion of long-term Exchange differences on borrowings 183,408 137,941 141,024 963 (2) 2 (65) 898 translation of foreign Commercial paper 26,000 30,000 40,000 operations Current portion of bonds 20,040 40,010 40,000 Other (638) (70) 70 500 (138) Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables — 96,690 55,150 As of March 31, 2017 ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables of subsidiaries 17,397 20,974 7,016 Current liabilities ¥132 ¥71 ¥2,333 ¥3,503 ¥ 6,039 Bonds 305,010 325,000 355,000 Convertible bond-type bonds with Non-current liabilities 15,452 7,890 92 1,602 25,036 — — 147,652 subscription rights to shares Total ¥15,584 ¥7,961 ¥2,425 ¥5,105 ¥31,075 Long-term borrowings 554,206 547,870 613,353 Total ¥1,601,928 ¥1,579,575 ¥1,693,742 Current liabilities ¥742,712 ¥706,705 ¥577,737 Asset retirement obligations Non-current liabilities 859,216 872,870 1,116,005 The Company covers recovery obligations for the rental real estate of the Group by Total ¥1,601,928 ¥1,579,575 ¥1,693,742 recording projected payments based on historical amounts. These expenses are expected to be paid after one year or more; however, they may be affected by future business plans. Bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Reserves for Possible Losses in Connection with Litigation Reserves for possible losses in connection with litigation are set aside for payments to settle The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of April 1, 2015 (the lawsuits and in preparation for payments that may arise in the future. transition date) were 0.850% and 1.271%, respectively. The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2016 (1) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for HIV Compensation were 0.971% and 1.256%, respectively. To provide for future payments of health management allowances and settlement payments The average interest rates for shortand long-term borrowings as of March 31, 2017 (including attorney fees) in connection with a lawsuit for damages filed by plaintiffs infected were 0.881% and 1.182%, respectively. with HIV, the consolidated subsidiary, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) has Repayment terms for long-term borrowings are from 2017 to 2035. set aside an estimated amount for such future payments. In accordance with the finalization of the settlement concluded in March 1996, regarding Loans due to the transfer of trade receivables are liabilities for transfers that do not meet the the health management allowances, the present value of the estimated amounts to be paid criteria for derecognition as financial assets. in the future calculated based on the actual payment record up to the present time for AIDS Borrowings by consolidated subsidiaries from trade receivable transfers are liabilities patients who have reached a settlement is recognized. Regarding settlements, the related to transfers to consolidated subsidiaries. corresponding estimated amounts calculated based on the actual settlements record up to the present time for HIV plaintiffs as of March 31, 2017 and HIV-infected patients due to anti-haemophilia preparations (unheated concentrate) who have not filed lawsuits are recognized. (2) Reserve for Health Management Allowances for Sub-acute Myelo-Optical Neuropathy (SMON) Compensation MTPC has made a provision in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for the estimated future medical treatment payments to be made over the remaining lives of the parties entitled to such payments under the compromise settlement. (3) Reserve for HCV Litigation To provide for losses that may arise in the future from a settlement of lawsuits filed by plaintiffs infected with HCV (hepatitis C virus), MTPC has set aside an estimated amount for payments related to such settlement based on estimates of the number of people receiving relief and the amount of relief payments required under a law which stipulates that relief be provided to people who contacted hepatitis C from specific fibrinogen products or specific coagulation factor IX products. 64 65 143 144 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information The breakdown of bonds is as follows: Collateralized obligations Millions of yen Millions of yen As of April 1, As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Interest 2015 As of March As of March (Transition date) 2016 2017 Note Name of bond Term rate (Transition 31, 2016 31, 2017 Trade payables ¥ 190 ¥ 340 ¥ 435 date) Short-term borrowings 3,184 4,272 3,219 1 1st unsecured bond 2011-2016 0.499% ¥ 20,000 ¥ 20,000 ¥ — Current portion of long-term 1 2nd unsecured bond 2011-2021 1.204% 10,000 10,000 10,000 borrowings 4,474 2,085 408 1 3rd unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.366% 15,000 15,000 15,000 Long-term borrowings 4,883 6,323 7,836 1 4th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.556% 10,000 10,000 10,000 1 5th unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.439% 15,000 15,000 15,000 Other 176 64 46 1 6th unsecured bond 2012-2019 0.665% 10,000 10,000 10,000 Total ¥12,907 ¥13,084 ¥11,944 1 7th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.615% 20,000 20,000 20,000 1 8th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.948% 10,000 10,000 10,000 1 9th unsecured bond 2013-2023 1.226% 10,000 10,000 10,000 Note 30 1 10th unsecured bond 2013-2018 0.319% 10,000 10,000 10,000 1 11th unsecured bond 2013-2020 0.604% 15,000 15,000 15,000 Other Financial The breakdown of other financial liabilities is as follows: 1 12th unsecured bond 2013-2023 0.918% 15,000 15,000 15,000 Liabilities 1 13th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 25,000 25,000 25,000 1 14th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.482% 15,000 15,000 15,000 Millions of yen 1 15th unsecured bond 2014-2024 0.800% 15,000 15,000 15,000 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, 1 16th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.433% — 10,000 10,000 (Transition date) 2016 2017 1 17th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.755% — 10,000 10,000 Account payable-other ¥ 96,188 ¥ 87,255 ¥ 96,061 1 18th unsecured bond 2015-2020 0.281% — 20,000 20,000 Accrued expenses 71,605 67,176 63,480 1 19th unsecured bond 2015-2022 0.476% — 10,000 10,000 Lease obligations 15,697 18,135 16,930 1 20th unsecured bond 2015-2025 0.711% — 10,000 10,000 Deposits 52,435 14,048 10,981 1 21st unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.120% — — 10,000 Other 30,417 28,345 24,946 1 22nd unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.320% — — 10,000 1 23rd unsecured bond 2016-2036 0.850% — — 20,000 Total ¥266,342 ¥214,959 ¥212,398 2 33rd unsecured bond 2006-2016 2.010% 20,000 — — Current liabilities ¥236,783 ¥185,940 ¥184,909 2 35th unsecured bond 2006-2016 2.050% 10,000 10,000 — Non-current liabilities 29,559 29,019 27,489 2 37th unsecured bond 2008-2018 2.030% 20,000 20,000 20,000 Total ¥266,342 ¥214,959 ¥212,398 2 38th unsecured bond 2009-2019 2.020% 10,000 10,000 10,000 3 6th unsecured bond 2009-2019 1.940% 5,000 5,000 5,000 4 9th unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.554% 10,000 10,000 — Other financial liabilities are mainly classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized 4 10th unsecured bond 2012-2017 0.437% 10,000 10,000 10,000 cost. 4 11th unsecured bond 2014-2019 0.319% 15,000 15,000 15,000 4 12th unsecured bond 2014-2021 0.558% 10,000 10,000 10,000 Note 31 4 13th unsecured bond 2016-2021 0.140% — — 15,000 4 14th unsecured bond 2016-2026 0.390% — — 15,000 Other bond 50 10 — Lease 1. Finance Leases (Lessee) Subtotal ¥325,050 ¥365,010 ¥395,000 Transactions Future minimum lease payments and the present value of future minimum lease payments Zero coupon convertible are as follows: bond-type bonds with Millions of yen 1 2017-2022 0.196% — — 74,269 subscription rights to shares due 2022 As of April 1, 2015 Zero coupon convertible As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 (Transition date) bond-type bonds with 1 2017-2024 0.312% — — 73,383 Total Total Total subscription rights to future Future future Future future Future shares due 2024 Present Present Present minimum finance minimum finance minimum finance Subtotal — — 147,652 value value value lease costs lease costs lease costs Total ¥325,050 ¥365,010 ¥542,652 payments payments payments Notes: 1. These corporate bonds are issued by the Company. Due within ¥ 3,781 ¥ (279) ¥ 3,502 ¥ 4,742 ¥ (346) ¥ 4,396 ¥ 4,146 ¥ (277) ¥ 3,869 2. These corporate bonds are issued by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As of March 31, one year 2016, the Company began managing the bonds because the company took over them based on the absorption-type company Due after split. one year 3. This corporate bond is issued by Mitsubishi Plastic, Inc., a domestic consolidated subsidiary. As of March 31, 2016, the Company began managing the bond because the company took over it based on the absorption-type company split. and not later 8,604 (718) 7,886 9,904 (844) 9,060 9,222 (623) 8,599 4. These corporate bonds are issued by Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation, a domestic consolidated subsidiary. than five years Later than 4,790 (481) 4,309 5,046 (367) 4,679 4,696 (234) 4,462 five years Assets pledged as collateral and collateralized obligations are as follows: Total ¥17,175 ¥(1,478) ¥15,697 ¥19,692 ¥(1,557) ¥18,135 ¥18,064 ¥(1,134) ¥16,930 Assets pledged as collateral Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, (Transition date) 2016 2017 Buildings and structures ¥ 9,857 ¥ 8,085 ¥ 7,483 Machinery and vehicles 51,066 10,115 9,836 Land 10,343 10,191 7,824 Other 27,691 26,364 1,542 Total ¥98,957 ¥54,755 ¥26,685 145 66 67 146 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information 2. Operating Lease (Lessee) As of or year As of or year As of April 1, 2015 ended ended Future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating lease contracts are as (Transition date) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 follows: Return on Equity (ROE) (Note 1) — 5.2% 15.1% Net D/E ratio (Note 2) 1.23 1.17 1.06 Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Notes: (Transition date) 2016 2017 1. Net profit attributable to owners of the parent / equity interest attributable to owners of the Due within one year ¥12,935 ¥12,991 ¥12,339 parent (averages of beginning and end of fiscal years) Due after one year and not later than five years 22,005 23,439 19,320 2. Net interest-bearing debt ÷ Equity attributable to owners of the parent Later than five years 7,729 6,417 7,610 Net interest-bearing debt = Interest-bearing debt (cash and cash equivalents + cash Total ¥42,669 ¥42,847 ¥39,269 reserves) In the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, lease fees recognized as expenses were 2. Financial Risk Management ¥19,901 million and ¥19,873 million, respectively. The Group is exposed to financial risks in the course of doing business in an array of fields around the world. It manages risks based on certain policies to reduce or avoid such risks. Note 32 The policy with derivatives transactions is to restrict their use to actual demand. The Group does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes. The relevant officers are informed about contract balances, fair value, and other elements of these transactions based Other Liabilities The breakdown of other liabilities is as follows: on internal regulations for transaction authority and limits. Millions of yen 3. Credit Risk As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, The Group is exposed to customer credit risk for trade and other receivables acquired in the (Transition date) 2016 2017 course of business. The securities that the Group holds are exposed to the credit risk of Employees’ bonuses ¥ 39,214 ¥ 42,566 ¥ 42,233 issuers. Derivatives transactions that the Group conducts to hedge financial risks are Employees’ paid leave related obligations 29,289 29,910 30,079 exposed to the credit risks of counterparty financial institutions. Advances received 18,659 14,067 15,582 In keeping with its credit management rules, the Group regularly monitors the trade Accrued consumption taxes 17,455 12,346 10,003 receivables and long-term loans of major customers, oversees due dates and balances for Deferred income from out-licensing each counterparty, and endeavors to swiftly identify and mitigate collections concerns arising agreements 6,272 12,209 4,944 from deteriorating financial positions. The Group only invests in bonds with high ratings, so Social insurance premiums received 6,888 5,081 6,053 credit risk is inconsequential. Derivatives transactions are only entered into with financial Other 43,536 40,163 46,236 institutions with high credit ratings to minimize credit risk from nonperformance by Total ¥161,313 ¥156,342 ¥155,130 counterparties. The Group prevents excessive concentrations of credit risk through special Current liabilities ¥126,656 ¥114,955 ¥116,691 management procedures. Non-current liabilities 34,657 41,387 38,439 At the end of the fiscal year, the Group recognizes impairment losses based on historical Total ¥161,313 ¥156,342 ¥155,130 rates to the Allowance for doubtful accounts, for significant uncollectible financial assets, and for insignificant financial assets. The Allowance for doubtful accounts relating to such assets is included in Trade receivables and Other financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of Note 33 Financial Position. Trade Payables Trade payables are as follows: Changes in the Allowance for doubtful accounts, measured at amounts equivalent to projected losses for the entire term, are as follows. Millions of yen There were no significant differences between projected 12-month credit losses on loans As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, and the projected credit losses for the entire term. (Transition date) 2016 2017 Accounts payable ¥452,856 ¥394,065 ¥437,914 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended Trade payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Outstanding at the beginning of the term ¥5,667 ¥5,400 Note 34 Addition 1,136 1,859 Decrease (intended use) (344) (811) Financial 1. Capital Management Decrease (reversal) (832) (752) Instruments Under the APTSIS 20 medium-term management plan, which commenced from the year Other (227) 115 ended March 31, 2017, the Group aims to become a fast-growing, highly profitable Outstanding at the end of the term ¥5,400 ¥5,811 corporate entity through its business domains in Performance Products, Health Care and Industrial Materials. The Company aims to balance efforts to invest in growth business, The maximum exposure to the credit risks of financial assets is the carrying amount after bolster shareholder returns, and reinforce its financial position and thereby enhance impairment presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. enterprise value. Key benchmarks are core operating income, core operating income return The Group holds real estate, securities, etc. as collateral for receivables against certain on sales, net profit attributable to owners of the parent, return on equity, and the net debt-tocustomers. equity ratio. Maximum exposure on credit risk of financial guarantee contracts is the amount of guarantee obligations etc. described in Note 38 Contingent Liabilities . 69 69 147 148 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information 4. Liquidity Risk As of March 31, 2016 The Group's trade payables obligations and borrowings are exposed to liquidity risk. The Millions of yen Group manages this risk by producing cash plan and ensuring liquidity by maintaining Due after Due after Due after Due after commitment lines with several financial institutions. two years Carrying Contractual Due within one year three years four years Due after through amount cash flow one year through through through five years three Outstanding financial liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) by fiscal year are two years years four years five years as follows: Non-derivative financial liabilities: As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Trade ¥394,065 ¥394,065 ¥394,065 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — payables Millions of yen Short-term Due after 498,754 498,754 498,754 — — — — — Due after Due after Due after borrowings three Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years four years Due after Commercial years 30,000 30,000 30,000 — — — — — amount cash flow one year through through through five years paper through two years three years five years Bonds 365,010 365,010 40,010 40,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 105,000 four years Long-term Non-derivative 685,811 685,811 137,941 134,055 99,791 159,488 82,195 72,341 borrowings financial Accounts liabilities: 87,255 87,255 87,255 — — — — — payable-other Trade payables ¥452,856 ¥452,856 ¥452,856 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Accrued Short-term 67,176 67,176 67,176 — — — — — 513,264 513,264 513,264 — — — — — expenses borrowings Other 57,588 59,146 31,756 4,189 2,939 2,529 1,964 15,769 Commercial 26,000 26,000 26,000 — — — — — Derivative paper liabilities: Bonds 325,050 325,050 20,040 40,010 40,000 65,000 60,000 100,000 Foreign Long-term 737,614 737,614 183,408 139,952 130,739 97,159 111,603 74,753 exchange borrowings ¥ 261 ¥ 261 ¥ 261 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward Accounts 96,188 96,188 96,188 — — — — — contracts payable-other Interest rate Accrued 2,679 3,049 1,255 730 555 464 7 38 71,605 71,605 71,605 — — — — — swaps expenses Other 96,318 97,796 67,532 7,781 3,634 1,877 1,500 15,472 Derivative liabilities: As of March 31, 2017 Foreign Millions of yen exchange Due after Due after Due after Due after ¥ 924 ¥ 924 ¥ 924 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward Carrying Contractual Due within one year two years three years four years Due after contracts amount cash flow one year through through through through five years Currency two years three years four years five years 14 14 14 — — — — — swaps Non-derivative Interest rate financial 1,293 1,480 1,057 250 76 74 19 4 swaps liabilities: Trade payables ¥437,914 ¥437,914 ¥437,914 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Short-term 356,713 356,713 356,713 — — — — — borrowings Commercial 40,000 40,000 40,000 — — — — — paper Bonds 542,652 542,652 40,000 65,000 60,000 55,000 124,269 198,383 Long-term 754,377 754,493 141,183 118,222 183,740 106,189 63,605 141,554 borrowings Accounts 96,061 96,061 96,061 — — — — — payable-other Accrued 63,480 63,480 63,480 — — — — — expenses Other 51,087 52,228 24,853 4,193 3,762 2,223 1,637 15,560 Derivative liabilities: Foreign exchange ¥ 970 ¥ 970 ¥ 970 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward contracts Currency 3 3 1 1 1 — — — swaps Interest rate 790 1,254 605 391 211 6 — 41 swaps Other 7 7 7 — — — — — For financial guarantee agreements, maximum amounts based on performance requests are the outstanding guaranteed liabilities described in Note 38 Contingent Liabilities. 149 70 71 150 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information The total commitment line and borrowing balance is as follows: Whether any financial instruments are determined to have been transferred between Millions of yen levels is considered at year-end. There were no significant transfers between levels in the As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, (Transition date) 2016 2017 years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017. Total commitment line ¥234,358 ¥230,821 ¥249,575 Borrowing balance 53,183 43,050 39,082 (1) Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis Unused balance Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows: ¥181,175 ¥187,771 ¥210,493 As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) 5. Foreign Exchange Risk Millions of yen Foreign currency denominated receivables and payables from the Group's global operations Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuation risk. The Group uses foreign exchange forward Assets contracts and currency swaps as needed to hedge against the foreign currency risk Stocks and associated with such receivables and payables. ¥190,649 ¥ — ¥80,175 ¥270,824 investments Structured notes — — 6,062 6,062 Foreign Exchange Sensitivity Analysis If the yen at the end of the fiscal year was 1% higher against the U.S. dollar and the euro for Derivatives — 1,653 — 1,653 the foreign currency denominated financial instruments that the Group held at the year end, Total ¥190,649 ¥1,653 ¥86,237 ¥278,539 the impact on profit before tax in the Consolidated Statement of Income would be as follows. Liabilities This analysis is based on multiplying each currency risk exposure by 1%, based on the Derivatives ¥ — ¥2,231 ¥ — ¥ 2,231 assumption that other variables (including other foreign exchange rates and interest rates) are held constant. Total ¥ — ¥2,231 ¥ — ¥ 2,231 Millions of yen Year ended Year ended As of March 31, 2016 Millions of yen March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 U.S. dollar (1% appreciation of yen) ¥(398) ¥(380) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Euro (1% appreciation of yen) (75) (77) Assets Stocks and ¥115,046 ¥ — ¥75,766 ¥190,812 6. Interest Rate Risk investments Interest rate risk within the Group arises from interest-bearing debt net of cash equivalents. Stocks and investments held for 3,108 — — 3,108 The Group raises funds needed to do business and make capital investments through sale borrowings and the issuance of corporate bonds. Borrowings and corporate bonds with Structured notes — — 2,025 2,025 floating rates are exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. The Group uses derivatives transactions (interest rate swaps) to hedge against interest rate Derivatives — 3,171 — 3,171 fluctuation risk. Total ¥118,154 ¥3,171 ¥77,791 ¥199,116 Liabilities Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Derivatives ¥ — ¥2,940 ¥ — ¥ 2,940 In the event the interest rate on financial instruments that the Group holds at the end of each fiscal year increases by 100 basis points, the impact on profit before tax in the Consolidated Total ¥ — ¥2,940 ¥ — ¥ 2,940 Statement of Income would be as follows: The analysis is for financial instruments affected by interest rate fluctuations and assumes As of March 31, 2017 that other factors, including the impacts of foreign exchange fluctuations, are held constant. Millions of yen Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Millions of yen Assets Year ended Year ended Stocks and March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 ¥121,090 ¥ — ¥79,745 ¥200,835 investments Profit before tax ¥(1,790) ¥(2,010) Stocks and investments held for 869 — 1,116 1,985 sale 7. Market Price Fluctuation Risk Structured notes — — 1,014 1,014 The Group's securities holdings are exposed to market price fluctuation risk. With respect to securities, the Group regularly reviews the fair value and financial Derivatives — 2,155 — 2,155 positions of issuers (business partners), and constantly reviews holdings by taking into Total ¥121,959 ¥2,155 ¥81,875 ¥205,989 account its relationships with business partners. Liabilities 8. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Derivatives ¥ — ¥1,770 ¥ — ¥ 1,770 Financial instruments are classified into the following three-level fair value hierarchy: Total ¥ — ¥1,770 ¥ — ¥ 1,770 Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets Level 2: Valuations measured by direct or indirect observable inputs other than Level 1 Stocks and investments Level 3: Valuations measured by significant unobservable inputs The fair value of marketable shares classified as Level 1 is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value of Level 3 unlisted shares and investments for which quoted prices in active markets are unavailable is calculated by using reasonably available inputs 72 73 151 152 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information through similar company comparisons or other appropriate valuation techniques. As of March 31, 2017 Structured notes Millions of yen The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is calculated based on the prices provided by Fair value Carrying counterparty financial institutions. Significant unobservable inputs for measuring amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total structured notes include information on parameters based on which counterparty Assets: financial institutions calculate prices, with fluctuations causing the fair value of Debt securities ¥ 7,150 ¥2,777 ¥ 3,415 ¥1,011 ¥ 7,203 structured notes to change. Total ¥ 7,150 ¥2,777 ¥ 3,415 ¥1,011 ¥ 7,203 Liabilities: Derivative assets and liabilities The fair value of Level 2 derivative assets and liabilities is based on such observable Long-term borrowings ¥ 754,377 ¥ — ¥ 755,119 ¥ — ¥ 755,119 inputs as prices provided by counterparty financial institutions or exchange and interest Bonds 542,652 — 547,702 — 547,702 rates and such like. Total ¥1,297,029 ¥ — ¥1,302,821 ¥ — ¥1,302,821 The fair value of Level 3 financial instruments is calculated by valuation specialists The carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost, other determining valuation methods for each relevant financial instrument in accordance than debt securities, long-term borrowings and bonds presented in the tables above, are with valuation policies and procedures that include valuation methods for fair value approximately the same as the fair values of such financial assets and liabilities. calculations approved by suitably authorized personnel. Debt securities Changes in Level 3 financial instruments are as follows: The fair value of Level 1 bonds is based on the market price. The fair value of Level 2 bonds is based on prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. The fair value of Level 3 subordinated and other bonds is calculated with Millions of yen reference to prices provided by counterparty financial institutions. Year ended Year ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 Long-term borrowings Balance at beginning of period ¥86,237 ¥77,791 The fair value of Level 2 long-term loans is based on the present value, calculated by Other comprehensive income (Note) (331) 4,171 discounting the total principal and interest by the interest rate assumed for similar new Purchases 1,464 3,901 borrowings. Sales or redemptions (5,121) (2,221) Other (4,458) (1,767) Bonds Balance at end of period ¥77,791 ¥81,875 The fair value of Level 2 corporate bonds is based on the market price. Note: Included in “Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income” in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 9. Transfers of Financial Assets (2) Financial instruments measured at amortized cost The Group transfers some operating receivables to a business entity comprising third-party The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the financial instruments measured at financial institutions. The entity operates as part of these institutions and purchases a large amortized cost are as follows: amount of assets from customers other than those of the Group, so trade receivables that the Group transferred constitute a small proportion of the entity's total assets. The As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) relevance of the Group to the assessment of exposure to the risks of this entity is therefore Millions of yen low. Carrying Fair value amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (1) Transfers of financial assets that are not derecognized overall As of March 31, 2016 and 2017, Trade receivables included ¥76,386 million and ¥38,288 Assets: million, respectively, of trade receivables that were transferred without satisfying financial Debt securities ¥ 20,160 ¥3,213 ¥ 11,453 ¥5,810 ¥ 20,476 asset derecognition requirements. Bonds and borrowings included ¥96,690 million and Total ¥ 20,160 ¥3,213 ¥ 11,453 ¥5,810 ¥ 20,476 ¥55,150 million in transfers. These fair values approximate their carrying values. The net Liabilities: positions mainly stem from differences in periods for retained portions relating to sales of Long-term borrowings ¥ 737,614 ¥ — ¥ 740,561 ¥ — ¥ 740,561 trade receivables and deposits of trade receivables and repayments of borrowings. If Bonds 325,050 — 331,337 — 331,337 debtors defaulted on these trade receivables, the Group would be deemed to hold most of Total ¥1,062,664 ¥ — ¥1,071,898 ¥ — ¥1,071,898 the risks and economic value of ownership of the transferred assets, as payment obligations would revert to the Group. As of March 31, 2016 (2) Transfers of financial assets that are derecognized overall Millions of yen In the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2017, expenses arising from transfers of trade Carrying Fair value receivables that were derecognized in their entirety were ¥119 million and ¥121 million, amounts Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total respectively. Assets: Debt securities ¥ 7,169 ¥2,900 ¥ 3,438 ¥1,010 ¥ 7,348 10. Derivative Transactions Total ¥ 7,169 ¥2,900 ¥ 3,438 ¥1,010 ¥ 7,348 (1) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied Liabilities: The analysis of contract amounts of derivative transactions by due dates is as follows: Long-term borrowings ¥ 685,811 ¥ — ¥ 690,862 ¥ — ¥ 690,862 Bonds 365,010 — 372,515 — 372,515 Total ¥1,050,821 ¥ — ¥1,063,377 ¥ — ¥1,063,377 74 75 153 154 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Millions of yen The principal rates on forward exchange contracts and currency swap transactions and the Due after Due after Due after Due after principal rates on payments under interest rate swaps are as follows: two years three Contract Due within one year four years Due after through years amount one year through through five years Millions of yen three through two years five years As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, years four years (Transition date) 2016 2017 Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedges Foreign Foreign exchange risk: exchange risk: Foreign exchange forward Foreign contracts exchange U.S. dollars ¥100.54-120.75 ¥100.07-122.24 ¥101.02-116.71 ¥ 53,434 ¥53,381 ¥ 53 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — forward Euros ¥129.18-147.77 ¥123.96-136.39 ¥112.94-127.35 contracts Currency Interest rate risk 88 88 — — — — — Interest rate swaps swaps Interest rate Pay fixed rate, receive floating risk: rate 0.34%-4.80% 0.23%-3.19% 0.34%-3.19% Interest rate Interest rate currency swaps 199,165 85,479 24,959 52,738 19,627 15,362 1,000 swaps Pay fixed rate, receive floating Interest rate rate 0.59%-2.03% 0.59% 0.59% currency 14,000 — — — 14,000 — — swaps Other 215 215 — — — — — Amounts for derivatives designated as hedges are as follows: As of March 31, 2016 As of April 1, 2015 (Transition date) Millions of yen Millions of yen Due after Due after Items in Consolidated Due after Due after Contract Carrying amount two years three Statement of Financial Contract Due within one year four years Due after amount through years Assets Liabilities Position amount one year through through five years three through Cash flow hedges two years five years years four years Foreign exchange risk: Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forward Other financial assets ¥ 53,434 ¥ 201 ¥ 696 Foreign contracts Other financial liabilities exchange risk: Other financial assets Foreign Currency swaps 88 8 14 Other financial liabilities exchange ¥ 17,009 ¥17,009 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥— Interest rate risk: forward contracts Other financial assets Interest rate swaps 199,165 32 1,293 Interest rate Other financial liabilities risk: Interest rate currency swaps 14,000 1,400 — Other financial assets Interest rate 159,869 25,444 53,167 19,398 59,860 2,000 — Other 215 1 — Other financial assets swaps Interest rate currency 14,000 — — 14,000 — — — As of March 31, 2016 swaps Millions of yen Other 172 172 — — — — — Change in fair value Carrying amount Items in of hedged item used Contract Consolidated As of March 31, 2017 amount Statement of as the basis for Millions of yen Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge Financial Position Due after Due after ineffectiveness Due after Due after Cash flow hedges two years three Contract Due within one year four years Due after through years Foreign exchange amount one year through through five years three through risk: two years five years years four years Other financial Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange assets ¥17,009 ¥ 101 ¥ 250 ¥346 Foreign forward contracts Other financial exchange risk: liabilities Foreign Currency swaps — — — — 6 exchange ¥ 95,975 ¥95,975 ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — Interest rate risk: forward contracts Other financial Interest rate assets Interest rate swaps 159,869 65 2,679 (1,353) risk: Other financial Interest rate liabilities 135,760 53,394 18,976 59,813 2,287 287 1,003 swaps Interest rate Other financial Interest rate 14,000 1,829 — 429 currency 14,000 — 14,000 — — — — currency swaps assets swaps Other financial Other 172 2 — 1 Other 213 213 — — — — assets 155 76 77 156 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information As of March 31, 2017 The breakdown of cash flow hedges is as follows: Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2016 Carrying amount Change in fair value Items in Millions of yen of hedged item used Contract Consolidated as the basis for Consolidated amount Statement of Consolidated Assets Liabilities recognizing hedge Statement of Financial Position Changes in fair Reclassification Statement of ineffectiveness Ineffective Income items value of hedges adjustments Income items Cash flow hedges portions of in which recognized in from cash flow including profit hedges ineffective Foreign exchange risk: other hedge reserve from recognized in portions of comprehensive to profit or loss reclassification Other financial profit or loss hedges are income adjustments Foreign exchange assets included in t ¥ 95,975 ¥ 77 ¥924 ¥ (698) profit or loss forward contracts Other financial Cash flow hedges liabilities Foreign Interest rate risk: exchange risk: Other financial Foreign exchange assets forward ¥276 ¥— — ¥306 Financial cost Interest rate swaps 135,760 1 790 1,825 Other financial contracts liabilities Currency swaps 5 — — 5 Financial cost Interest rate currency Other financial Interest rate risk: 14,000 1,941 — 112 Interest rate swaps assets 122 — — 915 Financial cost swaps Other financial Interest rate Other 213 — 7 (9) (58) — — 745 Financial cost liabilities currency swaps Other 1 — — — — Amounts for items designated as hedges are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Millions of yen As of April Consolidated 1, 2015 Consolidated Statement of As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 Changes in fair Reclassification Statement of (Transition Ineffective Income items value of hedges adjustments Income items portions of in which date) recognized in from cash flow including profit hedges ineffective Change in fair other hedge reserve from Change in fair recognized in portions of value of comprehensive to profit or loss reclassification value of hedged profit or loss hedges are Cash hedged item Cash income adjustments Cash flow item used as included in flow used as the flow profit or loss hedge the basis for hedge basis for hedge reserve recognizing Cash flow hedges reserve recognizing reserve hedge Foreign hedge ineffectiveness exchange risk: ineffectiveness Foreign Cash flow hedges exchange Foreign exchange risk: forward ¥ (641) ¥— — ¥1,425 Financial cost Planned to purchase ¥ (103) ¥ 99 ¥ (4) ¥ (538) ¥(542) contracts Foreign-currency-denominated Interest rate risk: liabilities and interest — (1) (1) 1 — Interest rate swaps 1,350 — — 721 Financial cost Interest rate risk: Interest rate Interest on borrowings (1,963) 126 (1,837) 1,329 (508) currency swaps 137 — — (52) Financial cost Other 12 6 18 5 23 Other (6) — — — — (2) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is not applied Amounts relating to items not designated as hedges are as follows: As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 (Transition date) Contract Over Fair Contract Over Fair Contract Over Fair amount one value amount one value amount one value year year year Foreign exchange forward ¥24,878 ¥19 ¥(192) ¥118,500 ¥— ¥1,169 ¥ 4,122 ¥ — ¥(46) contracts Currency swaps 1,473 0 (25) — — — 864 727 133 Currency options — — — 135 — (6) 7,702 — — Total ¥26,351 ¥19 ¥(217) ¥118,635 ¥— ¥1,163 ¥12,688 ¥727 ¥87 157 78 79 158 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Summary Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Note 35 Comprehensive Income Millions of yen Subsidiaries Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests are as follows: Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Pharma Corporation SANSO Tanabe Pharma SANSO Non-controlling interest ownership ratios CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Name of Location As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, As of March 31, Revenue ¥425,764 ¥594,421 ¥423,977 ¥581,586 subsidiary (Transition date) 2016 2017 Net profit 57,205 28,673 68,922 34,520 Mitsubishi Tanabe Total Pharma Japan, other 43.6% 43.6% 43.6% comprehensive 52,507 8,303 69,309 44,782 Corporation income TAIYO NIPPON SANSO Japan, other 49.4% 49.4% 49.4% Summary Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows CORPORATION Millions of yen Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries and dividends paid Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Pharma Corporation SANSO Tanabe Pharma SANSO to non-controlling interests are as follows: CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION Millions of yen Cash flows from operating ¥80,842 ¥73,347 ¥59,785 ¥ 74,596 Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 activities Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi Tanabe TAIYO NIPPON Cash flows from Pharma SANSO Pharma SANSO investing (42,213) (74,253) (10,566) (147,083) Corporation CORPORATION Corporation CORPORATION activities Net profit Cash flows from attributable to ¥23,779 ¥15,284 ¥28,729 ¥17,359 financing (22,236) (2,385) (24,408) 80,777 non-controlling activities interests Effect of Dividends paid to exchange rate non-controlling 10,877 3,378 11,823 4,539 changes on (811) (569) (507) (5,404) interests cash and cash equivalents Net increase Cumulative non-controlling interests of relevant subsidiaries are as follows: (decrease) in Millions of yen cash and cash ¥15,582 ¥(3,860) ¥24,304 ¥ 2,886 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 equivalents (Transition date) Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Tanabe SANSO Tanabe SANSO Tanabe SANSO Note 36 Pharma CORPORATION Pharma CORPORATION Pharma CORPORATION Corporation Corporation Corporation Related Parties 1. Related Party Transactions Cumulative non-controlling Transactions with major related parties are as follows. For sales of goods and services, interests ¥319,033 ¥172,954 ¥331,897 ¥174,829 ¥351,618 ¥190,167 the principal transactions are product sales, while the main transactions for goods amounts purchases are purchases of raw materials. The terms for transactions with related parties are similar to those of independent third-party transactions. Summary financial information on relevant subsidiaries is as follows. Summary financial Millions of yen information below is calculated based on the amounts before elimination in consolidation, Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 adjusting goodwill and other items recognized at the time of a business combination. Joint venture Associates Joint venture Associates Sales of goods ¥67,128 ¥21,881 ¥61,722 ¥20,509 Summary Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and services Millions of yen Purchases of goods and 14,596 21,132 17,531 36,041 As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 services (Transition date) Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Mitsubishi TAIYO NIPPON Tanabe SANSO Tanabe SANSO Tanabe SANSO Pharma CORPORATION Pharma CORPORATION Pharma CORPORATION Corporation Corporation Corporation Current assets ¥596,084 ¥264,664 ¥650,179 ¥258,036 ¥683,759 ¥ 268,132 Non-current assets 310,948 609,706 279,161 622,677 271,673 746,320 Total ¥907,032 ¥874,370 ¥929,340 ¥880,713 ¥955,432 ¥1,014,452 Current liabilities 112,396 188,997 98,911 216,953 88,407 213,602 Non-current liabilities 29,111 262,876 34,412 238,174 25,894 345,558 Total ¥141,507 ¥451,873 ¥133,323 ¥455,127 ¥114,301 ¥ 559,160 Equity 765,525 422,497 796,017 425,586 841,131 455,292 Total ¥907,032 ¥874,370 ¥929,340 ¥880,713 ¥955,432 ¥1,014,452 159 81 160 80 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Receivables and obligations to major related parties as a result of the above transactions are as follows: The Group applied the following exemptions in transitioning from J-GAAP to IFRS. Millions of yen As of April 1, 2015 As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 ・Business Combinations (Transition date) A company can elect not to apply IFRS 3 “Business Combinations” retrospectively to Joint Associates Joint Associates Joint Associates transactions prior to the IFRS transition date. The Group has elected to adopt this venture venture venture exemption, and conducted goodwill impairment tests at the transition date regardless of Receivables whether or not there were indications of impairment. Accounts ・Deemed Cost receivable ¥16,647 ¥5,724 ¥17,303 ¥5,078 ¥15,415 ¥5,219 IFRS 1 permits companies to use fair value as of the IFRS transition date as the deemed Other 1,895 825 1,584 764 1,505 583 cost for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets as of that date. The Group Total ¥18,542 ¥6,549 ¥18,887 ¥5,842 ¥16,920 ¥5,802 used fair value as of the transition date for certain property, plant and equipment as a Obligations deemed cost under IFRS. Accounts ・Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments payable ¥ 3,002 ¥ 563 ¥ 2,833 ¥1,101 ¥ 3,320 ¥2,310 As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem that cumulative foreign Other 716 183 542 156 265 656 currency translation adjustments for overseas businesses are zero at the date of transition Total ¥ 3,718 ¥ 746 ¥ 3,375 ¥1,257 ¥ 3,585 ¥2,966 to IFRS. ・Designation of Financial Instruments Recognized Prior to IFRS Transition Date Compensation for key Group executives is as follows: For classifications under IFRS 9, IFRS 1 permits companies to make assessments based Millions of yen on facts and circumstances that exist as of the transition date instead of facts and Year ended March 31, 2016 Year ended March 31, 2017 circumstances that existed at the time of initial recognition of the financial instrument. Remuneration and bonuses ¥2,686 ¥2,728 Companies are also permitted to designate financial assets with the characteristics of Stock-based compensation 27 35 equity as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Total ¥2,713 ¥2,763 based on facts and circumstances existing at the transition date. Accordingly, considering the facts and circumstances existing at the transition date for classification under IFRS 9, Note 37 the Group elected to designate certain financial assets with the characteristics of equity as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Commitments Commitments relating to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible The reconciliation required on initial application of IFRS is as follows. The reclassification assets are as follows: column in the reconciliation table below presents items that do not affect retained earnings and comprehensive income. The differences in recognition and measurement column Millions of yen represents items that do affect retained earnings and comprehensive income. As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets ¥176,107 ¥195,088 Adjustment to profit or loss and comprehensive income for the year ended March 31, 2016 Millions of yen Differences in Japanese Reclassificarecognition Note 38 Japanese GAAP line item GAAP tion and IFRS Note IFRS line item measurement Contingent Guarantee Obligations Net sales ¥ 3,823,098 ¥(157,743) ¥(122,003) ¥ 3,543,352 1 Revenue Liabilities Guarantees and similar undertakings for borrowings from joint ventures, associates and Cost of sales (2,779,584) 160,324 90,957 (2,528,303) 1 Cost of sales financial institutions of general business partners are as follows. Gross profit 1,043,514 2,581 (31,046) 1,015,049 Gross profit Selling, general and Selling, general and (763,488) 821 43,583 (719,084) 2 Millions of yen administrative expenses administrative expenses As of March 31, 2016 As of March 31, 2017 — 18,750 (147) 18,603 Other operating income Joint ventures ¥18,741 ¥11,945 — (57,712) (2,093) (59,805) 3 Other operating expenses Associates 126 560 Share of profit in investments accounted General business partners 1,860 1,622 — 10,105 3,878 13,983 4 for using the equity Other 1,705 1,549 method Total ¥22,432 ¥15,676 Operating income 280,026 (25,455) 14,175 268,746 Operating profit Non-operating income 34,066 (34,066) — — Non-operating expenses (43,476) 43,476 — — Extra ordinary income 38,278 (38,278) — — Note 39 Extra ordinary loss (110,646) 110,646 — — — 44,563 (35,644) 8,919 5 Finance income First-Time Adoption The Group began disclosing its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS — (28,153) 3,279 (24,874) 6 Finance costs from the first quarter of the year ended March 31, 2017. The most recent consolidated Profit before income taxes 198,248 72,733 (18,190) 252,791 Profit before tax financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 were prepared in conformity Income taxes (92,648) 1,136 17,448 (74,064) 7 Income tax expense with Japanese generally accepted accounting principles (Japanese GAAP). The transition Profit from continuing date to IFRS was April 1, 2015. 105,600 73,869 (742) 178,727 operations Profit (loss) from — (73,869) — (73,869) In principle, IFRS requires that companies adopting IFRS for the first time apply the discontinued operations standards retrospectively, although IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Profit ¥ 105,600 ¥ — ¥ (742) ¥ 104,858 Net profit Reporting Standards” provides some exemptions to that requirement. 83 161 82 162 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Millions of yen (6) Finance Costs Differences in Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized impairment losses on equity financial assets Japanese Reclassificarecognition Japanese GAAP line item GAAP tion and IFRS Note IFRS line item in profit or loss. Under IFRS, however, for equity financial assets designated as measured at measurement fair value through other comprehensive income, it recognizes changes in fair value in other Profit ¥105,600 ¥ — ¥ (742) ¥104,858 Net Profit comprehensive income, which reduced finance costs. Other comprehensive Other comprehensive (7) Income Tax Expense 8 income (loss) income The Group's income tax decreased owing to differences in recognition and measurements Net gain (loss) on accompanying the adoption of IFRS, including for transfers of tax expenses to other Net unrealized holding revaluation of financial comprehensive income associated with the sale of equity financial assets designated as gain (loss) on other (29,729) — 20,863 (8,866) assets measured at fair securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. value Remeasurements of Remeasurements of (8) Other Comprehensive Income (26,328) — 4,283 (22,045) defined benefit pensions defined benefit plans plans ・Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Exchange differences on Under Japanese GAAP, the Group mainly measured unlisted shares at cost using the Foreign currency (36,732) — 1,031 (35,701) translation of foreign moving-average method. Under IFRS, however, such shares are measured at fair value, translation adjustments operations which increased other comprehensive income. Net gain (loss) on Gain (loss) on deferred 298 — 48 346 derivatives designated as ・Remeasurement of defined benefit plans hedges Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized interest expenses and expected returns on cash flow hedges Share of other assets as profit or loss for postretirement benefits under the defined benefit plans. Under Other comprehensive IFRS, however, the Group recognizes net interest expenses in profit or loss by multiplying comprehensive income income (loss) for affiliates (5,414) — 1,124 (4,290) (loss) of investments net defined benefit assets (liabilities) by the discount rate, which increased other accounted for using accounted for using the comprehensive income. equity method equity method Under IFRS, the Group evaluates the fair value of plan assets on a quarterly basis, Total comprehensive Total comprehensive ¥ 7,695 ¥ — ¥26,607 ¥ 34,302 recognizing the resulting actuarial differences in other comprehensive income, which income income resulted in an increase in other comprehensive income. ・Foreign currency translation adjustments Notes on adjustment to net profit and comprehensive income Quadrant AG changed its fiscal year-end from December 31 under Japanese GAAP to the (1) Revenue and Cost of Sales consolidated reporting date of March 31. The resulting difference between reporting Under Japanese GAAP, exchange transactions between companies in the same industry periods used under Japanese GAAP and IFRS led to an increase in other comprehensive were presented on a gross basis as revenue and cost of sales, but these transactions are income. presented on a net basis under IFRS when appropriate. Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. changed its fiscal year-end of December 31, which had been used as the closing date under Japanese (9) Reclassifications GAAP, to the Company’s year end date of March 31. As a result, the period consolidated Discontinued operations are presented separately under IFRS, and taxes on income from under Japanese GAAP is different to that consolidated under IFRS. Overall, revenue and those operations are included in reclassifications. The impacts are described in Note 6 cost of sales declined as a result of those adjustments. Discontinued Operations. (2) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Although the Group amortized goodwill over a certain period under Japanese GAAP, it is not amortized under IFRS and, as a result, selling, general and administrative expenses have decreased. (3) Other Operating Expenses Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recorded costs incurred in product and technology deployment agreements prior to seeking approval from the relevant authorities as part of research and development expenses. Under IFRS, however, expenses meeting certain requirements are recognized as intangible assets. In applying IFRS, other operating expenses increased, largely because the Company reduced the carrying amounts of such recognized intangible assets for which a decision to halt development was made and impairment losses were duly recognized. (4) Share of Profit of Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method In adopting IFRS, profit of equity method investments increased following a review of the scope of application of equity method accounting, with SPDC Ltd. added as an associate. (5) Finance Income Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized gains or losses on the sale of equity financial assets in profit or loss. Under IFRS, however, for equity financial assets designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, it recognizes changes in fair value as other comprehensive income, which reduced finance income. 84 85 163 164 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Reconciliation of equity as of IFRS transition date (April 1, 2015) Millions of yen Differences in Differences in Japanese Reclassificarecognition Japanese GAAP line item IFRS Note IFRS line item Japanese Reclassificarecognition GAAP tion and Japanese GAAP line item IFRS Note IFRS line item measurement GAAP tion and measurement Liabilities and equity Assets: Assets: Liabilities: Liabilities Current assets Current assets Current liabilities: Current liabilities: Cash and cash Trade payables ¥ 459,345 ¥ (9,471) ¥ 2,982 ¥ 452,856 2 Trade payables Cash and deposits ¥ 236,186 ¥ 6,868 ¥ 9,695 ¥ 252,749 1 equivalents Short-term debt 518,985 (518,985) — — Trade receivables 759,850 (4,698) (817) 754,335 Trade receivables Current portion of Securities 127,805 (127,805) — — 178,627 (178,627) — — long-term debt Inventories: Commercial paper 26,000 (26,000) — — Finished goods 374,684 (374,684) — — Current portion of bonds 20,040 723,613 (941) 742,712 Bonds and borrowings Work in process 40,000 (40,000) — — Accrued income taxes 36,224 (2,018) (25) 34,181 Income tax payable Raw materials and 180,821 407,959 5,000 593,780 2 Inventories — 229,504 7,279 236,783 9 Other financial liabilities supplies Provision for directors’ — 171,159 (70) 171,089 Other financial assets 39,286 (39,286) — — bonuses Other 142,601 (86,702) 1,528 57,427 3 Other current assets Other provisions 9,830 230 (6,488) 3,572 10 Provisions Allowance for doubtful (4,698) 4,698 — — Other 277,610 (178,860) 27,906 126,656 11 Other current liabilities accounts Subtotal 1,857,249 (43,205) 15,336 1,829,380 Subtotal Total current liabilities 1,565,947 100 30,713 1,596,760 Total current liabilities — 8,676 76 8,752 Assets held for sale Long-term liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Total current assets 1,857,249 (34,529) 15,412 1,838,132 Total current assets Bonds 305,010 (305,010) — — Non-current assets: Non-current assets: Long-term debt 554,933 305,010 (727) 859,216 Bonds and borrowings Property, plant and Property, plant and — 22,317 7,242 29,559 12 Other financial liabilities 1,498,146 (2,764) (10,157) 1,485,225 4 equipment equipment Net defined benefit Retirement benefit 132,921 (6) 974 133,889 Intangible assets liabilities liabilities Goodwill 243,797 — 1,878 245,675 3 Goodwill Provision for loss on 6,467 (6,467) — — Other 181,505 5,972 10,868 198,345 5 Intangible assets litigation Investments and other Other provisions 15,633 15,797 (10,058) 21,372 10 Provisions assets: Other non-current Other 153,526 (128,353) 9,484 34,657 13 Investments accounted liabilities Investment securities 355,743 (249,555) 23,081 129,269 6 for using the equity — 96,612 (5,447) 91,165 8 Deferred tax liabilities method Total non-current — 321,708 18,168 339,876 7 Other financial assets Total long-term liabilities 1,168,490 (100) 1,468 1,169,858 liabilities Other non-current Total liabilities 2,734,437 — 32,181 2,766,618 Total liabilities Other 188,066 (141,586) 413 46,893 assets Net assets: Equity — 99,286 (13,703) 85,583 8 Deferred tax assets Common stock 50,000 — — 50,000 Common stock Allowance for doubtful (1,468) 1,468 — — Additional paid-in Additional paid-in accounts 317,714 471 — 318,185 capital capital Total non-current Total non-current 2,465,789 34,529 30,548 2,530,866 Treasury stock (16,236) — — (16,236) Treasury stock assets assets Total assets ¥4,323,038 ¥ — ¥45,960 ¥4,368,998 Total assets Retained earnings 523,149 — 59,645 582,794 14 Retained earnings Accumulated other Other components of 106,366 — (48,098) 58,268 15 comprehensive income equity Warrants 471 (471) — — Equity attributable to 981,464 — 11,547 993,011 owners of the parent Non-controlling interests in Non-controlling 607,137 — 2,232 609,369 consolidated interests subsidiaries Total net assets 1,588,601 — 13,779 1,602,380 Total equity Total liabilities and net ¥4,323,038 ¥ — ¥45,960 ¥4,368,998 Total liabilities and equity assets Notes on Reconciliation of Equity (1) Cash and Cash Equivalents The Group reviewed the scope of application of the equity method in adopting IFRS. The Saudi Methacrylates Company, which was an equity method associate under Japanese GAAP, became a joint operation under IFRS. This resulted in an increase of cash and cash equivalents. (2) Inventories and Trade Payables Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized revenue on sales mainly at the time of dispatch. Under IFRS, however, it recognizes revenue on sales when the significant risks 86 87 165 166 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information and rewards associated with ownership of the goods are transferred, thus increasing (14) Retained Earnings inventories and trade payables. The impacts on retained earnings of reconciliations accompanying the adoption of IFRS are as follows. The amounts below are after adjustment for related tax effects and (3) Other Current Assets and Goodwill non-controlling interests. Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. changed its fiscal year-end from December 31 under Japanese GAAP to the consolidated reporting date of March 31 to align with the Company’s year-end in conformity with IFRS. Transactions between the two dates thus increased other current assets and goodwill. Millions of yen (4) Property, Plant and Equipment As of April 1, 2015 In adopting IFRS, the Group utilized the deemed cost exemption in IFRS for certain property, (Transition date) plant and equipment. The carrying amount of the assets to which such deemed cost was Reconciliation of cumulative exchange differences on translation of foreign ¥ 57,567 applied was ¥41,010 million, and the corresponding fair value was ¥21,316 million. As a operations (Note 15) result, property, plant and equipment decreased. Review of scope of equity method application (Note 6) 23,079 Reconciliation of large periodical repair costs (Note 10) 10,273 (5) Intangible Assets Reconciliation of paid leave obligations (Note 11) (16,181) Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recorded costs incurred in product and technology Deemed cost (Note 4) (14,615) deployment agreements prior to seeking approval from the relevant authorities as part of Other (478) research and development expenses. Under, IFRS, however, expenses meeting certain Total reconciliation for retained earnings ¥ 59,645 requirements are recorded as intangible assets, thus increasing intangible assets. (15) Other Components of Equity (6) Investments Accounted for Using Equity Method The Group chose the exemption provisions under IFRS 1 transferring all cumulative In adopting IFRS, the Group’s share of profit of investments accounted for using the equity exchange differences on translation of foreign operations to retained earnings as of the method increased following a review of the scope of application of the equity method, transition date of April 1, 2015. adding SPDC Ltd. as an associate. (16) Reclassifications (7) Other Financial Assets (Non-Current Assets) In addition to the above classifications, the Group made reclassifications in conformity with Under Japanese GAAP, the Group mainly measured unlisted shares at cost using the IFRS requirements, of which the principal ones are set out below: moving-average method. Under IFRS, however, the shares are measured at fair value, ・Under Japanese GAAP, the Group included short-term time deposits with deposit terms increasing other financial assets (non-current assets). exceeding three months in “cash and deposits,” but under IFRS they are included in “other financial assets” of current assets. (8) Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities ・Under Japanese GAAP, the Group included short-term investments with maturities of less Under Japanese GAAP, the Group offset deferred tax assets and liabilities in their than three months from the date of acquisition in “securities,” but under IFRS they are respective current and fixed classifications. Under IFRS, however, it has classified all included in “cash and cash equivalents.” deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current, increasing offsetting amounts and ・All of the current portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reclassified as decreasing deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. non-current. ・Assets that are very likely to be sold and readily available for sale are separately presented (9) Other Financial Liabilities (Current Liabilities) as “assets held for sale.” Under Japanese GAAP, the Group applied special accounting procedures for interest rate ・Subscription rights to shares were listed separately under Japanese GAAP but are swaps that satisfied certain requirements. Under IFRS, however, it measures these included in additional paid-in capital under IFRS. instruments at fair value, which increased other financial liabilities (current liabilities). (10) Provisions for Current and Non-Current Liabilities Under Japanese GAAP, the Group made provisions for large periodic repairs by posting to a reserve for periodical repairs. Under IFRS, however, the reserve does not satisfy the provision recognition requirements and has been reversed, thus decreasing provisions. (11) Other Current Liabilities While Japanese GAAP did not recognize untaken paid leave, IFRS recognizes such entitlements as liabilities, thus increasing other current liabilities. (12) Other Financial Liabilities (Non-Current Liabilities) Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized expenses based on payments determined in operating lease agreements with free rents and other incentives. Under IFRS, however, it recognizes total lease payments, including incentives, on a straight-line basis throughout the lease periods, thus increasing other financial liabilities (non-current liabilities). (13) Other Non-Current Liabilities Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized lump-sum payments from technology licensing, joint sales and promotions as revenue at the time of receipt. Under IFRS, however, these items are booked as deferred revenue where contractual obligations are not fulfilled, and revenue is recognized throughout the periods in which the obligations are met, thus increasing other non-current liabilities. 167 88 89 168 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Reconciliation of Equity as of March 31, 2016 Differences in Japanese Reclassificarecognition Millions of yen Japanese GAAP line item IFRS Note IFRS line item GAAP tion and Differences in measurement Japanese Reclassificarecognition Liabilities and equity Japanese GAAP line item IFRS Note IFRS line item GAAP tion and measurement Liabilities: Liabilities: Assets: Assets: Current liabilities: Current liabilities: Current assets Current assets Trade payables ¥ 408,315 ¥ (11,937) ¥ (2,313) ¥ 394,065 2 Trade payables Cash and cash Short-term debt 394,688 (394,688) — — Cash and deposits ¥ 314,782 ¥ (51,012) ¥ 3,378 ¥ 267,148 1 Current portion of equivalents 138,471 (138,471) — — Trade receivables 703,996 (4,031) 69,129 769,094 2 Trade receivables long-term debt Commercial paper 30.000 (30,000) — — Securities 123,500 (123,500) — — Current portion of bonds 40,010 563,159 103,536 706,705 2 Bonds and borrowings Finished goods 331,398 (331,398) — — Accrued income taxes 39,914 (3,498) 18 36,434 Income tax payable Work in process 39,506 (39,506) — — Raw materials and — 208,121 (22,181) 185,940 2 Other financial liabilities 176,922 366,111 6,428 549,461 3 Inventories Provision for directors’ supplies 42,516 (42,516) — — bonuses — 220,794 (6,309) 214,485 2 Other financial assets Reserve for prospective Deferred income taxes 32,339 (32,339) — — 6,683 (6,683) — — periodic repairs Other 99,091 (46,364) 464 53,191 Other current assets Reserve for prospective Allowance for doubtful loss on removal of fixed 3,893 (3,893) — — (4,032) 4,032 — — assets accounts — 13,508 (9,905) 3,603 10 Provisions Subtotal 1,817,502 (37,213) 73,090 1,853,379 Subtotal Other 241,754 (152,943) 26,144 114,955 11 Other current liabilities — 3,338 — 3,338 Assets held for sale Total current liabilities 1,346,244 159 95,299 1,441,702 Total current liabilities Total current assets 1,817,502 (33,875) 73,090 1,856,717 Total current assets Long-term liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Non-current assets: Non-current assets: Bonds 325,000 (325,000) — — Property, plant and Long-term debt 537,583 325,001 10,286 872,870 1 Bonds and borrowings equipment — 24,867 4,152 29,019 12 Other financial liabilities Buildings and structure, Net defined benefit Retirement benefit 340,070 (340,070) — — 143,713 — 466 144,179 net liabilities liabilities Machinery, equipment Directors’ retirement 584,748 (584,748) — — 2,146 (2,146) — — and vehicles, net benefits Land 304,888 (304,888) — — Provision for loss on litigation 9,106 (9,106) — — Construction in progress 88,551 (88,551) — — Reserve for periodic Other, net 72,470 (72,470) — — repairs 1,571 (1,571) — — Property, plant and Reserve for loss on — 1,395,372 8,065 1,403,437 4 982 (982) — — equipment removal of fixed assets Intangible assets Reserve or costs associated with Goodwill 248,164 — 19,686 267,850 5 Goodwill liquidation of 415 (415) — — Other 170,860 4,325 20,351 195,536 6 Intangible assets subsidiaries and Investments and other affiliates assets Provision for 2,334 (2,334) — — Investments environmental measures Investment securities 266,926 (161,703) 23,849 129,072 7 accounted for using — 26,040 (2,424) 23,616 10 Provisions the equity method Other non-current Other 60,956 (34,712) 15,143 41,387 13 liabilities Long-term loans 5,084 (5,084) — — receivable Deferred tax liabilities 76,994 199 (2,343) 74,850 9 Deferred tax liabilities Net defined benefit assets 17,811 (17,811) — — Total non-current Total long-term liabilities 1,160,800 (159) 25,280 1,185,921 — 229,594 22,208 251,802 8 Other financial assets liabilities Other non-current Total liabilities 2,507,044 — 120,579 2,627,623 Total liabilities — 29,857 532 30,389 assets Net assets: Equity Common stock 50,000 — — 50,000 Common stock Deferred income taxes 62,211 32,339 (5,579) 88,971 9 Deferred tax assets Additional paid-in capital 317,037 515 (8) 317,544 Additional paid-in capital Other 83,678 (83,678) — — Treasury stock (16,240) — — (16,240) Treasury stock Allowance for doubtful Retained earnings 549,430 — 61,479 610,909 14 Retained earnings (1,391) 1,391 — — accounts Accumulated other Other components of comprehensive income 32,025 — (22,041) 9,984 15 equity Total non-current Total non-current assets 2,244,070 33,875 89,112 2,367,057 assets Warrants 515 (515) — — Total assets ¥4,061,572 ¥ — ¥162,202 ¥4,223,774 Total assets Equity attributable to 932,767 — 39,430 972,197 owners of the parent Non-controlling interests Non-controlling in consolidated 621,761 — 2,193 623,954 interests subsidiaries Total net assets 1,554,528 — 41,623 1,596,151 Total equity Total liabilities and net assets ¥4,061,572 ¥ — ¥162,202 ¥4,223,774 Total liabilities and equity 90 91 169 170 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Notes on Reconciliation of Equity (11) Other Current Liabilities (1) Cash and Cash Equivalents and Bonds and Borrowings (Non-Current Liabilities) While Japanese GAAP did not recognize untaken paid leave, IFRS recognizes such The Group reviewed the scope of application of the equity method in adopting IFRS. entitlements as liabilities, thus increasing other current liabilities. The Saudi Methacrylates Company, which was an equity method associate under Japanese GAAP, became a joint operation under IFRS. This resulted in an increase of cash and cash (12) Other Financial Liabilities (Non-Current Liabilities) equivalents and bonds and borrowings (non-current liabilities). Under Japanese GAAP, the Group applied special accounting procedures for interest rate swaps that satisfied certain requirements. Under IFRS, however, it measures these (2) Trade Receivables, Other Financial Assets (Current Assets), Operating Liabilities, instruments at fair value, thus increasing other financial liabilities (non-current liabilities). Corporate Bonds and Borrowings (Current Liabilities), and Other Financial Liabilities (Current Liabilities) (13) Other Non-Current Liabilities Under Japanese GAAP, the Group derecognized all financial assets when transferring trade Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized lump-sum payments from technology receivables used in securitized receivables transactions. Under IFRS, however, certain licensing, joint sales and promotions as revenue at the time of receipt. Under IFRS, however, transfers do not meet the requirements for derecognition of financial assets for some trade these items are booked as deferred revenue where contractual obligations are not fulfilled, receivables, so these assets are reported in both trade receivables and borrowings. and revenue is recognized throughout the periods in which the obligations are met, thus Consequently, trade receivables and bonds and borrowings (current liabilities) increased, increasing other non-current liabilities. while other financial assets (current assets), trade payables and other financial liabilities (current liabilities) decreased. (14) Retained Earnings The impacts on retained earnings of reconciliations accompanying the adoption of IFRS are (3) Inventories as follows. The amounts below are after adjustment for related tax effects and Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recognized revenue on sales mainly at the time of non-controlling interests. dispatch. Under IFRS, however, it recognizes revenue on sales when the significant risks and rewards associated with ownership of the goods are transferred, which increased Millions of yen inventories. As of March 31, 2016 (4) Property, Plant and Equipment Reconciliation of cumulative exchange differences on translation of foreign ¥ 57,567 In adopting IFRS, the Group utilized the deemed cost exemption in IFRS for certain property, operations (Note 15) plant and equipment. The carrying amount of the assets to which such deemed cost was Review of scope of equity method application (Note 7) 23,462 applied was ¥41,010 million and the corresponding fair value was ¥21,316 million. Goodwill not amortized (Note 5) 20,115 While the Group reviewed the scope of application of the equity method in adopting Reconciliation of paid leave obligations (Note 11) (16,119) IFRS, increasing property, plant and equipment by reclassifying The Saudi Methacrylates Deemed cost (Note 4) (14,615) Company, which was an equity method associate under Japanese GAAP as a joint Transfer to retained earnings from other components of equity resulting from (11,799) operation. remeasurements of defined benefit retirement plans Other 2,868 (5) Goodwill Total reconciliation for retained earnings ¥ 61,479 The Group amortized goodwill over certain periods under Japanese GAAP, but under IFRS goodwill has increased because it is not amortized. (15) Other Components of Equity The Group chose to utilize the exemption provision under IFRS 1 transferring all cumulative (6) Intangible Assets exchange differences on translation of foreign operations to retained earnings as of the Under Japanese GAAP, the Group recorded costs incurred in product and technology transition date of April 1, 2015. deployment agreements prior to seeking approval from the relevant authorities as part of research and development expenses. Under IFRS, however, expenses meeting certain (16) Reclassifications requirements are recorded as intangible assets, thus increasing intangible assets. In addition to the above classifications, the Group made reclassifications in conformity with IFRS requirements, of which the principal ones are set out below: (7) Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method ・Under Japanese GAAP, the Group included short-term time deposits with deposit terms In adopting IFRS, share of profit of investments accounted for under the equity method exceeding three months in “cash and deposits”, but under IFRS they are included in “other increased following a review of the scope of application of the equity method with SPDC Ltd. financial assets” of current assets. added as an associate. ・Under Japanese GAAP, the Group included short-term investments with maturities of less than three months from the date of acquisition in “securities,” but under IFRS they are (8) Other Financial Assets (Non-Current Assets) included in “cash and cash equivalents.” Under Japanese GAAP, the Group mainly measured unlisted shares at cost using the ・All of the current portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities has been reclassified as moving-average method. Under IFRS, however, such shares are measured at fair value, non-current. which increased other financial assets (non-current assets). ・Non-current assets that are very likely to be sold and readily available for sale are separately presented as “assets held for sale.” (9) Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities ・Subscription rights to shares were listed separately under Japanese GAAP but are Under Japanese GAAP, the Group offset deferred tax assets and liabilities in their included in “capital surplus” under IFRS. respective current and fixed classifications. Under IFRS, however, it has classified all deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current, which increased the offsetting amounts Note on Reconciliation of Cash Flows for the Year Ended March 31, 2016 and decreased deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. The principal differences between Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows under Japanese GAAP and IFRS relate to receivables transferred without satisfying derecognition (10) Provisions for Current and Non-Current Liabilities requirements for financial assets and changes in the reporting periods of consolidated Under Japanese GAAP, the Group made provisions for large periodic repairs by posting to a subsidiaries. reserve for periodical repairs. Under IFRS, however, the reserve would not satisfy the provision recognition requirements and has been reversed, thus decreasing provisions. 92 93 171 172 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Financial Information Corporate Data Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation (As of March 31, 2017) Address of the head office 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251 Establishment October 3, 2005 Paid-in capital ¥50.0 billion Revenue (consolidated) ¥3,376.1 billion (fiscal 2016) Number of employees (consolidated) 69,291 Organizational Structure Holding company Formulation of Group strategies, optimal allocation of management resources, supervision of business management and others Function-sharing companies MCHC* Investigation into future societal issues and research for proving solutions to those issues 100% The KAITEKI Institute Overseas administrative representatives in North America, Europe and China 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe Common functions for accounting and financial affairs 100% Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporate Staff Operating companies Business operations in the three domains of Performance Products, Industrial Materials and Health Care 100% 100% 100% 56.4% 100% 50.6% MCC MPI MRC MTPC* LSII TNSC* Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital Paid-in capital ¥50.0 billion ¥21.503 billion ¥53.229 billion ¥50.0 billion ¥3.0 billion ¥37.344 billion Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) Revenue (consolidated) ¥1,440.6 billion ¥446.6 billion ¥503.7 billion ¥424.0 billion ¥133.8 billion ¥581.6 billion Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Business lines Performance products, Chemical products, resins, Healthcare and medical Industrial gases, related fibers, carbon fiber and Pharmaceuticals and ICT, drug development industrial materials, and Plastic products and others equipment and facilities, composite materials, water others solutions, and nextothers and others treatment systems and generation healthcare services, and others Business domain Business domain Business domain Business domain Business domain Business domain Performance Products Performance Products Performance Products Health Care Health Care Industrial Materials Industrial Materials Industrial Materials Group companies Group companies Group companies Group companies Group companies Group companies * Listed company MCC On April 1, 2017, MCC, MPI and MRC were integrated as the new-MCC. Paid-in capital Revenue (consolidated) Business lines Business domain ¥2,390.9 billion Performance products, Performance Products ¥53.229 billion (FY 2016, an aggregation of figures according to three industrial materials, Industrial Materials chemical operating companies) and others Group companies MCHC R&D Synergy Center, Inc., responsible for consolidating and advancing common platform technologies in R&D, integrated to new-MCC on April 1, 2017. 173 174 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Main Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of March 31, 2017) Main Businesses MCC Group MTPC Group LSII Group TNSC Group Direct Investees Business Unit Main Businesses, Products and Services Main Uses Automobiles, industrial materials, electronics, Performance polymers Company Name Principal Businesses Capital Equity Participation (%) household goods, foods, medical care Advanced Polymers Phenol and polycarbonate Industrial-use chemicals, automobiles, electronics Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Manufacture and marketing of chemical products ¥50.0 billion 100.0 PBT*1 Thermoplastic elastomer, Bio-based engineering plastic, Automobiles, electronics, household goods, industrial materials Polycarbonate TEFABLOC DURABIO Sustainable polymers Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation Manufacture and marketing of pharmaceuticals ¥50.0 billion 56.4 Coating materials Industrial materials, automobiles, electronics, Mitsubishi Plastics, Inc. Manufacture and marketing of polymer processing products ¥21.5 billion 100.0 High-Performance Epoxy resins household goods, industrial-use chemicals, aircraft Chemicals Resin additives Mitsubishi Rayon Co., Ltd. Manufacture and marketing of chemical products ¥53.2 billion 100.0 Acrylic resins Epoxy resin, jER Sugar ester Food ingredients Foods (beverages, confectionary, nutrition products, etc.) Life Science Institute, Inc. Management of the healthcare solutions business ¥3.0 billion 100.0 Optical films (Polyester film, etc.) Information, Electronics Electronics and Optical PVOH*2 film Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases ¥37.3 billion 50.6 Display Color resist Optical clear adhesive sheet, Optical PVOH*2 film, Color resist CLEARFIT OPL Film Precision cleaning Electronics, environment Food packaging materials Foods and household goods Indirect Investees High-Performance Industrial-use films Industrial materials Films Company Name Principal Businesses Capital Equity Participation (%) Food packaging film, Moisture-proof PVC*3 sheet for tablet Acrylic film, ACRYPLEN Medical and sanitary films Medical care DIAMIRON and capsule packaging, VINYFOIL Performance Electronics Applications Segment Aqua solutions Environment, infrastructure, household goods, medical care, foods Products Separation materials Environment, energy, industrial-use chemicals, electronics, Domain Marketing of recording media and computer Environment and medical care, foods Mitsubishi Kagaku Media Co., Ltd. ¥4.0 billion 100.0 peripheral equipment Living Solutions Separator and aqua chemicals Environment, electronics, medical care, foods Water treatment components, Fully artificial light-type plant FRP*4 and SUS*5 panel Agricultural solutions Agriculture Designed Materials Segment equipment and facilities growing system, Plant Plant water tank, HISHITANK Infrastructure solutions Environment, infrastructure, industrial materials Manufacture and marketing of polymer processing High-performance engineering plastics Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, medical care The Nippon Synthetic Chemical Industry Co., Ltd. ¥17.9 billion 100.0 products Carbon fiber and composite materials Automobiles, aircraft, industrial materials, sporting goods Advanced Moldings Management of subsidiaries that engage in the and Composites Alumina fibers Automobiles, industrial materials Quadrant AG CHF27 million 100.0 engineering plastic business Functional moldings and composites Industrial materials Carbon fiber and Engineering plastics Alumina fibers composite materials Fibers and textiles Household goods, industrial materials Lithium-ion battery materials Automobiles, electronics, energy Industrial Chemicals Segment Materials New Energy LED materials Electronics, automobiles Domain Kansai Coke and Chemicals Co., Ltd. Manufacture and marketing of coke ¥6.0 billion 51.0 Lithium-ion battery Phosphors Scintillator Scintillator Medical care, electronics materials Matheson Tri-Gas, Inc. Manufacture and marketing of industrial gases U.S.$50 100.0 Basic petrochemicals and basic chemical derivatives Industrial-use chemicals Polymers Segment Petrochemicals Automobiles, electronics, household goods, EG*6 production facility Petrochemical derivatives PE*7 gasoline tank Polyolefins industrial materials, medical care Japan Polypropylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polypropylene ¥11.7 billion 65.0 Coke Japan Polyethylene Corporation Manufacture and marketing of polyethylene ¥7.5 billion 58.0 Industrial materials Carbon materials Carbon Management of subsidiaries that engage in the Carbon black Mitsubishi Rayon Lucite Group Limited £246 million 100.0 MMA business Coke Carbon materials Carbon black Industrial materials, automobiles, household goods Synthetic rubber Health Care Health Care Segment MMA MMA and PMMA Automobiles, electronics, industrial materials, household goods Domain Manufacture and marketing of active API Corporation ¥4.0 billion 100.0 MMA monomers Acrylic molding material, Acrylic sheet products pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates ACRYPET Clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of LSI Medience Corporation diagnostic reagents and instruments and drug ¥3.0 billion 100.0 Industrial gases development support Industrial materials, industrial-use chemicals, electronics, Industrial Gases automobiles, foods, medical care Manufacture and marketing of capsules Separate gases Industrial gas-related equipment and facilities Qualicaps Co., Ltd. for pharmaceuticals and health food and ¥2.8 billion 100.0 (oxygen, nitrogen, argon) Electronics material gases Air separation units pharmaceutical equipment Ethical Ethical pharmaceuticals Medical care, health Others Mitsubishi Chemical Logistics Corporation Logistics and warehouse services ¥1.5 billion 100.0 Pharmaceuticals Treatment agent for Therapeutic agent for amyotrophic Vaccine autoimmune diseases lateral sclerosis, Radicut Mitsubishi Chemical Engineering Corporation Engineering and construction services ¥1.4 billion 100.0 Clinical testing Diagnostic reagents and instruments Medical care, health Life Science Capsules and pharmaceutical equipment Compact immunoanalyzer, Active pharmaceutical ingredients and intermediates Capsules Self-health check service (Notes) 1. On April 1, 2017, MCC, MPI and MRC, were integrated as new-Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation. PATHFAST Self-health check service Health 2. On April 1, 2017, Mitsubishi Kagaku Media Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Rayon Lucite Group Ltd. changed their corporate names to Mitsubishi Chemical Media Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi Chemical Lucite Group Ltd., respectively. *1 Polybutylene terephthalate *2 Polyvinyl alcohol *3 Polyvinyl chloride *4 Fiber reinforced plastic *5 Stainless steel *6 Ethylene glycol *7 Polyethylene 175 176 KAITEKI REPORT 2017 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation Value Creation Strategy Management Performance Business Innovation & ESG Financial Information Corporate Information Global Network (As of March 31, 2017) Number of Subsidiaries and Affiliates (Japan): 333 Number of Subsidiaries and Affiliates (Outside Japan): 398 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Europe GmbH Kasteler Strasse 45, 65203 Wiesbaden, Germany TEL: [+49](0)611-962-6923 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corporation 1-1 Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8251, Japan TEL: [+81](0)3-6748-7200 Europe Japan North 91 333 America 72 Africa 1 Asia Pacific Latin 226 America 8 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings America, Inc. 655 Third Avenue, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA TEL: [+1] 212-672-9400 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Room 710, Beijing Fortune Building, Dong San Huan Bei Lu 5, Chao Yang District, Beijing, 100004, PRC TEL: [+86](0)10-6590-8621 Disclaimer This report contains forward-looking statements based on the Company’s current assumptions and beliefs in light of the information currently available to it, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may be beyond the Company’s control. Actual results could differ largely due to numerous factors, including but not limited to the following: Group companies execute businesses in many different fields, such as information and electronics, polymers and processed products, pharmaceuticals, carbon and inorganic products, industrial gases and petrochemicals, and these businesses’ results are subject to influences of the global demands, exchange rates, price and procurement volume of crude oil and naphtha, trends in market price, speed of technological innovation, National Health Insurance price revisions, product liabilities, lawsuits, laws, and regulations. Product names, brand names, and service names used in this report are denoted in italics. Other product names, brand names, and service names may also be protected. 177 178
