TABLE OF CONTENTS LIST OF ACRONYMS 6 CUSTOMER FOCUS 35 About This Report 7 Customer Data Protection 36 Scope and Data 7 Materiality 7 OUR TALENT 38 Open Communication 40 LETTER FROM THE CEO & CHAIRMAN 8 Investing in our people 42 Training Programs 44 ABOUT RAYA HOLDING 11 Encouraging Excellence 47 Overview of Raya Holding 12 Health & Safety 48 Our Lines of Business 14 Equal Opportunity and Diversity 50 Raya Contact Center 14 Raya Data Center 14 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 53 BariQ 15 Use of Energy 54 Use of Water 54 SUSTAINABILITY AT RAYA 16 Waste Management 56 GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY & 19 CREATING SHARED VALUE & FOSTERING 59 ACCOUNTABILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Our Values 21 Social Investment 62 Corporate Governance 22 Education 62 Compliance & Disclosure 22 Community Development 64 Risk Management 22 Health 67 Anti-Corruption 22 Other Initiatives 68 Our Board of Directors 24 Supplier Responsibility 68 Board Committees 26 Corporate Governance Committee 26 GRI CONTENT INDEX & MATERIALITY 70 Audit Committee 27 Sustainability Management Approach Summary 70 Investment Committee 27 Aspect Materiality & Boundary 71 Remuneration Committee 27 GRI Content Index 73 ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION 29 ANNEX 1FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 31 ANNEX 2 – WORKFORCE DATA 85 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 5 LIST OF ABOUT THIS ACRONYMS REPORT AIMIC Association of Insurance and Risk Managers This is Raya Holding’s first sustainability report. It is a biennial report covering the period January 1, 2015 through AmCham American Chamber of Commerce September 30, 2016. A firm belief in sustainable practices sits at the center of how we conduct our business. It BEBA British Egyptian Business Association builds on the understanding that this ensures both long-term financial dividends and business success, as well as BSI British Standards Institution directly working towards sustainable development within our communities and the countries we operate in. Each of CFO Chief Financial Officer our ten lines of business integrates sustainability as appropriate in the fields they operate in, and continuously works CSP Customer Service Provider towards improving and expanding these practices and policies. As a result, we have compiled this report to disclose EGP Egyptian Pound our activities in these fields, in accordance with the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 EGX Egyptian Stock Exchange Guidelines. EITESAL Egyptian Information, Telecommunications, Electronics, and Software Alliance EJB Egyptian Junior Business Reporting on our sustainability performance allows us to reflect on our strengths and weaknesses, and thereby ERK Energy Recovery Kit continue our quest to improve in this field. Raya Holding is also dedicated to transparency and accountability in how GACIC German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce we conduct our business. This report exemplifies this dedication by enabling our stakeholders to better understand GCC Gulf Cooperation Council the various avenues we use to work towards sustainability across our operations. GIZ Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit GRI Global Reporting Initiative ICT Information and Communications Technology Scope and Data IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards IRM Institute of Risk Management As a holding company, Raya Holding sets key policies and practices at the holding company level to direct its lines of business KPI Key Performance Indicator in how they conduct their business. As our first report, the scope is limited to the practices and policies Raya Holding sets at LDP Leadership Development Program the holding company level, complemented with practice examples from three of our lines of business: Raya Contact Center, LED Light Emitting Diode Raya Data Center and BariQ. The quantitative data presented reflects Raya Holding either at the holding company level only, LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design or as an aggregate of Raya Holding and all of its lines of business. This is clearly indicated for each instance. We endeavor to LoB Line of Business expand our reporting capacities in the future, including more of our lines of business as we move forward and reporting on MDP Managerial Development Program each according to GRI guidelines. MENA Middle East and North Africa OH&S Occupational Health and Safety We applied basic international measurement standards in compiling this report and collected relevant data from our databases, PET Polyethylene Terephthalate internal reports and communications, and externally audited statements. Additional information was collected through RAC Raya Achiever’s Club interviews with relevant management at Raya Holding, Raya Contact Center, Raya Data Center and BariQ. Raya Holding RCC Raya Contact Center management would like to assure our stakeholders of our commitment to update, validate and correct any figures and data RDC Raya Data Center that may be deemed incorrect or may change due to unforeseen events in the future. RPET Recycled Polyethylene Terephthalate SDP Supervisory Development Program SSP Supply-Side Platform Materiality UAE United Arab Emirates UHF Ultra-High Frequency This is a self-disclosure report, developed according to the GRI G4 Guidelines at the ‘Core’ level. To do this, we conducted a UNGC United Nations Global Compact materiality exercise to determine the aspects and indicators for disclosure. This exercise builds on the social, economic and USGBC US Green Building Council environmental impact of Raya Holding and our lines of business, as managed at the holding company level. It includes inputs WEPs Women’s Empowerment Principles from core stakeholders of Raya Holdings as well as Raya Contact Center, Raya Data Center and BariQ. Given that our holding WRU Waste Recovery Unit company does not have a significant amount of stakeholders, we chose to also engage with stakeholders of the lines of business we have included as practice examples to ensure we could gather a significant amount of feedback from a range of relevant sources. Stakeholder groups engaged for this included employees, civil society, government authorities and business associations. The results of our materiality exercise are described in the ‘GRI Content Index & Materiality’ section at the end of this report. All of the identified material aspects are addressed in this report. For more information, please contact: Reem Asaad Yasmine Sakr Corporate Secretary of CSR Specialist Raya Board of Directors Raya Holding reem_asaad@rayacorp.com yasmine_sakr@rayacorp.com Tel: +(202) 3827 6000 Tel: +(202) 3827 6000 Ext: 1232 6 7 LETTER FROM THE CEO & CHAIRMAN Since inception, we have embedded sustainability at Raya Holding in everything we do, emanating from our corporate core values and our management philosophy based on operating in a responsible, ethical and transparent manner. Raya Holding began as a technology-based company offering information technology (IT) solutions to the local and regional markets. We pioneered developments in the local IT services market, being the first to launch an internet public data network, e-finance and electronic payments in Egypt. Constantly rethinking our business practices, we are not afraid to re-invent ourselves and adapt to sustainably further our business. BariQ, one of Raya’s business lines is the first of its kind manufacturer of recycled polyethylene terephthalate (RPET) pellets in Egypt and across the Middle East and North Africa region. Similarly, Raya Smart Buildings is the first construction company in Egypt specializing green construction to international standards. BariQ and Raya Smart Buildings exemplify our commitment to environmental stewardship, as well as targeting promising new sectors and promoting sustainable business in the Egyptian market. We are proud of our unique history and achievements over the years, and the significant contributions we have made to the Egyptian economy as a locally-grown company supporting sustainable growth and infrastructure development. Starting as a company of 200 employees, we are now a holding company of more than 7500 employees operating across a diversified portfolio of business lines, and continuously expanding further across new sectors and geographies. Job creation is an important pillar in our business strategy, directly tackling the critical issue of unemployment in Egypt. As a result, we are strategically building our business to spur on job creation in areas suffering from unemployment, from Aswan in Egypt’s south, to its northern tip in Alexandria. Our success over the years is due to our proactive approach to adversity, perceiving challenges as opportunity for growth rather than obstacles. As Egypt is currently facing profoundly difficult economic conditions and shortages in foreign exchanges, we are shifting our strategic focus on exports and manufacturing. Our resilient growth would not be possible without capitalizing on an empowered, skilled and diverse workforce. We are thus conscientious to provide our employees with a healthy, safe and enabling working environment, where each employee can flourish as individuals and as part of a team. Raya Holding was among the first companies in Egypt to participate in UN Global Compact initiatives, adhering to its principles that promote corporate responsibility and sustainable development. Our continuous support for the UN Global Compact Network in Egypt is evident through our active participation and membership for over ten years now. As the next step in our sustainability journey, Raya Holding is proud to share with you our first sustainability report. This exercise is part of our ongoing effort to advance sustainable business internally and across the Egyptian market, as well as furthering our commitment to engage with our stakeholders in a transparent and meaningful manner. Going forward, we are committed to achieve and improve even more. In face of these tumultuous times, we have the responsibility and commitment to continue building strong businesses and creating value for all our stakeholders, and society at large. Our aim is to continue growing our businesses in a sustainable manner, to double our workforce, and become an export-driven company. Finally yet importantly, we will work to sustain our social investments and constructively contribute to the sustainable development of our community. Medhat Khalil Chairman and CEO 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 9 ABOUT RAYA HOLDING With headquarters in Cairo, Egypt, Raya Holding is an international investment company with diverse lines of business serving clients from across six continents and more than 50 countries. First established when seven IT firms merged in 1998, Raya Holding now operates in the fields of information technology, data center outsourcing, contact center services, smart buildings, consumer electronics, social media development, food and beverages, land transport and PET remanufacturing. With the vision to lead in every market is enters, Raya Holding started in 1998 with less than one hundred employees based in Egypt. Today, Raya has grown into an international corporation with a diversified investment portfolio and more than 7,500 employees across its operations. We serve our international customer base from offices located across Egypt, Nigeria, Poland, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Raya Holding is an Egyptian Joint Stock Company, whose shares have been publicly listed in the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX) since May 2005. Our customers range from multinational corporations, to local businesses and individual consumers. Raya Holding is a proud and active signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2004. In addition, we are a member of the American Chamber of Commerce in Egypt (AmCham Egypt), the British Egyptian Business Association (BEBA), the German-Arab Chamber of Industry and Commerce (GACIC), and the Egyptian Information, Telecommunications, Electronics, and Software Alliance (EITESAL) – a private sector, non-profit organization of ICT companies and organizations operating in Egypt, the Egyptian Directors and Governance Association (EDGA), the Egyptian Institute of Directors (EIOD) in corporate governance, Egyptian Junior Business Association (EJB), Egyptian Investor Relations Association (EIRA), Internet Masr, Information Technology Export Community of Egypt (ITEC) and member of Chamber of Information Technology (CIT). 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 11 OVERVIEW OF RAYA HOLDING Employed With over Served clients in more than Made 7,620 people 150 offices, sites, outlets 50 countries across six 4,486.9 million EGP in revenues and centers continents in 2015 Revenue breakdown across all of Raya’s diverse lines of business in 2015 Raya Trade 72.6% Raya IT 13.3% Raya Contact Center 6.3% Ostool 3.5% BariQ 2% Raya International Services 1.1% Raya Smart Buildings 0.6% Raya Data Centers 0.5% Milestones for 2015 Raya Restaurants 0.2% Raya IT partners with IE Networks to Raya Trade opens Raya Megastore in BariQ signs contract with Italian offer IT solutions in Ethiopia Helwan City and Abbas El Akkad bottled water giant Aqua Minerale San Benedetto SpA Raya Contact Center opens its first Raya Network Power becomes the Raya Trade launches the first Raya GCC delivery site in Dubai sole distributor for Emerson Network branded consumer electronics Power and Leviton Network Solution product: the SARY tablet, first to run Products on Windows 10 in Egypt Milestones for 2016 Raya Data Centers launches Raya acquired Raya Raya IT achieved Raya IT established Raya Cloud, a full-fledged a 20% stake launched HP Platinum and mastered a cloud computing platform in Polish pasta AMAN for Partnership complete 4G LTE manufacturer, e-payments services and solutions Makarony Polskie portfolio Raya IT was awarded Cisco Raya IT Raya IT Raya IT was Raya acquired Architectural Excellence Service established achieved awarded Cisco 100% of frozen Provider Architecture Partner of and mastered HP Platinum Architectural fruits & vegetables the Year for EMEAR Emerging a complete 4G Partnership Excellence processing factory, region (Europe, Middle East, LTE services and Service Provider Lazah Africa, and Russia) solutions portfolio Architecture 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 13 OUR LINES Raya Cloud Pioneering Business for Sustainable Development Raya Data center introduced the Raya Cloud service to the In 2015, BariQ participated in the Pioneering Businesses OF BUSINESS market in 2016. Raya Cloud is a full-fledged cloud computing platform that offers clients a flexible and diverse chain of services. The service provides a secure, fully automated, for Sustainable Development Contest organized by the Federation of Egyptian Industries (FEI) in collaboration with the Confederation of Danish Industry. The latter is recognized and scalable means to seamlessly integrate a business into as one of the leading global industrial bodies concerned with public or private cloud environments. Without investing in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility As this is our first sustainability report, we are focusing our attention on the holding company level. In addition, new infrastructure, Raya Cloud enables an organization to (CSR). below you will find short profiles of Raya Contact Center, Raya Data Centre and BariQ. As we present the policies extend its computing capacity on the fly, plug into powerful and practices that Raya Holding develops and propagates throughout the group, we will provide practice examples business application, and manage its business data with ease In this year’s contest, 193 SMEs and large Egyptian and to illustrate how these three business lines are translating and adding to these policies in practice. and flexibility at no cost. multinational companies participated. BariQ was one of 30 companies that were awarded for their projects completed Ensuring global access and availability, Raya Cloud offers a throughout the year concerned with the environment, CSR wide spectrum of services including Software-as-a-Service and workplace environment. This comes as recognition of (SaaS), Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), and Platform-as-athe efforts done by BariQ as a member of a green industry Service (PaaS), in addition to cloud management and security that prioritizes healthy conditions for workers and operating services. with minimum impact on the environment. BariQ continuously works to maximize the efficient use of resources, reuse waste DC Care-pro and have a more sustainable and healthier work environment, Raya Data Center offers data center professional cleaning while at the same time complying with all national and solutions that are tailored to your specific business needs and international laws and regulations, as well as relevant best are part of a preventive maintenance program that ensures practices. Raya Contact Center Raya Data Center the optimal environment for your data center by using top-ofthe-line HEPA vacuum cleaning systems that collect %99.7 of BariQ commences the implementation of Lean Supply Founded in 2001, Raya Contact Center is a world-class With the philosophy of ‘one size doesn’t fit all’, Raya Data the dust and particles in the air without circulating back into Chain Principles Business Process Outsourcing Service Provider offering Center was established in 2008 and provides tailored data your data center environment. contact center services, back office services, inside sales center solutions including managed hosting, co-location As part of BariQ’s strategic objectives for the coming years, channel management and professional services. Raya services, security services, cloud computing, disaster the company launched the Lean Supply Chain project in Q4 Contact Center caters to clients, including global fortune recovery, professional services, IT support and outsourcing of 2015, in partnership with the leading Lean Supply Chain 500 companies in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North services. Carrier-neutral, Raya Data Center is the first ISO/ and Six Sigma service provider Symbios Consulting. The main America in 25 different languages. Raya Contact Center IEC 27001 and ISO 2000 accredited data center provider in objectives of implementing the Lean Supply Chain principles serves its clients from eight contact center facilities in Cairo Egypt and delivers enterprise-level offerings to business of all are eliminating the different types of waste that might occur and Hurghada (Egypt), Dubai (UAE) and Warsaw (Poland). sizes and industries, featuring a facility with the highest levels throughout the value chain in order to improve the quality of disaster recovery and network environment security for of the final product, having fewer defects and less need for With over 4,750 seats capacity and a 5,000 advisors’ talent customers’ data protection. The facility is also ISO OHSAS reworking. In terms of operations, less breakdowns, a more pool, Raya Contact Center focuses on high growth industries 18001, and ISO 9001 certified, and has been recently crowned organized workplace, higher efficiencies and more output – mainly telecom, technology, consumer electronics, banking, with Oracle’s Gold partnership. In addition, Raya Data Center BariQ are the goal. Additionally, reaching lower levels of inventory automotive, travel, fast food and retail, etc. Raya Contact has VMware Solution Provider Partner Certification and and on-time delivery of orders will eventually lead to greater Centers’ operations are well supported through a continuous Acronis Cloud Services Provider Certification. Raya Data customer satisfaction, improved employee morale and higher improvement approach using best practices in Lean and Center’s strategy of certification aims to deliver continuous Bringing state-of-the-art green technology to the region, BariQ profits. Innovation management, 6-Sigma, problem solving, data value improvement and sustained quality standards for its was founded in 2010 and is the first manufacturer of recycled analytics as well as world class standards. Our international clients. polyethylene terephthalate (RPET) pellets in Egypt, and the The first milestone achieved was completing the Lean Green certifications include ISO 9001 for quality management, ITIL Middle East and North Africa Region. Backed by world-class Belt training of 12 BariQ employees from different departments for IT service management, COPC Customer Service Provider Raya Data Center Achieves ISO 22301 (BCMS) technology providers, MENA’s first “bottle-to-bottle” firm, such as supply chain, quality control, maintenance, (CSP), and the PCI Data Security Standard. Raya provides Certification BariQ reprocesses post-consumer plastic PET bottles with a production, sales and business planning. Employees were tangible value to our clients by having a robust system in total annual quantity of 25,000 MT (approximately 1.6 billion given an in-depth and structured explanation, presentations place to continuously work on and share improvements, The British Standards Institution (BSI), the national standards bottles), that would otherwise likely become part of the landfill and workshops to lay the foundation of Lean thinking in the insights, analytics and recommendations on improvement body of the United Kingdom, has accredited Raya Data Center or burnt. We provide top-quality food-grade pellets to major entire company. The total duration of the project is 18 months, projects, supported by illustrated savings and additional with the ISO 22301 Business Continuity Management System international bottle and food container makers and major and it is partially-funded by the Industrial Modernization derived revenues. (BCMS) certification. With this new achievement, Raya Data recycled-material fiber producers throughout Europe and the Center (IMC) in Egypt. Center became the first data center in Egypt to achieve this United States. standard. This certification comes as Raya Data Center gears up to launch its public cloud service offering in 2016. BariQ’s pellets are proudly approved by international regulators including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration The ISO 22301 standard specifies the requirements for a (FDA), the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and Health management system to protect against, reduce the likelihood Canada. Additionally, BariQ holds international certifications of, and ensure a business recovers from disruptive incidents. concerned with quality (ISO 9001:2008), environment (ISO It recognizes Raya Data Center’s preparedness and ability 14001:2004), occupational health and safety (OHSAS to respond to disasters and drive business continuity. It also 18001:2007), and food safety (ISO 22000:2005), and has provides confidence in the organization’s recovery plans and established an integrated management system complying ensures appropriate and agile contingencies. with these international standards. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 15 The Green Wall at Galleria 40. “We relentlessly work towards SUSTAINABILITY applying AT RAYA international best practice Working towards long-term sustainable business is part of the Raya Holding DNA, replicated across all our different for sustainable lines of business. We are an Egyptian-grown corporation that takes pride in our heritage, with operations adapted to local nuances. Yet we relentlessly work towards applying international best practice for sustainable business across business across our work locations. Sustainability is not a widely understood notion in the Egyptian market, so we are aiming to use our work our strong position within our sectors to be a pioneer and work towards changing the culture across the Egyptian business scene and beyond. locations.” Raya Holding and each of our business lines are continuously seeking to improve our sustainability performance in practical and meaningful ways. We believe in creating shared value for all of our stakeholders, building our business on social and environmental responsibility, as well as economic value. Each of our lines of business is working towards improving our sustainability performance according to their means, as well as the demands and opportunities of their sector. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 17 “Throughout our operations, our core values permeate each aspect of our business and provide guidance on how to conduct our work.” GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABILITY & ACCOUNTABILITY As a holding company, Raya Holding has the complex task of directing a range of businesses operating in diverse sectors and countries, while giving them the necessary freedom to meet the demands and take advantage of opportunities in their fields. We manage this difficult task by setting in place a robust framework for governance, guided by key policies and structures set at the holding company level with regards to governance and human resource management. These policies and structures provide a solid foundation, upon which each line of business may build to meet the needs of its sector and operating environment. Throughout our operations, our core values permeate each aspect of our business and provide guidance on how to conduct our work. 18 19 OUR VALUES As we expand globally, we pride ourselves on maintaining and spreading our core values that have proven their relevance and resilience over the years – across sectors and national borders. These four values provide the cornerstones of how we conduct business across Raya Group. They have guided us through harsh economic conditions and continue to drive our business forward while ensuring the sustainability of our work as we target new market segments in different industries and geographies. Teamwork Raya realizes the significance of teamwork on many levels. We are continually promoting the concept across all our operations by seeking to bring together personnel with diverse backgrounds, skill levels and varied areas of expertise. This builds on our belief that working in teams guarantees fresh perspectives, more efficient outcomes and better tailored results. Respect for People Respect for people is a deeply entrenched value in our corporate culture. Our people are devoted employees, trusting shareholders, and essentially each and every customer. Respect for people is the value that we consider day by day and upon which we build all connections and relations in or outside the company. Customer Focus Raya is committed to offer its customers an exceptional experience and unparalleled quality of service. Every task, from the sales pitch to the after-sales support, is customized to suit customers’ needs. It is customer focus that is consistently guiding us to higher levels of achievement and success. Excellence Excellence in every aspect of our lines of business is our means to maintain our position as ‘a market leader no matter where we are’. Raya encourages excellence by rewarding skill and performance. With an unyielding desire to triumph and unbending will to succeed, Raya has unlimited potential to improve the quality of all the services that it currently has to offer. The company benchmarks itself according to international quality standards. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 21 “Yet we pride ourselves in steering the CORPORATE course and continuing to GOVERNANCE expand despite operating At Raya, sound corporate governance is understood as essential to Risk Management changing local culture and educating our stakeholders – from employees to in a difficult the success of our business. We At Raya Holding, we understand that suppliers and others – to understand economic climate.” continuously work to determine the benefits of integrity and honesty a robust risk management framework and implement best practices that in business, and apply these values in is key to ensuring the long-term ensure transparency, accountability their work. sustainability of our businesses and and effective decision-making. We investments, as well as ensuring understand – and our experience To this end, Raya Holding has signed continuous quality and value to our shows – that good corporate the Egyptian Junior Business (EJB) stakeholders. Today’s corporations and governance is linked to improved integrity network pledge, which aims organizations face a rapidly changing performance, better access to capital to promote integrity and advance antienvironment that presents a myriad of and reduced risk, directly working corruption standards among Egyptian threats and has the potential to disrupt towards our long-term sustainability enterprises. Moreover, we are currently operations profoundly. Moreover, we are while also ensuring we create value finalizing a comprehensive Anticonscious of the differing risks posed by for our stakeholders. Corruption Policy to be applied across our various countries and locations of Raya Holding and its subsidiaries, operation. Egypt in particular has had a Compliance & Disclosure tumultuous recent history, yet we pride as well as a detailed implementation plan to ensure this policy is applied ourselves in steering the course and correctly and in a meaningful manner Raya Holding has been publicly listed in continuing to expand despite operating across our operations. We understand Egypt since May 2005. Accordingly, we in a difficult economic climate. that the profound changes in culture comply with all rules set by the Egyptian we are targeting take time, but we are Stock Exchange (EGX) – the code of Our risk management policy clearly confident that we will move forward best practices in corporate governance, outlines responsibilities with regards to in consolidating and spreading these financial reporting and disclosure comprehensively monitoring different values for all our stakeholders’ benefit, regulations, and related listing rules. levels and areas of risk, and acting as well as for sustainable development Given our international operations and to mitigate them in a timely manner. at large. future plans for further expansion across Reporting to the Board of Directors, the globe, we also apply International Raya’s Risk Management Department In addition to the Anti-Corruption Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) ensures relevant internal controls are in Policy we are currently developing, in our financial disclosures. We issue place, as well as updated according to Raya Holding already implements an quarterly reports as per our listing on evolving needs, in line with international extensive Whistleblowing Policy and the EGX. and local best practices. Accordingly, ‘Speak-Up System’. Both of these Raya Holding’s risk management encourage all our employees to We abide by the following policies framework is informed by international report any wrongdoing in violation of and guidelines, available for review standards approved by the Institute local laws or our Code of Business online on the Raya corporate of Risk Management (IRM) and the Conduct: website: Association of Insurance and Risk Managers (AIMIC). • Whistleblowing System: we • Egypt Code of Corporate encourage any employee who Governance Anti-Corruption suspects wrongdoing from any of the • Raya Code of Business Conduct senior management team – in their • Raya Insider Trading Policy Our Code of Business Conduct provides line of business or in another line of • Raya Dividends Policy a foundation of integrity, transparency business – to raise their concerns and accountability in the behavior of all directly through reporting the incident • Raya Disclosure Policy our employees. In our pursuit of longto the whistleblowing email known to • Raya Related Party Transactions term sustainability and shared value, employees. Policy ethical conduct is non-negotiable. A • Speak-Up System: When an • Raya Risk Management Policy large proportion of our operations is employee has a concern regarding • Raya Succession Policy located in Egypt, where many practices their working conditions and wants to have been normalized that would be raise issues related to fairness, risk to • Raya Whistle Blowing Policy deemed questionable by international health and safety, or else, the ‘Speakstandards. Building on our leading Up System’ provides a guideline for position in the Egyptian ICT sector and employees on how to raise an issue beyond, we endeavor to work towards and or complaints to management. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 23 Our Board of Directors With a strong commitment to abide by the highest standards of corporate governance, Raya’s Board of Directors (the ‘Board’) Medhat Khalil attributes strong emphasis to identifying and implementing best corporate governance practices to ensure transparency, accountability and effective internal controls. Raya’s Board of Directors is composed of executive as well as non-executive Chairman & CEO and/or independent members. The Board meets at least four times annually – once per quarter – to align and discuss the Raya Holding group’s business performance and strategy. The Board reserves the right to discuss major strategic and financial decisions related to new investments, divestment decisions, approval of significant alliances, major capital investment transactions and the compensation of the executive management of the company. Under Raya’s Articles of Association, all directors of the Board are required to run for re-election every three years. The elected Board of Directors’ biographical background and their expertise are disclosed in the explanatory notes of the notice during the annual general meeting. With a firm commitment to sound corporate governance practices, Raya’s Board of Directors fulfills Khaled Shash Yasser Hashem Amr El Tawil Ashraf Sabry Ahmed Khalil its responsibilities in accordance to the essential foundation of Raya’s corporate governance guidelines, in compliance with Managing Managing CEO CEO CEO the mandates of the Egyptian Financial Supervisory Authority. The Corporate Governance Committee periodically reviews the Director Partner Triangle Group Fawry Raya Venture guidelines and proposes modifications to the Board for consideration as appropriate. Board meetings are held at the company Milky’s Processing Zaki Hashem & Investments & Raya headquarters upon the call of the Board Chair or following the demand of one third of board members. Partners Smart Buildings Following the end of each fiscal year, the Board conducts an annual performance evaluation to assess the Board’s performance effectiveness, overseen by the Corporate Governance Committee. The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for Samer El Waziri Malek Sultan Seif Coutry Ashraf Kheir establishing evaluation criteria and implementing the process for such evaluation, as well as considering other corporate CFO CIO Chairman CEO governance principles, subject to review by the board. Raya Holding Beyout Investment Group Capital Trust First Trading & Distribution Raya’s Board Charter provides further details regarding the structure and composition of our Board. It can be accessed online on the Raya corporate website, as part of the ‘Investor Relations’ pages under ‘Corporate Governance’ and ‘Board Marc Tohmey Committees’. Representative Financial Holding International 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 25 BOARD COMMITTEES Purpose Corporate Governance Committee Audit Committee Investment Committee Remuneration Committee The purpose of the Board Committees is to assist the board in ensuring that its composition, structure, policies Regular Duties Purpose Authority Authority and processes meet all relevant legal and regulatory requirements, The Committee shall: To assist the Board of Directors in • To set the overall investment • To establish the company policy and follow best practices that fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for guidelines in line with the board’s on remuneration for the executive support our long-term business and • Review annually and develop for the board’s approval Raya Holding’s corporate the financial and operational reporting strategy. directors, executive management, sustainability goals. governance code. processes, risk management, the chairman, and CEOs of the different • To prepare investment cases This includes the following: • Consider possible conflicts of interests of directors and any related party system of internal control, the audit and report to the board lines of business. • To recommend qualified directors transactions of directors, and make relevant proposals to the board in accordance process, and Raya’s process for recommendations of investment • To make recommendations to the and committee nominees to the with Raya Holding’s corporate governance code. monitoring compliance with laws and opportunities/activities and time board on the Group’s framework of board. regulations, and the Raya Code of horizon for the board’s approval. executive remuneration and its cost. • Review any change in status (including fulfillment of independence requirements) Business Conduct. • To review HR policies. and professional affiliation of current directors and make relevant proposals to the • To review and monitor investments • To approve for the members of • To identify any additional skills and board in accordance with the company’s corporate governance code. (post investments audits). the Executive Leadership Team Authority experiences that might be required • Oversee the development and implementation of a board induction process for • To set the due-diligence criteria. or other senior executives, as it to enhance the performance of the new directors and a program of continuing director development, as needed. considers, the entire individual The audit committee has authority to • To review investment performance board, to interview candidates and recruitment terms, remuneration • Develop a process for evaluating board effectiveness and coordinate the annual conduct or authorize investigations using appropriate indexes, as well as to recommend appointments to or benefits, employment conditions, board effectiveness evaluation. into any matters within its scope of preset key performance indicators removals from the board. pension rights, compensation • Review corporate governance policies and practices in major subsidiaries and responsibility. It is empowered: and investment policy statements, in payments and severance terms, • To review the performance of any make relevant proposals to the board. • To recommend the appointment consultation with the board. individual bonus plans and targets director seeking re-election at the and compensation of the external • Monitor trends and the best practices in corporate governance and nomination and the subsequent achievement of forthcoming annual general meeting. auditors to be employed by Raya practices in order to properly discharge its duties. performance against targets. • To ensure and monitor the to the Board of Directors and to the implementation of the Corporate • Perform any other activities relevant to its charter, at the request of the board or General Assembly. • To approve the remuneration of the as required by the Raya Holding’s corporate governance code. chairman. Governance Code and that all items • To oversee the work of any external are covered by the committees. auditors employed by Raya. • To propose for the approval of the Board Nominations board and for recommendations by • The below and next pages outline • To approve the appointment, the board to shareholders all new each committee’s authorities and compensation, removal, or The Committee shall: long-term incentive schemes. responsibilities. replacement of the Chief Audit Executive. • To approve the rules and associated • Prepare the criteria and procedure for selecting board members, and by which guidelines for granting awards under the board makes nominations for members. • To oversee the operations of the Raya’s long-term incentive plans. Internal Audit Department. • Assess at least once a year the size and composition of the board. • To resolve any disagreements • Assess at least once a year the performance of individual board members and between management and the report their findings to the board. auditor regarding financial reporting. • Make proposals for the re-election or termination of board members and, if • To pre-approve all audit and nonrequired, the appointment of replacement members. audit services. • Report to the board on the advisability of permitting a member of the board to • To retain independent counsel, become a member of another company’s board and develop a policy on whether accountants, or others to advise the and how to cap the number of directorships a director may hold. committee or assist in the conduct of • Report to the board any conflicts of interest that may arise if a member of the an investigation. Board accepts a position on another company’s board. • To seek any information it requires from employees – all of whom are directed to cooperate with the committee’s requests – or external parties. • To meet with company officers, external auditors, or outside counsel as necessary. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 27 “Notably, with revenues rising as well during these turbulent times, Raya is showing resilience in its continued sustainable growth and expansion.” ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION Economic Value Creation Despite Egypt’s challenging economic environment, Raya Holding still managed to post impressive figures for the 2015 and 2016 calendar yearshighlighted by an increase of 10.3% in consolidated revenues from year end 2014 to year end 2015. Similarly, Raya Holding’s Q3 2016 consolidated revenues show a 17.4% increase over Q3 2015. Notably, with revenues rising as well during these turbulent times, Raya is showing resilience in its continued sustainable growth and expansion, as shown in the financial data presented Annex 1 and company’s annual report and earning release for the reporting period. In parallel, Raya has made substantial investments in its people. In 2016, 3,092 new staff members were hired, demonstrating our commitment to sustainably expanding the Egyptian economy, and creating much-needed decent jobs. In a similar vein, Raya invested in excess of 57 million EGP in employee benefits in 2016. Indirect Economic Impact Our diverse lines of business each work towards enhancing the Egyptian economy through developing the ICT, transportation, construction, recycling sectors and beyond. Our operations create and maintain substantial decent jobs. We continuously and strategically invest in enhancing our employees’ skills, ensuring their professional development and success. Our commitment to the environment is exemplified by our PET recycling company BariQ, the first such company in Egypt, and our green construction company Raya Smart Buildings, complemented by cutting-edge internal initiatives limiting the waste of energy and water. Our targeted social investments and community engagement work towards Egypt’s overall sustainable development, including in the critical areas of education and health, such as through our work with grassroots education NGO Educate Me and the internationally recognized Children’s Cancer Hospital 57357. We are proud that in 2015-2016, our CSR budget amounted to 1% of net income. Please see Annex 1 for the financial statements relevant to this report. 28 29 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Engaging with key stakeholders is central to ensuring business longevity and sustainability. Raya Holding maintains communication and engagement channels with a range of relevant stakeholders, from local communities to shareholders and government entities. As part of the process of compiling this first report, we conducted a stakeholder consultation. This involved bringing together representatives of our key stakeholders – including employees, civil society, academia, government authorities, and relevant business associations. We conducted a facilitated discussion on our sustainability performance with these stakeholders, gaining important feedback regarding the materiality of issues and insights regarding stakeholders’ recommendations for changes and the future direction of our sustainability strategy. Stakeholders’ feedback and insights have been incorporated in this report, and the table below summarizes our stakeholder engagement practices, covering our holding company, Raya Contact Center (RCC), Raya Data Center (RDC) and BariQ. 30 31 Group Topic of Method of Frequency of Key Topics and Response to Engagement Engagement Engagement Concerns Raised Feedback Civil Society Community Public events related to CSR and sustainable Ongoing and annually The need for the private sector to actively Incorporating identified core issues into our CSR strategy, such as engagement and development, conferences, focus groups and engage in solving key societal development expanding our focus on sustainable business and social impact, as well social initiatives; stakeholder engagement seminars, meetings, issues such as education, poverty and inclusive as education; work towards establishing long-term cooperation with raising awareness trainings and publications. growth; the need for RDC’s more active civil society and become more active in raising awareness regarding ICT about ICT challenges involvement in advocating for ICT challenges issues (RDC); work closely with relevant organizations to gain knowledge and technologies in and education; how to increase energy and implement projects to increase energy efficiency (BariQ). Egypt (RDC); energy efficiency in BariQ’s factory. conservation (BariQ). Customers Overall customer Phone, email and meetings Ongoing, weekly, Improvement opportunities and customer Assess opportunities for improvement and work towards implementing satisfaction with monthly, post-project engagement; engaging underprivileged local accepted ones; reflection on overall customer feedback in annual service value and delivery and annually communities in Upper Egypt as suppliers business plan development; develop plan to implement a community quality, collaborating (BariQ) engagement project that provides skills and employment, while also for CSR activities spreading awareness of environmental issues (BariQ). (BariQ). Employees Employee Satisfaction surveys, recognition programs, Ongoing, daily, Positive employee satisfaction indicators, Designing focused and targeted training & development programs, satisfaction and skills assessment and personal development weekly, monthly, need for more training and development for incorporating employee satisfaction index as a performance KPI and key motivation, training programs, regular meetings with management, quarterly and annually employees, need for more practical on-the-job factor in HR performance appraisal, improvement of attrition rate as a and development, focus groups, various internal publications, training. KPI for HR function, active engagement and listening of top management compensation emails, Rayetna (Raya intranet). (CEO) with frontline staff through informal and focused gatherings (such and benefits, open as CEO breakfast), establishing and encouraging open-door policy to communication enable better and direct communication with top management, including regarding any blue collar workers in the Raya Achievers recognition program (BariQ). complaints and Provide English courses as well as specified training programs (soft skills, issues. customer care, etc). Local Communities Reducing Open delivery sites in Hurghada to support Ongoing Availability of skilled resources unemployment rate hiring people from Upper Egypt (RCC). (RCC) Shareholders and Investor relations Phone, emails, meetings with Chairman and Ongoing and quarterly Dividends distribution (timing & method); stock Providers of Capital CFO, investor relations manager, annual dividends; cash coupons; inquiries regarding general meeting, investor presentations, regular Raya’s various investments and the effect of publications (Quarterly Financial Statements, Raya’s investment strategy on the stock price. Quarterly Earnings Release, and Press Releases). Suppliers Building strategic Meetings, events, conferences, phone, and Ongoing, daily, Growing need to establish comprehensive Working towards enrolling RDC in supplier certification and engagement partnerships with email weekly, monthly and partnerships with suppliers to ensure programs; plans for setting up a new function/role for partnership suppliers, monitoring annually 360-degree wins (RDC); securing more and channel management (RDC); incorporating supplier relationship performance. structures and organized channels of supply management (especially payments) as a financial KPI for finance (BariQ). and procurement departments (RDC); collaborating with supplier to implement incentivized reverse vending machine program at major public locations, thereby securing a more structured channel of supply and spreading awareness regarding recycling and environmental stewardship. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 33 CUSTOMER FOCUS Meeting and anticipating our customers’ needs is at the core of Raya’s business culture. We continuously work towards improving our performance to our customers’ satisfaction. Each of our lines of business has created a structured and responsive system that matches the requirements of their respective market, to ensure our customers’ are receiving the high quality services and products they expect. These customer satisfaction systems involve regular communication, as well as a clear process and timeline for addressing areas in need of improvement. In addition, even where clients’ feedback indicate they are satisfied across the board, we work to continuously innovate our services and products – and the processes we use to create these – to stay ahead of the curve and anticipate our clients’ needs. 34 35 “The Information Security Policy therefore CUSTOMER ensures the protection of the DATA PROTECTION confidentiality, integrity and With many of our business lines operating in the ICT sector, the responsible use of data is integral to the success of our operations. Our Acceptable Use Policy outlines availability of how our staff across Raya Holding and each of our lines of business use our internal all physical and electronic and external systems, such as computer terminals, software and related equipment and technology. The aim of this policy is to ensure the security of our systems and protect against both intentional and unintentional breaches, such as virus attacks, and compromise of our network systems and services. information In addition, Raya Data Center has a comprehensive Information Security Policy assets.” that applies to all Raya employees, which provides clear guidelines to safeguard all information systems it hosts. This is crucial as not only does Raya Data Center manage extensive data systems on behalf of its clients, it also provides all of Raya’s business lines IT and data center services. The Information Security Policy therefore ensures the protection of the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all physical and electronic information assets, according to the international standards that Raya Data Center abides by. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 37 OUR TALENT To ensure a unified approach that treats all our employees fairly and allows them to flourish, our human resource (HR) management approach is set at the Raya Holding level, where we develop policies that are applied across all our lines of business. Each line of business may build on these policies to meet the needs of its sector and operating environment. At the core lie the same policies that embody our values, and ensure each and all of our employees work and benefit according to the same set of principles. These policies encompass the following: • The Raya Code of Business Conduct • The Raya Saving Plan Program SOPs • The Raya Training Needs Analysis & Training • The Raya Vacations Attendance Policy Plan Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) • The Raya Achievers Club SOPs • The Raya Medical Insurance Policy • The Raya STARs Program SOPs • The Raya Life Insurance Policy • The Raya Wall of Fame Policy 38 39 OPEN COMMUNICATION To ensure that each and every Raya • Monthly Chairman’s and CEO’s employee is working according Breakfasts: Every month we have to the same core values and a Chairman’s Breakfast at Raya Raya Contact principles, we continuously strive Holding, and a CEO Breakfast to maintain open communication at each line of business. These Center between senior management and breakfasts allow a random selection Continuously all our employees. To ensure that of employees to meet the highest level Works Towards communication is an active dialogue, of management and discuss their Employee both communicating important concerns. Aside from the Chairman information to our employees and or CEO we also have the respective Satisfaction encouraging employees to speak highest HR manager present – either Retention is a key issue up regarding any concerns or ideas, our Chief HR Officer at Raya Holding, across the call center Raya Holding maintains the following or the respective line of business’ HR industry. Raya Contact channels of communication across Director – encouraging employees to Center works continuously Raya headquarters, as well as within take a direct route to raise concerns to provide its employees each of our lines of business: at the highest level. with a positive work • Weekly Circulars: Our weekly environment. In addition • Universal Open Door Policy: From circulars serve as a reminder to all to offering meaningful any direct supervisor to each line of employees regarding key points professional development business’ CEO and Raya Holding from our policies, such as the Raya opportunities, we regularly Chairman Medhat Khalil himself, any Code of Business Conduct and our engage with our employees employee can directly email or speak Whistleblowing Policy, to ensure that on a daily, weekly, monthly with each level of management. throughout our lines of business and and annually basis through • Annual Kickoff Meeting: At the at Raya Holding headquarters each succinct yet comprehensive beginning of each year, Raya Holding’s employee works to uphold our values employee satisfaction annual kickoff meeting serves as a and principles. surveys. This includes our platform for senior management to • Fluka Magazine: Our internal news ‘Smiley Survey’, whereby communicate the preceding year’s magazine ‘Fluka’ is circulated every employees select a happy, performance and present the strategy month and includes employee neutral or sad smiley on going forward. In addition, employees contributions in addition to key their computer each day, from all levels are invited to voice any developments across Raya Holding’s and have the space to add queries they might have directly to lines of business. comments. A structured senior management and receive an process ensures results • Rayetna: Our internal intranet immediate answer. of this survey are closely ‘Rayetna’ has a dedicated discussion • Raya Town Hall Meeting: A yearly board for employees to voice their monitored and used to corporate event where senior thoughts and opinions, and discuss immediately respond to management and Raya’s achievers any concerns. arising concerns and issues and top performers are invited – mitigating negative fallout • On-going Focus Groups and to attend and discuss the overall and increasing employee Employee Satisfaction Surveys: strategy for the year. During this loyalty and morale. These are conducted to measure event, Raya’s celebrates the Wall employee motivation, performance, of Fame winner of the year and the and morale, and address any issues annual STARS leaders in portraying “We accordingly. Raya’s core values. • Open Access Computer: To ensure • Monthly Management Meetings: Each team will have a regular monthly that all of our employees are able to continuously strive to access and view the online material meeting with their direct manager we send and make available, we have to ensure each team member understands what is expected of set up a designated open access computer at Raya headquarters for maintain open them, and is aligned with the goals for the team and the organization as those employees that do not have one themselves, allowing them to communication a whole. freely make use of these resources. between senior management and all our employees.” 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 41 “We take a systematic approach to INVESTING IN develop our talent.” OUR PEOPLE At Raya Holding we firmly believe that people are our key resource. We take a systematic approach to develop our talent, as outlined in our Training Needs Analysis & Training SOPs. This approach ensures that each and every Raya employee receives regular and targeted training that enhances their skills to meet the demands of their position, allows them to develop professionally and continuously drive Raya forward. Every new employee at any Raya line of business or at Raya Holding undergoes a full-day orientation program that provides a briefing regarding our main policies and procedures, including the Raya Code of Business Conduct. Employees receive copies of these key policies in both English and Arabic. The orientation further involves practical guidance on our IT services and procedures, safety and security measures, in addition to a tour of the building. Each line of business conducts an extensive learning needs analysis on an annual basis to determine the need for training on both the technical level related to the specific sector, as well as the need for developing soft skills to improve teamwork, management and both internal and external communication. This learning needs analysis is a comprehensive process, reaching from the organizational level, to each team and individual employee. Each employee receives a performance appraisal on an annual basis to determine individual learning and development needs. At the same time, training plans for individuals, teams and whole lines of business are aligned with the Raya Holding overall vision and mission, as well as the strategy of each line of business to ensure the overall effectiveness of our investments in our talent. Raya Contact Center Provides Key Soft Skills & Technical Training Retention and quality of service are key issues across the call center industry. In addition to the comprehensive general training requirements set at Raya Holding level, Raya Contact Center provides a targeted combination of trainings for technical and soft skills to enable employees to succeed and advance in their positions. This notably includes comprehensive English language courses provided free of charge to all employees at all language levels, as well as other transferable skills from computing to business etiquette and presentation skills. To provide quality training for each of its employees, the contact center houses its own academy with 45 trainers. Our technical training quality is assured on the client side: we provide the training but our clients grant certificates of successful completion that ensure employees have the training needed to satisfy our clients. 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 43 Training Programs Throughout our history, Raya Holding and its associated lines of business have distinguished themselves through our staff’s outstanding technical knowledge and insight. Our training policy is set at the corporate level, but each line of business has developed in-depth technical training programs to meet the needs of its sector and ensure the skills of its employees. In addition, more recently we have moved to also heavily invest in developing our staff’s management skills and those employees that show high potential for continued success within Raya. Average number of training hours: Male Female Senior Management Middle Management Junior Staff Number of training hours 21.70 24.41 17.01 22.65 29.87 Our Foundation Programs were launched in 2014 and are divided into the Supervisory Development Program (SDP), the Managerial Development Program (MDP) and the Leadership Development Program (LDP). Both the SDP and MDP are implemented in collaboration with internationally renowned training providers, Dale Carnegie, while the LDP is implemented together with Egypt’s top university, the American University in Cairo. Taking part in the program designated for their level is mandatory for all supervisory grade employees. We thereby ensure that all of our managerial staff is aligned and continue to develop their skills to successfully lead their teams forward. In addition to the Foundation Programs, the CEOs of our business lines take part in the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University. This ensures that our highest level of management has the ability to lead Raya’s business across borders, with the skills to compete and succeed at a global level in today’s continuously changing environment. Number of attendees of foundation training programs: Course Supervisory Development Managerial Development Leadership Development Program (SDP) Program (MDP) Program (LDP) Total number of 281 71 19 attendees Raya Holding believes in empowering our young staff members, investing in their potential and allowing them to advance from within Raya Holding. This is exemplified by Bassem Megahed, who started working at Raya as an accountant and advanced to become CEO of our most profitable business line, Raya Trade. We understand that our future lies in investing in the younger generation, developing their talent to put into action our plans to continue expanding internationally with leaders who are intimately familiar with Raya’s inner workings, our values and goals. Accordingly, our Talent Management Program focuses on identifying those of our staff members who demonstrate the potential to thrive at higher levels of management within Raya’s structure and different lines of business and providing these employees with the tools to advance successfully. “We thereby ensure that all of our managerial staff is aligned and continue to develop their skills to successfully lead their teams forward.” 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 45 Encouraging Excellence and contributions across Raya Holdings and its lines of business. The high value we place on our • The Raya STARS Program: This employees is further demonstrated in program serves to promote our the wide range of benefits we provide corporate values, encourage our to them. All of our employees, whether employees to apply them as much as they are working on a full-time or casual possible in their work and recognize basis, are provided with private medical those that have demonstrated the insurance, setting us apart from our local use of these values through positive competitors. Our full-time employees contributions. Raya STAR employees further benefit from Life Insurance, a are selected on a monthly, quarterly Pension Savings Plan, a Stock Options and annual basis. The final ‘Annual Plan, a Housing Allowance and a Car Stars’ are invited to take part in the Allowance. annual RAC trip (see below). The Raya Holding headquarters • The Raya Achiever’s Club (RAC) Program: The RAC Program serves “We have several building, which also accommodates staff from Raya Data Center, Raya to increase our employees’ job programs that Contact Center, Raya Trade, Raya IT, Ostool and Raya International Services, satisfaction, motivate our employees to be productive, and recognize enable us to provides extensive facilities to the Raya our top performing employees’ achievements. Each line of business reward our employees working there. To encourage our employees’ wellbeing and health, will select their top achievers each highest achievers the building hosts a fully-equipped gym, including a designated time for only year, who are then invited to take part in the annual 5-day, recreational RAC and recognize female employees to use the gym should trip. With all-expenses paid, in 2016 the RAC trip went to Romania. their contribution they feel uncomfortable otherwise. The headquarters building also has a large • The Raya Wall of Fame Program: to driving Raya cafeteria, with a range of subsidized healthy eating options – including a Each year, one employee from across Raya Holdings and its lines of business forward.” ‘Healthy Corner’ providing healthy sandwiches and a juice bar. Moreover, is selected to become part of the Raya Wall of Fame. This Program allows us the building hosts a dedicated doctor to recognize outstanding employees and clinic, as well as a well-stocked and highlight role models that guide pharmacy. We furthermore provide our other staff members and motivate local transportation for our employees them in their work. For this unique to travel to and from work. The total recognition, employees need to amount of employee benefits Raya have demonstrated the continuous Holding paid in 2016 reached 57,218 pursuit of excellence in their work EGP.* for Raya over four consecutive years. This includes driving Raya At Raya, we continuously work towards forward in business terms, as well encouraging our employees to reach as demonstrating superior qualities their highest potential. To motivate our of leadership on a personal level and employees to embody our values to when engaging with others. Raya Wall the fullest and strive towards achieving of Fame winners have their picture excellence in their work, we have several and name engraved on the Raya programs that enable us to reward our Wall of Fame, which is prominently highest achievers and recognize their positioned in the Raya headquarters contribution to driving Raya forward. entrance hall. Winners further receive In 2016, 239 employees were a valuable gift and are invited to join recognized for their achievements the RAC trip. *This includes all transportation allowances, mobile expenses, medical insurance and expenses, social insurance, life insurance, Pension Savings Plan, housing allowance and subsidizing the staff cafeteria. 2015 Stars for Teamwork, Respect for People, Customer Focus, and Excellence. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 47 Health & Safety Raya Holding is committed to protecting the health and safety of its employees, Over the past year there have been and continues to develop and improve internal standards for safety and security no reported incidents of injuries, and systems. Since 2012, we acquired OHSAS 18001 certification with regards no violations of our health and safety to occupational health and safety, which we continue to maintain. In line policy. In addition, Raya Headquarters with this, Raya Holding conducts internal audits on its premises on a regular basis in Cairo’s 6th of October has a Health to ensure suppliers’ compliance with required health and safety standards. and Safety Committee which is formed by 17 members representing all different Raya Holding’s Health and Safety Policy • Establishing appropriate objectives business lines and departments located aims to prevent work related injury and and targets, and continuously at the headquarters. Each committee ill health, to provide work environments monitoring and benchmarking these member has received a certified health that do not compromise the safety to identify opportunities for continual and safety training are and together of any individual, and to ensure that improvement. the Committee is responsible for occupational health and safety is • Implementing risk management overseeing health and safety issues and proactively managed throughout systems to identify, assess, monitor, demands. The Committee is chaired by business operations. This is realized and control workplace risks and Corporate Communication and Facility through: hazards. Management Director, Tamer Abdel Aziz • Providing a safe and healthy • Providing information, instruction, and on behalf of Raya’s Holding Chairman workplace and working conditions for and CEO, Medhat Khalil. training for employees to increase all, including employees, contractors, personal understanding of workplace customers and visitors. Raya Holding takes measurements of risks and hazards. • Ensuring occupational health and the workplace environment every three safety issues are considered an • Regularly evaluating the effectiveness years, to identify, and address if needs of the occupational health and be, possible health risks for employees. integral part of the way we do safety (OH&S) management system The measurements are done in business. to ensure ongoing continuous cooperation with the Egyptian National • Involving employees and subimprovement. contractors on health and safety Institute of Occupational Health & matters, and consulting them on • Complying with all available health Safety and cover heat levels, oxygen/ and safety laws, regulations, statutory ventilation levels, light levels, and noise ways to reduce workplace hazards obligations, client, and industry levels. If any of the measurements fall and improving control systems. requirements. outside the levels decreed by local Egyptian law, then corrective actions are taken to ensure they meet the recommended levels. “Over the Raya Data Center Implements Best Practices for the Safety of Employees and past year Equipment there have Our data centers fulfill a complex set of requirements to international standards that balance business performance been no and the wellbeing of our employees. This starts at building design, for example: constructing data centers at a distance from water sources and cleaning gutters regularly to reduce the risk of damage from flooding, building reported airshafts into otherwise sealed rooms to ensure employees have fresh air in case of a cooling outage, and isolating incidents of injuries, and data centers to avoid damaging magnetic and electronic waves affecting employees. no violations of our health and safety policy.” 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 49 Equal Opportunity and Diversity Raya Holding is an equal opportunities employer that strives to treat its employees makes them or others uncomfortable, and its subsidiaries. Every year we with respect and dignity – ‘respect for people’ being one of our fundamental corporate and to report any harassment as soon as celebrate International Women’s Day to values. Aside from guaranteeing our employees’ rights to non-discrimination, we it occurs. Threats, physical intimidation show our support for women’s equitable understand that a diverse workforce provides many benefits, such as increases in or acts of violence are fundamentally participation in the workforce. As part of productivity and creativity, as well as greater adaptability to expand in the global prohibited. the 2016 celebrations, we participated marketplace. This approach applies to all human resources practices, including in the Egyptian Stock Exchange’s ‘Ring recruitment, hiring, placement, promotion, separation, compensation, benefits Women’s Advancement the Bell for Gender Equality Event’, administration, training, social and recreational programs, and the use of Raya joining stock exchanges across the Group facilities. Given the low rate of women’s globe to raise awareness for women’s participation in the workforce in equitable economic participation and Equal opportunities are guaranteed during the hiring process at Raya by ensuring Egypt, particularly in the ICT field, its critical importance to sustainable that every applicant is assessed based on non-discriminatory criteria only, such as Raya is proud to be working towards development and business growth. their skills and qualifications, by using a standardized and multilayered selection empowering female employees and In 2016 we also celebrated the process. We also support the growth of internal talent by announcing vacancies using our prominent position in the field International Day for Women and Girls internally and encouraging existing employees to apply. Raya enjoys a diversified to encourage women’s advancement in in Science on February 11th, to highlight pool of employees with regard to age, gender, religion, race, color, culture, and ICT. We have partnered with the Egyptian the significance of female role models background, demonstrating the absence of discriminative practices during the Information, Telecommunications, at Raya Holding. As part of this, we hiring process. Egyptian labor law mandates that 5% of jobs go to people with Electronics, and Software Alliance showcased inspirational quotes from disabilities, and Raya Holding is working towards this target and taking a proactive (EITESAL), to join forces and female executives across Raya on how approach despite deficiencies in Egypt’s ecosystem with regards to training and promote women’s participation and to overcome challenges and become availing qualified labor with disabilities to engage in the workforce. leadership in the ICT sector. EITESAL successful business leaders. is a private sector, non-profit entity 2016 return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender: of ICT companies, multinationals, organizations and institutions operating Women Men in Egypt. Parental leave entitlement 3 months 1 day Furthermore, we are embarking Entitled to parental leave All All on a partnership with the German Took parental leave 36 22 development agency (GIZ) to collaborate Returned to work after parental leave 33 22 as part of the EconoWin project, through Still employed 12 months after returning to work 31 22 winning the EconoWin Gender Diversity “We are embarking on Competition in Egypt. The aim of this Compensation is based on an annual salary and benefits survey analysis, which collaboration is to encourage women’s applies the internationally recognized Towers Watson system for fair and equitable job leveling. Employees are compensated based on their level of achievement in economic participation, create womenfriendly workplaces and ensure women’s a partnership with the relation to their annual objectives. This system ensures that employees are motivated to be productive and reach their targets, confident that they will be rewarded based equitable professional advancement. German Development Agency (GIZ) to As part of this, Raya Holding will work on their performance. towards implementing the Women’s Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men: Empowerment Principles A partnership initiative between UN (WEPs). collaborate as part of Women and the UN Global Compact, the EconoWin project, through winning the Men Women the WEPs are a set of seven steps providing guidance to businesses on Senior Management Middle Management Basic salary Basic salary 1.17 1.07 1 1 how to promote women’s participation and leadership in the workforce. In line EconoWin Gender Entry Level Basic salary 1.15 1 with this, Raya Holding Chairman and Diversity Competition in Egypt.” CEO Mr. Medhat Khalil signed the WEPs Consistent with Egyptian legislation, Raya Holding has a strict policy against abusive CEO Statement of Support in 2015. or offensive conduct, whether verbal physical or visual. This includes harassment based on gender, race or ethnicity, as well as unwelcome sexual advances. Our This is in addition to our continuous work Speak-Up Policy encourages employees to raise concerns if a coworkers’ conduct supporting women across Raya Holding 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 51 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Established as a model for doing business in a strictly compliant manner, Raya Holding has valued the importance of advancing environmental sustainability and promoting environmentallyfriendly technologies since its establishment. Raya Holding and its subsidiaries comply with all the national environmental laws and regulations in Egypt, and often take steps beyond local compliance to ensure environmental sustainability and business efficiency. 52 53 Raya Holding’s environmental Use of Energy In 2016, Raya Data Center launched compliance approach ensures the its public Cloud Computing Platform adoption of various global guidelines, in the Egyptian market. We aim to use Raya Smart Buildings are a part of our Reusing & management systems and standards this platform to address the increasing efforts in promoting environmentallyfor itself and its subsidiaries where friendly business models, by creating demand for processing power and Donating IT relevant. Raya Holding is a member energy for data centers of Egyptian of the United Nations Global innovative, energy efficient, and enterprises. Many businesses in Egypt Equipment Compact (UNGC). As a member, resource-saving office buildings in the build their own data centers to cater new urban centers of Cairo. Our Smart To ensure our equipment we are committed to incorporating for their IT requirements, which can Buildings were created in partnership is always up-to-date and the UNGC’s principles and systems create significant wasted energy. with the US Green Building Council meets the evolving demands into the company’s environmental Raya’s Cloud Computing Platform is a (USGBC) LEED program; the leading of the markets we serve, strategy. Over the years, Raya Holding solution that ensures the efficient use of benchmark in green building. Buildings Raya Data Center and Raya has invested in key business lines processing resources, which minimizes where environmental stewardship that are certified by LEED (Leadership Contact Center renew IT wasted energy. The platform targets is a cornerstone to operations. This in Energy and Environmental Design) equipment on a continuous small, medium, and large enterprises, includes our focus on: are resource efficient, require less basis. To minimize waste, encouraging economies of scale in water and energy, reduce greenhouse we work to dismantle this power and cooling consumption, and • Developing energy-efficient and gas emissions, and save money. equipment and reuse the contributing to a greener IT sector in resource-saving commercial and Accordingly, Raya Smart Buildings’ parts that are still serviceable Egypt. office complexes according to Galleria40 is Egypt’s first commercial to our standards. We international standards of green complex constructed according to endeavor to donate, At BariQ, an Energy Recovery Kit (ERK) building such as the internationally LEED ‘Gold’ Certification, signifying a whenever our operations will be installed in the supply-side recognized LEED program, for leap in the proliferation of green building allow it, any equipment platform (SSP) production line, which example Raya Smart Buildings’ structures. that no longer meets our recovers some of the heat generated Galleria40 shopping mall and office standards to relevant social during operations, and allows this to be complex; Raya Holding Headquarters is further impact organizations as part reused in the early production stages; equipped with a complex, stateof our CSR activities. • Developing greener IT solutions saving both energy and money. This of-the-art air-conditioning system, through launching our cloud is being done in collaboration with which ensures maximization of energy computing platform in the Egyptian an Austrian machinery supplier and efficiency. This contributes substantially market, in addition to energybusiness partner of BariQ. to the reduction of energy consumption efficient and eco-friendly facilities, at Raya Data Center; given that air-conditioning constitutes more than half of the energy use in our Use of Water • Establishing BariQ: the awardoffice environment. This has not only winning manufacturer of recycled reduced our energy footprint, but has Raya Smart Buildings’ Galleria40 polyethylene terephthalate (RPET), also substantially decreased the bill we mall and office complex has been and the first of its kind in the MENA pay for this utility. Furthermore, we are constructed according to LEED ‘Gold’ region; working towards converting all the lights Certification standards – the first such • Maximizing the utilization of in our offices to LED lights to reduce building in Egypt – which incorporates our resources while promoting energy consumption. several innovative environmentallyproductivity and complying with friendly features. This includes a Egyptian and international laws; Raya’s most energy-intensive operation ‘greywater system’, which collects used water from non-toilet related fixtures “ Over the • Establishing a Waste Recovery Unit (WRU) to enable the company is the Raya Data Center. Since its inception in 2012, a commitment was such as sinks, showers and washing years, Raya to convert production waste into non-food grade products at BariQ, made to make data center facilities eco-friendly and energy-efficient. Raya machines, and then reuses this water in other applications, including irrigation Holding has expanding our product offering Data Center has a power quality and and toilet flushes. As a result, water consumption is substantially reduced, invested in there; • Installing an Energy Recovery Kit efficiency monitoring system in place that includes thermal zone mapping conserving this vital resource in waterkey business (ERK) to recover heat generated and power quality meters, in addition to continuous internal auditing to prevent scarce Egypt, and saving money. lines where environmental in the SSP production line and reusing it in early production the inefficient use of power resources stewardship is stages to save energy and money, and guarantee environmentally also at BariQ. sustainable conditions in day-to-day operations. a cornerstone to operations.” BariQ Energy Recovery Unit 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 55 Recycled PET Pellets Waste Management Raya Holding’s waste is mostly office related, and not significant. There is around 10,000 EGP worth of paper waste generated every year, which is given to Resala Association, a non-profit based in Egypt, to be reused or recycled. Raya Holding will also start giving plastic bottles used by its employees to BariQ for recycling. BariQ is the first ‘bottle-to-bottle’ manufacturer in Egypt, Africa, and the Middle East region; reprocessing post-consumer bottles into food-grade PET pellets. BariQ reprocesses post-consumer plastic PET bottles with a total annual quantity of 25,000 MT (approximately 1.6 billion bottles), that would otherwise likely become part of the landfill or burnt, providing top-quality food-grade pellets to major international bottle and food container makers and major recycled-material fiber producers throughout Europe and the United States. As part of its operations, BariQ installed a new Waste Recovery Unit (WRU), which enables the company to use so-called slow-moving waste items by converting them into non-food grade products. Along with the food-grade PET products, these new items will assist the company in penetrating new markets by offering an increasingly diversified product mix. Additionally, the WRU will provide two new sources of raw materials for the existing PET production. BariQ has spent a total of approximately 5 million EGP on environmental protection investments in 2015 and 2016. These expenditures were used to cover the following measures: 1. Installing an energy recovery kit (ERK) 2. Installing a waste recovery unit (WRU) 3. Building sound proof rooms in the production line 4. Upgrading the ventilation system 5. Operating and upgrading the waste water treatment unit 6. Ensuring the safe disposal of waste BariQ – Recycling, Recovering & Minimizing Waste BariQ is Raya’s Recycled PET manufacturer, the first in the region. In addition to basing its business on recycling, BariQ recently installed a Waste Recovery Unit (WRU) which collects materials that would otherwise be production line waste, and converts them into a different non-food grade product. BariQ has also started implementation of Lean Supply Chain Principles, beginning a continuous process of efficiency improvement and minimization of waste across its operations, while also educating staff members on the need and methods to avoid wastage. Moreover, BariQ will be installing an Energy Recovery Kit (ERK), which collects excess heat from one stage of production to be reinvested where required in another stage, saving time and money. 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 57 CREATING SHARED VALUE & FOSTERING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Raya Holding is continuously working towards creating an impactful framework for strategic corporate social responsibility (CSR) that ensures our business sustainability and contributes meaningfully to sustainable development in our communities and across Egypt. 58 59 “Raya Holding is continuously working towards creating an impactful framework for strategic Raya’s CSR strategy and activities corporate social are determined by our CSR Raya Contact responsibility Committee composed of employee volunteers and our CSR Manager, as Center (CSR) that ensures well as chaired by Raya Data Center CEO and Corporate Governance Targets Youth our business Committee member, Reem Asaad. Unemployment sustainability.” Our CSR strategy is built on three pillars, determined upon reflection Youth unemployment is an of Raya’s internal needs and external endemic issue in Egypt. environment: Due to its labor intensive operations, Raya Contact 1. Sustainability: Center directly works towards alleviating this We understand that sustainability issue, providing young is key to our long-term success, graduates with decent with the aim of creating a work and professional comprehensive framework for development that ensure sustainable business that is their successful integration ingrained in each aspect of our into the labor force from the work. This pillar guides all our CSR start. Moreover, we directly activities and initiatives, and this target locations with a large first sustainability report is a result pool of potential talent but of the work on this pillar. limited job opportunities. 2. Gender Diversity: Our site in Hurghada in Advancing women’s active and Upper Egypt demonstrates inclusive participation in the this approach, having workforce is key to the continued created about 2,000 jobs success of our business and the over the past two years in economy at large. As a result, we this otherwise employment are actively working to create a scarce region. And we have more inclusive work environment plans to expand into other for women and support women’s such areas across Egypt, leadership at Raya and beyond. For spreading employment more information on our activities opportunities where they in this field, see the section on are needed most. This ‘Women’s Advancement’ above. exemplifies our commitment 3. Anti-Corruption: to shared value creation: improving business Honesty and integrity are at the efficiency by reducing our core of how we conduct business turnover while providing at Raya Holding and across our much-needed employment subsidiaries. These values are opportunities to Egyptian part of the Raya DNA, and we youth. understand them as integral to the sustainability of our business. To ensure these values are applied comprehensively and according to international best practice within Raya, we are developing an Anti-Corruption Policy and implementation plan, and have already implemented a companywide Whistleblowing Policy. To find out more, see the section on ‘AntiCorruption’. 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 61 SOCIAL INVESTMENT With regards to engaging local communities as part of our CSR activities, we work closely with a small number of carefully selected local organizations. Our work with these organizations supports the implementation of social development initiatives with the potential to create sustained and meaningful impact to improve livelihoods and overall wellbeing. Our Social Investment activities have mostly focused on education and healthcare, based on these areas’ large potential for sustainable impact and socioeconomic development. Moreover, we have also been involved with emergency response assistance efforts. Education Supporting Innovative Educational quality of education within the public supporting their communities and Solutions for Underprivileged schools; this remains a critical challenge accelerating sustainable growth. Children in Egypt. The aim of the program is to Educate Me is an innovative Egyptian equip teachers with the knowledge and Raya employees leveraged their NGO working to provide learnerthe skills needed to deliver a high quality knowhow by teaching Egyptian students centered, skills-based education for learning experience. Raya sponsored key skills not covered in the public school children in the underprivileged area the training of 103 teachers in five public curriculum, in such fields as financial of Talbeya Haram in Giza, Egypt. schools, which included training in literacy, basic management, effective Putting individual self-actualization and behavior management and teaching 21st communication, self-discovery, and mutual responsibility at the center of century skills (a broad set of knowledge, responsible citizenship. In 2016, Raya its educational model, Educate Me skills, work habit, and character traits employees volunteered an estimated is working towards transforming the that are critically important to success in 205 training hours in public schools to Egyptian education system. Starting today’s world). provide students’ with these important at the grassroots, Educate Me was skills, to ensure they are better prepared founded in 2010 and is now running a Sponsoring Critical Maintenance of to be constructive members of the community school with its own cuttingPublic Schools economy and work towards sustainable edge curricula, working with the Egyptian In collaboration with Egyptian NGO development at large. Ministry of Education to ensure that it is Terous, Raya Holding participated in feasible to adopt its model at the national the Egyptian Ministry of Education’s Raya Holding sponsored an event in scale. initiative ‘Safe Learning Environments 2016 to celebrate INJAZ’s milestone of in Public Schools’. This initiative tackles impacting half a million Egyptian public Raya Holding has recognized the large life-threatening structural deficiencies school students since 2003. During potential for impactful change that in public schools by providing critical the event, 550 volunteers from various Educate Me’s work presents, particularly maintenance services. Raya Holding companies were recognized for their in the context of Egypt’s critically underperforming public school system. sponsored the maintenance of eight public schools in the region of Al contributions. This included employees from Raya, whom received a certificate “Our CSR As a result, we partnered with Educate Ganayen in the Suez Governorate, of appreciation from UN Volunteers and Committee Me to support the necessary expansion of their facilities in Talbeya Haram. This ensuring that 4,118 students have safe learning environments and may continue a certificate of recognition from INJAZ Egypt. defined education has directly impacted the lives of 320 children by ensuring their access to their education without the threat of serious accidents. Delivering Needed IT Equipment to and healthcare quality education, therefore supporting Support the Wellbeing of Egyptian as the focus their self-development and enabling them greater access to opportunities Teaching Essential Skills to Public School Students Orphans Wataneya Society for the Development areas of the CSR in the future. Moreover, supporting Educate Me’s model and enabling the As part of our corporate volunteer program, Raya Holding partnered with of Orphanages is an NGO working towards implementing high standards social investment organization to further scale its activities INJAZ Egypt to contribute to their skillsof care and support for orphans in Egypt activities, based enables Educate Me to advance its mission of changing the Egyptian based education program in public schools. INJAZ is an NGO active across to improve their wellbeing and quality of life. Ensuring the continued use of IT on these areas’ education system, resulting in potentially large-scale sustainable development the region, tackling the endemic issue of youth unemployment and outdated equipment that no longer meets Raya’s stringent requirements but remains large potential dividends for the Egyptian people and education systems in the Arab region. fully functional, Raya Holding provided for sustainable the economy. INJAZ provides targeted learning to prepare Arab youth for the workforce, Wataneya with key IT equipment. This allows Wataneya to be more productive impact and In 2016, Raya Holding supported Educate Me’s ‘Teacher Training Development including basic business and personal skills that enable youth to become and efficient in their daily work, for improved outcomes for caregivers and socioeconomic Program’, which aims to improve the business leaders and entrepreneurs, the orphans they are caring for. development.” 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 63 Community Development Promoting Well-being for Children and Youth: Raya-Sponsored Football Field In an effort to support the local community, Raya’s CSR department has been collaborating with Shaarawy Foundation, which provides aid and services to the community of Masaken Uthman. Masaken Uthman is a neighborhood in 6th of October City whose residents live in relatively precarious conditions. Shaarawy Foundation’s Community Center provides learning, cultural, and extracurricular activities to the children of this community which suffers from high rates of school drop-outs. Raya sponsored the inauguration of Shaarawy Foundation’s football field and celebrated its launch; providing an opportunity for the underprivileged youth of this neighborhood to play sports. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 65 Health Blood Donation Campaigns The Raya Holding CSR department organized four blood donation campaigns between 2015-2016 across all its Cairo premises including the Raya Headquarters, Galleria40, BariQ Factory, Maadi Park Facility and Abassya Call Center. Egyptian hospitals suffer from an endemic lack of quantity and quality in blood supplies, making blood donation urgent and truly lifesaving. This year, Raya collaborated with the Children’s Cancer Hospital 57357 and the Association of Friends of the National Cancer Institute. As a result, Raya employees donated a total of 848 units of blood, saving an estimated 2,544 lives. Annual Health Campaign: Breast Cancer Awareness Starting in 2015, the Raya CSR department is organizing an annual health awareness campaign to encourage the health and wellbeing of our employees. For this year, the campaign focused on raising awareness on the issue of breast cancer. We worked closely with Baheya Hospital – specialized in the treatment of breast cancer – to conduct interactive information sessions led by specialized doctors. These sessions provided key knowledge about cancer, and its risk factors, as well as how to ensure early detection and prevention. In the future, these annual campaigns will tackle different topics to encourage our employees to adopt practices that support their health and ward off illness. Providing Necessary IT Equipment to Children’s Cancer Hospital 57357 As a major ITC conglomerate, Raya Holding regularly updates its IT equipment to meet its top performance needs, resulting in a substantial amount of unused equipment that no longer meets Raya’s performance criteria, yet is still fully functional. Following a call from the renowned Children’s Cancer Hospital 57357 due to their need for replacing outdated IT hardware, Raya donated necessary equipment including laptops, desktops and printers. Raya’s donation contributed to the hospital’s ability to continue to efficiently provide quality health care to international standards for its patients. Annual Health Campaign: Hepatitis C Awareness In 2016, the Annual Health Campaign focused on raising awareness on chronic viral hepatitis, as Egypt has one of the highest rates of infections in the world. A session was offered to employees to raise awareness about the disease, its symptoms, the treatment cycle, and how to protect themselves from contracting the virus. At the end of the session, employees were invited to take a hepatitis C screening test. 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 67 Other Initiatives Emergency Response Assistance Raya has also been involved with emergency response assistance efforts following some extreme weather conditions and devastating floods which had claimed the lives of 25 people in the Nile delta region in October 2015. We collaborated with renowned NGO Misr El Kheir to restore 12 homes in El Salam Village, El Beheira governorate. Raya also sponsored the restoration 25 houses in El Banager Village in Alexandria in 2016, as they suffered through some extreme weather conditions during a particularly harsh winter. Ramadan Campaign – ‘Spread of Smiles’ In collaboration with the Egyptian Food Bank, Raya and its employees contributed to the donation and distribution of 1,000 Ramadan boxes, with each box providing essential food supplies for a whole family throughout the month of Ramadan. Moreover, during the month of Ramadan five of Raya’s CEOs together with team members visited orphanages to provide Iftars and gifts to 177 orphans, bringing the joy and celebration that marks the month of Ramadan to these underprivileged children. In addition, in collaboration with the Egyptian Clothing Bank, clothing donations were collected by means of donation boxes spread across Raya’s premises. Through this initiative about 1,000 units of clothing were collected and distributed to relevant institutions throughout Egypt, to be provided to those in need in celebration of Eid al-Fitr. Raya also sponsored the restoration 25 houses in El Banager Village in Alexandria in 2016, as they suffered through some extreme weather conditions during a particularly harsh winter. Supplier Responsibility BariQ directly tackles the prominent issues of waste that marks the Egyptian environment. However, to supply the plastic bottles needed for producing recycled PET pellets, we rely heavily on the waste collectors. The waste collectors are an informal but highly organized community specialized in garbage collection and known for their efficient recycling methods. Unfortunately, the impoverished waste collectors often operate by employing whole families, including children, and depend on this as a source of income. BariQ is currently determining effective ways to improve the welfare of these waste collectors and their children. BariQ is collaborating with key public institutions and other organizations to convert waste collecting business into more structured and formal business that would follow legal channels. Through formalizing their business dealings, waste collectors will alternatively be able to sign long-term contracts and secure stable sources of income. Moreover, BariQ is actively funding their expansion plans to increase the collection and supply capacity rates through either purchasing necessary equipment like bale presses, forklifts, trucks or land and warehouse rentals. 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 69 GRI CONTENT INDEX & MATERIALITY Sustainability Management Approach Summary Aspect Materiality & Boundary The below table summarizes Raya Holding’s management approach to the general categories of sustainability-related The table below provides an overview of GRI Aspects and their materiality in relation to Raya Holding. It complements the disclosures determined by the GRI G4 Guidelines. A detailed table with each GRI G4 Aspect, its materiality and aspect summary table above and includes each aspect’s materiality and the aspect boundary for material aspects. boundary can be found below. Materiality indicators: Indicates an indicator that is Not Material to Raya Holding Performance Category Management Approach & Materiality Indicates an indicator that is Material to Raya Holding Economic At Raya Holding we endeavor to take a triple bottom line approach, ensuring economic prosperity and profitability, while also safeguarding the environment and Boundary indicators: creating shared value for all our stakeholders. ‘Inside’ – indicates that the aspect has impacts that occur inside Raya Holding, ‘Outside’ – indicates that the aspect has impacts that occur outside Raya Holding. Environmental Our environmental management approach is centered on promoting environmentally-friendly technologies and investing in key business lines where environmental stewardship is a cornerstone of their operations. Our focus is on Performance Aspect Aspect Aspect Section where this is discussed building environmentally responsible and resource-efficient offices/operations, Category Materiality Boundary (in addition to ‘Management developing green IT solutions through cloud computing, recycling waste and Approach’ section) converting waste to products, and maximizing energy efficiency. Economic Economic Performance Inside/Outside About Raya Holding Economic Value Creation Labor Practices & Decent Work People are at the core of our values and ongoing success. We continuously invest Market Presence Inside Equal Opportunity and Diversity in our employees’ professional development and overall work satisfaction, while Indirect Economic Impacts Economic Value Creation ensuring they have a safe and supportive work environment. Throughout our Procurement Practices operations, we respect the rights of all of our employees. Environmental Materials Human Rights Raya Holding has a zero tolerance policy for child and forced labor within our Energy Inside/Outside Use of Energy operations, complying with all relevant national legislation. We believe in upholding Water human rights wherever we have the means to do so and working towards practical Biodiversity solutions where needed. Emissions Effluents and Waste Inside/Outside Waste Management Products and Services Society Raya Holding prides itself in taking a leadership position for sustainable business Compliance Inside/Outside Environmental Sustainability in the Egyptian market. We are working towards mainstreaming international best Transport practices for durable impact across Egyptian society – particularly in the area of antiOverall Inside/Outside Environmental Sustainability corruption. Our CSR department further provides targeted investment of resources Supplier Environmental for impactful projects that work towards Egypt’s sustainable development in local Assessment communities. Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Product & Client Responsibility We endeavor to take a leading position in any market we enter. Maintaining a high quality of products and services lies at the core of our strategy for business Labor Practices & Employment Inside About Raya Holding success, as does ensuring customer satisfaction and safeguarding of customer Decent Work Our Talent privacy. Raya Holding and its subsidiaries hold several international certifications to Labor/Management Relations Inside Stakeholder Engagement this effect, and continuously work to update according to evolving best practices. Open Communication Occupational Health & Safety Inside Health & Safety Training & Education Inside Training Programs Diversity & Equal Opportunity Inside Equal Opportunity and Diversity Equal Remuneration for Women Inside Equal Opportunity and Diversity and Men Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Labor Practices Grievance Inside Open Communication Mechanisms 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 71 Performance Aspect Aspect Aspect Section where this is discussed GRI Content Index Category Materiality Boundary (in addition to ‘Management Approach’ section) This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 reporting guidelines at the ‘Core’ level. The table below presents the GRI G4 Content Index for this sustainability report. Human Rights Investment Non-discrimination Inside Equal Opportunity and Diversity The report has not been externally assured. Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining Disclosure indicators are further highlighted according to the reporting level of each indicator, as follows: Child Labor Outside Supplier Responsibility Not Reported (Indicates cases that are relevant to Raya, cases that are commercially confidential, and/or cases where Forced or Compulsory Labor Raya lacks relevant information at the moment and is committed to address this lack in future reporting) Security Practices Partially Reported (Indicates cases where only part of the indicator may be relevant, and/or cases where Raya compiles Indigenous Rights some but not all relevant information and is working towards reporting fully on them in the future) Assessment Fully Reported Supplier Human Rights Assessment Human Rights Grievance STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures Mechanisms General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of Society Local Communities Outside Stakeholder Engagement Disclosure or Response Reporting Social Investment 1. Strategy and Analysis Anti-corruption Inside Anti-Corruption Public Policy G4-1 Statement on Sustainability from p.8 Anti-competitive Behavior the most senior decision-maker of Compliance Inside Compliance & Disclosure the organization Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society 2. Organizational Profile Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-3 Name of the organization Raya Holding for Technology and Communication SAE Product Customer Health & Safety Outside Our Values Responsibility Product & Service Labeling p.11-15 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or Marketing Communications services Customer Privacy Outside Customer Data Protection Compliance Outside Our Values G4-5 Location of the organization’s 26th July Street, Touristic Zone, headquarters 6th of October, 12568 Egypt G4-6 Number of countries where the p.11-12 organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p.11-12 G4-8 Markets served (including p.11-12 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization p.14 & 30-34 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 73 General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of Disclosure or Response Reporting Disclosure or Response Reporting G4-10 Workforce information p.85 Stakeholder Engagement Raya Holding and its lines of business do not hire a substantial number of contractors or seasonal G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged p.7 & 30-33 workers. by the organization. G4-25 The basis for identification and p.30-33 Percentage of total employees None of Raya Holding’s employees selection of stakeholders with are covered by collective bargaining G4-11 covered by collective bargaining whom to engage agreements. agreements G4-26 Approaches to Stakeholder p.30-33 Engagement Significant elements of Raya Description of the organization’s Holding’s supply chain – at the G4-12 supply chain holding level and not inclusive of its G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have p.30-33 various lines of business – include IT been raised through stakeholder hardware and software, utilities and engagement, and how the consumable office supplies. organization has responded to those key topics and concerns G4-13 Changes during the reporting period p.11-12 regarding the organization’s size, There have been no further changes in Raya’s size, structure, ownership structure, ownership, supply chain. and supply chain. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting Period 2015 calendar year G4-14 Report whether and how the p.22 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report This is Raya Holding’s first report precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 G4-30 Reporting cycle Every 2 years Externally developed economic, p.11-12 environmental and social charters, G4-31 Contact for questions regarding the p.7 principles, or other initiatives to which report or its contents the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the p.7 & 70-80 G4-16 organization has chosen. Memberships of associations and p.11 Report the GRI Content Index for the national or international advocacy chosen option. Report the reference to the External Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-17 Entities included in the p.84 organization’s consolidated financial G4-33 The organization’s policy and current This report has not been externally assured. statements practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report G4-18 Process for defining the report p.7 content Governance G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the p.71-72 process for defining report content. G4-34 Governance structure of the p.22-27 organization G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the p.71-72 organization Ethics and Integrity G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the p.71-72 G4-56 Description of the organization’s p.19-22 organization values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes G4-22 Explanation of any re-statements This is Raya Holding’s first of conduct and codes of ethics. sustainability report. of information provided in earlier reports Specific Standard Disclosures G4-23 Significant changes from previous This is Raya Holding’s first G4-DMA Management Approach for Material p.70-73 reporting sustainability report. Aspects 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 75 General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of Disclosure or Response Reporting Disclosure or Response Reporting ECONOMIC Compliance Economic Performance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines Raya Holding has not been fined or received non-monetary sanctions for and total number of non-monetary non-compliance with environmental laws Direct economic value generated p.29 & 81-84 sanctions for non-compliance with and regulations. G4-EC1 and distributed environmental laws and regulations Market Presence Overall G4EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by Raya Holding is not able to disclose G4-EN31 Total environmental protection None for Raya Holding and the Raya this informationt Holding headquarters building during the gender compared to local minimum wage expenditures and investments by reporting period. 5 million EGP for at significant locations of operation type BariQ in 2015 and 2016 combined (see p.56) ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL Energy Employment G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the While we are conscious of our energy G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee p.31 & 85 consumption and moving towards organization hires and employee turnover by age group, reducing our environmental footprint, Raya Holding does not currently track its energy gender and region consumption. For more information regarding our energy use and our methods for reducing G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p.74 our environmental footprint, please see that are not provided to temporary or partp.53 time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption While we are conscious of our energy consumption and moving towards G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after p.50 reducing our environmental footprint, Raya parental leave, by gender Holding does not currently track its energy consumption. For more information regarding our energy use and our methods for reducing Labor/ Management relations our environmental footprint, please see G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding We maintain a minimum notice p.53-56 period of one month. operational changes Effluents and wastes Occupational health and safety G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and While we are conscious of our energy consumption and moving towards G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce The currently available data is limited to disposal method reducing our environmental footprint, Raya Raya headquarters, which hosts staff Holding does not currently track its energy represented in formal joint managementfrom Raya Holding, Raya Data Center, consumption. For more information regarding worker health and safety committees Raya Contact Center, Raya IT and Raya our energy use and our methods for reducing Trade. Each line of business has an our environmental footprint, please see employee representative in the Health p.53-56 and Safety Committee, with overall 1.31% of the total Raya headquarters Products and services workforce represented. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of While we are conscious of our energy consumption and moving towards environmental impacts of products reducing our environmental footprint, Raya and services Holding does not currently track its energy consumption. For more information regarding our energy use and our methods for reducing our environmental footprint, please see p.53-56 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 77 General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of General Standard Description Materiality Disclosure Reference Level of Disclosure or Response Reporting Disclosure or Response Reporting Training and Education SOCIETY G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year p.44 Local communities per employee by gender, and by employee category G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with Raya Holding does not currently track community engagement across all of implemented local community its different lines of business. For more G4-LA10 Programs for skills management While we have a comprehensive engagement information about community engagement training strategy to assist each and and lifelong learning at the holding level, as well as examples every employee with their professional of community engagement at some of our development, Raya Holding does not lines of business, please see currently offer lifelong learning programs to assist with career endings. For more p.59-68 information regarding our different training programs, please see p.48 Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on p.22 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving 100% of full-time Raya employees. anti-corruption policies regular performance and career development reviews Compliance Diversity and equal opportunity G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Raya Holding has not been fined or sanctioned during the and total number of non-monetary G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and p.85 reporting period. sanctions for non-compliance with breakdown of employees per employee laws and regulations category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicator of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and p.50 Product and service labeling remuneration of women to men G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring As this report is limited in scope, the quantitative data is only reported customer satisfaction in relation to Raya Holding at the aggregate or holding company Labor practices grievance mechanisms level. We currently do not have the capacity to provide aggregate G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor No grievances were filed during results, while the holding company the reporting period. itself does not have customers and practices filed, addressed, and therefore does not conduct customer resolved through formal grievance satisfaction surveys. mechanisms For more information regarding how HUMAN RIGHTS we approach customer satisfaction across Raya Holding and our lines of Non-discrimination business, please see p.35. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of None of our operations are at risk for incidents of child labor. discrimination and corrective Customer Privacy For more information on how we actions taken approach the issue of child labor where it may affect our supply chain, please see G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated None for Raya Holding (the holding p.68 company does not have direct complaints regarding breaches of customers). customer privacy and losses of Child labor customer data For more information regarding how we approach customer privacy across Raya Holding and our lines of G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified None of our operations are at risk for incidents of child labor. For more business, please see p.36. as having significant risk for information on how we approach the incidents of child labor, and issue of child labor where it may affect measures taken to contribute to the our supply chain, please see abolition of child labor p.68 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 79 ANNEX 1 Financial Statements* CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Valid as of 30 September 2016 30/9/2016 LE 31/12/2015 LE 31/12/2014 LE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME Valid as of September 30, 2016 30/9/2016 LE 31/12/2015 LE 31/12/2014 LE Non-current assets Fixed assets 1,065,464,526 405,987,553 366,017,834 Revenues 3,961,291,714 4,486,943,395 4,069,254,704 Intangible assets 1,857,709 1,899,381 1,326,415 Cost of revenues (3,440,869,844) (3,886,304,782) (3,581,839,539) Projects under construction 55,047,085 652,075,789 559,928,881 Investments in associates 648,457 78,716,717 93,385,092 GROSS PROFIT 520,421,870 600,638,613 487,415,165 Available for sale investments 18,438,837 20,980,250 31,514,250 General and administrative expenses (268,220,553) (338,880,932) (263,808,697) Deferred tax assets 10,863,849 3,476,564 16,139,062 Board of directors Remuneration (392,800) (335,000) (260,000) Goodwill 58,950,939 58,950,939 82,579,689 Selling and marketing expenses (87,911,888) (96,774,129) (67,573,976) Total non-current assets 1,211,271,402 1,222,087,193 1,150,891,223 Impairment of accounts receivable (9,303,049) (5,774,535) (12,864,108) Reversal of impairment of accounts receivable 797,532 1,306,861 10,829,531 Current assets Provisions (1,212,500) (5,582,670) (1,154,576) Inventory 697,609,178 591,336,875 377,445,273 Impairment of other debit balances (2,984,467) (2,076,870) Work in progress 80,123,537 51,949,239 25,014,029 Provisions no longer required 2,367,200 Accounts and notes receivable 864,365,407 548,834,734 481,646,119 Prepayments and other debit balances 445,483,131 307,182,391 372,836,054 OPERATING PROFIT 154,178,612 151,613,741 152,873,669 Share base compensation 161,544 2,714,298 2,714,298 Finance cost, net (107,657,926) (98,860,654) (52,185,864) Income tax debit balances 2,249,642 762,946 17,272,969 Foreign exchange differences 27,377,901 4,180,467 (7,143,145) Cash on hand and at banks 298,485,223 188,635,115 83,789,106 Company’s share from results of associates 316,845 2,908,715 6,296,634 Total current assets 2,388,477,662 1,691,415,598 1,360,717,848 Gain (loss) from sale of fixed assets 6,490 156,327 (25,056) Other (loss) income (133,998) (62,827) 1,289,107 Current liabilities (Loss) from disposal of investments in subsidiaries (115,121) Credit facilities 915,069,808 775,927,404 693,034,237 Gain (loss) from disposal of investments in associates 31,440,298 142,902,655 (1,271,147) Accounts and notes payable 842,710,069 576,953,993 422,586,200 Dividends income from available for sale investments 792,579 Advances from customers 139,971,159 81,781,791 45,372,602 Impairment of available for sale investments (7,985,554) Accrued expenses and other credit balances 349,716,359 222,607,756 149,129,302 Impairment of goodwill (24,065,604) Provisions 15,661,937 16,827,916 13,738,846 Dividends payable 5,899,153 31,651,045 4,536,717 PROFITS FOR THE YEAR BEFORE INCOME TAXES Current portion of long term loans 87,008,981 74,715,781 88,435,661 AND MINORITY INTEREST 105,528,222 178,772,820 92,526,102 Total current liabilities 2,356,037,466 1,780,465,686 1,416,833,565 Income tax (41,153,559) (74,987,875) (43,153,271) (Excess of current liabilities over current assets) Working capital (967,559,804) (89,050,088) (56,115,717) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 64,374,663 103,784,945 49,372,831 Total investment 243,711,598 1,133,037,105 1,094,775,506 Distributed as follows : Parent company 54,821,645 101,097,569 47,705,312 Financed as follows: Minority interest 9,553,018 2,687,376 1,667,519 Equity Paid up capital 504,624,835 504,624,835 420,520,695 PROFITS FOR THE YEAR 64,374,663 103,784,945 49,372,831 Legal reserve 30,657,350 26,832,027 24,552,272 General reserve 41,935,960 41,935,960 41,935,960 Share based compensation reserve 2,337,917 2,219,699 Treasury shares (1,875,316) (1,155,316) (1,155,316) Accumulated foreign currency translation (19,792,747) (3,543,945) (2,742,163) Revaluation reserve of available for sale investments (10,133,445) (8,163,850) Retained earnings 169,855,382 74,382,136 174,000,887 Profits for the year after deducting minority interest 54,821,645 101,097,569 47,705,312 Total equity of the parent company 770,093,664 738,347,333 707,037,346 Minority interest 21,962,410 12,524,392 9,837,016 Total equity 792,020,074 750,871,725 716,874,362 Non-Current liabilities Long term notes payable 45,373,216 56,233,677 25,873,973 Long term loans 339,858,176 279,254,902 319,586,933 Other Long term liabilities 66,460,132 46,676,801 32,440,238 Total non-current liabilities 451,691,524 382,165,380 377,901,144 Total finance of working capital and non-current assets 243,711,598 1,133,037,105 1,094,775,506 Ahmed Farouk Samer El Waziri Medhat Khalil Financial Controller Chief Financial Officer Chairman 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 81 CONSOLIDATED Revaluation STATEMENT OF CHANGES Paid up Share based reserve of Treasury Accumulated Retained Profits Minority Legal General compensation available for sale foreign currency Total Total IN EQUITY capital reserve reserve reserve shares translation earnings for the year interest For the year ended 31 investments December 2015 L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E L.E Balance as of 1 January 2015 420,520,695 24,552,272 41,935,960 2,219,699 (1,155,316) (2,742,163) 174,000,887 47,705,312 707,037,346 9,837,016 716,874,362 Transferred to retained earnings and legal reserve 2,279,755 45,425,557 (47,705,312) Dividends (60,940,168) (60,940,168) (60,940,168) Capital increase from the retained earnings 84,104,140 (84,104,140) Foreign currency translation (801,782) (801,782) (801,782) Share base compensation reserve 118,218 118,218 118,218 Revaluation reserve of available for sale investments (8,163,850) (8,163,850) (8,163,850) Profits for the year 101,097,569 101,097,569 2,687,376 103,784,945 Balance as of 31December 2015 504,624,835 26,832,027 41,935,960 2,337,917 (8,163,850) (1,155,316) (3,543,945) 74,382,136 101,097,569 738,347,333 12,524,392 750,871,725 Balance as of 1 January 2014 370,520,695 20,048,040 41,935,960 2,101,482 (1,155,316) (2,613,213) 122,434,949 56,070,170 609,342,767 4,571,935 613,914,702 Transferred to retained earnings and legal reserve 4,504,232 51,565,938 (56,070,170) Foreign currency translation (128,950) (128,950) (128,950) Share base compensation reserve 118,217 118,217 118,217 Capital increase 50,000,000 50,000,000 50,000,000 Change in minority interest (capital increase of a subsidiary) 3,100,000 3,100,000 Change in minority interest due (395,486) (395,486) to disposal of subsidiaries Change in Minority interest due to the increase of the company’s share in Ostool company 893,048 893,048 Profits for the year 47,705,312 47,705,312 1,667,519 49,372,831 Balance as of 31 December 2014 420,520,695 24,552,272 41,935,960 2,219,699 (1,155,316) (2,742,163) 174,000,887 47,705,312 707,037,346 9,837,016 716,874,362 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 83 ANNEX 2 Financial Statements Workforce Data The following are the names of subsidiaries included in Raya Holding’s consolidated financial statements for the The following data has been aggregated from across Raya Holding and its subsidiaries. reported period. Total Workforce, broken down by gender, age group and country across Raya Holding: Name: 01. Raya Distribution Company 02. Raya Integration Company Type Total Number Men Women 03. Raya International Service Company 04. Raya Network Company Full time employees 7,806 5,718 2,088 05. Raya for Information Technology and Management Company Part Time employees 0 0 0 06. Raya Gulf Company Senior Management 75 64 11 07. Raya Technology Company Ltd. Middle Management 284 243 41 08. Raya Contact Centre Company Entry Level 5,355 3,543 1,810 09. Raya Electronics Company (Previously Sama) 10. Raya Algeria Company Age Group Number 11. Call Centre Company -C3 12. Best Service CompanyEgypt Under 30 4,939 13. Best Service CompanyNigeria 30-50 2,612 14. Raya Finance Lease Company Over 50 103 15. Raya for Contact Centre Building Management Company 16. Bariq for Advanced Industrial Techniques Company New employee hires for 2016, broken down by gender and age group: 17. Ostool for Land Transport Company 18. Raya Restaurants Company Gender Number 19. Raya Qatar Company 20. Raya Tech Distribution Company Male 2,105 21. Raya for Social Media Company Female 987 22. Raya for Data Centres Company 23. Raya Venture and Investment Company 24. Raya Contact Centre Gulf Age Group Number 25. Raya for Food and Beverages Company 26. Raya Contact Centre Europe Under 30 2,428 27. Aman for Electronic Payment Company 30-50 646 28. Raya for logistic Services Company Over 50 18 29. Raya Software Company 30. Idin for Import and Export Company Gender and age breakdown within Raya’s highest governance bodies and 31. Integrated Technology System Company its committees (other indicators of minority are not applicable): Suspended companies: Age groups Number Percentage 01. International Business Ventures Company – IBVC 02. Raya U.S.A. Company 0 under 30 0% 03. Egyptian Company for Investment and Glass Production 6 3050 54% 04. Oratech for Communication and Information Systems Company** 6 over 50 46% 05. Oratech for Management and Information Technology Company*** 06. Al Byoot Alarabia for Finance Lease Company Gender Number Percentage 07. Ain Company for Networks 08. Interpain Egypt Company Female 1 8% 09. International Business System Company – IBSE Male 11 92% *For further details, including notes for these statements, please refer to our 2015 annual report and consolidated financial statements Q3-2016. **On 13 January 2004, Oratech for Communication and Information Systems Company notified the tax authority about its need to temporary suspend its activities starting from 21 March 2003 and it handed over its tax card. ***On 25 May 2008, Oratech for Management and Information Technology Company notified the tax authority about its need to temporary suspend its activities starting from 30 June 2007 and it handed over its tax card. 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 85 EGYPT KINGDOM OF POLAND UNITED ARAB Raya Headquarters SAUDI ARABIA Contact Center EMIRATES 26th July St., Touristic Zone, Raya International Warsaw Raya Contact Center 6th of October, 12568 Egypt Services Riyadh Raya Contact Center Europe Dubai Tel: +(202) 38276000 AL-Safwa Center, Office # Sp. Z.O.O. Millennium Plaza Dubai Outsource zone , Fax: +(202) 38276001 1101 Prince Mamdouh St., Al. Jerozolimskie 123a 02ACSS Building, Premise: E-mail: info@rayacorp.com AL-Solaymaniya, Kingdom 017 WarsawPoland 502, of Sauid Arabia. Tel: +48 (0) 22 647 87 P.O Box: 345823, Raya Data Center Fax: +48 (0) 22 647 87 97 Contact Center Park in P.O.Box: 62956 Riyadh Dubai,UAE Maadi, El Laselky Street, 1159 Tel : +971 455 20 853 / 879 Tel : (+966) 11 288 6500 New Maadi (+966) 11 288 6616 QATAR Raya International Tel: 19767 Services Dubai Mobile: (+966) 50 12 45 855 Raya International E-mail: info@rayacorp.com 211 Building 14 Dubai Fax: (+966) 11 288 6450 Services Doha Raya Contact Center Office #824, 8th floor, Al Internet City 26th July St., Touristic Zone, Raya International Fardan Office Tower, West P.O. Box 500324, UAE 6th of October, 12568 Egypt Services Jeddah Bay, Doha, Qatar Tel: (+971) 4 3901150/4 Tel: (+202) 38276000 Saudi Business Center P.O. Box 31316 Mobile: (+2) 0166691709 Fax: (+202) 38276001 Ground Floor, Office 114, Tel: (+974) – 44101 678 (+971) 502731353 E-mail: sales@rayacorp.com P.O. Box 13711, Jeddah Mobile: (+2) – 0166691709 (+971) 50825120 21414 (+97) – 1502731353 Fax: (+971) 4 3908719 Raya Smart Buildings Tel : (+966) 12 6515333 – Fax: (+974) – 44101 500 Galleria40 Office Ext.114 Raya International Plot 40, 26th of July Street, Mobile: (+966) 50 43 28 532 Services Abu Dhabi Building Sh. Khalid Bin 6th of October Fax: (+966) 11 2886450 RAYA EAST AFRICA Ahmed Al Hamed, Plot 7th Floor Amani Place, no.45, Office M1 Mezzanin, NIGERIA Ohio Street Tourist Club, Abu Dhabi Dar Es Salaam, Tanzania Tel: (+971) 26459910 Raya Maintenance P.O. BOX 38568 Mobile: (+2) 0166691709 126 Adetokunbo Ademola É+(255) 222196886 (+971) 502731353 Crescent, Wisa II, Abuja, Ê+(255) 222123562 (+971) 508251206 Nigeria www.rayaeastafrica.com Fax: (+971) 26459985 Tel: (+234) 94610527 E-mail: info@rayacorp.com 86 w w w. r a y a c o r p . c o m design by
