Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 1 / 32 Our Sustainability Work in 2016 Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 2 / 32 Nolato in 15 seconds Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with 6,400 employees in Europe, Asia and North America. Nolato develops and manufactures products in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone and TPE for leading customers within medical technology, pharmaceuticals, telecom, automotive and other selected industrial sectors. Nolato’s business model is based on close, long-term, innovative collaboration with our customers. Nolato endeavours to create added value for both customers and shareholders through leading p­ olymer technology, wide-ranging capabilities and highly efficient production. Contents The CEO’s introduction......................................................................................................................3 The Nolato Group in brief...................................................................................................................4 2016 in brief.....................................................................................................................................6 Sustainable development creates value..............................................................................................7 Sustainable development targets and KPIs.......................................................................................12 Environmental responsibility............................................................................................................13 Social responsibility........................................................................................................................19 Business partners and other stakeholders.......................................................................................21 Financial responsibility....................................................................................................................23 Sustainability-related risks .............................................................................................................24 A busy year.....................................................................................................................................25 About our sustainability report ........................................................................................................26 Nolato and GRI................................................................................................................................27 The UN Global Compact...................................................................................................................30 Definitions and glossary..................................................................................................................31 Nolato AB (publ), SE-269 04 Torekov, Sweden, +46 431442290, www.nolato.com, info@nolato.com Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 3 / 32 Customers’ first choice for sustainable development Good financial performance ments we make within our supply chain are and strategic acquisitions at least as stringent as those our customers Nolato achieved good financial performance place on us. Just as in other areas, we want in 2016 despite not matching the figures to be customers’ first choice for sustainable of 2015, which was a record year. Nolato development. Medical experienced strong development and Nolato Industrial continued growing. The UN Global Compact The decrease for Nolato Telecom was due Our Code of Conduct is based on the UN to product changeovers at customers in the Global Compact, and we have now also mobile phone sector. linked the Group’s sustainable development Important events in the year included two targets to the UN’s new Sustainable Developstrategic acquisitions: Switzerland-based ment Goals. These goals target areas such as Treff and Poland-based Grizzly Medical. responsible consumption and production, Christer Wahlquist President and CEO and decent work and growth, and therefore A natural aspect of our business have an impact on the business sector. Two For us, sustainable development is a natural of the 17 goals relate to energy and climate. aspect of our day-to-day business, part of These are areas that are important to Nolato our corporate culture and how we view the and we are now updating our previous tarworld and people. For us, it’s key to reducing gets in these areas. our environmental footprint and underlining the equal value of everyone. That’s why Social engagement we continually work on everything from our This sustainability report also sets out our Code of Conduct and whistleblower systems social engagement. Supporting non-profit to energy efficiency and other measures to organisations and direct support for various reduce our environmental impact. activities makes a difference. We’re proud of A typical example from 2016 related to the work we do under the Employee Care the Grizzly Medical acquisition. The comProgramme and Building Hope Together pany used coal-fired heating for its producproject in Beijing, but there are good examtion facility, which we quickly converted to ples throughout the Group. For example, a more environmentally sustainable alternaNolato cooperates in a number of ways with tive. schools, colleges and universities. We do this because of the importance of skills and reEnvironmental benefits cruitment in the future. and business benefits Every year, sustainability issues grow in imAchievement of important milestones portance – within Nolato, at our suppliers I’d like to thank all our employees who conand customers, and in society in general. Our tribute to Nolato’s sustainable development companies are constantly making improveefforts. Together we have embarked on a ments within sustainable development, and journey and achieved some important milethis report contains lots of great examples stones, but there’s still a lot to do. of how environmental benefits can generate business benefits too. Our systematic approach to resource efTorekov, March, 2017 ficiency, transport, packaging and certified management systems also helps customers Christer Wahlquist reduce their environmental footprint. And President and CEO our expertise and technology aid the development of greener products. The require6 The Nolato Group in brief Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 4 / 32 The Nolato The Nolato Group Group in in brief brief Development, production & sales Sales & technology Sales by market North America etc. 10% Sweden 24% Asia 26% Other Europe 40% Sales Our operations Our wide-ranging capabilities support our SEKm Nolato is a Swedish publicly listed group with customers’ product development. Our 5,000 operations in Europe, Asia and North involvement in customers’ development 4,000 America. We develop and manufacture prodwork at an early stage allows us to optimise 3,000 ucts in plastic, silicone and TPE for leading, materials and product design to help achieve 2,000 often global, companies within three areas: better and more cost-effective end products. 1,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Medical devices (such as autoinjectors, Our values insulin pens and catheter balloons). Nolato has a long tradition of responsible Operating profit (EBITA) Telecommunications components (such business practice, and one of our Basic as subsystems for mobile phones, often Principles is that efficient business operations SEKm 600 with significant cosmetic content, methods must be combined with ethics, responsibility 500 and materials for shielding electronics, as and environment awareness. These areas 400 well as fast-growth areas of technology, are consequently natural and integral 300 200 i.e. selected consumer electronics). aspects of our business operations. 100 Products for industrial companies (such 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 as vehicle components, hygiene products and specialist packaging). Our employees The average number of employees in 2016 was Earnings per share Our offering 6,418 people. Of these, 87%were outside SEK Nolato’s customer offering comprises most Sweden. 18 15 technologies in the field of polymers and covers 12 the entire value chain from development to Our shares 9 product delivery. The ‘One Nolato’ concept Nolato was listed on the stock exchange in 6 3 means we can offer customers a comprehen1984, and its B shares are listed on Nasdaq 0 sive offering of technologies and products Stockholm in the Mid Cap segment, where 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 from our three business areas. This includes they are included in the Industrials sector. both products that are unique to customers Cash flow after investments such as pharmaceutical injection systems, car Our history SEKm components for specific models, standard Nolato was founded in 1938 as Nordiska 400 products such as packaging for medical devices, Latexfabriken i Torekov AB, with the trade300 and plugs and caps for industrial products. mark Nolato, which has been the company 200 We endeavour to develop close, long-term name since 1982. 100 and constructive collaboration with customers Today’s global Group is the result of and we are often chosen for the production organic growth and acquisitions. The head 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 of complex products with stringent technical office is still in Torekov, Sweden, but the Excluding acquisitions and disposals demands. majority of operations are now based abroad. The Nolato Group in brief Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 5 / 32 7 Nolato Medical Nolato Telecom Nolato Industrial Financial highlights: 2016 2015 Financial highlights: 2016 2015 Financial highlights: 2016 2015 Sales, SEKm 1,645 1,464 Sales, SEKm 1,402 2,017 Sales, SEKm 1,409 1,251 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 216 191 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 131 272 Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 134 132 EBITA margin, % 13.1 13.0 EBITA margin, % 9.3 13.5 EBITA margin, % 9.5 10.6 Average number of employees 1,157 1,053 Average number of employees 4,480 6,002 Average number of employees 775 698 Customer offering: Customer offering: Customer offering: Development and manufacture of complex product Development and manufacture of advanced compoDevelopment and manufacture of products and systems and components within medical technology nents and subsystems for mobile phones, and prodproduct systems for customers in the automotive and advanced packaging solutions for pharmaucts in fast-growth areas of consumer electronics industry, hygiene, packaging, gardening/forestry, ceuticals and dietary supplements. technology. EMC (electromagnetic compatibility) furniture and other selected industrial segments. products and systems for shielding of electronics. Geographic information: Geographic information: Development, production and sales in Sweden, the Geographic information: Development, production and sales in Sweden, UK, Hungary, Switzerland, Poland, the US and China. Development, production and sales in Sweden, Hungary, Romania, Switzerland and China. Sales offices in Denmark, Germany, France and China and Malaysia. Sales and technology offices Success factors: the Czech Republic. in the US, India, Korea, Japan and Hungary. Technology, project management and productivity. Success factors: Success factors: Customers include: Medical understanding, broad technological offering, Creative development work, cutting-edge technology, Atlas Copco, Brose, Geberit, Husqvarna, Jaguar/ expertise in developing reliable product solutions, advanced project management, fast production Land Rover, MCT Brattberg, Scania, SKF, Volvo and global production and robust quality. start-ups and high productivity. Volvo Cars. Customers include: Customers include: Volatility: Abbot, Becton Dickinson, Boston Scientific, Ericsson, Fitbit, Huawei, Microsoft, Motorola Solutions, Medium. Follows the Northern European industrial Coloplast, Hamilton, Medtronic, Novo Nordisk, Nokia, Sonos, Sony Mobile, Xioami, ZTE. business cycle. Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda. Volatility: Product life cycle: Volatility: High. Project-based operations. Medium/Long. Low. Steady market growth. Product life cycle: Long-term growth potential. Short. Product life cycle: Long. 37% 45% 31% 27% 32% 28% Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s Share of the Group’s net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) net sales operating profit (EBITA) Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 6 / 32 2016 in brief Financial performance Efficiency Directive will be reported to the making products and transportation more The Nolato Group achieved good financial Swedish Energy Agency. environmentally sustainable. performance in 2016. Nolato Medical exMeasures to cut Nolato’s emissions of Further development of Nolato’s social perienced strong development and Nolato greenhouse gases. engagement and social responsibility, Industrial continued growing. The decrease Updating Group sustainable development through projects like the Employee Care for Nolato Telecom was the result of prodtargets, taking account of the UN SustainProgramme and Building Hope Together, uct changeovers at customers in the mobile able Development Goals. as well as through contact with schools phone sector. Consolidated sales totalled Preventive health and safety measures, in and universities. SEK 4,447 million (4,726) in 2016. Operpart through the introduction of certified Sustainability reporting in line with new ating profit (EBITA) was SEK 457 million management systems. EU legislation on sustainable development (570) and the operating margin (EBITA) was Adaptation of environmental managereporting by large companies. Continued 10.3% (12.1). Earnings per share were SEK ment systems to the new ISO 14001:2015 reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project 12.77 (15.97). standards. and Global Compact. Generation of business benefits by offerSustainable development ing customers expertise and experience in Nolato’s sustainable development activities continued in 2016, with the UN Global Compact providing guidance in both day-toSustainability KPIs day and strategic efforts. We reported Global Compact-related measures to the UN and 2016 2015 2014 Nolato’s targets were linked to the UN SusFinancial responsibility tainable Development Goals. Work on energy and carbon emissions issues was further Sales, SEKm 4,447 4,726 4,234 developed and reported under the Carbon Operating profit (EBITA), SEKm 457 570 470 Disclosure Project (CDP). Social responsibilEBITA margin, % 10.3 12.1 11.1 ity programmes in China continued, with Average number of employees 6,418 7,759 8,020 new initiatives as part of Building Hope ToEnvironmental responsibility gether and the Employee Care Programme. Certified management systems are a key Breach of environmental and occupational environment legislation, 0 1 0 number of cases element of Nolato’s sustainability efforts and 2016 saw the introduction of the revised ISO Energy consumption, MWh/SEKm sales 0.038 0.035 0.038 14001 standard. We also worked on meeting Water consumption, m3/SEKm sales 36.8 37.9 37.8 customers’ increasingly stringent sustainable Greenhouse gas emissions, CO2 tonnes/SEKm sales 11.5 12.1 14.7 development requirements. During the year, Waste, tonnes/SEK million sales 1.2 1.1 1.0 Group companies successfully fulfilled cusCertified environmental management system,% of total no. of plants 91 95 100 tomer requirements, as verified by audits and Social responsibility evaluations. 2016 saw the implementation of Workplace accidents, (cases of ≥1 day’s absence; cases per million numerous activities focused on schools and 63 (5.0) 35 (2.3) 43 (2.9) hours worked) universities, including study visits, internships and workplace degree projects. Certified health and safety management system,% of total no. of plants 27 30 26 Female employees, % 49 50 52 Continued efforts Training on Nolato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct, % of number of employees >90 >90 >90 In 2017, Nolato will be working on measures including the following: Application of ethical & humane principles and number of registered 0 0 0 breaches of corruption rules Activities that contribute to more efficient use of resources such as energy, water and Evaluation of suppliers; evaluations performed re. environmental/ 173 134 161 social responsibility materials, in part through systematic energy audits. Work under the EU Energy Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 7 / 32 Sustainable development creates value Work on sustainability issues is an integral out of 100 in its 2016 CDP reporting. Global Good energy efficiency results through part of Nolato’s strategy for growth and Compact-related activities are reported as a audits and investing in intelligent lighting value creation and is a natural part of our separate section in this sustainability report and production equipment. day-to-day work. The aim is to contribute to (see page 30). Measures to reduce carbon emissions – a better environment, create business openergy efficiency, reduced use of fossil portunities, reduce costs, minimise risks and Sustainability – part of Nolato’s business fuels, auditing of transport emissions and meet the requirements and expectations of When Nolato was founded in 1938, concepts the purchase of fossil-free electricity. These external and internal stakeholders. such as responsibility, good organisation and measures were reported under the Carbon a focus on customer requirements were part Disclosure Project. Nolato and the UN Sustainable of our corporate culture. Since then, we have Involvement in a school in a poor area of Development Goals raised our ambitions and issues concernBeijing, known as Building Hope Together, The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact ing the environment, social responsibility continued with additional input from have provided a guide for Nolato’s sustainand ethics are now a vital part of Nolato’s Nolato. ability work since 2010. These principles are business. The figure below shows some imContinued systematic sustainability specified in the Group’s Code of Conduct, portant milestones, with the latest being the work using environmental (ISO 14001) as described in The Nolato Spirit document. linking of Nolato’s targets in 2016 to the UN and health and safety (OHSAS 18001) The Code should be regarded as the guidSustainable Development Goals. Find out standards. Several new certifications ing principle for managers and employees more about this in the article on page 22. were achieved during the year, and ISO on issues concerning the environment, social It’s essential that we meet environmen14001:2015 is currently being updated. responsibility and ethics. tal and health and safety legislation, but The Employee Care Programme at Nolato Over the years, the view of business’ role the expectations of society and the Group’s Beijing was further developed. The proin sustainable development has changed and stakeholders have also gradually increased in gramme is boosting employee’s skills and this is expressed very clearly in the UN Susimportance. These include growing requireis contributing to their personal developtainable Development Goals. The goals were ments among Nolato’s customers relating ment and well-being. published just over a year ago and expectato the environment and social responsibility Customers are placing increasing requiretions on the efforts of business are high. This and expectations on us to pass these requirements on Nolato’s sustainability work and applies to both responsible conduct and the ments on to our suppliers. Another example conducting audits and assessments. The development of products and services that is involvement by staff, and in this respect Group’s companies met these requirements benefit sustainable development. sustainability has become increasingly imsuccessfully over the year. Nolato applies global initiatives to its susportant in attracting new employees. Numerous activities were undertaken tainable development reporting. This report focussing on schools and universities such is set out according to Global Reporting 2016 highlights as study visits, internships and workplace Initiative (GRI G4) guidelines. The Group’s Global Compact-related activities were degree projects relating to sustainable performance with regard to carbon emissions further developed and reported to the UN. development. is reported under the Carbon Disclosure In 2016, Nolato’s goals were linked to the Project (CDP). Nolato received a score of 89 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Några viktiga steg på vägen till hållbarhet Tougher energy and carGroup-wide sustainISO 50001 is introGroup-wide envibon emissions targets Responsibility and ability targets duced at several units ronmental policy good organisation The Group Energy audits in accor– Nolato’s Basic changes its Gradual introduction of Employee Care ProGRI sustainability OHSAS 18001 health dance with the EU EnerPrinciples name to Nolato gramme, Building reporting and safety standard gy Efficiency Directive Hope Together 1938 1950 1982 1998 2005 2010 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nordiska LatexThe Basic Prinfabriken i ToreThe first Group A clear link between ciples, Code of Sustainability sustainability and busikov* is founded company achieves work adapted to Conduct and polness in a new version ISO 14001 certifiISO 26000 icies are comof The Nolato Spirit Health and safety cation piled in The Nolaand environmental to Spirit booklet Nolato’s sustainabillaws set minimum Endorsement A whistleblowing of UN Global system is introity targets are linked requirement to the UN Sustainable Compact duced Development Goals Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 8 / 32 Strategy Nolato and governance communicates its sustainable develtime people the Group and with is now disabilities introducing and support for the Key guidelines opment activities in a separate sustainability OHSAS 18001 health sporting activities. and safety standard report in accordance Sustainable with the development guidelines of strategy its units.sound atApplying The ISO 50001principles energy manbusiness and the Global Reporting Initiative The Group has long had preventive (GRI G4). measures agement standard has been good ethics. Preventing corruption introduced at is a key The report is also designed to satisfy requirea number of units. in place relating to health and safety and aspect of this work. ments in the new legislation on compulsory environmental issues and these are important Communicating in a transparent way on sustainability reporting for major companies Being a good corporate citizen, and elements of The Nolato Spirit. Issues regardsustainable development, both with regard in the EU. The Group’s performance with encouraging employee involvement and ing social regard responsibility to carbon emissionsandisgood business reported under to achievements attracting and failings. This makes new employees. ethics to the have Carbon become increasingly Disclosure Projectimportant (CDP). it easier for our customers, investors and and can now be regarded as essential for other stakeholders Applying sound businessto follow up on their principles and The Nolato Spirit Strategy successfuland governance business operations. There are good ethics. Preventing requirements and evaluate corruption Nolato’sisper-a The Nolato Spirit booklet summarises the Group’s Sustainable development strategy key aspect of this work. core values, Code of Conduct and policies and also significant expectations that Nolato and formance. explains how they relate to the business model. The Group has long other companies must apply had preventive a clear measures life cycle Continuing to integrate sustainability isin place relating to health approach to raw materials, product and safety and developCommunicating sues into Nolato’s a transparent in business model. way This on environmental issues and these ment, processes and products. Responsibility are imporsustainable development, both involves areas such as investments, moni-with tant elements of The Nolato Spirit. Issues regard to achievements and failings. in the supply chain has become increasingly toring, external communication, company regarding social responsibility and good important. acquisitions, crisis and risk management, business ethics have become increasingly Continuing to integrate sustainability procedures, reporting and training. important and can now be regarded as issues into Nolato’s business model. Nolato’s for essential sustainable successfuldevelopment activities business operations. are being There arefurther developed. also significant This appliesthat expectations Governanceand Governance monitoring andmonitoring to everything Nolato fromcompanies and other Group-widemust strategies apply a overallfocus Theoverall The focusof of and and responsibility responsibility for for The UN Global Compact clear life cycleto and reporting approach day-to-day to raw materials, operations at our oursustainability workisisset sustainabilitywork outininNolato’s setout Nolato’s Since 2010 Nolato has been a signatory to the product production development, facilities. Theprocesses long-term and prodstrategy Basic BasicPrinciples Conduct.The Code of Conduct. and Code Principles and UN Global Compact, a framework document ucts. remains in place, withinathe Responsibility focussupply on: chain has The Code of Conduct is specified Code of Conduct is specified by Group-wide by Groupthat comprises 10 principles on the environbecome increasingly important. wide goals on the environment, goals on the environment, social responsisocial ment, human rights, labour conditions and the responsibility and business ethics. combatting of corruption. Reducing risks and costs through prevenbility and business ethics. Each unitEach works Nolato’s sustainable development activities unit works towards these overall goals, as tive measures, risk analysis and investtowards these overall goals, as well as their are being further developed. This applies well as their own detailed targets. ments in modern technology. Energy and own detailed targets. to everything from Group-wide strategies Operational responsibility for the environemissions issues are a particular priority. Operational responsibility for the enviand reporting to day-to-day operations at ment and health and safety is delegated to Creating business production facilities.opportunities The long-term through strategy ronment the Managingand health Directorandofsafety delegated eachiscompany. responsible remains operations in place, and development with a focus on: to the management Managing Director Group regularlyof each company. follows up of resource-efficient production methods onGroup managementof the development regularly this work follows and howup on Reducing and products.risks and costs through preventive sustainability the development development of this work is being and how intesusEnhancingrisk measures, analysis andand competitiveness investments increasing grated into strategic tainability development planning. is beingOne repreintegrated Sustainability reporting modernconfidence. technology.Many incustomer Energy and emisof Nolato’s sentative on Nolato’s into strategic planning. Board has special One representative Nolato’s sustainability work is reported in sions issueshave customers are aambitious particular priority. sustainable responsibility for these issues. These activon Nolato’s Board has special responsibilaccordance with Global Reporting Initiative development goals – an approach we share ities are followed up through dialogue ity for these issues. These activities are folwith (GRI G4) guidelines, the Carbon Disclosure Creating business opportunities through the companies’ management and through Project (CDP) and the UN Global Compact and that we pass on to our suppliers. lowed up through dialogue with the comresponsible operations and development internal and external audits. Along with (Communication on Progress; COP). Participating in international initiatives panies’ management and through internal of resource-efficient production methods the annual sustainability report, we also and applying global guidelines, including and external audits. Along with the annual Certified management systems and products. carry out an in-depth analysis of complithe UN Global Compact, Global Reportsustainability ance report, we with legislation, alsooutcomes target carry out andan Nolato’s units are certified to the international ing Initiative Working (GRI) and Carbon systematically based on Disclosure ISO in-depth the development compliance with analysisofofperformance andlegislakey standards ISO 14001 (environment) and ISO Project (CDP). tion, target outcomes and the development of 9001 (quality management). The OHSAS 18001 standards and concepts like lean manuindicators during the year. health and safety standard is being gradually facturing, Medical Excellence Working systematically based on andISO5S. performance and key performance indicators introduced throughout the Group and some ISO 14001 and standards been in place has concepts for some like lean manu(KPIs) during the year. units operate in accordance with ISO 50001 facturing, Medical Excellence and 5S. ISO (energy). The ISO 26000 social responsibility 14001 has been in place for some time and standard provides us with guidance for our the Group is now introducing the OHSAS Materiality analysis overarching sustainable development efforts. 18001 health and safety standard at its units. The ISO 50001energy management Risks and opportunities standard has been introduced at a number Within the framework of the ISO 14001, of units. OHSAS 18001 and ISO 50001 standards, Being a good corporate citizen, and enNolato’s businesses endeavour to identify couraging employee involvement and and manage issues relating to environment, attracting new employees. Our social health and safety, and energy. This involves engagement includes cooperation with not only identifying risks, but also looking universities and schools, employment of for opportunities within sustainable developNolato Sustainability Report 2016 9 / 32 ment. This is something that is highlighted in 1. Customer requirements in relation to sustainable the revised ISO 14001. Analyses of risks and High development opportunities, combined with requirements 2. Sound business ethics and expectations from a range of stakehold3. Attractive employer ers, provide the basis for the materiality 4. Legal requirements in relation to sustainable development analysis. This is based on sustainability re5. Sustainability issues in China porting guidelines (GRI G4) and provides the Significance for 6. Plastics in a life cycle perspective background for which areas are examined in 7. Suppliers’ sustainability work greater detail in the sustainability report and 8. Energy and climate Nolato’s strategy which GRI indicators are used. The end of 9. Safe and stimulating working environment 10. Gender equality, human rights the report (pages 27–29) contains a list of the 11. Investor requirements GRI indicators that we refer to. The chart on 12. Social engagement the right shows the issues that were identified 13. Environmental impact of transport in 2016 as significant and our sustainabil14. Sustainability issues in connection with ity reporting describes how these issues are acquisitions Medium 15. Emissions to air and water, waste managed and monitored. 16. Disruption in surrounding area (noise, odour) The materiality analysis for the year has 17. Use of chemical products been modified in some areas. For example, Medium Significance for High there is increased interest in sustainability Nolato’s stakeholders issues in the finance industry and we give takes account of these problems and assigns significant – and what they consider to be this area a higher priority in the chart. The greater priority to this area. The concept of important – is based on experience and longenvironmental impact of plastic is an area ‘a life cycle perspective of plastics’ also incorstanding commercial relationships, as well as that has long been discussed, both among porated into Nolato’s aims to contribute to events over the past financial year. researchers and in the media. This relates to environmentally sustainable product develStakeholder engagement is carried out in plastic’s derivation from fossil resources, the opment. various ways and includes performance reoccurrence of chemical substances in plastics views with employees, customer satisfaction that are hazardous to the environment and Value for stakeholders surveys, analyst meetings and cooperation to health, and plastic waste. And the issue of Nolato interacts with a number of stakewith supplier and contractors. microscopic particles of plastic in the world’s holder groups, which brings expectations oceans has also gained significant attention in relation to sustainable development. Our in recent years. Our materiality analysis understanding of which stakeholders are Overview of stakeholder engagement in 2016 Stakeholder Key issues, requirements and expectations Value created Customers All Nolato’s companies are affected by customer requirements regarding susIn 2016, customers carried out monitoring at many of the Group’s compatainable development. These requirements include matters such as environnies. The outcome was positive and the results were used to enhance the mental management systems, prohibited chemical substances, environmenGroup’s sustainability work and strengthen customer relationships. The optal declarations, product labelling, code of conduct, and the fulfilment of speerations in China and Malaysia are certified as Sony Green Partners. cific legislation. Employees Health, safety, pay, benefits, social conditions, well-being, development opWe carried out performance reviews and provided training, professional portunities. development and health care. Preventive health and safety measures were a high priority and the frequency of accidents remained low. The Employee Care Programme was further developed in China. During the year, Nolato paid SEK 1,283 million in wages to employees Suppliers Nolato endeavours to have long-term and transparent relationships with supSuppliers have been informed of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and we expect pliers. The aim is to ensure the right quality, financial stability and sustainable them to share the Group’s values. We assessed suppliers’ sustainabildevelopment for both parties. Suppliers expect consistent and clear requireity work and conducted around 175 surveys and audits. Suppliers met the ments. Group’s requirements to a satisfactory degree. In 2016, Nolato paid its suppliers a total of SEK 2,767 million. Shareholders Reduce risks, create business opportunities and demonstrate credible and Integration of sustainable development in strategies and day-to-day work forward-looking sustainability work. created value for shareholders. Use of the sustainability report allowed shareholders and potential investors to evaluate the Group’s sustainability work. Nolato’s share price rose by 2% in 2016. Society Social engagement is an important aspect of The Nolato Spirit and something Social engagement created trust and interest in Nolato. Contact with that is expected by local communities where the Group operates. As a global schools and universities contributed to attracting future employees. The company, the Group is expected to undertake measures that contribute to naBuilding Hope Together school project in China was further developed. By tional and global sustainable development goals. signing up the UN Global Compact, Nolato contributed to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In 2016, Nolato paid SEK 119 million in tax. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 10 / 32 Environmental and health of units. Auditing of fulfilment of the directems. Some Group companies have already and safety legislation tive is carried out according to the requireachieved ISO 14001:2015 certification and Nolato’s companies are subject to extensive ments of authorities in each EU country. In many of the companies will achieve this in legal requirements relating to the environSweden, the first audit will be submitted to 2017. See the ‘fact file’ on page 11 to find ment and health and safety. We use our the Swedish Energy Agency in spring 2017. out how Nolato MediTor performed a gap management systems to identify applicable Nolato Jaycare in the UK fulfils the energy analysis to produce the basis for the forthlegislation and our companies implement the directive through its certification under the coming update of its environmental managerelevant measures. From a strategic perspecISO 50001 energy management system. ment system. tive, it is important to evaluate the risks and In 2016, there were no breaches of perAll units are certified in accordance with opportunities of future legislation, and the mits, conditions or any other relevant envithe requirements of the ISO 9001 quality Group does this by participating in networks ronmental legislation. With regard to health management system. In addition, approxiand through regular contact with various and safety, 8 (5) units were inspected by mately 80% of units are certified in accordauthorities. occupational environment authorities during ance with ISO standards for the automotive In Sweden, the Group conducts activities the year. Some minor deviations regarding industry (ISO/TS 16949) or medical technolthat are subject to notification obligations in machine safety were noted and these have ogy (ISO 13485). At many of the plants, the accordance with the Swedish Environmenbeen rectified. various management systems are entirely or tal Code at ten plants. The units in China, partly integrated into the overall operational Hungary, Romania, Poland, Switzerland, system. Certifications (% of all units) Malaysia and the US require permits or are OHSAS 18001-based health and safety covered by other requirements under the 100 management systems have been introduced environmental legislation of the country in 80 at 6 (6) units and a further 9 units are planquestion. No significant updates to permits 60 ning to achieve certification within the next 40 and conditions are expected in the near fu6–18 months. UK-based Nolato Jaycare is 20 ture. At some of the units, the introduction of certified under the ISO 50001 energy man0 new products or increased production led to ISO OHSAS ISO ISO Other Andra agement standard. At Group level, the ISO 14001 18001 50001 9001 cert. updates of permits. Many of the units report 26000 social responsibility standard proregularly to the environmental authorities, vides a guideline for our overarching sustainand the supervisory authorities carry out Certified management systems ability work. This standard is based on seven inspections. In 2016, 7 (8) plants were inThe ISO 14001 environmental management fundamental principles and describes how an spected by environmental authorities and no system standard was introduced in 1996, and organisation can work with environmental significant deviations were noted. by 1997 Nolato had its first plant certified issues, social responsibility and ethics. Legislation relating to hazardous chemito the standard. ISO 14001 is an important cals (REACH, RoHS, refrigerant regulaelement of Nolato’s sustainable development tions, safety data sheets) largely concerns strategy and our working practices, and the the entire business and this is an area where environmental audits and certification cremany customers are demanding a guarantee ate confidence among our stakeholders. All of compliance with legislation. The recently units, apart from the two companies acintroduced Classification, Labelling and quired in 2016, are certified. Packaging regulation (CLP) for chemical A large number of internal and external substances has been implemented at Nolato’s environmental audits are carried out to businesses. Fourteen of the units are afcheck that the environmental management fected by EU legislation relating to producer systems meet ISO 14001 requirements. responsibility for packaging waste and pay Nolato has around 111 (110) internal enviannual charges for this. ronmental auditors, who conducted 103 (99) Another piece of legislation that was reenvironmental audits last year. The facilities cently introduced is the EU Energy Efficiency were reviewed by external auditors on 20 Directive. As a large company, Nolato is sub(19) occasions. ject to the directive, which involves requireThe latest version of ISO 14001 was pubments for energy audits to be conducted by lished in autumn 2015 and we now have certified energy auditors. Energy audits have three years to make the necessary updates been conducted or are planned at a number to the environmental management sysNolato Sustainability Report 2016 11 / 32 Nolato MediTor gains help analysing its environmental management system Operating under the ISO 14001 environhas to be an integral aspect of business sustainable development and will focus efmental management standard is a basic plans and the company’s strategic work. forts on updating the environmental manrequirement for all of Nolato’s plants. agement system. Just over a year ago, another new verWhat was your approach in Clearly, we found deficiencies in areas sion was introduced in the form of ISO carrying out this degree project? that are entirely new to ISO 14001, such 14001:2015. Certified companies now The first thing we did, of course, was to as the stakeholder analysis and life cycle have three years in which to update their look at ISO 14001 in detail, comparing perspective. environmental management systems the new version with the old version. We The company also has a clear perspecbased on the new requirements. This work then carried out an internal environmental tive on environmental risks, but there’s not should be completed by 2018 at the latest audit of Nolato MediTor’s environmental much in the environmental management and most Nolato units have already startmanagement system. system about how environmental issues ed work on these updates. The audit gave us an insight into how can both help create a better environment the current system is structured and how and contribute to Nolato MediTor’s busiNolato MediTor in Torekov, Sweden, it’s used in practice. Finally, we conducted ness. was assisted in initiating this work by a gap analysis. That involved us identifying two environmental science students from all the requirements of ISO 14001:2015 What did Nolato MediTor make Lund University. Linnea Malm and Linnea and reviewing Nolato MediTor’s environof the students’ degree project? Turnstedt had to write their degree thesis mental management system to see what “We’re very impressed with the work that and wanted to focus on a business-related was needed to achieve future certification. Linnea Turnstedt and Linnea Malm have topic. done,” says Kristian Sandberg, Head of Nolato’s Head of Sustainable DevelopWhat have been the key findings Quality and Environment at MediTor. “It’s ment Torbjörn Brorson works part-time as of your research? always great to work with enthusiastic and a professor at Lund University and there The environmental audit showed that talented young people. Their environmenwas an opportunity for the students to Nolato MediTor’s environmental managetal audit found several things of interest have Torbjörn as their thesis supervisor ment system is working well and is genuand their gap analysis is really helping us and to conduct the work at MediTor. inely used within the business. We did find start updating our environmental manageThe students’ task was to examine how some minor issues but no major deficienment system.” MediTor needed to change its environcies. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the gap analymental management system to meet the sis showed that Nolato MediTor does not The thesis entitled Update to ISO requirements of the revised ISO 14001 already meet the requirements of the new 14001:2015 – A Company’s Challenges standard. Here, Linnea and Linnea explain ISO 14001 standard. We also tried to show and Way Forward was submitted in Dehow they conducted their workplace desystematically which areas of the company cember 2016 at Lund University and gree project. need to make improvements. ­Linnea Turnstedt and Linnea Malm reFirstly, the company management is ceived the highest grade for their theses. Which of the new ISO 14001 very positive about measures concerning requirements are most significant? In the new standard, the basic structure has been changed and the aim is for all ISO management systems to gradually follow an identical structure. The aim is to make it easier for organisations that use various different management systems. Other key aspects include the need for an operating environment analysis and for companies to apply a life cycle perspective to their business, as well as the need for risks and opportunities to be taken into account in regard to the environment. The new version of ISO 14001 also makes it very clear that management must Linnea Malm and Linnea Turnstedt with Nolato MediTor’s Sales Director Johan Chrisbe involved in guiding and monitoring tiansson (far left), Quality Management Engineer Jeanette Netterström, Head of Quality environmental measures. The environment and Environment Kristian Sandberg and Managing Director Michael Holmström. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 12 / 32 Sustainable development targets and KPIs Nolato undertakes extensive work relating targets. Group-wide long-term targets for areas that are both important for internal to responsibility for the environment, people key sustainable development areas were insustainability work and for our stakeholders. and society. Moreover, we believe sustaintroduced in 2010 to coordinate activities. Linking our targets to the UN Sustainable ability measures create business benefits. The targets have been gradually raised and Development Goals helps us raise Nolato’s These measures are systematic and targeted individual units have significant freedom in sustainability measures to a higher level. and the Group’s sustainable development designing their own detailed targets and addThe table below provides an overview of goals provide guidance for this work. ing targets in other areas. Some of the targets how our work on these targets is developing Objective-based management of environhad a completion date in 2016 and we have and how we evaluate our ability to achieve mental issues is a requirement of ISO 14001 evaluated target wording and outcomes. them. Detailed information on emissions and the Group’s units are therefore working This resulted in a number of targets being data and other parameters are presented in towards a number of local environmental updated. The Group’s targets cover those other parts of this sustainability report. Area Sustainable development goals Outcome Energy  The object is more efficient energy use and for 2014–2016 Nolato targeted a p Work on energy audits and efficiency improvements continued. The installa10% reduction compared with the average for 2011–2012. The Group-wide tion of energy-efficient production equipment, LED lighting, infrastructure and enKPI is GWh/net sales and many production units use locally adapted targets. ergy monitoring contributed to more efficient use of energy. The Group target was This target is linked to UN Sustainable Development Goal 7 ‘Affordable and achieved and a new long-term target has been established. clean energy’. Carbon emissions The target is a 10% reduction in the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide (CO2) p To achieve this target, Nolato is working to achieve more efficient energy usduring 2014–2016 compared with the average for 2011–2012. The target age, phase out fossil energy, make transportation more environmentally sustainrelates to CO2 emissions from energy consumption. The Group-wide KPI is able and purchase electricity from renewable sources. tonnes of CO2/net sales and there are also different types of local targets. This work is generating results, but the situation in China poses a significant chalThe target is linked to UN Sustainable Development Goal 13 ‘Climate action’. lenge as the Group is only able to use electricity there mainly generated from coal. Despite this, the Group target was achieved and a new long-term target has been established. Chemicals  Chemicals that are particularly hazardous to the environment or health shall u Over the year around a dozen chemicals were replaced and further candidates be identified and phased out. The target is linked to UN Sustainable Developfor substitution were identified. We are now updating this target with a clearer foment Goal 9 ‘Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure’, and Goal cus on the use of renewable raw materials. 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’. Waste  The amount of waste should decrease in relation to net sales. The Group’s u The total amount of waste has varied over time. It is positive that the percentunits use their own targets regarding scrap and waste management. These age of waste disposed of in landfill has decreased and the percentage that is retargets are part of ISO 14001 or initiatives such as 5s and lean manufacturcycled has increased. Many of the units have succeeded in cutting scrap to very ing. The target is linked to UN Sustainable Development Goal 9 ‘Sustainable low levels and creating good systems for the sorting of waste. There are also good industry, innovation and infrastructure’, and Goal 12 ‘Responsible consumpexamples of packaging waste being reduced both at Nolato and at customers. tion and production’. This target is part of the Group’s continual improvement measures and has no specific deadline. Environmental The objective is for all units to be certified in accordance with the internau All units, apart from the two companies acquired in 2016, are certified under management tional ISO 14001 environmental management system. Acquired companies ISO 14001. Work has begun on introducing environmental management systems systems should be certified within two years. The target is linked to UN Sustainable at the acquired companies. Other plants are working on updating their manageDevelopment Goal 9 ‘Industry, innovation and infrastructure’. ment systems to comply with the new requirements in ISO 14001:2015. This work must be completed by the end of 2018. Environmentally susIn 2016, Nolato will take part in at least three projects aimed at reducing the u Projects for environmental adaptation of existing and new products are undertainable environmental impact of new or existing products. The target is linked to UN taken in cooperation with customers or on our own initiative. This target is part of products Sustainable Development Goal 9 ‘Sustainable industry, innovation and infrathe Group’s continual improvement measures and has no specific deadline. structure’, and Goal 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’. Safe The number of workplace accidents should be minimised with the long-term u In 2016, there were 63 work-related accidents resulting in absence from work. workplaces  targeting of zero occurrences. All units must have a functioning system for Over a five-year period the frequency varies between 2 and 5 accidents resultregistering and addressing events that could have caused an accident (near ing in absence per million hours worked. Systems for recording near misses are misses). There is also a requirement for operations to gradually gain OHSAS in place at all units. Work to introduce OHSAS 18001 is ongoing and six units have 18001 health and safety certification. The target is linked to UN Sustainable achieved certification. In an industrial perspective, the frequency of accidents reDevelopment Goal 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’. mains low but there is no clear downward trend. This target has not been achieved and has been updated. Ethical and humane There should be no cases of infringements of human rights, discrimination p Information for employees about The Nolato Spirit continued to be provided principles or forced labour. Active information shall continue to be provided to employduring the year. No cases of infringements of human rights were recorded. Of the ees and new staff. The target is linked to UN Sustainable Development Goal 5 Group’s approximately 6,400 employees, 49% are women. The recruitment of fe‘Gender equality’ and Goal 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’. male managers is important to Nolato. The units in China and Hungary have continued to have a positive experience of employing of people with disabilities. Anti-corruption There should be no cases of bribery, corruption or cartel formation. Continp The managements of all Group companies use measures to prevent corrupmeasures ued active information to employees. This target can be linked to UN Sustaintion. A whistleblowing system is used and no events relating to corruption or inadable Development Goal 16: ‘Peaceful and inclusive society’. equate business ethics were recorded in 2016. Customers Customer requirements regarding the environment and social responsibility p The results of customer evaluations and audits remained good. Three plants in should be met by a comfortable margin. China and one in Malaysia have been approved as Sony Green Partners. Suppliers Improved evaluation of suppliers’ sustainability work. In 2016, each company p In 2016, Group companies conducted 173 evaluations of suppliers’ sustainashould have evaluated at least five suppliers. This target can be linked to UN bility work. The suppliers satisfied Nolato’s requirements at an acceptable or good Sustainable Development Goal 12 ‘Sustainable consumption and production’. level. Cooperation was discontinued in one case due to certain deficiencies. Society, investors and Reporting must be in accordance with GRI and CDP guidelines. Nolato shall p Social engagement activities in China and elsewhere. Good results from evaluanalysts continue to endorse the Global Compact. We shall achieve good results in ations of sustainability work in business magazines and by investors. CPD-based evaluations by analysts and independent institutions through transparent inreporting of carbon emissions and reporting to the UN (COP). formation in the field of sustainability.  A new target was developed in 2016 (see next page) p The target was achieved u Positive trend, but work remains to achieve the target q Negative trend u Unchaged trend Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 13 / 32 Update of Group targets relates to CO2 emissions from energy conlong-term targeting of zero occurrences. All Nolato’s Group management recently carried sumption. The Group-wide KPI is tonnes of units must have a functioning system for out an assessment of Group targets, resulting CO2/net sales. registering and addressing near misses. This in the following changes: Chemicals and raw materials: Hazardous work should be conducted systematically, chemical substances should be identified for example using certified management Energy: The objective is more efficient enerand, where possible, phased out. The persystems relating to health and safety (OHgy use and for 2017–2020 Nolato is targetcentage of recycled and/or renewable raw SAS 18001/ISO 45001). ing a 20% reduction compared with the materials should increase. average for 2011–2012. The Group-wide Waste: The amount of waste should conKPI is GWh/net sales. tinually decrease in relation to net sales. Carbon emissions: The target is a 20% The percentage of recycled waste should reduction in the greenhouse gas carbon diincrease. oxide (CO2) during 2017–2020 compared Safe workplaces: The number of workplace with the average for 2011–2012. The target accidents should be minimised with the Environmental responsibility Technologies and environmental aspects gaskets, seals and cosmetic details such as impact. At production facilities, direct enviNolato develops and manufactures products loudspeaker protection and logos. ronmental aspects may be linked to the use in polymer materials such as plastic, silicone Post-processing and assembly – We give of energy, raw materials (mainly plastics) and and TPE for customers within medical techcomponents the desired finish through solvents. Other significant environmental nology, pharmaceuticals, telecom, automopainting, decoration or metallisation. We aspects are the occurrence of waste and emistive and other selected industrial sectors. then assemble them to create a complete sions to air of CO2 and solvents. Indirect enWe manufacture everything from individual product or subsystem. Assembly may take vironmental aspects mainly include supplier components, which the customer assembles place on a fully automated, semi-automatactivities, transport and the use of Nolato’s in its own product, to complete products that ed or fully manual basis. products. In the final phase of their life cycle are ready for delivery to a customer’s client. products are recycled in the form of materiWe also develop and manufacture our own From a life cycle perspective, the above techals or energy, but as with other plastic prodproducts, such as pharmaceutical packaging. nologies cause different types of interaction ucts some of the material ends up in landfill with the surrounding environment, and in or the natural environment. Production technologies include: most cases they have a very limited negative Injection moulding –Technology for manufacturing components from plastic, silicone and TPE to highly precise dimensions and stringent quality requirements. Our most common production technology. Injection blow moulding – Technology for manufacturing plastic containers and bottles. We use this method for the manufacture of pharmaceutical packaging. Dip moulding – Technology for the production of flexible, airtight latex rubber products. This is used to manufacture products such as catheter balloons and breathing bags. Extrusion – Technology for the production of tubing and other tubular products. This technique is used to manufacture items such as heart and urine catheters and EMC shielding gaskets. Die-cutting – Technology for producing flat products from one or more materials. We use die-cutting for manufacturing Most of Nolato’s technologies have a very limited negative environmental impact. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 14 / 32 Energy Measures to minimise scrap and producEnergy consumption Energy is consumed by production equiption reruns, which also reduces energy GWh GWh/SEKm ment, lighting, ventilation, cooling, transport, consumption. 175 0.07 0,07 purification facilities and heating. Training and close monitoring of energy 0.06 0,06 150 Nolato mainly uses indirect energy in the consumption gets employees involved in 125 0.05 0,05 form of electricity (85%) and district heating saving energy. (10%). Some units use fuel oil, natural gas or 100 0.04 0,04 propane for heating and running purification 75 0.03 0,03 equipment. The use of fuel oil is decreasing Atmospheric emissions 50 0.02 0,02 and being replaced with heat pumps or biofuel. Fossil fuels account for approximately Greenhouse gas emissions 25 0.01 0,01 5% of total energy consumption. Nolato’s emissions of the greenhouse gas 0 0.00 0,00 Energy consumption amounted to 169 carbon dioxide are caused by energy con2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GWh (167) in 2016 and the key performance sumption, transportation of raw materiTotal Group energy consumption, GWh Consumption divided by sales, GWh/SEKm indicator, which places energy consumption als and finished products, and an array of in relation to sales, has shown a declining indirect activities among our suppliers and trend since 2011. The cost of energy in 2016 customers. Reporting of emissions primarily Carbon dioxide emissions, CO2 was approximately SEK 123 million (128). includes direct and indirect energy consumptonnes tonnes/SEKm tion. 70,000 70 000 28 Measures aimed at boosting energy efficiency Emissions from transport, business travel, 60,000 60 000 24 include: suppliers and users of Nolato’s products are 50,000 50 000 20 not insignificant and during the year an audit Energy audits in accordance with the EU of transport emissions was initiated. 40,000 40 000 16 Energy Efficiency Directive Reviews shows In 2016, Nolato’s production plants emit30 000 30,000 12 there is still significant potential for saving ted 51,000 (57,000) of CO2, less than 3% of 20 000 20,000 8 energy. This may involve optimising venwhich was caused by the use of fossil fuels. tilation, cooling, lighting and compressed Other CO2 emissions were generated mainly 10 000 10,000 4 air. Nolato will continue conducting enfrom the production of electricity and district 00 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ergy audits and carrying out cost-effective heating in those countries in which we operEmissions of carbon dioxide (Group), tonnes measures. ate. Countries such as China, the US, Poland Emissions divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm The change from hydraulic injection and Hungary use coal extensively for elecmoulding machines to electrical machines tricity production, causing significant CO2 increases energy efficiency and reduces the emissions, which has a major impact on the handling of hydraulic oils. A dipping robot Group’s carbon footprint. at MediTor is continuing to make signifiA number of measures have been implecant energy savings. mented to reduce Nolato’s carbon footprint, The introduction of a certified energy manincluding: agement system (ISO 50001) at UK units is continuing to produce good results. The business in Hungary reduced indiThe use of surplus heat from equipment to rect CO2 emissions by more than 10,000 heat premises and warehouse buildings at tonnes by purchasing fossil-free electricity. Nolato Contour. The installation of sysFor most of the year, UK-based Nolato tems for free cooling reduced energy conJaycare purchased electricity with zero carsumption by 3% at Nolato Hungary. bon emissions. This resulted in a reduction Replacement of lighting with LED bulbs. in emissions by 8,000 tonnes. The comFor example, 3,181 LED lights were inpany has signed a national agreement to stalled at Nolato in Beijing. Installation of counteract climate change. The agreement lighting sensors. covers energy-intensive industry and, by Production planning to gain maximum reducing energy usage, participating comefficiency from equipment and the turning panies can receive reduced charges under off of equipment when it is not being used. a system in the UK known as the climate Shorter cycle times for presses reduces change levy. energy consumption. This also applies Energy efficiency measures, including ento variable-frequency control of electric ergy audits and the introduction of ISO pump motors of production equipment at 50001. Nolato Jaycare. The phasing-out of fuel oil and installation Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 15 / 32 of heat pumps or the use of bio-­fuel. Other atmospheric emissions sions of sulphur dioxide and nitric oxides Reduced scrap and lower amounts of The use of more than 450 tonnes of paints were low and amounted to 4 tonnes (5). waste. and solvents resulted in emissions of around Emissions of dust and malodorous substancPurchase of more fuel-efficient vehicles, 60 tonnes (55) of VOCs (volatile organic es are usually negligible, but a complaint conducting more teleconferences and imcompounds). The majority of these substancabout an unpleasant odour occurred at our proved logistics. es are used for the painting of mobile phones Beijing facility. The odour may relate to a The acquired Poland-based company Grizin Beijing. Purification equipment installed in water recirculation system that is used in a zly Medical previously used coal to heat its 2015 has cut emissions by around half. The purification facility for treating solvent emisbuildings. One of the first measures folmeasures to improve air quality in Beijing are sions. Measures have been taken to reduce lowing the acquisition was to replace coalappreciated by the environmental authorithe problems for the plant’s neighbours. fired heating with district heating. ties. Thus far, Nolato has not been subject to demands for the temporary closure of indusRaw materials and chemicals Through a new transport procurement trial operations during episodes of significant Production processes used around 34,000 agree­ment, Nolato now has access to data air pollution in the city. (30,000) tonnes of polymer materials in on carbon emissions and other air pollution. There are just over 2.7 tonnes (2.7) of 2016. More than 94% consisted of plastics This covers Swedish companies and transozone-depleting substances (HFCs) in airand the rest of synthetic rubber. This involves port by road, sea and air. CO2 emissions for conditioning and other equipment at around silicone and latex rubber used in medical the year totalled 1,400 tonnes. 10 production units. Minor leakages ocdevices. Other materials used, amounting to curred during the year, which corresponded around 1,600 (1,100) tonnes/year, are paints, to around 4% of the installed amount. Emissolvents and metals. Importance of energy efficiency in cutting carbon emissions Keeping the Nolato Group running in 2016 energy audits. These have to be conducted handle on energy consumption in our proprequired 168 GWh, which is the equivalent according to set guidelines and reported to erties and the different production processes. to the energy consumption of more than each country’s relevant authorities. Nolato The systematic audit was a real eye-opener 8,000 houses or a small town. Polymer, based in Torekov and Ängelholm, and things we didn’t know were so signifiThe cost of energy was SEK 123 million, reSweden and Torekov-based Nolato MediTor cant turned out to be consuming a lot of sulting in emissions of 51,000 tonnes of the carried out a joint energy audit and Per-Olof power.” greenhouse gas carbon dioxide. Jansson, Property and Maintenance ManSimilar energy audits are now being conager for both units, is delighted: ducted at Nolato’s plants across Europe, Long-term energy and “We’ve been fairly successful in our work which is good for both the environment and carbon emissions targets on energy issues and thought we had a good for Nolato’s bottom line. Energy and carbon emissions issues have a high priority at Nolato and we have set long-term targets to increase energy efficiency and reduce CO2 emissions. Numerous measures are being undertaken to make energy usage more efficient and the key performance indicators in this area are moving in the right direction, i.e. down. As well as measures like replacing inefficient lighting and machines, we have also started conducting energy audits and introducing ISO 50001-certified energy management systems. The purchase of fossil-free electricity in a number of countries is helping reduce CO2 emissions. Under the EU’s new Energy Efficiency Directive, all large companies must carry out Per-Olof Jansson shows off a new energy-efficient injection moulding machine. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 16 / 32 For a number of the Group’s products, the some production processes in which water Water consumption customer requires the polymer to consist of consumption is high. This mainly applies to virgin raw materials. This mainly applies to the manufacture of latex rubber breathing m3 m 3 /SEKm pharmaceutical packaging and medical debags in Torekov, which accounts for around 200,000 200000 100 vices. However, some customers have ex14% of total usage. 180,000 180000 90 pressed an interest in using recycled plastic, Several thousand people work at Nolato 160,000 160000 80 such as in the use for some mobile phone in Beijing and this is reflected by the fact that 140,000 140000 70 120,000 120000 60 models or vehicle components. The amount the unit accounts for just over 60% of the 100,000 100000 50 of recycled plastic used during the year was Group’s water consumption. The city of Bei80,000 80000 40 approximately 400 tonnes (200) and cusjing has been identified as a water shortage 60,000 60000 30 tomer projects are underway with the aim of area and that company is undertaking vari40,000 40000 20 increasing the proportion of recycled materious measures to reduce its water consump20,000 20000 10 als. We are also seeing interest in reducing tion. This involves information campaigns, 0 0 polymer usage in some products, which is identifying leaks, repairs to dripping taps, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 beneficial both in terms of cost and environand checks that water is not being consumer Total water consumption for the Group, m3 Consumption divided by sales, m3 /SEKm mental impact. Nolato has an express aim of when equipment and premises are not in use. increasing its use of renewable raw materials, The amounts of pollutants discharged to such as bioplastics. wastewater are limited and consist mainly An environmental aspect that concerns of sanitary water. All production units are most of the Group’s companies are customer connected to municipal wastewater treatrequirements for products to not contain cerment plants. Emissions of wastewater are tain designated chemical substances. In adnot expected to result in any environmental dition, there is continued substantial interest impact. One exception is one or more chemiin the issue of conflict minerals (see Glossary cal substances used at MediTor in Torekov, and Definitions). Chemical substances that Sweden, which are highly likely to affect the are identified by customers, and/or that have purification processes of the municipal waste been identified as candidates for risk reducwater treatment plant. This is manifested in tion under REACH chemical legislation, are reduced purification of nitrogen (inhibition a priority. In practice this means that a limof nitrification). MediTor has examined the ited number of chemical substances are subcomposition of the waste water and tested ject to phasing-out or other risk reduction purification equipment, but the cause of the measures. This concerns substances such as nitrification inhibition has not been able to softening phthalates that occur in some combe identified. The company has therefore ponents produced by Nolato. begun cooperation with researchers at Lund Solvent-based paints are another area in University Faculty of Engineering and a which it is beneficial form a health and endetailed study will be undertaken in spring vironmental perspective to switch to water2017. based products. Our aims sometimes conflict with customer requirements for a product’s Waste finish, but we undertake continual developIn 2016, approximately 64% (60) of waste ment work in this respect. Around one-quarwas recycled as materials and 14% (14) as ter of paints used are water-based. energy. There is a clear downward trend in landfill disposal of waste, which accounted Water issues for 7% of all waste. This compares with apAs it has operations in various parts of the proximately 16% of waste being disposed in world, it’s important to Nolato to reduce the landfill five years ago. It is positive that the Group’s global water footprint. Our facilities percentage of waste disposed of in landfill is use municipal water for purification equipdecreasing and the percentage being recycled ment, some production processes, cleaning, is increasing. This is the result of more desanitation and cooling. In 2016, 163,700 manding legislation in many countries, but cubic metres (179,300) of water were used at ultimately relates to a range of preventive a cost of around SEK 2.4 million (2.5). measures introduced at Nolato’s facilities. An Plants have systems in place to reduce waISO 14001-based approach, lean manufacter consumption, such as closed cooling waturing and 5S are important tools for reducter systems for injection moulding machines ing scrap and the occurrence of waste. and other equipment. Nevertheless, there are The volume of waste for the year totalled Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 17 / 32 5,200 tonnes (5,000), of which hazardous tems that are open to companies outside Waste waste constituted 8% (8). External waste Nolato. This has reduced the number visits tonnes tonnes/SEKm management costs for the year amounted to to suppliers. 6,000 6 000 3.0 3,0 SEK 3.7 million (3.4). When changing vehicles and company cars Nolato chooses low-emissions models, 5,000 5 000 2.5 2,5 Transport such as hybrids. 4,000 4 000 2.0 2,0 Activities continued during the year to reduce the environmental impact from the Many of the Group’s companies are optimis3,000 3 000 1.5 1,5 transportation of goods and business travel: ing transportation, including through higher 2,000 2 000 1.0 1,0 fill ratios in trucks, coordinated transport The Group procurement of transport serand environmentally optimised routes. 1,000 1 000 0.5 0,5 vices in 2015 included sustainability isFor example, Nolato MediTech raised the 0 00,0 sues as an important issue. We now have fill ratio of trucks by 15% for transport to 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 access to good documentation to analyse Hungary. Nolato MediTor created better Amount of waste (Group), tonnes the impact of transport at Swedish units, logistics for the transportation of breathing Amount of waste divided by sales, tonnes/SEKm including emissions data for CO2, NOx, bags to Poland, saving 16,500 m of transport SO2 and other air pollution. by truck. In China too, Nolato places environmental Bulk handling instead of handling material requirements on transport firms and asks in sacks reduces the number of shipments. that they use environmentally certified Intelligent packaging solutions by Nolato vehicles. Jaycare are cutting the number of shipments Many units make use of video conferencbetween the UK and Italy. ing, and Nolato Cerbo has installed sysContinuous system for rapid identification of deviations Unexpected or unplanned events at a proity control laboratory, pressure in the clean the municipal waste water treatment plant. duction facility can impact manufacturing room, the temperature and humidity in For Nolato Contour, this led to a signifiprocesses, the quality of products and/or warehouses, water consumption and many cant increase in water consumption. Withhave a negative impact on the environment other parameters. These parameters are out the system, it could have taken days or human health. linked to limit values. If these are exceeded or weeks to discover the faulty valve. But Nolato Contour is working on being able the system alerts those employees responsithanks to the new system, the maintenance to quickly identify deviations to prevent ble by text or email. department was able to quickly identify and such events. The company has installed a rectify the problem. monitoring system that continually checks a Rapid rectification of emissions And customer confidence in Nolato number of parameters in the building. A specific example where the monitoring Contour’s operations increases when they system has helped reduce environmental realise critical parameters are continually Continual monitoring impact was when it alerted staff that a valve monitored and deviations identified almost The system is called condition-based moniin the cooling water system was open. There before they occur (known as failure predictoring (CBM) and it checks the temperature was an uncontrolled release of treated cooltion). in the server room, the climate in the qualing water, causing an unnecessary strain on The chart shows how the temperature in the laboratory suddenly increases, exceeding the limit value. CBM immediately alerts the relevant staff and the necessary action can be taken. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 18 / 32 Products with environmental benefits Nolato Gota are some of the companies conium dioxide won’t suffer any allergic Working together with customers, we conconducting this kind of product developreaction. tribute concept development, design, choice ment. of materials, structure, prototypes, producNolato Jaycare in Portsmouth in the UK Accidents tion moulds, high-volume production and manufacturers containers for handling In 2016, there were no cases of accidents or post-processing. The environmental perforhazardous clinical waste (Sharpak). The uncontrolled environmental emissions. In mance of products has become an increasingaim is to establish Sharpak as the first addition, no environmental complaints were ly important competitive factor. For Nolato, choice for clinical waste management registered from local residents or other stakethis applies to everything from mobile globally. holders. phones, component for vehicles, domestic Nolato MediTor’s environmentally optiappliances and chainsaws, to pharmaceutimised breathing bags use less polymer macal packaging and medical devices. Below terial and have a smaller carbon footprint. are some examples of projects and existing The company also offers phthalate-free products: breathing bags. Nolato Jaycare in Newcastle in the UK has Nolato Gota and Nolato Lövepac manusuccessfully tested production using ‘green’ facture components for Volvo Cars’ Drivepolyethylene plastic manufactured from E generation of engines. These engines bio-based ethylene raw materials. are around 20% more efficient than their Nolato participates in developing environpredecessors. mental technology products, such as fuel Sustainability issues are increasingly imcells. portant for customers in the mobile phone Nolato Lövepac has developed eco-friendsector. Nolato’s unit in China is conductly traps for bedbugs. Instead of pesticide ing a number of projects to make greater they use strips with dark cavities that atuse of recycled plastic and water-based tract bedbugs, which are then killed off paints. when exposed to diatomaceous earth. Nolato Plastteknik has a project to replace Nolato Cerbo produces pharmaceutical the chrome plating of plastic components packaging (SC Light Caps) with less plasusing a different method. In addition, alutic and therefore a smaller carbon footminium is continuing to be replaced with print. plastic in vehicle components. Another Lövepac Converting is working with reexample is one of Plastteknik’s bulk prodsearchers to develop zirconium dioxideucts, which has been redesigned to use less based products. Zirconium dioxide is a polymer. highly durable ceramic that is chemicalPlastics are replacing other materials in resistant, has a natural beauty and an vehicles, household appliances and chain exceptionally smooth surface. In addition, saws. This results in reduced weight and the material is fully biocompatible, which fuel consumption. Nolato Plastteknik and means wearers of items made from zirNolato Sustainability Report 2016 19 / 32 54 Directors’ report Social responsibility Global operations Gender equality and Average no. employees ISO The average number of employees in 2016 combating discrimination envi was 6,418 (7,759). The gender equality policy is an integral part 10,000 acqu Around three-quarters of employees work at of Nolato’s Code of Conduct and day-to9,000 E enha Nolato’s units in China. Other countries in day activities in this area are delegated to 8,000 thro which we have a significant number of emthe management of local companies. Gender 7,000 been ployees are Sweden and Hungary. equality measures are conducted according 6,000 insta 5,000 Nolato has a long tradition of responsible to the gender equality plans of the Group’s equi business practice and we believe that this companies and includes activities aimed at 4,000 ener approach helps attract, recruit, develop and created a balance between men and women 3,000 mor 2,000 retain committed and skilled staff. in employment and career development, as 1,000 resp All units are wholly owned by the Group well as measures that create opportunities 0 tain and comply fully with the guidelines in Nofor people with disabilities. Formal gender 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 E lato’s Basic Principles and Code of Conduct. equality plans are in place at around 75% of tion The practical work relating to personnel units. stan issues in the Group is decentralised. This 49% (50) of Nolato employees were womEmployees by business area certi means each individual Group company is reen in 2015. The balance between the number Average Emp sponsible for managing these issues in a way of men and women varies from country to Nolato Medical 18% The Nolato Industrial 12% that complies with both Group guidelines country, and in Sweden and the UK there is in 20 and the legislation and culture of the country a predominance of male staff. In Hungary, O in question. China, Poland and Romania there is a prethe The total average number of employees dominance of women. 22% (30) of Nolato’s A and includes approximately 3,000 staff in China Board are women, while the corresponding Nol who are employed through staffing agenfigure for the Group management is 0% (0). Con cies. This form of employment has mainly Around 27 of other senior executives are Spiri been chosen to make it easier for the busiwomen, which corresponds to 20% (19). to p ness to recruit a workforce for mobile phone In accordance with the undertakings in Nolato Telecom 70% trali com projects and consequently avoid creating the Code of Conduct, we work to combat all sonn its own large recruitment organisation. In discrimination. One target group is people both accordance with the Group’s policy, these with disabilities, and these employees are Employees by country and employees are covered by the same princitreated the same as other employees. PeoA ples as Nolato’s other employees in China ple with disabilities work at units in Beijing Average be re with regard to the setting of wages, benefits, (China), Gothenburg (Sweden), Newcastle lecti Other 3% the working hours, work environment, social (UK) and Mosonmagyaróvár (Hungary). US 3% Sweden 13% colle responsibility, etc. Nolato’s work in Hungary has received sigcoun nificant attention and has been recognised agre Hungary 9% Code of Conduct provides guidance with awards. atio Nolato’s Code of Conduct provides clear UK 4% I guidance on how the Group’s business prinWhistleblowing its la arou ciples and values should be put into practice. All staff have the opportunity to raise conCare It can be viewed as an ethical compass to be cerns about serious irregularities, without ther followed by all staff, irrespective of workthe risk of harassment or opposition, using China ensu place and function. The Code applies to ­Nolato’s whistleblowing system. Serious 68% at w Nolato’s Board members and contract-based irregularities include unethical or illegal T staff as well. The Code of Conduct also sets behaviour, fraud and serious breaches of quic of th out what we expect of our suppliers in terms the Code of Conduct, such as bribery or serio of responsible business practice. discrimination against employees. No seriblow ous irregularities were identified during the staff Everybody has the right of representation financial year. ities All Nolato employees have the right to be No c represented by trade unions, and to collective Training and personal development T of e agreements. At 14 units in Sweden and ChiTraining is a key development tool for perstaff na, all employees are covered by collective sonnel, and we run management developstaff agreements. At the units in other countries, ment courses, as well as large number of has there are no unions or collective agreements, specific training courses on quality, technolthe b and this reflects a normal situation in these ogy, our Code of Conduct, and health and mob countries. safety. In 2016, employees attended a total of Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 20 / 32 338,000 (300,000) hours of training, which units are currently certified and a further Causes of occupational accidents equates to 53 (39) hours per employee. A nine are planning certification over the next Energy particularly large number of courses were year or so. Hazardous substances Other arranged in China, Hungary, Sweden and the In 2016, there were 63 (36) lost work casLifting, etc US. New employees are an important target es (LWCs), which resulted in a total of 447 group for information and training meas(405) days of absence. As in previous years, ures. the most common causes were injuries from During the year, around 2,050 (2,600) emheavy lifting, repetitive work, machinery and ployees participated in performance reviews, falls and slips, which in most cases resulted Fall/slips career development or other assessments of in limited absence. One serious accident, in their own work. Employee surveys are carwhich an operator damage several fingers, Machinery ried out regularly at a number of the Group’s resulted in an extended absence. Over a fiveunits. In most cases, they are performed year period the frequency varies between every other year or every three years, and in 2 and 5 accidents resulting in absence per Occupational accidents 2016 9 (6) surveys were conducted. Overall, million hours worked. In an industrial perthe work atmosphere was deemed to be good spective, the frequency of accidents remains Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and a number of constructive improvements low but there is no clear downward trend. LWC* 64 34 43 36 63 were suggested by employees. These related Systems for registering near misses were enLWC per 3.9 2.0 2.9 2.3 5.0 to areas including training, internal commuhanced and have now been introduced at all employee nication, benefits and career paths. units. During the year, 583 (501) near misses We carry out special initiatives in China to were investigated and corrective and prevenattract, retain and develop both permanent tive action taken. LWD * 616 381 929 405 447 and temporary employees. These activities Training courses on the environment and LWD per 37 23 62 27 35 come under the umbrella of our Employee health and safety are part of our preventive employee Care Programme , which includes activities work and an average of 5.0 (5.1) hours per relating to health, safety, lifestyle, opportuniemployee were spent on these courses. ties to take language courses, and employee Training on first aid, chemical health risks, surveys that are supplemented by a forum in personal protective equipment, hot work, * LWC = Lost Work Case (absence ≥ 1 day) * LWD = Lost Work Day which staff can discuss issues with the comforklift driving, fire safety and machine safepany’s managing director. An activity that ty is provided frequently. was especially popular during the year was a During the year, Nolato Beijing received day trip to central Beijing. More than 1,300 the Safety Month Best Practice award from employees took part in the excursion. Beijing Business Development Area (BDA). Tommy Li, Health and Safety Manager, Health and safety received the BDA Excellent Safety Officer Our preventive health and safety measures award. take a systematic approach. We identify risks and the causes of incidents and accidents and take appropriate action. This involves both technical improvements and training. Formal safety committees are in place at 95% of units, covering essentially all employees. An important element of this systematic work is the introduction of OHSAS 18001 health and safety management systems. Six (six) Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 21 / 32 Business partners and other stakeholders Application of sound business ethics A whistleblowing system has been introto see improvements, such as phthalate-free In accordance with the principles of Nolato’s duced in the Group, giving employees the medical device products. In China, there was Code of Conduct and the tenth principle of opportunity to confidentially report seria requirement to reduce the number of overthe Global Compact, our business princious irregularities. time hours. ples should be characterised by integrity and In addition to review systems, some cusresponsibility. The Code of Conduct states An assessment for the year shows that the tomers have established systems under which that: Group’s companies are working on issues of suppliers qualify for sustainable development business ethics at the same ambitious level certification. One example is Sony Green Nolato does not offer gifts, benefits or payas previous years. No cases of bribery, corPartner, for which Lövepac Converting and ments that could influence, or be regarded ruption or cartel formation were identified Nolato Beijing, Nolato Malaysia have qualias influencing, the objectivity of the recipiin 2016. fied. ents’ decisions or that breach legislation As part of these requirements from cusand/or local practice. Interaction with customers and suppliers tomers, Nolato is expected to pass corNolato avoids situations in which comNolato’s customers operate in industries responding requirements along its supply pany loyalty could come into conflict with in which issues regarding the environment, chain. This is done by informing suppliers personal interests. health and safety and ethics have a high about Nolato’s Code of Conduct and speciNolato complies with competition law and priority. This applies to sectors such as autofication requirements, as well as different promotes fair competition. motive, the food industry, telecom and phartypes of monitoring. Over the year, we carNolato ensures that all staff can raise conmaceuticals and we note that requirements ried out 173 (134) reviews of suppliers with cerns about irregularities within the comon suppliers are increasing and monitoring a focus on sustainable development. Around pany without the risk of personal conseis becoming increasingly effective. We moni125 of the reviews were based on questionquences for whistleblowers. tor developments and customer requirements naires and about 50 cases involved formal are making a constructive contribution to the audits. These reviews did not identify any For a global company, these matters are comdevelopment of Nolato’s sustainability work. risks relating to the environment and social plex and the perception of normal business In 2016, all units reported customer reresponsibility that cannot be managed, but principles varies between countries and culquirements concerning sustainable develwe did identify a number of areas that need tures. The Group uses the following methods opment (see table below). Requirements improvement. In one case, cooperation was for governance and monitoring of the applirelating to hazardous chemicals (REACH discontinued with a supplier. cation of sound business ethics: and RoHS) have increased over the past five Assessments of suppliers’ sustainability years. The same is true of requirements for measures are extensive and time-consuming. Nolato’s Code of Conduct applies to all Nolato to have a code of conduct. Recent We therefore apply a risk-based model for employees and Group company manageyears have seen significant interest in guaranselecting suppliers for review. The detailed ment teams are responsible for conveying tees that no conflict minerals (see Definitions criteria for which suppliers are selected varthe values in their organisation. and Glossary) are used in products. ies among the Group’s companies, but it is We monitor costs, expenditure and revDuring the year, 15 (14) of the Group’s usually new suppliers, key suppliers, or supenues on an ongoing basis. units were reviewed by customers from a pliers with particular risks that are selected We pay particular attention to ethical range of sectors. This involves a significant for follow-up. A substantial proportion of issues in our relationships with our partnumber of questionnaires and audits. OverNolato’s suppliers consist of global groups ners. Standard business practice must be all, customers were very pleased with Nolain the polymer and chemical industry. These observed in each individual country, but to’s efforts. Nolato Cerbo, for example, was types of companies often conduct transparif business principles do not comply with classified by independent evaluator EcoVadis ent sustainability activities and the risks are Nolato’s Code of Conduct, we must reas one of the best-performing companies in consequently considered to be low. We therefrain from doing business or take alternathe group with regard to sustainable develfore do not carry out detailed assessments of tive relevant actions. opment. Some customers expressed a desire such companies. Using the Global Compact checklists, we conduct annual evaluations of what measCustomer requirements Percentage of units reporting sustainability requirements from customers ures companies take to counteract bribery. The assessment for 2016 shows that this 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 work is governed by Nolato’s Code of Introduce environmental management systems 67 55 53 32 33 Conduct and the companies are continuPhase out hazardous chemicals 38 40 42 42 48 ing to actively combat corruption. Compliance with REACH and RoHS 71 30 37 26 14 They have established detailed policies Product-related environmental information 52 65 53 42 57 and guidelines covering gifts, entertainCompliance with customer’s code of conduct/ 71 75 79 74 71 ment and expenses. Several companies CR requirements report that they expanded their activities Conflict minerals 80 80 58 0 0 in relation to suppliers during the year. Other requirements 24 25 10 21 9 Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 22 / 32 Investors to one of our production facilities or met volvement is long-term and Group employNolato’s sustainability work is analysed regwith Nolato employees in connection with ees contribute in different ways. One such ularly by investors and other organisations. presentations to students about future job project is Building Hope Together in China, The Group is still approved under Swedbank opportunities. A number of degree projects which for the past four years has involved Robur’s responsible investment criteria. and internships were also undertaken at our us helping a school in a poor area, around facilities. four hours north of Beijing. The school has Social engagement Over the year, Nolato continued its colaround 100 pupils between the ages of 7 and Nolato engages with those local communities laboration on sustainability issues with the 12. Through the Building Hope Together where we have operations. It is important for International Institute for Industrial Environproject, Nolato has donated computers, Nolato to maintain contact with universities mental Economics (IIIEE) at Lund University. printers, desks and other equipment to imand schools and demonstrate that Nolato In Hungary, the employment of staff with prove lessons and student welfare. We have is an attractive employer. This may take different types of disability has continued. also donated jackets, mattresses, pillows, the form of ‘open house’ days, study visits, Employment has provided people with visual blankets and bedsheets for the pupils. Some workplace degree projects, internships and and hearing impairments with a better qualof the school’s teachers have visited Nolato’s development projects. Half of the units had ity of life, and they are making an excellent factory to find out about how we work. In contact with schools and universities. For excontribution to the company’s work. Our 2016, the pupils received items such as pens, ample, Nolato Cerbo has used a ‘speed datunits in China and elsewhere also employ travel mugs, books, educational toys and ing’ approach for foreign students to find out people with disabilities. clothes. if they have skills and experience that match Nolato provides financial support for the company’s needs. schools, healthcare, sports associations and Numerous students made study visits social activities, and in many cases our inGlobal perspective on Nolato’s sustainability work The UN Sustainable Development Goals not least, representatives from business, carry significant hopes that the business have been involved. The fact that the sector will be able to work with these business sector will participate actively in goals and, through technological developrealising these targets is also important.” ment and other means, contribute to the sustainable development of society. How Should Nolato use the goals in its sustainwill the goals work in practice and how ability work? will Nolato’s strategy and sustainable de“Nolato already uses a number of sustainvelopment targets be affected? able development goals, which is good and provides a transparent overview of Antoine Bonnamy from France used progress and setbacks. I can see all 17 of Nolato as a specific example in his masthese global targets being used in some ter’s dissertation at the International way by Nolato. However, some goals are Institute for Industrial Environmental more relevant than others, such as ‘AfEconomics (IIIEE) at Sweden’s Lund Unifordable and clean energy’, ‘Industry, inversity, which was about the application of novation and infrastructure’ and ‘Climate these global targets in the private sector. action’.” What is the difference between the SusNolato has taken on board the experience tainable Development Goals and the from Antoine Bonnamy’s research with reAntoine Bonnamy’s research at Lund Uniprevious millennium goals? gard to how the Global Goals can be used versity finds that the UN Sustainable De“The Sustainable Development Goals in private-sector companies. One specific velopment Goals can be applied in a spehave a better comprehensive approach to result is that most of Nolato’s sustainable cific way at Nolato and other companies. sustainable development,” says Antoine development targets in its Annual Report Bonnamy. “They’re more clearly interand Sustainability Report 2016 are linked linked and a real effort has been made to the Sustainable Development Goals. to ensure these goals interact with one When the Group updates its targets in another. They’re also grounded in a very 2017, the UN goals will affect wording extensive process in which the 193 UN and the areas that are prioritised in varimember states, lots of organisations and, ous ways. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 23 / 32 Financial responsibility Good financial performance Financial highlights The Nolato Group achieved good financial performance in 2016 despite not matching SEKm (unless otherwise specified) 2016 2015 2014 the figures for 2015, which was a record year. Net sales 4,447 4,726 4,234 Nolato Medical experienced strong growth Operating profit (EBITA) 457 570 470 EBITA margin, % 10.3 12.1 11.1 and Nolato Industrial also continued growProfit after financial income and expense 438 555 462 ing. The decrease for Nolato Telecom is due Profit after tax 336 420 364 to product changeovers at customers in the Return on capital employed, % 20.6 29.6 28.4 mobile phone sector. We also took market Return on shareholders’ equity, % 19.0 25.3 25.0 share in most market segments and gained Equity/assets ratio, % 47 54 54 new customers. We’ve worked hard in recent Earnings per share, SEK 12.77 15.97 13.84 years to bring about the successful compleDividend per share (2016 proposal) 10.50 10.00 8.50 tion of acquisitions. So it was especially Average number of employees 6,418 7,759 8,020 pleasing to announce two strategic acquisitions in the third quarter – Switzerland-based Treff and Poland-based Grizzly Medical. Nolato’s sales for 2016 amounted to SEK Environmental investments Environmental costs 4,447 million (4,726). Operating profit (EBITA) was SEK 457 million (570) and the Authority charges 3% Other investments 13% operating margin (EBITA) was 10.3% (12.1). External services 6% Purification facility Waste operation 42% The lower sales were fully attributable to Energy management 5% efficiency 45% Certifications 6% Nolato Telecom. Nolato Medical and Nolato Administration 18% Industrial both increased their sales. Earnings per share were SEK 12.77 (15.97). Sustainable development and financial performance Health and safety In 2016, Nolato invested SEK 8.1 million improvements 35% Purification Waste management 25% (15.0) in measures to reduce environmenfacilities 2% tal impact and improve health and safety. Percentage share of the Group’s investments Percentage share of the Group’s costs Around 45% of investments related to enerin environment, health and safety. in environment, health and safety. gy efficiency improvements and around 35% were for preventive environmental measures. Environmental costs amounted to SEK Financial value for stakeholders (SEKm) 14.6 million (13.6) and are dominated by operating expenses for purification facilities, Stakeholder 2016 2015 2014 Comment waste management, internal administration Suppliers 2,546 2,752 2,166 Payment for materials and services and fees to authorities and certification comEmployees 1,283 1,250 1,112 Salaries and benefits panies. During the year, environmental imShareholders 276 263 224 Dividend provement measures generated cost savings Creditors 8 7 10 Interest expenses of SEK 3.4 million (3.7). Savings arose mainSociety 102 135 98 Reported effective tax for the Group ly from more efficient energy consumption Total 4,215 4,407 3,610 and increased recycling of production waste, as well as improved waste management. The Financial value for stakeholders page 21 for further information about the cost of water supply and sanitation amountNolato’s business generates financial value value created for stakeholders. Swedish cored to SEK 2.4 million (2.0) and energy costs that is distributed between various stakeporation tax amounted to 22.0% (22.0) and were SEK 123 million (128). holders. This includes suppliers, employees, the effective tax rate was 23.3% (24.3). shareholders, creditors and society. See also Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 24 / 32 Sustainability-related risks Nolato’s strategy includes continuously miniwaste, CLP chemical legislation (on classifibe carried out in collaboration with our climising operational risks through active and cation, labelling and packaging) and other ents. We constantly monitor developments so planned risk management, while still capitalrelevant environmental and health and safety we can initiate the substitution of hazardous ising on the business opportunities that conlaws. We currently expect no increase in substances, introduce more environmentally trolled risk-taking brings. The main features risks concerning new or amended legislation. friendly polymers and develop new products. of risk management are identification, evaluNolato is subject to the EU’s Energy EffiWe also have Group-wide targets regarding ation, governance, reporting, monitoring and ciency Directive and energy audits have been environmentally sustainable product develcontrol. For significant risks, there are proceconducted and will be carried out. We believe opment and increased use of renewable and dures for accepting, reducing or eliminating there are good opportunities for improving recycled materials. the risk. energy efficiency and achieving cost savings. Nolato’s annual report for 2016 provides Nolato will carry out reporting to the SwedClimate-related risks detailed information about operational and ish Energy Agency in spring 2017. One of the Group’s plants is located in an financial risks. In terms of sustainability, we area where future climate changes could have identified a number of risks of potential Contaminated soil and cause landslips (Gothenburg). We monitor importance to the Group’s financial posihazardous substances in buildings the risk and vulnerability analyses performed tion. More demanding environmental legisThere has been no known occurrence of by the authorities in this regard. lation, taxes, fees and other environmental contaminated land, neither are there any Climate change is an important issue to requirements can entail significant costs for requirements in terms of investigations or Nolato, and an overview of the Group’s industrial operations. There are also risks decontamination. In Sweden, three plants efforts to reduce its carbon footprint is profrom a business perspective relating to the have been classified according to the ‘MIFO’ vided on pages 14–15. However, we need environment and social responsibility, which method for contaminated soil. The risk asto be prepared for how climate change may have gained attention in recent years, with a sessment is administrative in nature and is affect the Group in financial terms. This may particular focus on our own production and not based on actual sample-taking. All the relate to damage to plants and infrastructure, that of suppliers. Nolato carries out regular plants are in the lowest risk category and are and also aspects pertaining to raw materials risk assessments in order to identify new not prioritised by the authorities for further supply, supplier circumstances and changed risks and/or costs relating to the environinspections or measures. In 2015, ground at customer behaviour. Taxes, charges and limiment, ethics and social responsibility as early Nolato Gota was contaminated with transtations on emissions could, of course, also on as possible. former oil following an attempted break-in affect Nolato. Sustainable development also creates lots at the facility. Decontamination measures of opportunities for Nolato and by integrathave been completed and approved by the Business ethics ing these issues into strategic efforts, product relevant authorities. Deficient business ethics could damage development and marketing we actively try Hazardous substances such as asbestos ­Nolato’s reputation and business operations. to utilise these opportunities. We want cusare present in some individual buildings We undertake various measures to prevent tomers to regard us as an important partner and only result in measures in the event of corruption and other irregularities. (See page in sustainable development efforts. refurbishment or renovation work. Their 21.) occurrence is documented and their status Environmental legislation is inspected regularly. PCB inventories have Human rights Nolato’s production units have the permits been conducted at our Swedish operations Infringement of human rights at the Group’s required for their operations, and no more in which small amounts of these hazardous companies or our suppliers could damage extensive applications for permit renewals substances were identified. Decontaminaboth the Group’s reputation and its business are planned for 2016. Authorities in Beijing, tion has been carried out in accordance with operations. Nolato’s Code of Conduct apChina have tightened air pollution regulaSwedish environmental legislation. plies in the same way around the world. We tions. We met these new requirements by promote the protection of human rights by installing an advanced purification facility in Environmental adaptation of products informing people, training staff and through 2014 that cuts solvent emissions. With reSociety has a growing interest in environinternal regulations and monitoring. gard to the air pollution situation in Beijing, mentally sustainable products, and one there is a substantial risk that the authorities identifiable business risk could be our prodEnergy costs will take further measures. One such examuct range including products that are not There is a risk of electricity prices rising and ple was the recent requirement for 1,200 inaccepted by customers for health and envihaving a material negative impact on profitdustrial businesses Nolatos to temporarily produktionsenhet i Torekovshut down ronmental reasons. The fossil-based origin ability and within Nolato this mainly applies operations during a period of high air polluof plastics has been called into question by to the purchase of electricity. The risk of tion. Nolato was not subject to this requirevarious stakeholder groups. And the issue of negative effects from rising electricity prices ment and we believe our efforts to carry out microscopic particles of plastic in the world’s is addressed by the Group entering into fixed purification measures helped in this regard. oceans has also gained attention. price agreements for 20–80% of electricity Where applicable, the Group’s units meet As a supplier, Nolato has some possibilities requirements for the next four to 12 quarters. REACH chemical legislation, RoHS product to counter this risk, but as most products are legislation, producer’s liability for packaging produced for customers, development must Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 25 / 32 A busy year Over the course of a year, Nolato undertakes through contact with schools and universiChina lots of measures relating to sustainable deties. Nolato Beijing upgraded its quality manvelopment. Below is a small sample of initiaGothenburg-based Nolato Plastteknik’s agement system to ISO 9001:2015 and tives and activities at our units around the investments in efficient equipment resulted ISO 13486:2016 standards. Its environworld. in an 11% decrease in the key performental management system was updated mance indicator on energy consumption. to the ISO 14001:2015 standard. The Sweden A leadership programme focusing on core Employee Care Programme continued Nolato Polymer completed an energy audit values was also implemented. The winthrough expanded dialogue with company and is evaluating opportunities to boost ningtemp tool started being used to conmanagement, excursions to central Beijing energy efficiency. Work on introducing the tinually assess employees’ views on their and various sporting activities. E-learning ISO 45001 health and safety standard has work situation. activities were further developed with a commenced. focus on safety, quality management, lean Nolato MediTech in Hörby and Lomma Hungary and Romania manufacturing and language training. continued to undertake lean manufacturNolato Hungary in Mosonmagyaróvár Twelve new training courses were develing-related Medical Excellence activities introduced systems to provide detailed oped as part of our learning organisation. and over 4,500 suggested improvements monitoring of energy use and the volume Continued support of Building Hope have now been implemented. The comof waste. The company received the DisaTogether, a programme through which pany spoke to students about the industry bled Friendly Workplace Award for its Nolato supports a school outside Beijing. and its business, including at events like work with people with disabilities. Work to reduce energy and water conthe ARKAD careers fair at Lund UniversiNolato Romania in Negoiesti enhanced sumption continued and a large number ty Faculty of Engineering and the Industry its system for the reuse and collection of of suppliers were evaluated with regard evening event in Malmö. The key perforpackaging that is sent to customers. The to sustainable development. The company mance indicator for energy consumption company was named Best Supplier for End was awarded the BDA Safety Month Prize. decreased by 4% over the year. to End Solutions from one of its customIt also achieved good results in customer Nolato Silikonteknik in Hallsberg carried ers. audits and assessments. on working on continuous improvements. Beijing-based Nolato Lövepac focused on Nolato MediTor in Torekov introduced UK enhancing organisation, training, corpoan electronic invoicing system which cuts Portsmouth-based Nolato Jaycare introrate culture, health, quality management the use of paper. A number of interesting duced new procedures for managing spilland lean manufacturing. A suggestion box projects are underway to reduce material age and waste, for example by improvwas introduced for employees. usage (PP plastic) by up to 10 tonnes a ing the colour-coding of waste sorting year. A 10% reduction in the volume of a containers. A large number of preventive Malaysia product will also lead to improvements in health and safety measures were introNolato EMC in Penang achieved ISO logistics and lower energy consumption. duced, including the reorganisation of the 14001:2015 certification. The dipping robot contributed to an 18% tool room and improved machine safety. reduction in water consumption. Newcastle-based Nolato Jaycare installed US Nolato Gota in Götene has installed a new variable-frequency driven electric motors Nolato Contour in Baldwin boosted ensystem for the drying of plastic granules. for the pumps in large injection mould ergy efficiency by replacing hydraulic The equipment uses around 50% less machines, saving up to 35% of energy. The presses with electric machines. The comenergy than the old machine. Numerous identification of leaks in the compressed pany participated in Wisconsin’s Green measures were implemented to cut the use air system also helped save energy. The Tier Initiative by voluntarily performing of consumables (paper, plastic cups and ISO 50001 certification contributed to better than required by legislation in areas packaging material). For example, most total energy savings of 1,260 MWh and such as the environment. Nolato Contour offices no longer have wastepaper baskets. an almost 700 tonne reduction in CO2 installed a Condition Based Monitoring An energy audit was also carried out. emissions. Water consumption was also system, which is helping reduce environNolato Lövepac in Skånes Fagerhult upreduced and the volume of waste was cut mental impact. dated its waste management facility. And it by 15%. has also focused on preventive health and safety work. Poland Nolato Cerbo in Trollhättan phased out Nolato Stargard replaced coal-fired heatmore than 10 hazardous chemical subing with district heating, which reduced its stances. The company increased its socarbon footprint. cial engagement activities, for example Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 26 / 32 About our sustainability report A focus on materiality Company/plant Country NumBuilEstablisEnviSignificance Nolato’s sustainability report for 2016, in acber of ding hed (year) ronfor the emarea mental sustainability cordance with GRI G4 and the Communicaployees (m2) pemits report tion On Progress (Global Compact), includes aspects relating to the environment, health and safety, social responsibility and ethics. Nolato Beijing, Beijing China 4,029 36,309 2001 Yes High Our ambition is for this report, together with Nolato Hungary, Masonmagyaróvár Hungary 574 18,431 2000 Yes High supplementary information, to give our employees and external stakeholders a transparLövepac Converting, Beijing China 6,168 2000 No Medium 288 ent view of the company’s corporate responLövepac Converting, Shenzhen China 2,635 2008 No Low sibility activities and how these interact with Nolato Polymer, Torekov/Ängelholm Sweden 56 11,035 1973, 1995 Yes Medium our business activities. All units that were part of the Nolato Nolato Jaycare, Portsmouth UK 11,132 1986 Yes Medium Group in 2016 are included in this report, 255 Nolato Jaycare, Newcastle UK 4,790 1998 Yes Medium with the exception of newly acquired Nolato Treff in Switzerland. In total, 21 (20) producNolato MediTech, Hörby Sweden 7,000 1999 Yes Medium 192 tion facilities contributed data. A summary Nolato MediTech, Lomma Sweden 5,000 1980 Yes Medium of the different units’ significance in terms Nolato Cerbo, Trollhättan Sweden 127 11,000 1971 Yes Medium of sustainability reporting is provided in the table. Nolato MediTor, Torekov Sweden 52 4,500 1973 Yes Medium Nolato Gota, Götene Sweden 159 23,004 1965 Yes Medium Reporting principles Each production unit provides quantitative Nolato Contour, Baldwin US 193 8,361 1993 Yes Medium and qualitative information in accordance Nolato Plastteknik, Gothenburg Sweden 111 13,000 1980 Yes Medium with Nolato’s sustainability reporting form. The chart shows the Group’s annual cycle Nolato Lövepac, Skånes Fagerhult Sweden 39 4,200 1968 No Low for sustainability reporting. The head of each Nolato Romania, Negoiesti Romania 36 2,960 2010 Yes Low company/unit is responsible for assuring the Nolato Hertila, Åstorp Sweden 28 4,474 2000 Yes Low quality of the information submitted. The year’s performance is compared and verified Nolato Silikonteknik, Hallsberg Sweden 59 3,600 1995 Yes Low against information for previous years. FurNolato Stargard, Stargard Poland 34 5,000 1996 No Low ther quality controls are conducted in connection with interviews and site visits. Nolato EMC, Penang Malaysia 93 3,350 2015 No Low Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulphur Nolato Treff, Degersheim Switzerland Acquired in 2016 and not included in the report. dioxide and nitric oxides from direct energy usage are established using conversion factors. These are based on the energy content and quality of the fuels used. CO2 emissions Reporting of data Questionnaire for all units from indirect energy consumption (primarQuality control of data ily electricity) in China, the US and MalayPreparations for a new report Q4 Q1 Sustainability section in the annual report sia are based on emissions data from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative (GHG Protocol). For the European units, emisQ3 Q2 GRI/COP/CDP report sions factors based on the EU Covenant of Mayors (2010) or on emissions data direct from electricity suppliers, are used. Information about VOC emissions (Volatile Organic Follow-up and review of sustainability data Compounds – solvents and paints) is based on mass balance calculations and/or measurements of the efficiency of the purification equipment used. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 27 / 32 Nolato and GRI The organisation behind GRI (Global Reers. The reporting should provide a compreation of the significant sustainability aspects porting Initiative) has established voluntary hensive, balanced, comparable, thorough and detailed on pages 8–9. The table below comprehensive guidelines for how companies credible presentation of the organisation’s shows the extent to which Nolato works in and other organisations should report their sustainability performance. It should include accordance with GRI G4. sustainable development activities. both positive and negative aspects. SR in the table refers to pages in the SusReporting in accordance with GRI should Nolato has chosen to report in accordance tainability Report (this document), and AR focus on sustainability aspects that are signifwith the Core GRI G4 level, and the indicato pages in the Annual Report for 2016. icant to the organisation and its stakeholdtors have been adapted in line with the evaluCore areas covered by the report (General Standard Disclosures) Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External acc. to GRI verification Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the President and CEO on the importance of sustainability issues and Nolato’s sustainability strategy. SR3; AR9 — G4-2 Description of the key effects, risks and opportunities for Nolato’s stakeholders. Trends, targets and programmes. SR9 — Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the reporting organisation. Nolato AB (publ) — G4-4 Primary brands, products and services. AR7 — G4-5 Location of Nolato’s headquarters. Torekov — G4-6 Number of countries where Nolato operates and other geographic areas that are relevant with regard to sustainable deSR26; AR6–7 — velopment. G4-7 Ownership and legal form. AR44–45 Ja G4-8 Nolato’s markets and customers. AR26–37 — G4-9 Number of employees, number of operations, net sales, debt and equity, quantity of products provided. AR4–5 Ja G4-10 Employees (employment type, gender, region, variations in employment numbers). SR19 — G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SR19 — G4-12 Description of Nolato’s supply chain. SR21 — G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, ownership, supply chain). SR36 — G4-14 Description of how the precautionary principle is addressed by Nolato. SR8,10 — G4-15 Initiatives/principles to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. SR8 — G4-16 Membership of national and international organisations. SR8 — Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Companies included in Nolato’s financial statements. Companies included in the sustainability report. SR26 — G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SR26 — G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SR9 — G4-20 Reason why aspects are regarded as material within Nolato. Internal limitation of the aspects. SR8-9 — G4-21 Reason why aspects are regarded as material outside Nolato. External limitation of the aspects. SR8-9 — G4-22 Comments on any restatements of information provided in previous reports. None during 2016 — G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. No significant — changes Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Nolato. SR9 — G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. SR9 — G4-26 Description of Nolato’s stakeholder engagement. SR8,9,18,21 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Nolato has responded to these. SR9 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 28 / 32 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. SR26 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. March 2016 — G4-30 Reporting cycle. SR26 — G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Torbjörn Brorson — GRI content index G4-32 References to requirements and indicators in GRI. This table — G4-33 Policy for external assurance for the report. No external — verification Governance G4-34 Structure for Nolato’s governance of sustainability work. SR8 — Ethics and integrity G4-56 Nolato’s core values, Code of Conduct and policies. SR8; www. — nolato.com/sustainability G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical behaviour, e.g. whistleblowing SR19 — Indicators Designation Requirement or indicator Reference External acc. to GRI verification Finance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. SR23 Yes G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. SR24 — G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. AR71 Yes G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. None during 2016 — Environmental responsibility Material G4-EN1 Use of renewable and non-renewable materials. SR16 — G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. SR16 — Energy G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption. SR14 — G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption. SR14 — G4-EN5 Energy intensity. SR14–15 — G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. SR14–15 — G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products. SR14 — Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. SR16 — Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1). SR14–15 — G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3). SR14–15 — G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SR14–15 — G4-EN19 Initiatives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. SR14–15 — G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). SR15 — G4-EN21 NOx, SO2 and other significant air emissions. SR15 — Effluents and waste Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 29 / 32 G4-EN22 Total water discharge. SR16 — G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. SR17 — G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. SR17 — Products and services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and results. SR18 — Compliance G4-EN29 Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. SR10 — Transports G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products. SR17 — Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments. SR23 — Supplier assessment G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. SR21 — Social responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. SR19 — G4-LA5 Participation in health and safety committees. SR19 — G4-LA6 Rates of injury and occupational diseases. SR19 — Training and education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee. SR19–20 — G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving performance and career development reviews or equivalent. SR19–20 — Diversity and equal opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, etc. SR19 — Supplier assessment G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria. SR21 — Human rights Non-discrimination G4-HR2 Proportion of employees informed/trained on human rights policies. SR9 — G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR19 — Freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant SR19 — risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labour G4-HR5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken. SR19 — Forced or compulsory labour G4-HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures taken. SR19 — Supplier assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria. SR21 — Society Local communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement. SR22 — Anti-corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. SR22 — G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. No recorded — incidents. Product responsibility G4-PR1 Proportion of products for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. SR16–18 — Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 30 / 32 The UN Global Compact Ten principles on presented by the UN in autumn 2015 are Communication On Progress responsible business practice now also connected to the Global Compact. Organisations that have endorsed the Global In 2010, Nolato endorsed the UN initiative In 2016, Nolato linked its sustainability Compact must produce an annual Commufor responsible business, the Global Comgoals to the Sustainable Development Goals. nication on Progress (COP) detailing how pact. This meant the Group joining a global The booklet The Nolato Spirit, which they meet the ten principles. network of more than 12,000 organisations, includes the Group’s Code of Conduct, is an In Nolato’s case, we use the information 9,000 of which are businesses, in 170 counimportant internal document, guiding and provided in the Annual Report and the Sustries. coordinating employee activities in line with tainability Report. Together, these reports By participating in the Global Compact, the ten principles. provide a fair presentation of Nolato’s supNolato endorses ten basic principles in the Group companies’ compliance with the port of and compliance with the Global areas of human rights, working conditions, Group’s Code of Conduct is evaluated on Compact principles. In order to simplify the environment and anti-corruption. These a regular basis. In the introduction to the Communication On Progress, we use GRI ten principles are based on various UN conSustainability Report, Nolato’s CEO Chrisindicators and the table of cross-references ventions, such as the Declaration of Human ter Wahlquist comments on the company’s below shows which indicators are relevant in Rights and the Convention against CorrupGlobal Compact work during the year. the context. tion. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals The Global Compact Principles GRI indicators Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights. G4-HR2, G4-HR7, G4-SO1 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. G4-HR1, G4-HR10-11 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective G4-11, G4-HR4 bargaining. 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. G4-HR6 5. Businesses should work for the effective abolition of child labour. G4-HR5 6. Businesses should work to eliminate all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. G4-10, G4-LA1, 9, 11, G4-HR3 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. G4-EN1, 3, 8, 15, 17, 20, 21, 27, 31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. G4-EN1-10, 15-24, 27 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. G4-EN6, 7, 19, 27 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. G4-56, 58, G4-SO4, 5 Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 31 / 32 Definitions and glossary 5S A Japanese method of organisation in the ethics. Often used in the same sense as the ISO 14001 International standard relating workplace. It involves sorting, systematising, term ‘sustainable development’. to environmental management systems that cleaning, standardising and ensuring. 5S is an was introduced in 1996. Over 325,000 orimportant element of lean manufacturing. EMC The shielding of electronics to achieve ganisations globally are currently certified electromagnetic compatibility (EMC). according to ISO 14001. An updated version Carbon dioxide (CO2) Carbon dioxide is of the standard was published in 2015 (ISO formed in all carbon combustion processes, Energy consumption Nolato reports both 14001:2015). such as fossil fuel combustion. It is very direct energy consumption (usage of fuel in likely that carbon dioxide increases global own energy facilities) and indirect consumpISO 26000 International standard that prowarming (the greenhouse effect). tion (purchased electricity and district heatvides guidance on how organisations can ing). deal with social responsibility issues. The CFCs/HFCs Refrigerants such as chlorofluorstandard was introduced in 2010. ocarbons (CFCs) and hydrofluorocarbons Environmental aspects The parts of an or(HFCs) have negative impacts on the enviganisation’s activities, products or services ISO 50001 An international standard relating ronment as a result of their ozone-depleting that interact with the environment. to energy management systems. properties and their effect on climate. Demand for more eco-friendly refrigerants is Environment-related costs Costs attributable LWC Occupational accidents causing at least growing globally. to measures for preventing, reducing or reone day’s absence (Lost Work Case). storing environmental impact directly caused CLP Classification, Labelling and Packagby the organisation’s operations. The same NGO Non-governmental organisation, a voling is EU legislation that addresses dangers applies for costs concerning the occupational untary organisation. posed by chemical substances and mixtures environment. The costs include administraand how users should be informed about tion, purchase of services externally, authorNOx (nitrogen oxides) Gaseous oxides them. These regulations were introduced in ity fees, environmental management system formed during combustion processes 2015. maintenance, waste and external inspections through the oxidation of nitrogen. Harmful and audits. to health and the environment and causes Code of Conduct Guidelines for Nolato’s acid rain and eutrophication. employees, Board of Directors, suppliers, etc. Environment-related investments Investregarding business ethics, the environment, ments for preventing and reducing environOccupational disease A work-related disease labour relations and social responsibility. mental impact from the organisation’s operais a disease caused by long-term exposure tions. The same applies for investments to to a particular factor in the occupational Conflict minerals Tantalum, tin, gold and enhance the occupational environment. environment. Examples are noise, dust and tungsten are referred to as conflict minerals if solvents. they originate from the Democratic Republic Extrusion A method for continuously manuof Congo and neighbouring countries. The facturing products in strands, such as tubing. Occupational injury A work-related injury is term arose because of the armed conflicts in a sudden incident (accident) attributable to the region, where mining operations often Global Compact A UN initiative for responsiwork that gives rise to a wound or other incontribute to continued conflicts and lead to ble business practice. Participating organisajury. Typical injuries in the polymer industry human rights abuses. tions undertake to endorse ten fundamental are cuts, falls and injuries caused by heavy principles in relation to human rights, oclifting and repetitive tasks. Nolato reports COP Communication On Progress is an ancupational conditions, the environment and occupational injuries as an accident that nual report submitted to the United Nations anti-corruption. Nolato became a signatory causes more than one day of absence, called specifying how Nolato operates according to to the Global Compact in 2009. Lost Work Case (LWC). The rate is gauged the 10 principles of the Global Compact. by the number of occupational injuries per GRI The Global Reporting Initiative has 1,000 employees (LWC/1,000). CSR/CR Corporate Social Responsibility/ established voluntary comprehensive guideCorporate Responsibility is a term that enlines for how companies and other organisaOHSAS 18001 Standard relating to health and compasses how companies handle issues tions should report their sustainability activisafety in the workplace. It will be replaced by concerning the environment, social responties. GRI G4 was introduced in 2013. the ISO 45001 standard. sibility, financial responsibility and business  Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 32 / 32 PCB Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group Lean manufacturing A systematic method for of industrial chemicals that are hazardous to the efficient management of resources. Lean health and the environment. The use of PCB manufacturing aims to identify all the factors was prohibited in Sweden in 1972, but the in a production process that do not create substance remains in the environment due to value for the customer. its slow decomposition. The energy efficiency directive The EU diPolymers Chemical compounds comprising rective that was introduced in 2015 and that, very long chains made up of small, repeatamong other things, covers energy audits ing units (monomers). Plastic and rubber are at large companies. Nolato is subject to the examples of polymer materials. directive. REACH EU chemical legislation for the safer Injection moulding A method for manufachandling of chemicals. Chemical substances turing polymer components. The material, must be registered for a certain use and such as a type of plastic, is injected under particularly hazardous substances can have high pressure into a mould in which the comrestrictions imposed on them. ponent is formed. RoHS EU legislation limiting the use of cerVOC (Volatile Organic Compounds). A group tain substances that are hazardous to health of organic compounds that easily vaporise and the environment. at room temperature. The concentration of volatile hydrocarbon in the air has a negative SO2 (sulphur dioxide) Sulphur dioxide is effect on health and the environment, e.g. it formed in the combustion of petroleum contributes to the formation of ground-level products. The gas contributes to the acidifiozone. cation of watercourses and soil. Large concentrations are harmful to human health. Water footprint The total volume of fresh water used to produce a company’s goods Sustainable development Development that and services. “satisfies today’s needs without jeopardising future generations’ possibilities to satisfy their needs”. Sustainable development encompasses ecological, social and financial sustainability. Nolato Sustainability Report 2016 33 / 32 Nolato AB, SE-260 93 Torekov, Sweden
