Responsible investment report CSR at Axcel Axcel believes sustainability Axcel joined the UN Global Compact with, the Global Compact principles. back in 2010 and has worked strategicalWe consider potential CSR risks ahead at both fund and company ly with CSR at both fund and company of each investment. level to be crucial for successlevel ever since. Companies’ ability and willingness to ful investments. Sustainability We submitted our first report under the work on the basis of the principles are issues are therefore on the UN’s Principles of Responsible Investment therefore also part of Axcel’s due dili(PRI) initiative in 2016, and a second folgence when acquiring new companies. agenda at all portfolio lowed in spring 2017. We have developed a Responsible companies. Investment Policy in this context which Axcel has noted greatly increased intercan be downloaded from our website. est in CSR issues among investors and other stakeholders in recent years. We While the Global Compact focuses on have continued to develop our CSR proCSR at company level, the PRI look at cedures, and statutory requirements have environmental, social and governance evolved. As a private equity firm, Axcel is (ESG) issues at fund level. By signing up covered by new legislation on alternative to both schemes, Axcel has the best investment fund managers with additional possible basis for creating a framework requirements for compliance and corporfor CSR reporting that is familiar to both ate governance, and more stringent CSR companies and investors. legislation will affect future reporting at our Danish companies. Our goal is continuous improvement in our companies’ CSR work. This is a deEach year, portfolio companies prepare a manding process to which companies Communication on Progress (COP) which need to commit both time and resources. is published on the Global Compact website. The principles for how Axcel works Axcel aims to invest in companies which with companies on the development of behave responsibly, as this will ensure CSR systems are documented in Axcel’s the best possible risk profile. However, CSR manual. we also wish to promote socioeconomic development in general and therefore enAxcel invests only in companies that courage portfolio companies to contribcomply with, or are ready to comply ute to their local communities and their 2 development where this makes commer– are in a position to meet the requirecial sense. ments and expectations of customers and business partners concerning Axcel therefore engages actively with its supply chain management and companies on progress in their CSR work. codes of conduct – consider future business opportunities We will also be focusing more on individand positioning in relation to CSR ual boards’ involvement in COPs, and in – comply with the DVCA’s guidelines future it will be a requirement that these on openness and transparency reports are considered at board level. Most of Axcel’s companies have pubAxcel works to ensure that its companies: lished a COP, and the rest are on the – comply with relevant laws, rules and way to doing so. internationally recognised principles – consider risks relating to CSR issues Axcel regularly suggests improvements and address them proactively and will also be encouraging all companies to introduce KPIs in relevant areas. Global Compact status of Axcel-owned companies as at 30 April 2017 Joined Global Compact First COP Ball Group X 2012 Conscia X 2017 Danmarks Skibskredit X 2017 Delete Group X 2015 Driconeq X 2013 EG X 2015 Frontamec New investment – LESSOR Group New investment – Mita-Teknik X 2015 Axcel’s Reporting to Investment active investors and decision ownership the public Monitoring Global Due diligence of Axcel’s Compact 9 companies COP companies All portfolio companies are required to join the Global Compact within one year and work on continuous improvement against its ten principles. 3 Assessment of risk by category COP 16 Portfolio Assessment Form. Please rate your overall assessment of the portfolio companies in each fund within each of the categories (scale 1 to 3): 1 = Low risk 2 = Medium risk 3 = High risk Human Rights Risks regarding equality, life and security, personal freedom, economic, social and cultural freedoms. Labour Risks regarding freedom of association and recognition and the right to collective bargaining, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, abolition of child labour, elimination of discrimination in respect of employment & occupation. Environmental Issues Risks regarding environmental impact, damage to ecosystems, pollution, land degradation, the impacts of chemicals use and disposal, waste production and depletion of non-renewable resources Corruption issues Risks regarding corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Key Performance Indicator(s) Please identify the most relevant ESG-related KPI for the portfolio company, and provide data if available Assessment of risk by category Fund Portfolio Company Human Rights Labour Environment Corruption Axcel III K/S Ball Group 1 1 1 1 Driconeq 1 1 1 1 Exited 2016 TCM Group 1 1 1 1 Axcel IV K/S Exited 2016 Exhausto 1 1 1 1 Mita-Teknik 1 1 1 2 Exited 2016 Netel 1 1 1 1 Exited 2017 Nordic Waterproofing 1 1 1 1 EG 1 1 1 1 Delete Group 1 1 2 1 Conscia 1 1 1 1 Lessor Group 1 1 1 1 Frontmatec 1 1 1 2 Danmarks Skibskredit 1 1 1 1 4 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2016 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Mita-Teknik Danish Ship Finance Ball ApS EG Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes Not applicable Yes Yes Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? Yes Not applicable No No (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14000 Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No Not applicable No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Yes Not applicable No Not applicable Number of employees at year-end (2016) 252 68 334 1857 Number of employees at year-end (2015) 238 69 373 1805 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2016 ? No No No Yes If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add-ons prior to integration 22 Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? No No Yes No incident rate? No No Not applicable Not applicable Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes No Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Not applicable Yes Yes Governance Bribery Yes Yes Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 5 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2016 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Frontmatec LESSOR Group Conscia Delete Group Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes No No Yes Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No No No Yes (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14000 Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No No Yes Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Yes Yes No Information not available Number of employees at year-end (2016) 889 110 135 749 Number of employees at year-end (2015) Not applicable 113 110 650 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2016 ? Yes No Yes Yes If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add-ons prior to integration 889 113 Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? Yes No No Yes incident rate? Yes No No Information not available Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? Yes No Yes Yes If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0-10% 10-30% 0-10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Yes Yes Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Yes Yes Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes No Yes Yes Governance Bribery Yes No Yes Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes No Yes Yes Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 6 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2016 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Driconeq AB Drico Interessenter AB Driconeq Brasil Driconeq Australia Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable No (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Number of employees at year-end (2016) 2 2 1 17 Number of employees at year-end (2015) 2 2 1 17 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2016 ? No No No No If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add-ons prior to integration Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? No Not applicable Not applicable incident rate? No Not applicable Not applicable Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? No Yes No No If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? More than 50% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Yes Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Governance Bribery within the portfolio company Money laundering Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 7 Annual ESG assessment questionnaire 2016 Assessment of portfolio companies’ compliance with ESG criteria Härdtekno i Driconeq Africa Driconeq Production AB Kristinehamn AB Driconeq Australia Is there any written environmental policy in place within the company (1)? Yes Yes Not applicable Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification? No Yes Yes No (e.g. ISO 14000, Eco-label européen...) Environmental practice of the portfolio company If yes, please give name of label/certification ISO 14000 ISO 14000 Has the company measured its carbon footprint ? No No No No Has the company benefited from energy cost savings ? Number of employees at year-end (2016) 43 52 10 0 Number of employees at year-end (2015) 43 52 10 0 Has the company completed any acquisition in 2016 ? No No No No If yes, please indicate the number of employees of add-ons prior to integration Social Has the company benefited from a reduction of: behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? Yes Yes Not applicable incident rate? Yes Yes Not applicable Do employees have access to capital of the company/stock option plan? No Yes No No If yes, please select proportion of employees benefiting from such policy? 0-10% Has the company established a safety and/or a health plan for its employees? Yes Does the GP seat at the portfolio company board? Has the company implemented internal procedures or ethical code covering: UN Global Compact Child labour and forced labour Yes Governance Bribery Yes within the portfolio company Money laundering Yes Has the company been under investigation for any fraud, or subject to No No No No any lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria ? If yes, please provide additional information (1) such as energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. Yes 0–10% No 10–30% Not applicable 30–50% Information not available More than 50% 8
