United Nations Global Compact: Communications on Progress By Generation Alliance Pty Ltd For the period 23 July 2016 – 30 July 2017 CONTACT: info@generationalliance.com Tel: +61 (0)2 8292 1900 1. INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED COMMITMENT Generation Alliance Pty Ltd (Gen.a) is proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and a member of the Global Compact Network Australia (GCNA). This Communication on Progress Report demonstrates our continued support for the Global Compact and its Ten Principles. Since 2009, Gen.a has been a signatory to the United Nation’s Global Compact, a foundation member of the GCNA Steering Committee and a former Board member. We are a small business committed to social development and compliance with the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Within Australia, our business has played a leadership role in helping to promote the work of the GCNA and the value of the Global Compact to small businesses, particularly within the creative industries sector. We also actively promote the Ten Principles of the UNGC through our work with international clients, particularly in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Islands. I have pleasure in presenting our 2017 Communication on Progress. David Faulks Managing Director 23 July 2017 2 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION This section details Gen.a commitment to the UNGC’s Ten Principles across areas including human rights, the environments, labour and anti-corruption. In 2016 and 2017, Gen.a has actively furthered its commitment to the Ten Principles through numerous activities, procedures and systems. Gen.a intends to continue and develop this commitment over the next 12 months. In our 2016/17 Business Plan goals, we have made specific commitment to ensure we work with clients that are engaged in international development agenda and the principles of the UNGC. As strategic brand and communications consultants we have worked with international clients and stakeholders including the Pacific Islands Trade and Invest, the Department of Foreign Aﬀairs and Trade (Pacific Women in Business and Partnering Pacific) and the Kenyan Government. Our commitment to human rights and labour has been supported by our hire of a researcher, Raphael Manirakiza, who is a political refugee seeking asylum in Australia from Burundi. Raphael is engaged across Gen.a’s business and is an important part of our team. Gen.a’s Managing Director, David Faulks, has also written and designed a children’s book ‘Dream a Little Dream’ which is being distributed as a welcome gift to refugee families in Australia. The details of our commitment is further demonstrated on the following pages. 3 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Gen.a is committed to embedding the principles of the UNGC in their everyday business. Below is a summary of our progress and development over the past 12 months working towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes HUMAN RIGHTS • Supports the Universal 1. Gen.a has provided high-level strategic • Code of Conduct Declaration of Human advice to the Government of Vanuatu developed to deal with Principle 1 Businesses Rights related to leveraging their national brand abuses of human rights, should support and respect strategy to deliver greater value back to no reports registered. the protection of • Acknowledges the the people of Vanuatu. Gen.a will aim to internationally proclaimed Traditional Custodians and continue this work throughout 2017/18. • No investigations, legal human rights; and the present Aboriginal and cases, rulings, fines or Torres Strait Islander 2. Through a joint initiative between the other relevant events to Principle 2 Businesses people who reside in this Australian Government’s Department of report. should make sure that they area. Foreign Aﬀairs and Westpac, Gen.a has are not complicit in human provided design, project management rights abuses. • Is committed to and editorial services to a new initiative maintaining and around encouraging women in the supporting the health and Pacific to engage in business and safety of all employees, finance projects titled Pacific Women in contractors and visitors. Business. 3. Writing and production of a children’s book, ‘Dream a Little Dream’ which was donated as a gift to welcome refugee families and children to Australia. 4 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes LABOUR • Has systems in place to 1. As per 1. To 3. above under Human • Significant support for monitor and manage Rights. gender equality in the Principle 3 Businesses labour rights issues within workplace 50% of should uphold the freedom the business. 2. Through a joint initiative between the employees and of association and the Australian Government’s Department of freelancers are female. eﬀective recognition of the • Creates a safe and secure Foreign Aﬀairs and Westpac, Gen.a has right to collective bargaining; workplace for employees. provided design and editorial services to • Introduction of intern an initiative around encouraging women policy – ensuring a good Principle 4 Businesses • Supports the elimination of in the Pacific to engage in business and representation of age should uphold the employment finance projects. groups within the business elimination of all forms of discrimination, child labour and reward for eﬀort. forced and compulsory and forced labour. 3. Monitoring of an internal Code of labour; Conduct ensures that employees • No investigations, legal • Committed to ensuring understand their rights, responsibilities, cases, rulings, fines or Principle 5 Businesses comparable pay for compensations and benefits. other relevant events to should uphold the eﬀective comparable work. report abolition of child labour; and 4. Regular internal discussions with • Is committed to the employees about topical human rights Principle 6 Businesses development of principles and labour issues and suggestions to should uphold the to support employment improve the business and support elimination of discrimination conditions in the coming mechanisms, including accessible in respect of employment year. professional development. and occupation. 5. A commitment of 10% of profits to lowbono and pro – bono work with clients who encourage businesses to work in ways which support the UNGC’s 10 principles. 6. Employ and support individuals across various demographics including the r hire and support of Researcher who is a political refugee in Australia from Burundi. 5 2. EMBEDDING THE TEN PRINCIPLES IN OUR ORGANISATION Principle Gen.a ….. Examples Measurement of outcomes ENVIRONMENT • Is committed to reducing • Purchasing of recycled paper products • Quarterly reports on the impact of its operations (including paper towels, printing paper, recycling of cartridges and Principle 7 Businesses and services on the toilet paper etc.) oﬃce products, from should support a environment. Close the Loop – total of precautionary approach to • Recycling and proper disposal of printer nearly 30 kg of waste environmental challenges; • Is committed to the cartridges, excess electrical equipment diverted from landfill in ongoing measurement and and e-waste. Australia. Principle 8 Businesses monitoring of should undertake initiatives environmental initiatives • A preference to work with Forest • Internal awareness of to promote greater and protocol within the Stewardship Council (FSC) certified environmental awareness environmental responsibility; business. printers wherever possible. tested through weekly WIP and sessions for all staﬀ. • Aims to continue to reduce • Development of car-pooling programs Principle 9 Businesses its impact on the • No investigations, legal and walk to work incentives for should encourage the environment in the coming cases, rulings, fines or employees. development and diﬀusion of year. other relevant events to environmentally friendly report technologies. • Election to pay the carbon-oﬀset surcharge (i.e. when travelling). • Participation in an internal clothes recycling project “Exchange for Change.” ANTI-CORRUPTION • Is committed to high • Change of Conduct enforced for all • No reports of corruption, standards of personal, employees, suppliers and contractors to extortion or bribery within Principle 10 – Businesses ethical and professional maintain ethical and professional the business through should work against all conduct. standards within the business. internal issues forms of corruption, management mechanism. including extortion and • Supports the UN bribery. Convention against • No investigations, legal Corruption. cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events to • Will continue to develop its report. support against corruption in the next year. 6 3. SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY In 2016/17 Gen.a continued its commitment to social development and community support locally and internationally. The following examples demonstrate Gen.a’s belief in the Ten Volunteering Support Principles and the impact of this within our local community over Gen.a supports employees who wish to volunteer their time and the past 12 months. make a diﬀerence in the local community. This commitment is Dream a Little Dream outlined in Gen.a’s internal Code of Conduct. Gen.a have demonstrated our commitment to the local Exchange for Change community through writing, designing and distributing a Gen.a employees hold a regular clothing swap and make a children’s book, ‘Dream a Little Dream.’ The book, pictured on donation to the charity of their choice including the Australian the is a gift for refugee families and is illustrated with a series of Red Cross and Sydney Children’s Hospital. Australian images about waking up full of joy and hope. Through a crowdfunding project, we raised $10,000 to help cover the Employment of Refugee cost of printing 2000 copies and have donated to refugee families. The Book has also supported the So They Can’ charity Gen.a supports the principles of the UN Global Compact by which builds and runs orphanages and schools in Kenya. employing and developing a Researcher and Oﬃce Manager who is a political refugee in Australia from Burundi. Through this, We want to create a sense of optimism, born out of a Gen.a employees are also encouraged to understand and child's dream, entertained by diﬀerent animals, before sympathise with the plight of refugees within the local waking up to the joy of family and the future. community. The book has a special connection to the Australian environment through the inclusion of uniquely Australian animals, but is relevant to children anywhere. In 2017, Gen.a continued to distribute and engage with numerous communities across Australia. The book will also be translated into Arabic and reprinted to make it more accessible for newly arrived populations. 7 CONTACT: info@generationalliance.com Tel: +61 (0)2 8292 1900
