2016 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 1 Presentation of the Group and its activities 5 4 Financial information 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group 161 1.1 Group milestones and values 6 consolidated results 162 1.2 Group activities 8 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 168 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial organization chart 14 Statements 232 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 16 4.4 2016 Financial statements 234 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 255 maturity of the Group 18 1.6 1.7 Investment and financing policies Risk analysis 25 26 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 257 258 Cap Gemini and the stock market 263 2 5.2 Corporate governance and Internal 5.3 Current ownership structure 266 control 37 5.4 Share buyback program 268 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 39 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 64 6 Report of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 2.3 General organization of the Group 79 of May 10, 2017 271 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers 83 6.1 Resolutions presented at the 2.5 Internal control and risk management Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 272 procedures 96 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary 2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report, prepared in Shareholders’ Meeting 290 accordance with Article L.225-235 of the 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations French Commercial Code on the report currently in force or submitted for approval 306 prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. 102 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports 309 6.5 Report of the Conversion Auditor on the 3 Capgemini: People, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and business conversion of Cap Gemini into a European company (Societas Europaea, SE) 312 Ethics 103 3.1 Our approach 104 7 Additional Information 7.1 Legal information 313 314 3.2 People and Talent Management 108 7.2 Group Management structure 318 3.3 Managing our environmental impact 132 7.3 Historical Financial Information for 2014 and 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social 2015 319 and sustainability initiatives 146 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 320 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability commitments and recognitions 152 3.6 3.7 Grenelle correlation table Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, 155 8 Cross-reference table 8.1 Information required under Commission 323 appointed as independent third party on the Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 324 consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 326 management report 158 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 327 This document is a non-binding “free” translation from French into English and has no legal value other than an informative one. Should there be any difference between the French and the English version, only the text in French language shall be deemed authentic and considered as expressing the exact information published by Cap Gemini S.A. The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identified in the table of contents by the AFR symbol II Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 2016 Registration document Annual financial report With more than 190,000 people, Capgemini is present in over 40 countries. A global leader in consulting, technology and outsourcing services, the Group reported 2016 global revenues of EUR 12.5 billion. Capgemini has always been « living the future since 1967 » and will celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2017. The French version of this Registration Document (Document de Référence) was filled with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF – the French financial market authority) on March 17, 2017, pursuant to Article 212-13 of its General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum approve by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF – the French financial market authority). This document was prepared by the issuer and engages the responsibility of its signatories. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 1 For the fiscal year 2016 Board of Directors Statutory Auditors Paul HERMELIN, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Represented by Françoise GARNIER and Richard BÉJOT Daniel BERNARD, Lead Independent Director KPMG S.A. Anne BOUVEROT Represented by Frédéric QUÉLIN Yann DELABRIÈRE Siân HERBERT-JONES Laurence DORS Carole FERRAND Robert FRETEL Phil LASKAWY Kevin MASTERS Xavier MUSCA Pierre PRINGUET Bruno ROGER Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 2 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Financial highlights Consolidated financial statements in millions of euros 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Revenues 10,264 10,092 10,573 11,915 12,539 Operating expenses (9,435) (9,235) (9,603) (10,653) (11,099) Operating margin* 829 857 970 1,262 1,440 % of revenues 8.1% 8.5% 9.2% 10.6% 11.5% Operating profit 606 720 853 1,022 1,148 % of revenues 5.9% 7.1% 8.1% 8.6% 9.2% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the (1) (2) Company 353 442 580 1,124 921 % of revenues 3.4% 4.4% 5.5% 9.4% 7.3% Earnings per share Average number of shares during the year 155,795,618 158,147,868 157,855,433 168,452,917 169,450,721 Normalized earnings per share* (in euros) 3.29 3.41 4.22 4.84 5.62 (3) Dividend per share for the year (in euros) 1.00 1.10 1.20 1.35 1.55 Goodwill at December 31 3,702 3,601 3,784 7,055 7,176 Equity attributable to owners of the Company at December 31 4,482 4,458 5,057 6,887 7,272 (Net debt) / net cash and cash equivalents* at December 31 872 678 1,218 (1,767) (1,413) (4) Organic free cash flow* at December 31 496 455 668 815 1,071 Average number of employees 121,829 128,126 137,747 161,268 185,593 Number of employees at December 31 125,110 131,430 143,643 180,639 193,077 (1) Including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of €476 million, (2) Including tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings, (3) Subject to approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, (4) Before the €235 million exceptional contribution to a UK pension fund. (*) The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin, normalized earnings per share, net debt and organic free cash flow) are defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures and broken down in Note 11, Earnings per share, Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents and Note 22, Cash flows. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 3 30% Revenue contribution from the new Digital & Cloud offer €1,071 m Organic 193,077 people €12.5bn Free cash flow who share global the 7 values revenues of the Group HONESTY 4 businesses BOLDNESS TRUST Consulting Technology Application Other Managed Services & Engineering Services Services Services 6 sectors FREEDOM Manufacturing, Consumer Energy, TEAM SPIRIT Automotive Products, Retail, Utilities & & Life Sciences Distribution Chemicals & Transportation MODESTY Financial Telecommunications, Public Services Media Sector & Entertainment FUN 4 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Presentation of the Group 1 and its activities 1.1 Group milestones and values 6 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, Seven values at the heart of the Group 7 reflecting further maturity of the Group 18 1.2 Group activities 8 1.5.1 Rapid growth in Digital and Cloud 18 1.2.1 IGATE integration 8 1.5.2 Cloud as a strong platform for growth 19 1.2.2 Four businesses offering global solutions 8 1.5.3 Major contracts signed in 2016 20 1.2.3 Solutions in six major sectors 9 1.5.4 Innovation: helping clients to speed up Ecosystem of technological partners 9 integration of emerging technologies 20 1.2.4 193,077 men and women supporting our clients 11 1.5.5 Driving growth through Group Competitiveness 21 1.2.5 Corporate Social Responsibility: a sustained 1.5.6 Our talent brings more agility and expertise 1.2.6 ambition built on achievements 11 to the Group 21 A functional organization adapted to client needs 12 1.5.7 Honors and awards 23 1.2.7 Revenue for 2016 (by region, business and 1.5.8 Capgemini publications: a 360° view 1.2.8 sector) 13 of our clients’ challenges 24 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and 1.6 Investment and financing policies 25 simplified organization chart 14 1.6.1 Investment policy 25 1.6.2 Financing policy and financial rating 25 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 16 1.7 Risk analysis 26 Competition 16 1.7.1 Identification of risks 26 Market trends 16 1.7.2 Risks relating to operations and the strategy 26 1.7.3 Operational risks 28 1.7.4 Legal risks 31 1.7.5 Financial risks 33 1.7.6 Insurance 35 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 5 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Group milestones and values 1.1 Group milestones and values 1967 Creation of Sogeti by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 Sogeti and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combine IT and Consulting Services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by Sogeti with the Cofradel group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 7th “Sogeti Rencontres” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last “Rencontres” gathering to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 Sogeti takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT services company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the official birth of the CAP GEMINI Sogeti group, which, with a headcount of 1,700, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th “Rencontres” in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves its headquarters to 17, avenue George V, Paris. The first Annual Report is published (financial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto the acquisition of a stake in the Group by EDS. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its first “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with SESA, the Group wins the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (€150 million) mark, only half of which is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s official language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris Stock Exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1987 The Group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a year-end after-tax profit of 7.4%, a record not yet broken. 1990 17th “Rencontres” in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decide on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in outsourcing activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) that will make up the Group’s consulting arm. The invasion of Kuwait triggers a global economic crisis, which lasts four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). GENESIS is launched at the 18th “Rencontres,” which brings together 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia). This is the Group’s first transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini – after 25 years of consecutive growth – announces the first losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and Sogeti within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from the Group’s share capital. Bossard Consultants (in which the Group has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years) is integrated into the Group’s consulting arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris Stock Exchange’s CAC 40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993). 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rises to its highest ever level of €368.9 euros in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of €44.5 billion. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the Sogeti name. 2003 Sogeti acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens its first offshore production center in Mumbai, India. 2006 Launch of the I.Cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in Financial Services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of five global service lines (Business Information Management, Application Lifecycle Services, Testing Services, Infostructure Transformation Services, Smart Energy Services). 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis (5,500 employees) in Brazil. 23rd “Rencontres” in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme of “La Niaque” (fighting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line (Mobile Solutions). 2012 Serge Kampf passes the torch of Chairman to Paul Hermelin during the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. 6 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.1 Group milestones and values 2013 Passing away of Michel Jalabert, a Cap Gemini S.A. Board Member and one of the key figures in the Group’s history since 1 1976, and of Odette Bernard-Colombat, the Group’s longest-serving employee and Serge Kampf’s personal assistant for over fifty years. 24th “Rencontres” in San Francisco: the top 450 Capgemini managers gather, joined for the first time by some of the Group’s biggest technology partners, thereby confirming the Group’s position as a major player in the “Champions League” of its industry. Launch of Digital Customer Experience, a new global service line. 2014 Acquisition of Euriware in France and signing of a contract with AREVA. 2015 Acquisition of IGATE in the United States: North America becomes Capgemini’s largest market. 2016 Passing away of Serge Kampf on March 15, 2016, founder of the Group. 2017 The Group celebrates its 50th anniversary. Seven values at the heart of the Group In 1967, Serge Kampf was amongst the very first to understand Freedom, which means independence in thought, judgment and the added value a services company would bring to a world where deeds, and entrepreneurial spirit, creativity. It also means the IT market had barely emerged. He created Sogeti, which tolerance, respect for others, for different cultures and customs: became Cap Gemini Sogeti, then Capgemini Ernst & Young, and an essential quality in an international group. finally Capgemini, based on several major principles that continue Team spirit, meaning solidarity, friendship, fidelity, generosity, to guide us in everything we do today: first and foremost, an fairness in sharing the benefits of collective work; accepting entrepreneurial spirit, followed by a passion for clients, an responsibilities and an instinctive willingness to support common obsession with drawing out the best from people, a commitment efforts when the storm is raging. to being ethically irreproachable at all times, and extremely high expectations with regards to performance. From the very Modesty, that is simplicity, the very opposite of affectation, beginning, he understood that our industry is based on the pretension, pomposity, arrogance and boastfulness. Simplicity contribution of both men and women who work hand-in-hand and does not imply naivety (‘simple does not mean simpleton!’); it is share common values that cannot be compromised upon. more about being discreet, showing natural modesty, common sense, being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be Seven values permeate Capgemini’s corporate fabric, from the understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships, time of their inception by Mr. Serge Kampf, founder of the Group, having a relaxed attitude, having a sense of humor. Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, until he passed away on March 15, 2016. These values inspire Fun means feeling good about being part of the Company or and shape our corporate culture and professional conduct. They one’s team, feeling proud of what one does, feeling a sense of motivate us as a Group and as individuals. Intangible by nature, accomplishment in the search for better quality and greater they lie at the heart of all our actions as an ethical and responsible efficiency, feeling part of a challenging project. company. They form the basis of Capgemini’s reputation. These values are embodied in Capgemini’s brand promise: Honesty signifies loyalty, integrity, uprightness, a complete refusal “People matter, results count ”. We believe that our clients’ to use any underhanded method to help win business or gain any success does not depend on technology only, but also on the kind of advantage. Neither growth nor profit nor independence women and men who give that technology life and who make all have any real worth unless they are won through complete the difference. Our approach thus enables companies and honesty and probity. And everyone in the Group knows that any organizations to respond faster to market trends, to adapt and to lack of openness and integrity in our business dealings will be improve their performance. penalized at once. Truly multicultural, Capgemini works on the basis of its trademark Boldness, which implies a flair for entrepreneurship and a desire “Collaborative Business ExperienceTM”, which gives priority to the to take considered risks and show commitment (naturally linked to ability to listen, to be flexible, agile and creative — essential a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This is the qualities to ensure the success of our clients. very soul of competitiveness: firmness in making decisions or in forcing their implementation, an acceptance periodically to challenge one’s orientations and the status quo. This boldness also needs to be combined with a certain level of prudence and a particular clear-sightedness, without which a bold manager is, in reality, merely dangerously reckless. Trust, meaning the willingness to empower both individuals and teams; to have decisions made as close as possible to the point where they will be put into practice. Trust also means giving priority, within the Company, to real openness toward other people and the widest possible sharing of ideas and information. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 7 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2 Group activities Since its foundation in 1967, the Capgemini Group has pursued in over 40 countries, four major businesses and a wide spectrum one ambition: to be the first port of call to help companies and of expertise. organizations in their development through a combination of The Digital revolution has had such an impact on companies’ innovation and competitiveness. By directly concerning ourselves activities that Capgemini has now become a strategic partner with our clients’ changing needs and sector-specific challenges, for our clients. Together, with the support of the Group’s Capgemini continuously seek to improve our services and technological partners, we are working to ensure that the Cloud, enhance our expertise. This ensures that we stay at the forefront Big Data and the Internet of Things serve as catalysts for agility, of new benefits offered to companies and organizations as a result efficiency and productivity. Capgemini’s clients are increasingly of frequent technological advances that mark the evolution of the relying on us to radically transform all aspects of their business IT sector. A twofold strategy of acquisitions and organic growth through Digital means, even to the point of reinventing their means that Capgemini is now among our industry’s most business model. multicultural and multidisciplinary players — with a presence 1.2.1 IGATE integration The acquisition of US company IGATE in 2015 marked a pivotal The acquisition of IGATE also meant that Capgemini is able to moment in the Capgemini story. At the time of the takeover, offer our clients access to innovative solutions: one example is IGATE had generated a turnover of $1.3 billion for 2014 and had the case of ITOPS (Integrated Technology Operations), which 281 clients, mainly based in North America (79% of turnover). The combines business services with those linked to applications and Company had 30,000 employees in the United States, India and infrastructure. Capgemini is also benefitting from IGATE’s highly — to a lesser extent — Europe, Australia and China. effective global production model. The Group now enjoys access to a vast network of production centers with nearly The acquisition was strategically important for Capgemini in a 98,000 employees, including 32 IGATE centers, most of which are number of ways. It considerably strengthened the Group’s located in India. Capgemini also benefited from the specific culture presence in North America, which accounts for over 40% of of IGATE, including its strong client relationships and core values, the worldwide IT market. The region, which is a hotbed of its speed of action and agility – all of which are an asset to the innovation, has now become Capgemini’s largest market. With Group. IGATE, the Group is improving its positioning in several key sectors — such as Financial Services and engineering — and In 2016, we not only preserved IGATE’s clientele, we also offering solutions to new, high-profile clients, including General managed to expand it. As a result, IGATE’s 15 largest accounts Electric or a large North American bank. grew by more than 15%, which is higher than the Group’s organic growth rate. In addition, synergies generated an extra turnover of more than €300 million. Finally, all IGATE key managers have found a position in the Group and the overall retention rate is very good. 1.2.2 Four businesses offering global solutions ◗ Consulting Services (Capgemini Consulting), which help to Over the past few years, Capgemini has offered a portfolio of enhance the performance of organizations, based on in-depth innovative products and services to help our clients knowledge of client industries and processes; successfully make the jump into the Digital age. In 2016, the ◗ Technology and Engineering Services (Sogeti), which Group launched two global offerings, Digital Manufacturing and provide assistance and support to internal IT teams within client Automation Drive, an automation service line designed to help companies; companies and organizations to achieve gains in terms of efficiency, productivity, quality and agility. On the basis of its ◗ Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and traditional BPO offerings, the Group also offers a service line maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration called Business Services, which integrates Cloud platforms with and application maintenance activities; different offerings (BPO, Applications, Infrastructures). Lastly, with ◗ Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or added impetus from the rapid development of the Internet of develop either fully or partially, clients’ IT Infrastructure systems Things, the Group is helping clients benefit from the connectivity of (or that of a group of clients), transaction services and on their products, production tools and infrastructure. demand services and/or business activities (Business Services). Ongoing technological and sectoral advances are increasingly Through its four businesses, Capgemini offers a wide spectrum imposing fundamental change on companies and organizations. of expertise. This enables us to respond to the majority of our This is why Capgemini is capitalizing on the complementary nature clients’ business challenges, particularly through our solutions for: of our businesses (consulting, design, engineering, Application IT infrastructure, end-to-end management of IT applications, Services, infrastructure) to develop Digital transformation outsourcing of IT systems for support functions, Digital solutions for all or some of our clients’ activities by adopting a engineering to underpin R&D, management of customer targeted sectoral approach. relationships through IT systems, procurement, strategy and transformation consulting, etc. 8 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.3 Solutions in six major sectors 1 The Group’s sectoral expertise ensures that we are always up to ◗ Telecommunications, Media & Entertainment: operators in speed with the challenges facing our clients and developing this sector are faced with declining revenues from their solutions tailored to their specific objectives. The Group has a traditional activities, competition from new players and the presence in six sectors: saturation of their networks due to the explosion of content. Having supported the sector for over thirty years, Capgemini ◗ Manufacturing, Automotive & Life Sciences: these activities offers access to in-depth knowledge of telecommunications and may be fertile ground for innovation, but improving Digital content, as well as our technological expertise with regard competitiveness is a constant challenge. Through our to networks. outsourcing and Business Services, among others, Capgemini provides companies in these sectors with a wide array of Capgemini has continued to consolidate a sectoral approach in solutions. These solutions enable companies to make significant order to respond to the significant need for acceleration affecting savings on IT systems management and support functions; our clients in the Digital spheres. In particular, the Group has created Expert Panels for each sector, comprising experienced ◗ Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution & Transportation: managers representing all aspects of business and every region of companies in these sectors are facing new constraints linked to the world. Our aim: to closely scrutinize sectoral developments so productivity and the ever-increasing pace at which their that we always stay one step ahead of the game. In terms of our customers’ expectations are changing. Capgemini provides offering, Capgemini is also pursuing the development of them with the technology and expertise they need to access comprehensive products and services covering all business e-commerce platforms that combine flexibility and speed; needs and the entire value chain in a given sector. Thanks to the ◗ Energy, Utilities & Chemicals: using the latest technology, the comprehensive products and services designed for the utilities Group helps companies in these sectors to overcome the and banking sectors, we offer entire platforms of preassembled twofold challenge of constantly changing regulations and technological solutions ready to be configured and adapted to the increasingly stringent environmental standards. Capgemini is the needs of each client. In this respect, the Group is particularly world leader in IT systems for electricity meters known as “smart reliant upon the ITOPS Cloud services designed by IGATE, which meters”; combine business services with those linked to applications and ◗ Financial Services (Insurance & Banking): the Group infrastructure. supports the rationalization and simplification of financial Lastly, at a time when clients have a pressing need to refocus their institutions’ applications and infrastructure (particularly within businesses around the end user, Capgemini plans to offer a more insurance and banking). Our main fields of expertise are mobility, general set of tools that allow for the analysis of major ongoing intelligent data management, client experience improvement and trends in various sectors. For example, the Group has launched regulation compliance; Connected Insight: an invaluable database covering the ◗ Public Sector: Capgemini assists administrations, companies expectations and behaviors of consumers in the automotive and public agencies, as well as major local authorities, to sector. implement their programs and plans for modernization, with an ever-growing focus on Digital; 1.2.4 Ecosystem of technological partners Capgemini has always forged strategic partnerships with The Group also continues to develop its relationships with the highprofile technological players and by now with start-ups with many start-ups that first began in 2015. In this context, our global specialist skills. Within both long-term and recent partnerships, the ecosystem of technological partners working together on the Group retains independence from all partners so that we are free Group’s new approach to innovation (Applied Innovation to select those that offer the best response to the expectations Exchange) is also a significant asset in terms of helping clients and challenges of Capgemini’s clients. quickly turn innovation into valuable solutions for their business. In 2015, the Group deliberately increased the pace at which we We have a global sales and delivery network with companies forge partnerships with the most innovative players. This move whose solutions are complementary to our own. Our unique saw Capgemini, for example, strengthen ties with Salesforce, expertise, in collaboration with our alliance partners’ products and AWS, Google by appointing senior managers who are assigned services, allow us to build new and valuable business solutions for solely to these partners. our clients. Our alliances and partnerships provide needed synergy and are crucial to our efforts to solve the toughest In 2016, Capgemini focused on continuing to strengthen its challenges for our clients, whether it be in new business model long-standing partnerships and to develop new approaches, such creation, new technology solution implementation or progression as the one implemented with Valeo on the Mov'InBlue project, an into new markets globally. Many of our alliances and partnerships intelligent key technology which allows one to lock, unlock and are non-exclusive and can generate revenue from services we start a vehicle using a smartphone. provide to implement their products as well as resale of products. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 9 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities Our Global Ecosystem includes: ◗ AppDynamics ◗ Lenovo ◗ AWS ◗ Microsoft ◗ Blueprint ◗ NetSuite ◗ Blueprism ◗ OpenText ◗ BMC ◗ Oracle ◗ CA/Niku ◗ Palo Alto Networks ◗ Cisco ◗ Pega ◗ Citrix ◗ Pitney Bowes ◗ Cloudera ◗ Pivotal ◗ Computer Associates ◗ PTC ◗ Dassault Systems ◗ RSA ◗ Dell Technologies ◗ Salesforce ◗ Fireeye ◗ SAP ◗ Forgerock ◗ SAS ◗ Fortinet ◗ Schneider Electric ◗ GE Digital ◗ Siemens ◗ Gemalto ◗ Sitecore ◗ Google ◗ Software AG ◗ Hortonworks ◗ Talend ◗ HPE ◗ Teradata ◗ HPI ◗ Trend Micro ◗ IBM ◗ Virtustream ◗ Informatica ◗ VMware ◗ Intel ◗ Workday 10 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.5 193,077 men and women supporting our clients 1 Capgemini’s approach is perfectly embodied in the brand Asia-Pacific, 16,895 in North America, 8,589 in Latin America and promise, “People Matter, Results Count.” The commitment and 94 in the Middle East. Capgemini represents over 120 nationalities expertise Capgemini offers to our clients would not be possible in over 40 countries. The number of offshore employees now without our talented team. On December 31, 2016, the Group accounts for 56% of Capgemini’s total headcount, up 2 had 193,077 employees, compared to 180,639 at the end of percentage points from last year. 2015, with 96,689 based in India. The other workforce is spread For further information, see section 1.5 page 17. out across the five continents: 66,171 in Europe, 4,733 in 1.2.6 Corporate Social Responsibility: a sustained ambition built on achievements As a company with a global footprint, we operate in several with the Group’s commitment following the signature of the Paris continents and more than 40 countries, each one with its own set Agreement on UN climate change conference in late 2015. of challenges and opportunities. From a social responsibility Our commitment to sustainability will ensure that risks related to standpoint, these fall into four main areas: climate change and other sustainability constraints are managed, ◗ Values and Ethics; while continuing to meet the ever-increasing expectations of both ◗ Diversity and Inclusion; our internal and external stakeholders. This will be a priority in 2017. ◗ Environmental Sustainability; Finally, building on the Group’s Values and Ethics sound ◗ Community Engagement. foundations, we raised the level of awareness of top management In 2016, we made a mark in several respects, mainly: the roll out on the Diversity and Inclusion agenda, starting with gender of our ambition to touch one million lives by 2020 through balance. The gender targets set for 2018 to improve the community engagement actions with a focus on Education & proportion of women in top and middle management were Skills, the renewal of the Group’s CSR Board gathering a broader translated into specific action plans, and emblematic initiatives group of executives from our major business units and were launched in several countries like France, India, the UK and geographies, and the extension of environmental sustainability North America. The Group targets and roadmap drive our efforts best practices developed regionally to be deployed globally, thus and show the commitment made by top management to achieve accelerating progress against our targets. The targets are aligned gender equality in the workplace. NO FUTURE WITHOUT ETHICS Ethical conduct has always been at the heart of Capgemini’s values. The acceleration of our geographical expansion, multiple challenges arising from new technology and our growing number of employees around the world constantly create new ethical challenges for us. For this reason, the Group has rolled out an ambitious program to raise awareness about these topics. In 2015 and 2016, 4,400 managers follow a new, specialized training program — an important tool to help share best practices within teams and build upon Ethics Street, which is a series of e-learning modules that everyone must complete. Capgemini has thus been recognized for the fifth year running as one of the world’s most ethical companies (“2017 World’s Most Ethical Companies®” label, awarded by Ethisphere Institute). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 11 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.7 A functional organization adapted to client needs The Group is constantly seeking to better serve our clients by ◗ the Digital Customer Experience service allows us to help providing them with in-depth analyses of their market, companies define their Digital strategy and select the most cutting-edge technological solutions, reliable and high-quality appropriate platforms and solutions. The aim is to optimize the services and an innovative approach to the challenges facing their client experience. This service is often complemented by mobility sector. We deliver all of these services at competitive prices and solutions, which increase accessibility for end users across all within the best possible timeframes, so that we can help our mobile devices (smartphones, tablets, etc.); clients improve their own competitiveness and agility. ◗ the Digital Manufacturing service allows us to support clients in To this end, the Group is organized at the global level into major the industry and energy sectors as they transition toward the operational units (Strategic Business Units, SBUs), and relies on complete digitization of their production tools and processes. worldwide service lines. Most notably, it relies on the Internet of Things, which offers the new advantage of being able to combine data from the IT Operational units system with data received in real time from the physical world. This service encompasses two major families of solutions: the The Capgemini Group is structured into eight large operational digitalization of the management and configuration of products, units, in order to provide the best response to client expectations factories and infrastructure, and the digitalization of industrial and market developments: operations. Digital Manufacturing also mobilizes the Group’s ◗ Capgemini Consulting is the brand that covers the Group’s capabilities in terms of Digital strategy consulting, 3D simulations activities in the field of strategy and transformation consulting of complex systems and cybersecurity tailored to the industry; (particularly within Digital transformation); ◗ Cloud Choice is a complete portfolio of services from Capgemini ◗ Sogeti, present in around fifteen countries, which brings to the that deliver a Cloud-first way of working for the enterprise. With Group’s clients its network, infrastructure and local services our combination of advisory, applications and infrastructure experience and all of its technology services offer; services, we overcome the constraints which limit Cloud adoption, and enable a transformation from legacy to Cloud ◗ Cloud Infrastructure Services handles the design, production, technology. This increases our clients’ capacity to absorb outsourcing and maintenance of clients’ IT infrastructure; innovation, equipping them to adapt and stay relevant in a ◗ Application Services One and Application Services Two are two fast-paced Digital world. SBUs that encompass, as two distinct geographic entities, our In 2016, special emphasis was also placed on Capgemini systems integration and application maintenance capabilities customers’ need for competitiveness, with the launch of the (outside of Financial Services activities); Automation Drive service line. Automation Drive enables ◗ Financial Services: this entity encompasses systems integration companies and organizations to achieve efficiencies, productivity, and application maintenance activities for clients in the financial quality and agility at a reduced cost. This activity brings together sector; Capgemini experts from around the world, as well as four Centers ◗ Business Services is the new entity comprising Business of Excellence (CoE) serving as automation platforms. It regroups Process Outsourcing (BPO) services from Capgemini and Capgemini’s innovative services and tools in automation, as well IGATE, as well as ITOPS services from IGATE and multichannel as the Group’s expertise in Digital transformation. This activity transactional flows from Prosodie-Capgemini; offers companies a complete solution that integrates with any type of process and application, thus optimizing competitiveness and ◗ LatAm (Latin America) encompasses the Group’s operations in profitability for all their activities and operations. Latin America covering Application Services and Infrastructure Services (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico). ◗ The Testing offering combines the expertise of Capgemini and Sogeti to offer industrialization solutions for testing and quality Global service lines assurance of software, in particular for mobile and social applications. Capgemini is constantly adapting and strengthening our catalog of products and services across different sectors and businesses. In 2015, Cloud and Digital became the main drivers behind our Rightshore®: A globalized production model innovation and growth, boosting our entire portfolio. Capgemini’s Rightshore® industrial model is a unique asset, enabling us to provide clients with the right resources, in the right In 2016, Capgemini pursued its strategy of developing these place, at the right time. It is also a powerful catalyst for service lines, in strategic services, in order to respond to customer competitiveness, for both the Group and the solutions we sell to needs: clients. The guiding principle is the ability to mobilize, at any ◗ the Insights & Data service allows companies and public or moment, the most suitable teams and technical resources to meet private institutions to use our tools to their full advantage, the needs of our clients, no matter where they are in the world. managing and analyzing vast quantities of data to facilitate This globalized production model is associated with increased decision-making processes; standardization of processes, following CMMI rules (the ◗ the Cybersecurity service allows us to ensure the security of our international reference model for software production). clients’ Digital transformation. We support them as they define and implement their cybersecurity strategy, while protecting their IT and industrial systems and connected devices; 12 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.2 Group activities 1.2.8 Revenue for 2016 (by region, business and sector) 1 Breakdown of revenue by region 8% Asia-Pacific and Latin America 30% North America 26% Rest of Europe 20% 16% France United Kingdom and Ireland Breakdown of revenue by business 4% Consulting Services 21% 15% Other Managed Technology Services and Engineering Services 60% Application Services Breakdown of revenue by sector 4% Other 7% Telecommunication, Media & Entertainement 26% 11% Financial Energy, Utilities Services and Chemicals 16% Consumer products, Retail, 17% Distribution and Transportation Public sector 19% Manufacturing, Automotive and Lifes Sciences Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 13 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The Group performs its business activities mainly through Finally, it is Group policy not to own its business premises, except 115 consolidated subsidiaries as listed in Note 32, “List of the in India where the significant growth and workforce concentration main consolidated companies by country”, to the consolidated justify real estate property. The other Group subsidiaries rent their financial statements and is present in more than forty countries. business premises from third-party lessors. There is no relationship between these lessors and the Group and its senior The parent company, Cap Gemini S.A., defines the strategic executive management. objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Cap Gemini S.A. The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are: contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, either ◗ a building owned by SCI Paris Étoile and housing Cap Gemini in the form of equity or loans. Finally, it makes the trademarks and S.A.’s headquarters, located at Place de l’Étoile, 75017 Paris; methodologies it owns available to its subsidiaries, notably “Deliver”, and receives royalties in this respect. ◗ the Group’s international training center in Gouvieux, located 40 km (25 miles) north of Paris, owned by a real estate limited Cap Gemini S.A. holds: liability company, “Immobilière Les Fontaines”; ◗ the entire capital of an inter-company service company, ◗ and nine campus located in India. Capgemini Service S.A.S.; ◗ the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S., which operates the campus housing the Group’s international training center; as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via regional holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries are presented in the simplified organization chart below. 14 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The organization chart of the main operating subsidiaries (reporting revenues in excess of €50 million) and the Group’s support and resource subsidiaries, directly or indirectly wholly-owned by Cap Gemini S.A., with the exception of CPM Braxis group (held 78.61%) and 1 IGATE Global Solutions Ltd. (held 99.77%) is presented below. CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini SCI Service S.A.S. Paris Etoile Capgemini Immobilière Gouvieux S.A.S. Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC & LATIN AMERICA UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE OTHER EUROPEAN COUNTRIES Capgemini Technology Capgemini Capgemini Deutschland Capgemini Australia Capgemini America, Inc. Capgemini UK plc CPM Braxis S.A. Services S.A.S. Nederland B.V. GmbH Pty Ltd. Capgemini Capgemini Capgemini Outsourcing Sogeti Deutschland CPM Braxis Sogeti Nederland B.V. Technology Services Technologies LLC Services S.A.S. GmbH Tecnologia, Ltda. India Ltd Capgemini Capgemini Belgium Capgemini Outsourcing Capgemini Sogeti USA LLC Consulting S.A.S. N.V./S.A. Services GmbH (China) Co., Ltd Capgemini Canada Inc. Sogeti France S.A.S. Sogeti Belgium S.A. Capgemini Suisse S.A. Capgemini Government Capgemini Polska Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. Solutions LLC Sp. z.o.o. Inergi Inc. Prosodie S.A.S. Capgemini España S.L. Capgemini Sverige AB New Horizon System Capgemini Italia S.p.A. Sogeti Sverige AB Solutions Inc. Capgemini Norge AS Capgemini Finland Oy Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 15 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.4 The market and the competitive environment 1.4 The market and the competitive environment Capgemini group is active in the professional IT services market Market trends as defined by Gartner*, a US market analyst. This IT services market is worth a global amount of approximately €824 billion. The IT service landscape continues to evolve rapidly. 2016 saw Capgemini is ranked sixth in this global market with 1.7% of global global trends in solutions focused on Cloud, Analytics / Cognitive market share, based on this report from Gartner. (*) Computing, Digital Transformation of client portfolios and North America is the largest global market representing Cybersecurity. approximately 44% of worldwide activity (approximately €363 The market has also continued to shift rapidly in both sector and billion). Western Europe is the second largest market representing focus. Technology spending is moving to new solutions, new approximately 29% of worldwide activity (approximately €239 buyers and new engagement models. According to market billion). Per the report, the Group is ranked fourth in the combined reports, over 50% of IT spending in the next 5 years will come markets of North America and Western Europe and maintains its from digital and cloud; 50% of IT budgets will be controlled by first place position in France and the Netherlands. business buyers; and close to €381 billion will be spent in in The combined worldwide implementation and IT analytics and cognitive solutions in the coming 5 years. outsourcing market is estimated to be worth a total of In addition to the major structural change in the IT services market approximately €469 billion according to Gartner. Here, the Group triggered by the spectacular development of offshore services ranks fifth in the world in combined totals and fourth in the EMEA (launched in the early 2000s by Indian service companies) as well region specifically. The market is quite cyclical, especially for local as IT service providers being responsive to pricing pressures, professional services, which have short cycles (and contracts), service consolidation and new intellectual property (IP) while system integration activities have somewhat longer development, 2016 saw the rapid development and deployment timeframes. of cloud computing solutions, new markets around “Big-Data”, analytics and cognitive computing with customer use cases for the burgeoning “Internet of Things” (IoT), and the accelerated Competition digital transformation of clients’ industry-specific portfolios. Also, overlying all of these developments, are new trends in Our global marketplace is rapidly evolving and we compete with a Cybersecurity solutions and how our clients “connect” securely in variety of organizations that offer solutions comparable to ours. their journey for new and disruptive strategies around Cloud, Overall, our competitors include: Cognitive Computing and Digitization. ◗ Global Players (such as Accenture); Rapid innovation continues across all market segments with IT service providers re-focusing efforts on IP-driven solutions for ◗ Advisory Service Players (such as Deloitte or PwC); client delivery and setting up digital centres of excellence to be ◗ Offshore Players (such as Cognizant or Wipro); and more responsive to client needs. Also, the IT service industry saw boutique and niche vendors being acquired to fill key gaps in ◗ Regional and Boutique Players industry-specific portfolios such as Cloud Transformation, Digital The main competitive factors that we believe exist in the Marketing and Design, Real-Time Analytics and Cybersecurity. marketplace are: Digital Transformation for clients is moving into the mainstream. ◗ Ability to Deliver – in both individuals and products; No longer is the process about small pilots or multiple “test” ◗ Expertise in technologies as well as industry sectors; engagements, clients are realizing the need to move fast into the digital space and are in need of IT service firms to assist them with ◗ Innovation – in training, services and product offerings; this new strategies and positioning. This Digital Transformation is ◗ Reputation and Integrity – in both testimonials and client about changing the customer experience by continuously references; capturing and analysing customer needs and behaviours to ◗ Value – in adding and improving business performance; optimize and renew the future customer experience; understanding people and organizations to continuously monitor ◗ Pricing – in contractual terms and pricing; organizational performance, development and maturation; and ◗ Service and Scope – in bringing the right people and products reviewing operations to continuously optimize performance of to clients; assets, partners, suppliers, business processes and outputs. ◗ Delivery – quality results on a timely basis; ◗ Global Reach and Scale – in providing the right level of presence in key markets. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive basis. (*) Gartner Report: “IT Services Market Share Report 2015” (Updated April 2016). 16 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.4 The market and the competitive environment According to Gartner, CEOs expect 46% of revenue from digital example – are seeing the potential value to be gained from such sales and channels by 2019, up from 30% – driving the focus on data, and are investing substantial resources into ground-breaking 1 digital marketing and customer experience. This also creates a projects designed to harness more of the value represented by new focus on marketing dependence on analytics and data. their consumers and the “real-time” data analytics and cognitive Nearly 70% of marketers expect most of their marketing decisions computing solutions available. to be driven quantitatively (i.e., via data and analytics) in the near 2016 saw an upsurge in the general awareness of our clients of term. the challenges presented by Big Data and what opportunities it The Cloud computing initiatives continue in full force. This represents for their industries. We expect significant growth in phenomenon, which reflects the on-request shared use of demand for these services, aimed at experimenting with and services and infrastructures between several public users, was implementing new technology platforms capitalizing on client initiated by major players such as Amazon, Google and Microsoft. interaction models as well as developing innovative new service Thanks to its strong positioning in the infrastructure management offerings. field and its business process expertise, the Capgemini Group is As with all of these new trends, there was an increase in particularly well placed to benefit from the transformation of the Cybersecurity awareness across all sectors. As our clients’ economic models brought about by this new way of using IT applications and data are moving to the cloud in increasing services and resources. There is and continues to be a numbers, mobility is further embedded across the enterprise and progressive shift within delivery from traditional services and new digitization strategies are implemented, the Capgemini Group software license fees to incremental fees and “services on has remained committed to helping our clients achieve better demand.” digital trust and security to unlock the benefits of new and The next generation of data also continues to accelerate around disruptive strategies, increased productivity and reduced the world, both as a result of consumers using various forms of infrastructure and maintenance costs all while remaining protected equipment (computers, smartphones, tablets, etc.) and due to the in the digital landscape of tomorrow. wide range of connected sensors in use by many industries. Companies in certain sectors – the consumer goods sector, for Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 17 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group the Financial Services and Industry sectors. In 2016, IGATE also allowed us to enrich our portfolio with new reference accounts Capgemini’s strong performance in 2016, and particularly its and to integrate a very strong customer culture that has further organic free cash flow generation, attests the success of the reinforced the core of our business model. Finally, IGATE has transformations carried out in recent years.As of the end of the provided us with a few assets to accelerate our growth, such as financial year, the results show continued growth with sales P&ES (Product & Engineering Services) in Digital Manufacturing or revenue of €12,539 million, representing an increase of +7,9% ITOPS as a service platforms. compared to 2015. The Group also improved the operating margin, which reached 11.5%, for an increase of 90 basis points Our key account management program continued to bear fruit in compared to 2015. In addition, the Group generated an organic 2016. These major accounts have experienced remarkable growth free cash flow of €1,071 million, up 31% on 2015. based on a high level of service, strong customer relationships and the provision of innovative services. Our position as a The synergies predicted during the acquisition of IGATE were strategic partner for these clients is further strengthened. realized in 2016. Successfully bringing the IGATE teams and clients on-board contributed considerable assets to Capgemini, all Driven by the creation of a Corporate Competitiveness Division in under the umbrella of a single brand. For the year as a whole, the 2015, the Group has improved its competitive position, largely sales revenue from the fifteen main IGATE clients increased by through efforts made in the areas of industrialization and more than 8%. North America, the world’s largest market for IT automation. Today, over 56% of Group employees work in our services, cemented its place as the most important Group region global production centers. in terms of revenue, accounting for 30% of overall sales revenue. The Group has also made considerable progress in the sectors In 2016, our positions were reinforced thanks to the integration of where innovation truly counts. Our Digital and Cloud business IGATE a true catalyst for our growth. This integration has given lines accounted for nearly 30% of overall Capgemini revenue (an the Group the opportunity to strengthen its sectoral expertise in increase of 29%) for 2016. 1.5.1 Rapid growth in Digital and Cloud The strong acceleration in the Digital and Cloud sectors continued 2012 in New York also strengthened our strategy and Digital and increased in 2016. Digital and Cloud activities now account transformation capabilities with solutions based around innovation, for nearly 30% of Capgemini’s total revenue and their growth business transformation and customer experience. The expansion exceeded 29% compared to the previous year. of the Applied Innovation Exchange, or Centers of Applied Innovation, with new openings in London, Mumbai and San In this area, clients expect a comprehensive range of services and Francisco also helps to make Capgemini a leader in innovation on a quick return on investment. Capgemini has the perfect 5 continents. combination of business lines, particularly in consulting and applications services. We have technology in our DNA, an At the beginning of 2017, we also announced the acquisition in in-depth knowledge of our clients’ business challenges and North America of Idean, a digital design company based in Palo understand how to apply innovation. All of these factors mean that Alto, to accelerate our digital transformation offer. we are in the perfect position to harness the potential of Digital. In 2017, Capgemini will accelerate the development of our Digital In fact, each year companies are increasingly viewing the Group ranges by adding to their service lines and gradually consolidating as the partner of choice for their Digital transformation. In 2016, the worldwide network of associated production centers. In the Capgemini Consulting was recognized by independent analyst manufacturing industry, as well as in other heavily asset based ALM Intelligence as a “global digital expert” based on its expertise industries, such as telecommunications, the convergence of the and the scope of its Digital transformation consulting capabilities. digitalization of industrial processes with the Internet of Things is creating exciting opportunities for optimization. Some examples Since 2014, the Group has launched several global service lines in include: a shorter product development cycle and remote asset the Digital sector. First, the Digital Customer Experience service, management, as well as preventive and predictive maintenance. which helps companies define their Digital customer strategy. Then in 2015, the Insights & Data service, which allows clients to We have also boosted our Digital and Cloud sectoral offers to make sense of vast amounts of data, simplifying their better meet our client's specific needs in the Financial Services, decision-making processes. Finally, the Cybersecurity service — Industry, Automotive, Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution and vital for any Digital transformation — to protect IT and industrial Transportation sectors. systems, data, their integrity, and connected devices. While Capgemini is helping our clients to stand out from the crowd In 2016, the Digital Manufacturing service line complemented this in the age of Digital and Cloud, the Group also aims to range of high added value services, to meet the new needs of differentiate itself within our industry through our companies. The acquisitions of Oinio in Munich and Fahrenheit methodologies, positioning, and assets: 18 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group Insights & Data (one of Capgemini’s technology partners and a leader in the customer relations market). The recent purchase of 1 In a world where people and things are becoming more and more connected (via the Internet of Things), data is the heart of the Fahrenheit 212 — a strategy and innovation development Digital revolution we are witnessing. Capgemini’s vision is that the consultancy — also helped to strengthen Capgemini Consulting in insights we draw from this data will act as the most effective driver North America. of business competitiveness in the decades to come. In such a Digital is changing the game for manufacturers. Smart, connected context, the role of the Insights & Data service is to provide our products, assets and operations offer the potential for productivity clients with relevant actionable insights to their business and, in gains, cost savings, and improved revenue. Transforming digitally, particular, ensure they are delivered at the right time to the right however, demands new thinking as operations and information decision centers. To this end, the Group uses three fields of technology converge. Capgemini can help. Our Digital expertise, making Capgemini an unconventional player in our Manufacturing solutions focus on improving the Digital maturity of industry: data collection, in particular data from sensors; core manufacturing functions across Product Lifecycle conversion of the data into useful information, then into insights in Management (PLM), asset management, operations management, the relevant business activity for the client; and finally, the creation system simulation, and industrial cybersecurity. We draw on deep of IT platforms to manage insights and data. expertise in consulting and technology services, combined with a network of global Applied Innovation Exchanges and a strong Digital Customer Experience ecosystem of partners, to ensure our industrial clients gain sustainable competitive advantage from their Digital investments. Customer experience is the catalyst for Digital transformation. In a world where new technologies drive new behaviors, it’s no longer enough to rely on your products as the critical differentiator; what Digital Manufacturing counts nowadays is your ability to provide a compelling, engaging Capgemini’s Digital Manufacturing service uses all the benefits of customer experience. Of course, creating a high-quality customer Digital to meet two types of needs: the optimization of industrial experience and turning it into a driver for growth is complicated. It operations management (remote management, preventive and requires an extensive knowledge of a company’s customer proactive maintenance, etc.) and increasingly intelligent ecosystem, and necessitates a radical transformation of the configurations of production processes, factories and organization and its IT systems. The Digital Customer Experience infrastructure. The Group benefits from a unique position in these service is fully equipped to handle this complexity because it markets. As a provider of both technological and consulting encompasses transformation consultancy, customer experience expertise, we are one of the few players that bring together design and the integration of IT systems, which are becoming Operations Technology (OT) and the Company’s IT systems. increasingly intelligent and adaptive. The service also benefits from Through these different business lines, the Group is able to offer its ability to draw on the Group’s other fields of expertise (Digital expertise in the mechanical and electronic design of products, as Transformation, Insights & Data, Digital Manufacturing, well as in the onboard telematics for data collection. Capgemini’s Cybersecurity, Cloud) enabling companies to undergo an global presence also makes us a partner of choice to support end-to-end transformation. manufacturers in widespread locations, with the same quality of In early 2016, Capgemini announced two acquisitions that service. Finally, Capgemini has all the technological expertise strengthened our Digital Customer Experience service. Based in (Cybersecurity, Connectivity, Analytics, Cloud) to help the industry Munich, Oinio is one of the major European players in consulting to successfully make the jump into the age of the Internet of and the implementation of Cloud-based CRM solutions and Digital Things. marketing. This is thanks to Oinio’s partnership with Salesforce 1.5.2 Cloud as a strong platform for growth Together with Digital, Cloud services business remained a key increasingly hybrid and multi-Cloud model, enabling them to move priority for the Group in 2016. each workload to the environment which meets its requirements best. This allows performance and risk factors to be balanced Cloud is no longer an emerging technology: As adoption while migrating the applications portfolio to the Cloud. accelerates, it’s becoming a ubiquitous delivery option for all kinds of IT. This is reflected in the Group’s Cloud headline ‘Cloud first: The Group meets the needs of enterprise customers with Cloud The new normal. Choice, a complete portfolio of services that deliver a Cloud-first way of working for the enterprise. These range from advisory Cloud adoption continues to grow strongly across all sectors and expertise in defining a Cloud strategy and roadmap, to geographies, trending towards public Cloud, especially in the infrastructure services that encompass many private Cloud options, most mature markets such as North America. Our clients and public Cloud managed services. In between come applications increasingly see Cloud technologies not just as a way to services including assessment and migration, development of modernize infrastructure and reduce costs, but as an enabler of Cloud-native applications, and SaaS implementation. Digital innovation, agility, scale, and reduced time to market for new services. Most of our enterprise clients are adopting an Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 19 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group The Group offers its clients proven and industrialized approaches transitioned its SAP environment and other critical production to migrating workloads to the Cloud, Cloud-native application applications to the Azure Cloud after 18 months of planning, development and public Cloud managed services, leveraging large provisioning, remediating, and migrating. In addition to migrating teams of certified resources in our Cloud migration factories in core workloads, Capgemini helped to “sunset” Mosaic’s India. datacenters. One highlight from our Cloud services engagements in 2016 was a successful go live for The Mosaic Company in the US, which 1.5.3 Major contracts signed in 2016 In 2016, order intake rose to €13,027 million, compared to & Sustainability Navigator platform will continue to unlock the €11,538 million in 2015. The renewal or strengthening of existing hidden potential of building data, provide transparency to support engagements shows that our clients trust Capgemini to support decision making processes that increase building operating them in their digital transformation, the creation of a new business efficiency, and drive cost savings for customers. Using this model, or the consolidation of their operational efficiency and platform Siemens Building Technologies’ customers currently save capacity for innovation. Here are some examples of contracts 10.5 million tons of CO2 per year. signed in 2016: ME HM Revenue & Customs Capgemini entered into a multi-year strategic relationship to Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HRMC) is a UK government provide Australian online bank ME with improved capability, non-ministerial department mainly in charge of collecting taxes innovation and flexibility. The five-year engagement will help the and the money that pays for the UK’s public services. HRMC bank to build out its digital services, capitalizing on Capgemini’s recently extended its contract with Capgemini until 2020. In this local and global expertise in banking and Financial Services. context, Capgemini will transition a number of services to answer its client’s need to increase control of their IT activities. Capgemini General Electric Aviation will also take part in HMRC’s digital transformation as a strategic partner. This relationship builds upon 12 years of successful The new GE Configuration Data Exchange allows for the digital partnership and the delivery of services which have underpinned exchange of key operations, maintenance and configuration data the collection of UK Tax. between aviation companies. GE Aviation teamed with Capgemini to bring this project to market, leveraging its aviation experience to help accelerate adoption and business process improvements U.K. Ministry of Defence with our mutual customers. Capgemini was awarded a one-year contract extension to provide the UK’s Ministry of Defence (MOD) a secure managed service London Hydro that delivers Purchase to Pay (P2P) capability for its trading partners. The £9.17 million renewed contract builds on a Capgemini Canada will provide testing services for London relationship established in 2000. Hydro’s technology platforms and applications, including its Green Button initiative and Energy Data Platform (EDP), which are designed to provide customers with easy, secure access to Siemens Building Technologies energy usage information as well as applications to manage Capgemini is now teaming with the Siemens Building efficiency. Technologies Division to implement a cloud based services Should you need information related to major contracts signed in platform featuring asset management and analytics technology. 2015, please refer to the 2015 Registration document The Siemens Building Technologies Division’s web-based Energy 1.5.4 Innovation: helping clients to speed up integration of emerging technologies In 2016, our Applied Innovation Exchange program (A.I.E.) The Applied Innovation Exchange (AIE) relies on Capgemini’s expanded further to help our clients speed up their integration of ability to both tackle the challenges of its clients’ sectors, and to technological innovations. This program includes proven pick out the emerging technologies that are most suited to each methodology and tools for innovation, as well as ten innovation specific need. In the AIE innovation centers, clients are given the centers spread over four different continents*, where clients can opportunity to test out the most innovative technologies relating to get to know, test out, and adopt solutions developed jointly by the Internet of Things, data analysis, the Cloud, cybersecurity, and Capgemini and our global ecosystem of technology partners. The even cutting-edge computing that facilitates the Digital ongoing Digital revolution is rendering most companies’ current transformation of business IT services. The ten AIE innovation R&D models inoperable. Technological innovations are advancing centers (1) are also networked, meaning that people in any region at a rapid pace, and the competition among players in the Digital of the world can benefit from industry expertise developed in any economy is forcing traditional organizations to adopt ever-shorter center. The Munich innovation center specializes in the automotive innovation cycles. This is why the AIE aims to reduce the time industry, whereas the Lille center specializes in retail. between the emergence of the innovation and its implementation as a concrete solution that will support the clients’ business. (1) In San Francisco, Mumbai, Melbourne, Munich, Utrecht, Paris, Lille, Toulouse, London and Singapore. 20 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group In 2016, three new centers were opened. The first in San Valley, the other two in London and Mumbai. This process was Francisco, which offers a unique co-innovation capacity with continued by the opening of a new center in Singapore in early 1 renowned high-tech brands and start-ups, notably those of Silicon 2017. 1.5.5 Driving growth through Group Competitiveness Capgemini set up a new central department in charge of ◗ Automation; accelerating the automation of services and managing the Group’s competitiveness on January 1, 2016. Its solutions, as an integral parts of our own delivery, and as main tasks are to reduce the production costs, improve the quality offerings to make our clients more competitive. of services across the Group, and to create the Next Generation ◗ Strategic Sourcing; maximizing the global procurement industrial platforms in order to preserve our ability to differentiate power of the Group, including our external spend and supplier ourselves in the new disruptive market. processes, to enable more efficient, innovative, and 'beyond The Competitiveness agenda brings business value at three price' matching by our suppliers, bringing more value to the levels:; business. ◗ Competitiveness Foundation, to optimize the level of In 2016, Competiveness has proved as a powerful integration competitiveness within our own organization; layer that touches every part of Capgemini, and in doing so, helps to excel the way we deliver results to clients at every stage of the ◗ Competitiveness Enablers to elevate the level of process. competitiveness inside our existing go-to-market Portfolio of Services; Three Group functions were brought together into a new connected value chain including Delivery, Industrialization and ◗ Competitiveness as a Service, to offer services and IPs to Procurement. In the end of 2016, the set up was completed by help our clients to become more competitive in their respective the onboarding of Group IT. markets. In 2016, we introduced three strategic programs, to fully leverage We are making a strong push on automation, leveraging our the potential of Competitiveness: Automation Drive suite of services, and we have deployed automated solutions for more than 210 customers. ◗ Global Resource Supply Chain; optimizing the integrated management of the Group’s resources, to ensure that our global resources are available at the right time, at the right place and at the right price, matching the demands of our clients. 1.5.6 Our talent brings more agility and expertise to the Group The needs of Capgemini’s clients continued to change rapidly in this program is renamed Innovators Race 50. The Serge Kampf 2016. To meet these requirements, the Group is always on the Awards celebrate the spirit of entrepreneurship in honor of search for individuals who understand complex technological Capgemini’s founder, the late Serge Kampf, who created his very challenges, grasp the bigger picture, and are able to coordinate own start-up 50 years ago. The official awards will be presented international teams. to the winners of Capgemini’s Innovators Race 50 in June 2017, at VivaTech, a global trade show for innovative start-ups held in Uncovering future talent Paris in June 2017. Capgemini uses agile recruitment methods to identify people with these new and highly sought-after profiles. Today, many Group Creating agile and committed leaders employees have the LinkedIn Recruiter Certification, and use it on Capgemini is developing a number of initiatives to foster the a daily basis. Furthermore, the #Gradathon project has given talents our clients require among our existing staff. “Strategic graduates the opportunity to share their experiences at the talent reviews” were created in 2015 to identify the leaders of Company via Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Similarly, the tomorrow. The aim is to enable top management to review #LifeAtCapgemini and #BeTheYou campaigns were based on the potential talent. Capgemini also launched Game Changers in same idea, but open to all employees. 2015, designed to inspire change within the Group and accelerate the career progression of particularly dynamic candidates. Around Additionally, the Innovators Race contest continues to take place forty employees were chosen for their broad vision and their ability each year. In 2016, the contest was open to students from six to implement game-changing ideas. These Game Changers came countries, selected from the best schools and universities, as a from varied entities across 13 different countries — and 41% of means to highlight and reward their innovative ideas. The best them were women. Over the course of a year, they attended ideas were selected out of thousands of participants, with the trainings and dedicated mentoring sessions. winning team winning a $25,000 prize and the opportunity to work for a few weeks at Capgemini’s Applied Innovation Exchange In 2016, emphasis was placed on geographical and functional Integrated Innovation Center in San Francisco. mobility, which has become mandatory for certain career stages. A Mobility Charter has accompanied this development. In 2017, the Innovators Race is renewed and is targeted to start-ups. On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the Group, Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 21 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group In 2016, the Group also launched a New Leadership Model – Capgemini University: Making Digital a Priority Leading All the Way! – to help staff excel across six dimensions: Capgemini University works to achieve the Group’s strategic ◗ Business Builder, the ability to translate vision into initiative and objectives and strives to help accelerate and reconcile the aims of create development opportunities with clients or in a market; the Group and its clients. ◗ La Niaque, the ability to stay motivated and determined; In 2016, the University and L&D provided over 4.15 million hours ◗ People Developer, ability to build an environment that inspires, of training to more than 182,000 Group employees. More than attracts and advances the best talent, motivates individuals and 156 new models were created and developed, with 122 of these teams to get them to express their full potential; focusing on Group priorities. ◗ Profit Shaper, the ability to generate growth and profit beyond To fulfil this role as a driver for the Group’s aims, the University expectations and to meet its commitments; brings in employees in order to develop their abilities and enable the Group to achieve its full client service potential. The ◗ Active Connector, the ability to encourage cooperation and University’s mission is therefore to provide the right setting for innovation throughout the organization, use networks and break comprehensive learning, relying on the principles of Digital Age silos to bring together the best teams and the best expertise; Learning and seeking to achieve four key objectives: ◗ Agile Player, the ability to accelerate, streamline, simplify, adapt ◗ inspiring our key populations and contributing to their to changes in markets and competitors’ pressure. professional development; ◗ This new leadership model, which should enable us to better ◗ developing and managing leadership training; meet performance requirements, has become a priority in our People Transformation plan for 2016 and 2017. It addresses all ◗ enhancing agility and accelerating the process to augment the Group employees, regardless of function, and is intended as impact of our businesses and the value provided to our clients; both a tool for accelerating individual career paths and for ◗ strengthening, enhancing and developing our corporate culture. improving collective performance. Capgemini University strives to provide employees with the very best experience in terms of Digital technology and innovation, in hopes of increasing their desire to learn. To better meet the demands of our business and help develop our key populations, the University works to ensure that skills, certifications, communities and training opportunities all work together as part of a coherent whole. As evidence of the extraordinary recognition it received in 2016, Capgemini University won seven awards from Brandon Hall, Skillsoft and ATD for its CyberSecurity Event, its DevOps Hackathon, and its Connect & Drive and Embark Leadership programs. It also received the prize for the “Most International Corporate University” at U-Spring, an event organized by the Leaders League group under the aegis of the French Ministry of Labor. DIVERSITY, AN ASSET IN LINE WITH OUR VALUES DRIVING PERFORMANCE As a global company with multicultural teams and challenge. In 2016, for example, one female manager has interconnected markets, we foster diversity and active been promoted in most of the executive committees of the inclusion in the workplace, welcoming people from all seven operating entities. At the same time, the backgrounds, origins, cultures, genders, sexual orientations, Women@Capgemini program launched a process to certify ethnicities, races, ages, or disabilities… They all contribute its approach to promoting gender diversity, with pilot to the type of diversity we value the most: diversity of programs in France and the United States. Additionally, the thought, bringing the best of our talent to clients. In 2016, EDGE (Economic Dividends for Gender Equality) Foundation Capgemini actively pursued measures aimed at improving certification will be deployed in 2017 in countries where the gender balance within the Group. A key figure demonstrates Group has a strong presence to assess performance in this commitment: 41% of participants in the senior career terms of salaries, recruitment, promotion, access to acceleration program Game Changers were women, as were managerial positions, flexible working conditions and any 31% in the junior program Connect & Drive. Technology other changes in corporate culture. We are committed to remains a male-dominated sector and Capgemini is aware promoting social mobility by providing training and that the proportion of women in the organization is employment opportunities, partnering with local public and insufficient (30.3% of total workforce), particularly in private agencies and specific initiatives in all the countries management and senior leadership positions. The Group were we operate. has however taken significant steps to address this 22 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group 1.5.7 Honors and awards 1 2016 saw Capgemini receive considerable recognition from independent bodies and analysts, and also from our technology partners. SAP Quality awards Informatica award Capgemini won two Gold awards and one Silver award at the Capgemini was presented the “GOSI Enablement Partner of the annual SAP Quality Awards for the UK & Ireland, making it the year award” at the fourth annual Informatica GOSI Connect event fourth year in a row. Capgemini Italy also won a Gold award for held in Bangalore in August 2016. The Informatica GOSI connect Marcegaglia and a Silver for Fiat Leasys as SAP’s implementation is a premier, global event attended by executives, sales & partner in the Business Transformation category at the 2016 SAP technology leaders and hundreds of practitioners across the entire Quality Awards in Milan. More than 200 organizations across GOSI (Global SIs) community. 16 growth market units in the EMEA submitted their nomination for the awards. Leader in software testing by NelsonHall Pegasystems Partner award 2016 Capgemini was announced as a ‘Leader’ in the Overall NelsonHall Capgemini received the Partner Excellence in Driving Growth Vendor Evaluation and Assessment Tool (NEAT) for Software Award from Pegasystems, the software company empowering the Testing. Capgemini Group, including its wholly-owned subsidiary world’s leading enterprises with strategic business applications. Sogeti, has also been recognized as a leading player in NelsonHall’s Consultancy Focus and Transformation Focus NEAT market segments. Leader and Star Performer in Everest Group’s PEAK Matrix™ Assessment First prize at Predix Hackathon Capgemini has been recognized as a Leader and Star Performer in Everest Group’s Mobility Services in Global Banking – Service After the stellar success in the GE Customer Hackathon event in Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix™ Assessment 2016: A New the US during Q2-2016, Capgemini GE Account ADM team won Paradigm. Capgemini was recognized as a “Leader” by increasing first prize at the Predix hackathon in the Partner category at the its mobility services delivery capabilities through alliances/internal GE Customer Hackathon in Bangalore. investments and achieving high marks overall in six key areas; market success, buyer satisfaction, domain expertise and Top company for women technologists by Anita innovation, scale, scope and delivery footprint. Borg Institute Capgemini was named as a top company for women technology ATD Excellence in Practice for Connect & Drive professionals by the Anita Borg Institute (ABI) in its 2016 Top Connect & Drive, the talent acceleration program that is part of Companies for Women Technologists Leadership Index. ABI is a Our University’s global leadership development curriculum, won Palo Alto, California-based premier non-profit organization working two ATD Excellence in Practice awards. The program was for the advancement of women professionals in computing. recognized in the Coaching & Mentoring and Integrated Talent Management categories. Silver medal in annual Trainee Awards in Sweden Capgemini has recently won the silver medal in the annual Trainee EMC global partner of the year award Awards in Sweden. In Sweden’s most popular overall trainee Capgemini won the EMC Enterprise Content Division (ECD) global program category, Capgemini ranked second. While in the partner of the year award at EMC World 2016. The award engineering and business students’ preference of trainee recognizes a number of highly innovative and successful programs we came in at third and sixth positions respectively. implementations of ECD technology. Leader in Gartner’s 2016 Magic Quadrant for Paris EUROPLACE Corporate Governance award Application Testing Services At the Paris EUROPLACE International Forum – a two-day event Capgemini was recognized as a Leader in Gartner’s bringing together global financial leaders and over November 2016 Magic Quadrant for Application Testing Services, 1,200 international attendees – Capgemini won the ‘Corporate Worldwide. The Capgemini Group, including its wholly-owned Governance’ category of the Annual General Meeting 2016 subsidiary Sogeti, has been recognized as a Leader for the third Awards. year in a row. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 23 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.5 A solid performance in 2016, reflecting further maturity of the Group 1.5.8 Capgemini publications: a 360° view of our clients’ challenges Anticipating companies’ challenges, analyzing trends in their markets and understanding the impact that new technologies will have on their business are just some of our missions at Capgemini. This is why the Group compiles several dozen reports and thematic studies every year. Produced by Capgemini, often in collaboration with respected partners, these are leading publications in their field. Here is a selection of the reports and studies published in 2016. You can find full versions of all of the Group’s publications at: capgemini.com/thought-leadership. Operational Analytics agenda for over 80% of Consumer Product companies. The impact of operational analytics is not confined to improving Companies are using consumer insights to enhance the the efficiency and performance of operational processes. effectiveness of marketing campaigns, to roll out new products Organizations have started to use these efficiency gains as the and refine existing ones, and obtain cost savings and efficiencies underlying basis to also improve the customer experience. Our in operations. latest survey of more than 600 executives from the US, Europe and China finds that over 70% of organizations now put more World Quality Report emphasis on operations than on consumer-focused processes for This eighth edition of the World Quality Report illustrates the their analytics initiatives. impact of trends like Internet of Things, where organizations seek World Retail Banking Report to disrupt with Digital at an ever faster pace when it comes to Quality Assurance (QA) and Testing function, which is increasingly With the increasing prominence of Fintech firms in the industry, required to transform into a business enabler and secure client the World Retail Banking Report 2016 by Capgemini and Efma value from Digital Transformation programs. explores customer experience globally, customers’ perception of Fintech firms and why evolving a Digital banking ecosystem is critical for banks to remain relevant and deliver superior customer World Payments Report experience. The 2016 World Payments Report examines developments in the global payments landscape. By partnering with BNP Paribas, in Digital Telco Research this year’s report, in addition to bringing insightful analysis of the global non-cash transaction environment to banks, we have Being at the heart of the Digital economy, driving and enabling the provided our insights on transaction banking as well. changing consumer behaviors, telco operators are also facing the threats of challenges brought by pure Digital players. Realizing the benefits of the Digital transformation for their own business and Asia Pacific Wealth Report operating model will help telco operators to outperform in With a specific focus on Asia Pacific, this report is the Industry’s customer satisfaction and revenue growth. leading benchmark for tracking high net worth individuals (HNWIs), their wealth, and the global and economic conditions that drive Rise of the Innovation Empires change in the Wealth Management industry. Silicon Valley still remains the hub of the world’s most dominant innovation “empire” – a location of a thriving innovation ecosystem European Energy Markets Observatory where innovation centers cluster. However, as the innovation The rapid increase in the share of renewables has destabilized the center phenomenon has continued to spread globally, a number wholesale electricity markets, and as a result, their low prices of new ‘empires’ have emerged where innovation centers are challenge the health of Utilities. Utilities must therefore quickly flourishing. adapt their business models to these new realities and accelerate Digital transformation efforts focused on productivity, agility and World Wealth Report innovation, in order to grow profitable revenue streams. The Industry’s leading benchmark for tracking high net worth individuals (HNWIs), their wealth, and the global and economic World FinTech Report conditions that drive change in the Wealth Management industry. FinTech disruption in Financial Services is unprecedented. This report brings to light the areas where leaders are shaping a new Consumer Insights range of services and innovations spanning banking, payments, insurance, and wealth management. With the growth in channel data on consumers, our new research shows that consumer insights is a core part of the strategic 24 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.6 Investment and financing policies 1.6 Investment and financing policies 1 1.6.1 Investment policy In 2015, Capgemini acquired IGATE (33,000 employees and In 2017, the Group wishes to continue strengthening its position in revenues of $1.3 billion) for a total amount of $4 billion. With this North America as well as selectively in Europe, in high growth major acquisition, North America became the first region of the technology sectors. The development of the technology portfolio Group. will also remain one of the priorities of the Group’s external growth policy. In 2016, the Group focused on integrating IGATE and finalized the acquisition of two companies, a Salesforce specialist in Germany These acquisitions will be possible thanks to the Group’s very (Oinio) and a consulting firm specializing in high added value solid financial position, which they should not compromise. innovation in North America (Fahrenheit 212). 1.6.2 Financing policy and financial rating The Cap Gemini S.A. financing policy is intended to provide the ◗ a good level of liquidity and sustainable financial resources, Group with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the which means: following main criteria: ❚ maintaining an adequate level of available funds ◗ a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years (€2,036 million at December 31, 2016), supplemented by a Capgemini Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited €750 million multicurrency syndicated credit facility secured level of net debt (or even a positive net cash position) including in on July 30, 2014 and maturing on July 27, 2021, the manner in which it finances its external growth; ❚ borrowings, with only a limited portion falling due within ◗ diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial 12 months (contractual cash flows within less than one year; profile: Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements) financing (including the syndicated credit line and the use of representing just 4% of total contractual cash flows. leasing to finance IT equipment) and market financing: three euro bond issues performed in July 2015 for €2,750 million; euro bond issue performed in November 2016 for €500 million (see Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements); Financial rating The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and the cost of accessing such markets depend at least in part on the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s which as at February 28, 2017 is BBB (stable outlook). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 25 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7.1 Identification of risks This risk analysis section was drafted jointly by several Group Climate risk management systems are in section 3. stakeholders of particular note among the departments that play a Furthermore, in accordance with the latest Autorité des Marchés key role in identifying and controlling major risks are the Internal Financiers (AMF the French financial market authority) Audit, Ethics & Compliance, Finance, Insurance, Legal, Human recommendations on the specific nature and importance of risks Resources and Security & Mobility Departments. reported by issuers, Capgemini no longer reports on “Strategic The overall risk management and internal control system is alliance” risks, as they are considered immaterial at Group level at described in section 2.5 of this Registration Document. the time of preparation of this report. When updating the mapping of its major risks, a process that was Nonetheless, it remains possible that changes in economic launched at the end of 2015 and finalized in the first quarter of conditions or the legal environment could give rise to certain risks 2016, Capgemini Group assessed the risks likely to have a not currently identified as material that could impact the results of significant negative impact on its activity, financial position or the Group, its objectives, reputation or the share price. results. The risks presented below are the result of this work analysis. 1.7.2 Risks relating to operations and the strategy Capgemini is a service provider and consulting group, and as In this respect, the United Kingdom held a referendum on such, the main risks to which the Group is exposed are (i) failure to June 23, 2016 in which a majority voted to exit the European deliver the services to which it has committed; (ii) failure to deliver Union (“Brexit”). Brexit could adversely affect European or services within the contractual timeframe and to the required level worldwide economic, market conditions and could contribute to of quality; or (iii) infringement, notably through human error, of instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, client or third party obligations. In the course of its consulting including volatility in the value of the pound sterling or the euro. In activities, the Group has an obligation to provide information and addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially could incur liability should it fail to do so. Furthermore, in a rapidly divergent national laws and regulations as the United Kingdom changing technology environment, the Group must constantly determines which European Union laws to replace or replicate. ensure it adapts to new client product and service expectations. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others the Group cannot anticipate, could adversely affect the Group’s business, results of Economic risks operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risk factors Risk management systems The Group’s growth and financial results may be adversely The Group monitors and anticipates, as far as possible, affected by a general downturn in the IT service sector or in one of macroeconomic developments at global level, by closely Capgemini’s other key business segments. A shake-up resulting monitoring the quality of the clients in the markets where it in a change of ownership at one of Capgemini’s clients or a operates, as well as analyzing the potential impacts of these decision not to renew a long-term contract may have a negative changes on its own businesses and those of its clients. effect on revenue streams and require cost-cutting or headcount While a substantial proportion of the Group’s operations depends reduction measures in the business units affected. on its clients’ investment capacity, the fact that the Group is The general economic context and more precisely restrictions organized around medium-sized Business Units close to their affecting public bodies in the various countries subject to target market allows for rapid responsiveness to changes. budgetary efforts, may weigh on our revenues. A continued The Group is going to monitor the evolution of Brexit in order to slowdown in the activity of certain economic sectors in which our take measures to reduce this risk depending on the decisions clients operate would also limit their ability to invest and taken by the United Kingdom and the European Union. accordingly impact the results of the Group in a certain number of segments. Finally, and more generally, a major crisis impacting the financial markets or unfavorable trends in macro-economic indicators could, due to the extent of their impacts, restrict the Group’s ability to attain its objectives and continue its development. 26 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis Competition This integration process was notably implemented in 2015 on the acquisition of IGATE. 1 Risk factors The IT consulting and services business is highly competitive. Reputation Major players, both French and international, operate with substantial resources, giving them significant scope for action, Risk factors both financial and operational. Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, especially The Group’s inability to understand, satisfy or anticipate the on large-scale or sensitive projects, could negatively impact the current and future needs of our clients and prospective clients by Group’s image and credibility in the eyes of its clients, and by launching relevant services on the market, could impact our extension, its ability to maintain or develop certain activities. financial results. When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of teams Furthermore, the concentration of players in this market could may be inconsistent with our principles (values, work offer opportunities or be prejudicial to the Group. methods, etc.) and could even present a danger to the Company if contrary to ethics or legislation. Risk management systems Finally, employee internet users could make negative comments The Group monitors strategy in its various markets in order to on social media (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capgemini’s assess the weight, strengths and weaknesses of the main players. performance, service offers or human resource policy, thereby To monitor the competitive environment, the Development tarnishing the Group’s reputation. New social media players Department (mergers and acquisitions) regularly assesses challenge the cyber security of our internal IT systems and the potential targets that could integrate the Group in the future. systems we deliver to clients, and these cyber risks could have a negative impact on our reputation. The Group also seeks continually to ensure client satisfaction in order to build long-term relationships. A satisfaction measure is Risk management systems kept up-to-date throughout all contract phases (see Client risk below). Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly embedded in Capgemini’s culture. On its creation in 1967, the Group through its founder, Serge Kampf, identified seven core External growth values which form the keystone of its identity (honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, team spirit, modesty and fun). Today, each of its Risk factors managers and employees continue to refer to these values and The implementation of external growth transactions, one of the have committed to applying them personally on a daily basis and cornerstones of the Group’s development strategy, can comport a ensuring their compliance by individuals in their Business Unit or number of risks. Integrating any newly-acquired company or who participate on joint projects. From this point of view, the Code activity, particularly in the service sector, may prove to be a longer of Business Ethics distributed in 2010 represents the continuation and more difficult process than predicted. The success of an and formal documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly external growth transaction largely depends on the extent to embedded in Capgemini. A specific policy dealing with the which the Group is able to retain key managers and employees, prevention of corruption was distributed within the Group in 2011, maintain the client base intact, coordinate development strategy followed by a second in 2012 covering anti-trust legislation. All effectively, especially from an operating and commercial new recruits are asked to undertake to comply with the principles perspective, and dovetail and/or integrate information systems explained in these two policies and follow an e-learning training and internal procedures. Unforeseen problems can generate course thereon. An organizational structure rolled-out in each higher integration costs and/or lower savings or synergies than country by an Ethics and Compliance Officer, monitors the initially forecast. If a material, unidentified liability subsequently implementation of the Ethics & Compliance Program covering all comes to light, the value of the assets acquired may turn out to be Group entities. lower than their acquisition cost (see Note 2 to Capgemini’s). The Group decided many years ago to only employ individuals Risk management systems and have commercial relations in those countries satisfying a certain number of criteria concerning business ethics and legal Capgemini has a wealth of experience in acquisitions, having and physical security in the conduct of business, as well as tax carried out around 50 external growth transactions since the compliance. 1970s. Entrepreneurial spirit, managerial autonomy, and the principle of subsidiarity are crucial factors in the successful Since 2011, the Group has implemented a solution for measuring integration of newly-acquired businesses. The successful and monitoring conversations on Group brands on social media. integration of new businesses is also facilitated by the Group’s Internal social media are also monitored in order to best respond organization along geographic regions and business lines. The to employee comments. Finally, in order to strengthen governance Group’s Legal Affairs Department is involved in the negotiation of rules covering the activities of Group employees on internal and the legal aspects of merger/acquisition projects. external social media, a social media code of conduct was also drafted and is freely available on the Group’s website. An integration manager is appointed for all acquisitions. He/she is involved from early on in the acquisition process and generally Listed on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader in its from the due diligence stage and, in all events, prior to signature business sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the media of the contract. He/she has substantial technical experience and and the financial community to provide information on its activities. the necessary authority and asserts his role as manager Therefore, to control and limit risks to its reputation, only persons responsible for the implementation of appraisal systems and the duly authorized by Group Management are permitted to speak on regular review of management reports used to monitor the behalf of the Group. integration process and avoid any mismatch. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 27 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis Clients In addition, for existing clients, the Group is exposed to standard client risks which are closely monitored: Risk factors ◗ the risk of excessive dependence on a single client or group of Capgemini serves a large client base, in a wide variety of sectors clients or a single market sector; the Group has several and countries, limiting the risk of dependency on a given sector thousand clients, which to a certain extent enables it to resist and/or market. The Group’s biggest clients are multinationals and market turbulence and reduce its exposure to volatility in certain public bodies. The detailed list of the Group’s biggest clients is sectors. The client portfolio consists of both a large number of strategic information and is not communicated. entities from the public sector and a large number of entities The contribution of the Group’s main clients to Group revenues from the private sector, from a wide spread of diversified (as a percentage of total revenues) is as follows: markets. Exposure to risks of commercial dependency is therefore limited; 2016 ◗ client insolvency; client solvency analysis upstream of the sales process helps minimize client credit risk. The solvency of these Top five clients 11% major clients, combined with the wide diversity of other smaller Top ten clients 16% clients, helps reduce credit risk; ◗ the risk of dissatisfaction; Capgemini pays particular attention to assessing client satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous Risk management systems client relationship management process that it carries out The management of client risk is facilitated by the fact that the throughout the project, known as OTACE (On Time and Above Group controls the international development of its activity by Client Expectations). This is a key pillar of the Group’s client focusing on countries offering sufficient guarantees in terms of loyalty policy, particularly for major client accounts. business ethics, the safety and security of individuals and legal security in the conduct of business. 1.7.3 Operational risks Project performance Project performance monitoring satisfies the management and control procedures defined by the Group, with projects classified Risk factors as “complex” subject to more specific controls. Internal Audit also Despite the formal review and approval procedure for all verifies the application of project management and control contractual commitments given by the Group to its clients, procedures. At the initiative of the Production/Methods and suppliers and sub-contractors, difficulties with respect to project Support Department, specialist teams of experts audit projects performance and/or project costs may be underestimated at the considered high-risk or facing performance difficulties. outset. This may result in cost overruns not covered by additional The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control revenues, especially in the case of fixed-price contracts, or risks associated with the delivery of information systems projects reduced revenues without any corresponding reduction in ordered by clients, from pre-sale to acceptance and payment by expense in the case of certain outsourcing contracts where there the client of the last invoice for the project. In a simplified is a commitment to provide a certain level of service. approach, this process differentiates between: More generally, the Group could be unable to control changes in ◗ pre-sale risk controls; its cost base, materially impacting the overall profitability of its ◗ production and quality controls during the project performance operations. phase; Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies in ◗ business control. the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee that all risks have been contained and controlled. In particular, human 1. Pre-sale risk control error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external Projects are increasingly complex, both in terms of size and regulations or legislation that are not, or cannot be identified in technical specifications, especially in Outsourcing (long-term time, may cause damage for which the Company is held liable commitments, sometimes involving transfers of assets, staff and and/or may tarnish its reputation. the related obligations). As a result, identifying and measuring the risks involved is essential at all stages of the selling process, not Risk management systems only for new contracts but also for extensions or renewals of The Group has developed a range of methods, organized and existing contracts. This risk analysis is based in particular on: documented in its DELIVER methodology, in order to ensure the high quality performance of client projects. Project managers ◗ a reporting tool consolidating all commercial opportunities at receive specific training to develop their expertise and obtain Group level. Data concerning commercial opportunities is certification levels consistent with the complexity of projects entered as and when identified, and updated throughout the entrusted to them. The Group continues its active policy of sale process; external certification of its Business Units (CMM, ISO, etc.). 28 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis ◗ validation, at the various organizational levels of the Group’s Employees operational structure and at the different stages of the selling 1 process (from identification of an opportunity as investmentRisk factors worthy from a Group perspective and the submission of service The vast majority of the Group’s value is founded on its human proposals, often in several stages, to the signature of a contract) capital and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with the of the main characteristics of the opportunity, in particular as technical expertise necessary to the performance of client projects regards technical, financial and legal matters. to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a strong The decision to commit the Group to commercial opportunities reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair appraisal meeting pre-defined criteria concerning size and complexity is the and promotion procedures as well as the professional sole responsibility of the Group Review Board. For particularly development of our employees. complex projects, a review of solutions may be carried out during The loss of talent or a team could also follow an acquisition or a the final pre-sale phase in order to bring to the Group Review change in Group or entity management. Board’s attention any potential risks relating to the performance of these projects. The Group pays close attention to internal communication, diversity, equal opportunity and good working conditions. Group 2. Production and quality control Management has published a Code of Business Ethics and oversees its application. Nevertheless, in the event of an industrial The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper dispute or non-compliance with local regulations and/or ethical performance of contracts that are applied throughout the life of standards, the Group’s reputation and results could be adversely the project to ensure that it runs smoothly. The key features of affected. these policies include: Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization ◗ clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of each individual rate, changes in headcount (including in offshore countries), career regarding performance and supervision throughout the entire management, the development of expertise, building employee production process, in particular as regards the choice of project loyalty and the level of employee commitment are presented in the leader, client relationship management, billing, estimation of Chapter 3 “Capgemini : People, Corporate Social Responsibility costs to completion, joint oversight arrangements with the (CSR) and Business Ethics”. client, etc.; ◗ use of proprietary production methodologies in all of the Risk management systems Business Units; The Group pays very close attention to the quality of its human ◗ global access to the expertise available through Capgemini’s resource management and employee commitment. Accordingly, Applications Development Centers; an internal survey is conducted very regularly aimed at measuring ◗ monthly Group-wide identification of all risk-sensitive projects in commitment and expectations among the Group’s employees. the performance phase, and the implementation of action plans This survey is an appraisal tool and action plans are established aimed at eliminating or containing such risks; based on identified results. ◗ commissioning independent technical audits of the teams in Furthermore, a human resources management information system charge of a given project to identify additional risks in cases is being rolled-out globally by the Group Human Resources where actual performance appears to diverge from forecasts or Department to ensure the comprehensive management of all from commitments undertaken. These engagements are carried processes concerning the management of high-performing out by the Production/Methods and Support Department, and individuals and enabling a uniform approach to monitoring complement the upstream independent technical audits carried performance, the career plans of our employees, the management out by the Business Units as a preventative measure for of international mobility and succession plans, in a manner operational risks. consistent with the strategic objectives of the Group and the interests of our clients. 3. Business control The Capgemini Group International Works Council covers not only Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more European countries but also includes representatives of the main project financial controllers whose role is to: countries outside Europe (India, United States and Brazil). The ◗ monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily the Group’s key managers regularly attend meetings to present related production costs compared to the budget initially changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and approved. Progress reports and management indicators are built discuss them with employee representatives in an open manner into the monitoring process, which relies mainly on the periodic and an environment of mutual understanding. analysis of estimated costs to completion and their accounting Finally, as part of our “People Matter, Results Count” policy, we impact; take account of: ◗ permanently control compliance with contractual commitments ◗ the motivation and career path of our employees; particularly billing and payment milestones. ◗ the implementation of varied and attractive career plans; ◗ the development of our employees through development and training programs; ◗ the respect and promotion of a good work-life balance. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 29 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis Information systems Service continuity Risk factors Risk factors New technologies (Cloud computing, “Bring your own device”, etc.) Capgemini’s evolving production model, Rightshore®, involves and new practices (social networks, mobility, Software-as-a-Service transferring a portion of the Group’s production of part of its SaaS, etc.) inevitably expose the Group to new risks. Risks relating to services to sites or countries other than those in which the cyber criminality of all kind could lead to a loss of data, delays in the services are used or in which the Group’s clients are located and delivery of our projects, service interruptions at our clients, or particularly India, Poland, China and other Asian and Latin additional costs that could impact the reputation or financial health of America countries. The development of this model has made the the Group. Group more reliant on telecommunications networks, which may increase the risk of business interruption at a given production site The systems underlying the publication of the Group’s due to an incident or a natural disaster, in so far as several consolidated financial statements also present a specific risk in operational units could be affected simultaneously. The use of a view of the strict reporting deadlines. large number of production sites increases the range of contingency options available to the Group. Risk management systems The Group has implemented business continuity procedures in the Risk management systems event of a disruption to IT services. The main management IT Production systems and services provided by the Group to its systems are covered by back-up plans in different data centers. subsidiaries are duplicated and covered by back-up plans that are The Group is aware of the importance of internal communication tested. network security, and protects its networks via security rules meeting the highest international standards, proactive controls, a Telecommunications networks used by the Group are duplicated detection center operating 24/7 and specific technical equipment in cases where “Rightshored” production resources are deployed. such as firewalls. Rules and procedures are defined in a security In the event of a breakdown in the preferred (fastest) policy founded on numerous international standards and communications network between Europe and India, service procedures (our operating sites are certified ISO 27001). This continuity is ensured by tried and tested alternative routes. The security policy and the back-up plans are validated and audited Group’s Indian subsidiary has set up a Business Continuity periodically. Management (BCM) structure to ensure service continuity in line with the Good Practice Guidelines of the Business Continuity For some projects or clients, enhanced systems and network Institute (BCI). These measures take account of various degrees of protection are provided on a contractually agreed basis. hypothetical threats along with the related damages considering The Group also has a program that seeks to control the cyber the situation and impacts on the site, urban agglomeration and risks for its main systems. This dedicated structure is headed by possibly the country. Communication (for example e-mail) and the Cyber Security and Information Protection Director (CySIP). collaborative systems are covered by a redundant architecture at This program covering exposure to cyber risks comprises three two data centers ensuring service continuity, or are hosted by a subgroups dealing with governance related issues (organization, supplier with systems with similar redundancy and reliability policy and communication and awareness-raising) and five measures. operational projects (data protection, mobility management, Business continuity and resumption plans in the event of a access management, information system control and steering and disruption to the specific IT infrastructures of a given center, client strengthening infrastructures). The CySIP community includes or contact, are the responsibility of the Group subsidiaries. cyber risk specialists in the following areas: Where required by specific contracts, a business continuity plan is ◗ CySIP Officers in the business units, for client project monitoring; prepared by selecting appropriate measures according to the ◗ Data Protection Officers responsible for the protection of criticality of the service. Reviews and simulations are performed in personal data; the subsidiary entities to test the efficiency of these plans. Certain of these entities have heightened security requirements reflecting ◗ Chief Information Security Officers responsible for the protection certain clients’ imperatives and they are consequently certified of internal information systems. ISO 27001 compliant by an independent agency. The aim of this program is to become a benchmark presented to our clients which helps strengthen the credibility of the Group on Suppliers and sub-contractors Digital and cybercrime issues. The Group’s policy and organization for the protection of personal data were drawn-up Risk factors based on rules defined by the European Commission (Biding Corporate Rules BCR) and validated by the CNIL (French Capgemini is dependent upon certain suppliers, especially in its National Commission for Data Protection and Liberties), for the Technology Services and networks businesses. While alternative processing and storage of our own data and that of our clients. solutions exist for most software and networks, the failure of a supplier to deliver specific technology or expertise could have prejudicial consequences for certain projects. 30 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis The bankruptcy of a supplier, its takeover by a competitor (and a Asia and Latin America, political and social instability in some change in its current service offer/product range), a change in its regions of India and adjoining countries, and even terrorist attacks. 1 sales model, such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT services, From an economic standpoint, our Group is exposed to the or a technical (fire or natural event) or human (error/negligence or negative effects of countries with insufficiently controlled growth malicious act) incident could generate additional risks. (industrial disputes and strikes, wage inflation, which is particularly rife in the IT sector, inadequate domestic infrastructure and higher Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a third taxes). party, budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers and purchases that do not comply with equipment strategic decisions, Sending employees to countries which are geopolitically unstable can also generate risks. may expose the Group to risks regarding the physical safety of these employees. Economic instability and poorly controlled Risk management systems growth can also be a source of risk for the Company’s The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts with performance and reputation. The risk of natural disasters in certain its suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained in countries where we are established, political instability and even contracts signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the terrorist attacks and similar risks in countries where we may be management of contractual risks and acceptance risks. These called on to work in response to client requirements, could impact framework agreements and contracts clearly stipulate obligations the physical safety of our employees. Economic uncertainty in an with respect to delivery deadlines, service level and operating tests unstable environment generates many other risks (galloping as well as penalties for non-compliance. The Group policy defines inflation and its impact on wages, poorly adapted infrastructures, in great detail the supplier and sub-contractor selection process unstable fiscal and social environment, etc.), which could impact and method. Over recent years, the Group has signed strategic our economic performance. partnership contracts with a diversified group of major suppliers in order to preserve its independence and guarantee the Risk management systems sustainability of its services. Furthermore, the Group has signed a The Capgemini Group restricts operations to countries able to certain number of strategic contracts with major and financially offer satisfactory guarantees in terms of individual security. Work sound suppliers. Finally, the related risks represented by smaller on client engagements in certain countries classified as “at risk” is suppliers and/or start-ups are analyzed and back-up plans are subject to approval by the Group Review Board. Rules and established in order to remedy the failures, if any. procedures have been drawn up for “at risk” territories in which the Group conducts engagements in order to satisfy the demands In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for of its major clients. Specific contracts have been agreed with worldwide procurement management and monitoring. This tool, organizations specialized in managing these risks to assess known as GPS (Global Procurement System), is used for the issue independently the risk exposure in each country. Accordingly, and approval of purchase orders. The procurement tool contains some countries are subject to strict travel bans. The risk is an approval chain that ensures the correct allocation of costs to reassessed continuously based on the geopolitical position and projects and permits their control and provides specific methods warning systems are used to inform employees of country risks. for financial approval. The centralized management of data in this Furthermore, these organizations also help resolve any potential procurement base enables us to control and better manage difficulties encountered by employees assigned to work in these Group expenditure and supplier selection. Suppliers are selected countries and provide risk prevention training courses prior to their by a specialized team based on rigorous procedures using departure. multiple criteria, several of which concern ethical standards and sustainable development. Strict approval criteria must be met before employees are sent to work in countries where there are no existing Group operations, Geopolitics and even stricter criteria apply in the event that employees are sent to countries considered “at risk”. Every employee required to Risk factors work abroad receives specific training. Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately 40 Finally, a dedicated international insurance program provides countries. The bulk of its revenues are generated in Europe and assistance to all employees covering their security, medical North America, which are economically and politically stable. emergencies and potential repatriation (for more information please refer to the Insurance section of this document). Nonetheless, an increasing portion of its production is based in emerging countries, and primarily India, which now represents In addition, following the terrorist attacks in France in 2015 and approximately 50% of the Group’s total headcount. In addition, 2016, the Group strengthened its security policy and its Crisis. Capgemini is exposed to the risk of natural disasters in South East 1.7.4 Legal risks Capgemini Group provides a range of services to its clients who in contract is governed by specific regulations that could negatively turn operate in a variety of business sectors. All services relating to impact our activities. Other factors such as the size and a given project are covered by contracts signed with our clients as geographical locations of the Group also expose it to legal and tax well as our suppliers and sub-contractors (software, IT hardware, risks. host sites, etc.) when implementing tailored solutions. Each Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 31 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis Contracts Failure to comply with regulations governing our activities Risk factors The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited Risk factors liability in certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain of risks may notably arise when the Group’s liability for failing to fulfill our clients’ activities, particularly in the financial sector, sometimes certain obligations is unlimited, on the acceptance of financial require us to comply with regulations imposed on them, or in rare guarantees, when there is no liability protection clause in relation cases, make us comply with other regulations. to services affecting health and safety or the environment, and when the rights of third parties are not respected. Due to the nature of its activities, the Group must comply with various international and local regulations regarding data privacy protection. The Group could be held liable in the event of voluntary Risk management systems or involuntary disclosure of all or part of personal data belonging The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating Guide, to a client or third-party. which identifies clauses exposing the Group to risk and requires information to be reported to the Group Legal Affairs Department Even if measures are taken to limit any negative impact on our in the event of derogation from accepted standard positions. activities or our reputation of non-compliance with regulations Criteria determining when it is necessary to report to the Group governing our activities, failure to take account of regulations or an Review Board have also been defined for contracts identified by error in interpreting such regulations, would expose the Group to the Group as presenting a high level of risk due to their size or financial and reputation risks. complexity. Group Review Board is the only entity authorized to approve derogatory clauses following a thorough review of. Risk management systems To ensure compliance with regulations applicable to its clients, the Compliance with legislation Group analyses the related obligations, which are then monitored by teams in the Production/Methods and Support Department. Risk factors This analysis also enables the identification of regulated activities and, where appropriate, any necessary authorizations to be The Group is a multinational company operating in several obtained. countries and providing services to clients who, in turn, operate around the world and are subject to numerous and constantly In March 2016, with regards to the various international and local changing laws and regulations. These mainly include, for example, regulations governing the protection of personal data, CNIL acting anti-corruption laws, import and export controls, anti-trust laws, on behalf of European Union authorities on data privacy protection sanctions, immigration rules, safety obligations and employment approved the Capgemini Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) defining legislation. the processing of personal data by the Group throughout the world, on its behalf and for its clients. A large number of our The sheer diversity of local laws and regulations applicable and clients have been identified as operators of vital importance by the constant changes therein, exposes the Group to a risk of their national authorities or by Europe. The security of their infringement of such laws and regulations by under-informed information systems must therefore by approved by these employees especially those working in countries that have a authorities and our Group, as a major sub-contractor, must also different culture to their own and to the risk of indiscretion or comply with these regulations. fraud committed by employees. As stringent as they may be, the legal precautions taken by the Group both at a contractual and an Finally, during acquisitions or on the launch of a new business line, operational level to protect its activities or to ensure adherence by the Group performs a due diligence review of the target or an employees to internal rules can only provide reasonable assurance analysis of the activity as well as applicable regulations. and never an absolute guarantee against such risks. Litigation Risk management systems The Group has a Legal Department with an established presence Risk factors in the main geographic areas. Its role is to monitor changes in Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, the legislation relevant to the Group’s activities and provide training in Group is not immune from litigation and legal action. the main legal issues. The Group has also adopted a Code of Nonetheless, at the date of this report, there are no governmental, Business Ethics, an anti-corruption policy and an anti-trust policy legal or arbitration proceedings, including any proceedings of and calls on a network of Legal Counsels who double-up as which the Group is aware, that are pending or liable to arise, Ethics & Compliance Officers and participate in identifying risks which are likely to have or have had in the last 12 months a and train and monitor employees in order to guarantee material impact on the Group’s financial position or profitability compliance. other than those that are recognized in the financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Note 25 to Capgemini’s statements). Risk management systems A procedure has been implemented for reporting information to the Group Legal Department on actual and potential litigation and other disputes and government inquiries. The local Legal Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal Department of any threats of this nature. 32 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7.5 Financial risks 1 The Group Finance Department is responsible for the control, Risk management systems monitoring and supervision of financial risks and is present in each The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash surpluses country and each business unit. in money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) satisfying the The variety of its activities and geographic locations exposes the “monetary” classification criteria defined by the Autorité des Group to a number of financial risks, described below, which, marchés financiers (AMF, the French Financial market authority) depending on their materiality, can have a significant impact on and other types of investment (in particular, negotiable debt the results and reputation of the Group. securities, term deposits, capitalization contracts) immediately available or with investment periods, potentially renewable, not exceeding 3 months, issued by companies or financial institutions Equity risk with a good local credit rating (minimum A2/P2 or equivalent). Risk factors The Group also applies maximum concentration per counterparty rules. For the Group, equity risk would consist of unfavorable movements in the stock market value of listed companies in which The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and the Group holds investments. diversification rules when selecting counterparties for foreign currency and interest rate management hedging contracts. However, the Group does not hold any shares for financial investment purposes, and does not have any interests in listed companies. However, under its share buyback program, it may Liquidity risk purchase, hold, sell or transfer its own shares or enter into derivatives on its own shares (see Note 12 to Capgemini’s Risk factors consolidated financial statements). Liquidity risk for the Group could correspond to a temporary or permanent inability to fulfill all or part of its commitments in respect Risk management systems of its financial liabilities (including in particular borrowings and The Cash surplus investment policy defined by the Group Finance accounts and notes payable) and the inability to find new sources Department and documented in the internal manual (TransForm), of financing in order to maintain the balance between revenue and prohibits all equity investments. The proper application of this expenditure. Such a risk would also limit the Group’s ability to policy is regularly controlled by internal auditors. finance its activities and the investment necessary for its With a few exceptions, the Group holds the entire share capital of development. its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity investments. The financial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the Cap Gemini has a share buyback program authorized by its Group to liquidity risk correspond mainly to the bonds issued Shareholders’ Meeting. In this context, the Board of Directors respectively in July 2015 and November 2016, and to some risks decides (with the power of sub-delegation) the implementation of related to employee liabilities. the share buyback program. The value of these own shares is deducted directly from Group equity and fluctuations in the Cap Risk management systems Gemini share price do not impact its results. The majority of Group financing is borne by the parent company and, as such, implementation of the financial policy is largely Counterparty and credit risk centralized. The Group adopts a prudent financial policy based primarily on: Risk factors ◗ prudent use of debt leverage, combined with limiting the grant of Capgemini Group is exposed to credit and counterparty risk in contractual provisions that could trigger the early repayment of respect of its asset financial instruments, which depends borrowings; particularly on the debtor’s ability to fulfill all or part of its ◗ the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity at all times; commitments (see Note 19 and Note 21 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). ◗ the active management of financial liability maturities, aimed at limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities; Financial assets which could expose the Group to credit or ◗ the diversification of financing sources, to limit reliance on certain counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and categories of lenders. accounts receivable. The hedging agreements entered into with financial institutions pursuant to its policy for managing currency In this context, the Company undertook a specific review of its and interest rate risks also expose the Group to credit and liquidity risk and considers it is able to meet future scheduled counterparty risk (see Note 23 to Capgemini’s consolidated payments (see Note 21 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial financial statements). statements). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 33 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis Interest rate risk ◗ financial flows exchanged as part of inter-company financing activities are primarily centralized within Cap Gemini and are Risk factors mainly hedged (primarily using forward purchases and sales of The Group’s Income Statement could be impacted by interest rate currency); risk if unfavorable movements in interest rates had a negative ◗ fees flows payable to Cap Gemini by subsidiaries whose impact on future net finance costs and financial flows of the functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. Group. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk must also be Risks relating to employee liabilities considered in light of its cash position. The liquidity at its disposal is generally invested at floating rates, while the Group’s debt Risk factors primarily comprising bond issues is mainly at fixed rates (see Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements could be impacted Note 23 to Capgemini’s financial statements). by provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits related to defined benefit plans, which are subject to volatility. Risk management systems Furthermore, the Group could be faced with calls for funds to As part of its financing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest make-up pension fund shortfalls, over a short or long time period, rate risk by opting for fixed rates for a large part of its debt. potentially deteriorating its financial position. The Group favors investments offering a high level of security and The main factors of volatility risk are fluctuations in interest rates generally floating-rates and as such accepts in the event of a fall and more generally in the financial markets, as well as inflation in interest rates the risk of a drop in returns from the investment rates and life expectancy. The value of pension obligations is of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the finance cost calculated based on actuarial assumptions and particularly interest differential). rates, inflation rates and life expectancy. The plan assets of schemes whose risks have not been Foreign currency risk transferred to the insurance market are managed by the trustees of each fund and invested in different asset classes (including Risk factors equities). They are subject to market risk, the performance of the management policy defined by the trustees, implementation of The Group is exposed to two types of currency risks that could which can in certain cases by delegated. Under these conditions, impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the plan assets may be less than pension obligations, reflecting a consolidation process on the translation of the accounts of funding shortfall or deficit. Changes over time in assets and/or consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the liabilities are not necessarily in the same direction and are euro, and currency risks arising on operating and financial cash eminently volatile and can increase or decrease the funding flows which are not denominated in the entities’ functional asset/liability or the resulting deficit. Nonetheless, the potential currency. economic impact of these changes must be assessed over the The growing use of offshore production centers in India, but also midand long-term in line with the timeframe of the Group’s in Poland and Latin America, exposes Capgemini to currency risk pension and other post-employment benefit commitments (see with respect to some of its production costs. Cap Gemini S.A. is Note 24 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). also exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in respect of inter-company financing transactions and fees paid to the Group Risk management systems by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro (see The Group strives to strengthen the governance and management Note 23 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements). resources of its main pension funds. The investment strategy of its main pension funds, encompassing the management of assets Risk management systems and liabilities, is reviewed and monitored periodically with the aim The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and managing of reducing volatility. Increased life expectancy is taken into foreign currency risk: account as and when it is recognized by actuaries. ◗ production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with India Group commitments to fund pension and other post-employment and Poland; a hedging policy is defined by the Group and its benefit shortfalls comply with local regulations. implementation which is mainly centralized at Cap Gemini level Certain risks are transferred to the insurance market. primarily involves forward purchases and sales of currency; 34 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 1.7 Risk analysis 1.7.6 Insurance 1 The Group Insurance Department reports to the Group Finance property. Nevertheless, India can buy premises due to its Department and is responsible for the design, placement and significant increase and the concentration of employees. monitoring of all non-life insurance policies. The management and Capgemini’s business premises are located in a wide variety of coordination of employee benefits insurance is overseen by a joint countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of governance body representing the Finance Department and the them. The Group has slightly over 380 sites with an average Group Human Resources Department. surface area of 4,000 square meters. Some of the Group’s The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses consultants work off-site at client premises. This geographical the assessment, prevention and transfer of all or part of the risks dispersion limits risk, in particular the risk of loss due to business relating to individuals, its assets and equipment under the Group’s interruption that might arise from an incident at a site. The Group’s responsibility. The Group’s strategy for transferring risks to the largest site, which is located in India, employs nearly 8,800 people insurance and reinsurance market is to adjust insurance coverage in a number of different buildings. Client and supply shortage risk to the maximum replacement value of assets to be insured, or in is assessed and insured to the extent possible, based on the case of liability insurance, to an estimate of its own risks and knowledge of the materiality of the risk and the available offering in reasonably foreseeable third party risks in its business sector, the insurance market. taking account of legislation and specific risks in each country and the emergence of new risks, as well as changes in major exposure Employee benefits and mobility insurance under contacts signed with clients. Deductibles are set so as to encourage operational unit managers to commit to risk prevention The Group uses specialist companies to train and assist its and out-of-court settlement of claims, without exposing the Group employees throughout the world. Risks concerning medical as a whole to significant financial risk. emergencies, personal security, assistance and repatriation of employees working outside their home countries, is managed centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. Commercial general liability and professional Employee benefits insurance programs (death and disability, indemnity healthcare, medical costs, pensions, etc.) are tied to the different This insurance program, which is key for clients, is designed, benefits received by employees and are generally managed by the taken out and managed centrally at Group level. Any entity in Human Resources Departments in each country. The Group which Cap Gemini S.A. has 50% or more ownership (direct or Insurance and Human Resources Departments are jointly indirect control), is insured by a worldwide integrated Group responsible for the management and international coordination of insurance program covering the financial consequences of their these programs. The main objectives are to ensure compliance commercial general liability and professional indemnity, i.e., any with local legislation and develop, standardize and improve current damage caused to third parties within the course of our usual coverage, in accordance with the different regulations in the business activities, everywhere in the world. This insurance relevant countries and to optimize traditional and/or alternative risk program is structured in layers contracted with highly reputable transfer/financing mechanisms. leading insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this program, including coverage limits, are periodically reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes in risk exposure, due particularly to Other risks legislation, the Group’s activities, new countries where Capgemini Crime and fidelity coverage (especially for information systems) is operates and changes in client contracts, as well as the evolution managed centrally at Group level via a global insurance program. of the worldwide insurance and reinsurance markets. All other risks including motor vehicle, transport of goods, and employer liability for accidents at work are insured locally using The €20 million primary layer of this program is reinsured through insurance policies that reflect local regulations. a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary and has been in operation for several years. Pollution risks are low in an intellectual services business, and Capgemini is not specifically insured against these risks in any country in which it operates. Some risks are excluded from Property damage and business interruption coverage or restricted under the general conditions imposed by The Group has set-up an integrated property damage and the insurance and reinsurance market. business interruption insurance program covering all of its subsidiaries worldwide. Its real estate policy is to rent rather than to buy its business premises, and consequently it owns little Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 35 1 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP AND ITS ACTIVITIES 36 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Corporate governance and 2 Internal control 2.1 Governance structure and 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate composition of the Board of Directors 39 officers 83 2.1.1 History and governance structure 39 2.4.1 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2.1.2 Composition of the Board of Directors 41 compensation policy 83 2.1.3 Information on the members of the Board of 2.4.2 2016 Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Directors (at December 31, 2016) 48 Executive Officer 86 2.1.4 Transactions carried out by members of the 2.4.3 Attendance fees and other compensation Board of Directors and other senior managers received by corporate officers 91 involving the Company’s shares 63 2.4.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares 93 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 64 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures 96 2.2.1 Organization of the Board of Directors 65 2.2.2 Activities of the Board of Directors in 2016 70 2.5.1 Definition of the internal control and risk management systems 96 2.2.3 Assessment of the Board of Directors 72 2.5.2 Organization of the internal control and risk 2.2.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized management systems 96 Board Committees 73 2.5.3 Implementation of risk management and internal 2.2.5 Director compensation 78 control objectives for the preparation and processing of financial and accounting 2.3 General organization of the Group 79 information 99 2.3.1 Operational structure 79 2.5.4 Measures implemented as part of constant 2.3.2 Group Management 80 improvements to risk management and internal control systems 101 2.3.3 The central departments 80 2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. 102 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 37 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL BENCHMARK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE AND REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Paul Hermelin prepared the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the composition of the Board and the preparation and organization of its activities and on internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company pursuant to: ◗ the provisions of Article L.225-37, paragraph 6 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce); ◗ the recommendations set out in the “Corporate Governance Code” issued jointly by AFEP and MEDEF (French private business associations) in December 2008 (recommendations immediately adopted by our Board of Directors as a benchmark) and most recently revised in November 2016 and its application guidelines; ◗ as well as the rules of good governance, adopted, applied and complied with continuously by the Capgemini Group since the closing of its first fiscal year on December 31, 1968 (i.e. nearly 50 years ago!). This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 15, 2017, following its review by the Audit & Risk Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Ethics & Governance Committee. Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies revised in November 2016, the Company considers that its practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, the Company has deviated from certain provisions for the reasons explained in the table presented on page 65. The most recent version of the AFEP-MEDEF Code updated in November 2016 and its application guidance may be consulted at www.afep.com and www.medef.com. 38 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.1 History and governance structure 2 BALANCED GOVERNANCE, TAILORED TO CAPGEMINI’S SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS History In May 1996, at the end of this initial period, the Group had th The Capgemini Group will celebrate its 50 anniversary in 2017. It 25,000 employees (7,000 in France, nearly 4,000 in the United was founded in 1967 by Mr. Serge Kampf, who was still Honorary States, some 12,000 in the triangle formed by the UK, Benelux Chairman and Vice-Chairman at the time of his death on and the Nordic countries and around 2,000 across approximately March 15, 2016. Capgemini was shaped by Serge Kampf’s 10 other countries) a 625-fold increase on its initial headcount! extraordinary qualities. He was an exceptional entrepreneur and a and reported annual revenues of approximately FRF13 billion captain of industry the likes of which are rarely seen. In 1967, he (€2 billion), i.e. per capita revenues of around FRF520,000 was among the first to understand the role of an IT services (€80,000). company. He had taken the Group to the top of its sector when ◗ period two (1996-2002): a changing shareholding structure he handed Paul Hermelin the Executive Management of the Group On May 24, 1996, as announced in January to key Group in 2002, followed by the Chair of the Board in 2012. He built the managers, Mr. Serge Kampf presented his proposals to the Group based on principles that still apply today: a spirit of Shareholders’ Meeting which adopted them with a large majority. enterprise, a passion for clients, an obsession to help employees Just after, a two-tier structure more familiar to the German grow, ethical conduct at all times and performance at its best. shareholder than the French société anonyme was introduced Mr. Serge Kampf was particularly attentive to the drafting of the for a four-year period, with Mr. Serge Kampf as Chairman of the Chairman’s report on corporate governance and internal control. Management Board and Mr. Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) as The text which follows largely sets out the history of the Group as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. One year later, following he wrote it. Daimler-Benz’s decision to refocus on its core businesses (a decision confirmed soon after by the spectacular takeover of The story of this (nearly) half-century is a relatively simple one, and Chrysler), this latter was replaced by Mr. Ernest-Antoine Seillière, can be split into four major periods: Chairman of CGIP (now the principal shareholder of the Group, ◗ period one (1967-1996): 29 years of independence with 30% of the share capital). At the end of this four-year period, Sogeti the parent and several times grand-parent company of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2000 held to the current Group was created in Grenoble in October 1967 as a approve the 1999 financial statements decided not to renew this “traditional” limited liability company, managed nearly 30 years by two-tier governance structure and to reinstate Mr. Serge Kampf in the same Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Serge Kampf, his duties as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and to create its founder and the uncontested leader of a brilliant team of at his request a position of General Manager, which had never managers that he formed around him and never ceased to really existed within the Group. The first holder of this position was promote. Fully conscious that the Group if it were to attain the Geoff Unwin, already considered to be the Group’s number two increasingly ambitious objectives that he set each year could not within the Management Board. restrict much longer its financial capacities to those of its founding In December 2001, after a difficult year whose disappointing results Chairman, Mr. Serge Kampf finally accepted in January 1996 only confirmed the threat of recession hanging over the global under friendly pressure from the two other “main” shareholders economy, the Group had 55,000 employees and reported annual (CGIP, a partner since 1988 and Daimler Benz, shareholder since revenues of around €7 billion, i.e. per capita revenues of 1991): approximately €125,000, more than 50% above that of the first ❚ to propose to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of period but merely the reflection of the incorporation in our May 24, 1996 the merger-absorption within Cap Gemini of headcount in May 2000 of 16,643 consultants from Ernst & Young. the two holding companies that had until then enabled him to Taking note of the decision made and confirmed by Geoff Unwin retain majority control, to retire in the near future, the Board of Directors decided, at the recommendation of its Chairman, to appoint as his replacement ❚ to participate (personally in the amount of FRF300 million) in a Mr. Paul Hermelin, who became Group General Manager alongside share capital increase of FRF2.1 billion, with the balance Mr. Serge Kampf, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on subscribed in equal parts (FRF900 million) by Daimler and January 1, 2002. CGIP, ❚ and finally, to transfer the head office from Grenoble to Paris. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 39 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ◗ period three (2002-2012): a well-prepared transfer of power Current governance structure On July 24, 2002, Mr. Serge Kampf took the initiative to recommend to the Board of Directors which accepted to split Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as recently Since 2012, Mr. Paul Hermelin carries out the duties of Chairman made possible by the New Economic Regulations Law (NRE). He of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the considered that after creating, expanding, leading and managing Company. the Group for 35 years, the time had come for him to give more The Board considered that this method of governance regrouping power and visibility to the person he considered the best qualified the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief to succeed him one day (he also informed CGIP of this choice in a Executive Officer seemed the most appropriate after a long planning letter dated December 1999, “just in case”). This transition phase launched in 2002. The management of an two-man team operated efficiently and in harmony for 10 years, increasingly international and decentralized group with an open although this was due more to the relationship of trust, friendship shareholder base, assumes management and the Board of and mutual respect between the two individuals than what the Directors are on the same page, thereby strengthening the NRE says regarding the respective roles, powers and regrouping of the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Office. responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer. Certain directors even observed that the very general drafting of The Board of Directors also considered that a satisfactory balance this law could one day for example should one or other no longer of power existed within the Board of Directors. The Board noted in be part of this two-man team become a source of ambiguity, particular: confusion and possibly even conflict. Despite the heavy storm ◗ the presence of a majority of Independent Directors on the which battered the Group during the first four years of this period, Board; the Group invested considerable sums in major restructuring operations (accepted and even encouraged by a Board of ◗ the existence of four Specialized Board Committees with Directors, once again very active), the most obvious outcome of different remits encompassing Audit & Risk, Compensation, which was the reinvigoration of all Group companies: for example, Ethics and Governance and Strategy; and at the end of 2011, the Group had 120,000 employees (compared ◗ the restrictions introduced by the Board of Directors’ Charter on with 55,000 employees 10 years previously) and reported the powers of the Chief Executive Officer by requiring the prior revenues of €10 billion compared with €7 billion in 2001, i.e. a fall approval by the Board of Directors of major strategic decisions in per capita revenues to €81,000 practically the same as and decisions likely to have a material impact on the Company. 15 years previously but a reflection of the international spread of Further information on restrictions on the powers of the Chief the Group’s activities and employees since 2003, accelerated by Executive Officer is presented in Section 2.2.1 (Organization of the the acquisition in October 2006 of KANBAY, with its 5,000 Indian Board of Directors). The roles and composition of the Specialized employees. Board Committees are presented in Section 2.2.4. ◗ period four (2012 to this day): a new dimension for the Group Lead Independent Director On April 4, 2012, as he had already implied two years previously As part of the constant drive to improve governance within the on the renewal of his term of office, Mr. Serge Kampf informed Company, the position of Lead Independent Director was created directors that “after having enjoyed the benefits of separation for in May 2014 and entrusted to Daniel Bernard. The Lead 10 years” he had decided to place this office back in the hands of Independent Director has a number of prerogatives and specific the Board of Directors while recommending a return at this time to duties. He chairs the Ethics & Governance Committee and the “standard” method of governance (that of a company in which executive sessions bringing together the directors with no the duties of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are exercised relationship with the Company at least twice a year. He is by the same individual) and the appointment as Chairman and consulted by the Chairman on the draft agenda of every Board Chief Executive Officer of the current Chief Executive Officer, meeting and can propose the inclusion of items on the agenda at Mr. Paul Hermelin, who had widely demonstrated, throughout a his own initiative or at the request of one or more Board members. “probationary period” of a rather exceptional length, his ability to He also performs the annual assessment of the activities of the hold this role. Board of Directors and steers the recruitment process for new directors. At its meeting of April 4, 2012, the Board followed these recommendations and solemnly conferred on Mr. Serge Kampf Accordingly, while the duties of Chief Executive Officer and the title of “Honorary Chairman” and function of Vice-Chairman. Chairman of the Board of Directors have been regrouped, the The Board informed the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Group’s governance enjoys an active and independent Board of May 24, 2012 of this change, which gave a standing ovation in Directors with a collective approach to its organization and honor of the immense contribution of Mr. Serge Kampf to the activities and the vigilant authority of a Lead Independent Director development and reputation of the Company. with specific powers and duties. Serge Kampf passed away on March 15, 2016. Further information on the roles and duties of the Lead Independent Director is presented in Section 2.2.1 (Organization of the Board of Directors). Group Executive Board The creation of a Group Executive Board (GEB) to assist Mr. Paul Hermelin also contributes on an operating level to ensuring the collective management of the Company. The GEB is chaired by Mr. Paul Hermelin and comprises a limited number of Executive Committee members, and particularly the heads of the main group businesses, the Chief Financial Officer, the People Management and Transformation Director and the Director in charge of production. 40 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors The directors meet regularly with members of the Group observation that the Company enjoys balanced and efficient Management Board, particularly during Committee meetings governance was reiterated during recent assessments of the (Audit & Risk, Ethics & Governance, Compensation and Strategy & Board’s activities and, in particular, during the external Investment), periodic business reviews and the annual residential assessment of the Board performed in 2016. The role and Board meeting focusing on the Group’s strategy, which includes activities of the Lead Independent Director were identified as key Group managers in the discussions of the Board of Directors. facilitating the balance desired by the Board, in line with best A more detailed description of General Management is presented governance practices. Further information on Board assessments in Section 2.3. is presented in Section 2.2.3. 2 Balanced governance, tailored to Capgemini’s specific Cap Gemini’s constant drive to improve governance for a number requirements of years has also been recognized externally, with Cap Gemini Therefore, based on these different factors, the Board considers receiving the Governance Prize at the 2016 Annual General the Company’s current method of governance to be the most Meeting Grand Prix ceremony held on July 5, 2016 during the adapted to the specific requirements of Capgemini, while allowing Paris EUROPLACE International Financial Forum. the Board to carry out its duties as well as possible. This 2.1.2 Composition of the Board of Directors A RENEWED BOARD OF DIRECTORS, TAILORED TO THE CHALLENGES FACING CAPGEMINI THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2016 (1) INDEPENDANT PERCENTAGE AVERAGE AGE AVERAGE TERM DIVERSITY (4) EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS (2) OF MALE/FEMALE OF OFFICE REPRESENTATION 1 DIRECTORS (3) DIRECTOR representing employee 67% 46% 54% 62 6 years 27% shareholders FEMALE MALE years old FOREIGN NATIONALITY 2 DIRECTORS representing employees (1) As at December 31, 2016. (2) The directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (3) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with Article L.225-27 of the French Commercial Code. (4) Foreign or dual nationality directors conducting their main activity outside France. The Cap Gemini Board of Directors has 15 members, including also ensures that the Board retains a range of experience and three members representing employees. The vast majority of nationalities and respects male/female parity. To this end, the directors are independent, with an almost identical number of work of the Ethics & Governance Committee, chaired by the Lead male and female directors. Directors are appointed for a period of Independent Director is invaluable. four years either by Shareholders’ Meeting, or in the case of The Board has also included a representative of employee employee directors, in accordance with the Company’s bylaws. shareholders since 2012 and two employee representatives since Further information on the provisions of the bylaws governing the September 2016, further contributing to the range of experience Board of Directors is presented in Section 7.1.17. and viewpoints. Composition of the Board – a range of profiles The change in the composition of the Board of Directors in recent and experience years has enabled the replacement of a large number of its members, increasing the number of independent and female Since the regrouping of the duties of Chairman of the Board of directors, opening up the Board to employees and reducing the Directors and Chief Executive Officer in 2012, the composition of average age of directors, while limiting the increase in the number the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has changed significantly over of directors to the implementation of the Rebsamen Law time, with the replacement of more than half its members. provisions on employee representation on the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors regularly assesses its composition and the The current composition of the Board together with the profile of various areas of expertise and experience contributed by each of each director is summarized in the following table. A detailed its members and identifies the direction to be taken to ensure the individual presentation of each director and the experience and best possible balance with regards to international development expertise they bring to the Board is presented in Section 2.1.3 of and the human diversity of the Group’s employees, changes in its this Registration Document. shareholding base and the various challenges facing Capgemini. It Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 41 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Expiry of term of office Number of Independent Attendance rate Board First Shareholders’ years on the Director Director (Board) Committees appointment Meeting Board Paul HERMELIN No 100% Strat. & Inv. 2000 2018 16 Eth. & Gov.(C) Daniel BERNARD Yes 100% Strat. & Inv. 2005 2017 11 Anne BOUVEROT Yes 83% Strat. & Inv. 2013 2017 3 Yann DELABRIÈRE No 100% Audit & Risk 2004 2018 12 Audit & Risk, Laurence DORS Yes 100% Eth. & Gov. 2010 2018 6 Carole FERRAND Yes 100% Audit & Risk 2016 2020 0 Robert FRETEL No 100% Strat. & Inv. 2016 2020 0 Siân HERBERT-JONES Yes 100% Audit & Risk 2016 2020 0 Phil LASKAWY No 100% Audit & Risk 2002 2018 14 Kevin MASTERS No 100% Comp. 2016 2020 0 Xavier MUSCA Yes 100% Audit & Risk (C) 2014 2018 2 Comp. (C) Pierre PRINGUET Yes 100% Eth. & Gov. 2009 2017 7 Strat. & Inv. (C) Bruno ROGER No 100% Eth. & Gov. 2000 2018 16 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS No 100% Comp. 2012 2020 4 Caroline Comp. WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Yes 100% Strat. & Inv. 2014 2018 2 (C):Committee Chairman 42 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Director representing Number of employees offices in or employee listed Experience and expertise shareholders Nationality Age Sex companies brought to the Company No French 64 M 2 Chairman & CEO of the Group Governance of listed companies in France-UK / Executive positions in 2 No French 70 M 2 leading international groups / Retail / Technologies & Digital Technologies & Digital (identity and security) / Experience in international No French 50 F 2 organizations (USA-UK) / Consulting Executive positions in leading international groups / Finance / Retail / No French 66 M 2 Technologies & Digital / Manufacturing No French 60 F 2 Governance of listed companies / Finance / Consulting Finance and audit / External growth strategy and transactions / No French 46 F 2 Tecnologies & Digital / Retail Employee perspective / Considerable knowledge of Capgemini Group Yes French 59 M 1 and its businesses / Technologies & Digital Finance and audit / External growth strategy and transactions / Executive No British 56 F 3 positions in leading international groups / Services / Consulting Finance and audit / Governance of listed companies in France-USA / Strategy & external growth transactions / Executive positions in leading No American 75 M 4 international groups / Technologies & Digital / Consulting Employee perspective / In-depth knowledge of the Capgemini Group and Yes British 60 M 1 its businesses / Technologies & Digital Executive positions in leading international groups / Finance and No French 56 M 3 Economy / Services / Retail Governance of listed companies and executive compensation / Executive positions in leading international groups / External growth strategy and No French 66 M 4 transactions / Consumer goods External growth strategy and transactions / Executive positions in leading No French 83 M 2 international groups / Governance of listed companies / Consulting Finance / Employee perspective / In-depth knowledge of the Capgemini Yes French 52 F 3 Group and its businesses Experience in international organizations (USA) / Technologies & Digital / No American 64 F 1 Retail / Finance sector Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 43 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Changes in the composition of the Board in 2016 The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 also In 2016, the Board of Directors decided to increase its financial renewed the term of office of the director representing employee expertise and strengthen the Audit Committee, while confirming shareholders and amended the Company’s bylaws to enable the the need to continue decreasing the average age of directors, as appointment of employee directors in accordance with the well as increasing the number of female directors and the diversity regulations now applicable to Cap Gemini. Two directors of profiles and cultures represented. Two new female directors representing employees, Mr. Robert Fretel and Mr. Kevin with profiles and experience meeting these objectives were Masters, therefore joined the Board of Directors on September 1, therefore appointed by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of 2016, bringing the total number of directors to 15. May 18, 2016: Ms. Carole Ferrand and Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones. These appointments also strengthened the independence of the Board, the Board of Directors’ meeting of March 23, 2016 having confirmed that both candidates were considered independent with respect to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Changes in 2016 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Re-appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Compensation Committee Director representing employee shareholders Siân HERBERT-JONES Appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Audit & Risk Committee Independent Director Carole FERRAND Appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Audit & Risk Committee Independent Director Kevin MASTERS Appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Compensation Committee Director representing employees Robert FRETEL Appointment for a period of 4 years Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee Director representing employees Upcoming changes in the composition of the As the Company's Charter and the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code Board issued in November 2016 state that the Lead Independent Director must be an independent director, it was Mr. Bernard's At the proposal of the Ethics & Governance Committee, the Board wish that the Company could comply with these provisions from of Directors during its meeting of March 8, 2017 decided to the end of the Combined Shareholders' Meeting of May 10, propose to shareholders at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 2017. Mr. Daniel Bernard has therefore decided to resign his of May 10, 2017, the renewal of the terms of office of the following duties as Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics three directors for a period of four years: & Governance Committee from May 10, 2017. ◗ Mr. Daniel Bernard The Board warmly thanks Mr. Daniel Bernard for his work since Mr. Daniel Bernard has been a director of Cap Gemini since 2014, and indicated at its meeting of March 8, 2017 that it 2005 and Lead Independent Director since 2014 and, as such, wishes to appoint Mr. Pierre Pringuet as Lead Independent Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee pursuant to Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee the Board of Directors' Charter. He is also a member of the following the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. Strategy & Investment Committee. As the former Chairman An Independent Director, Mr. Pringuet has been a director of the and/or Chief Executive Officer of international groups and the Company since 2009. He is also a member of the Ethics & current Chairman of the investment company, Provestis, he Governance Committee and Chairman of the Compensation brings to the Board of Directors considerable experience in the Committee. He will vacate the Chair of the Compensation management of leading international companies where he has Commitee but will remain a member. held top positions, together with reputed expertise in corporate Ms. Laurence Dors will be appointed as the Chairman of the governance, gained through major corporate governance Compensation Committee. An independent director, Ms. Dors responsibilities in leading listed companies in France and the has been a director of the Company since 2010. She is currently United Kingdom. Mr. Daniel Bernard also contributes to the a member of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Ethics & Board’s strategic discussions, thanks notably to his Governance Committee. considerable experience in the retail sector and its digital transformation. The Board of Directors considers that given Mr. Daniel Bernard’s significant contribution to the smooth functioning of Currently an Independent Director, Mr. Daniel Bernard will exceed the Board since his appointment as director and then Lead the threshold of 12 years as a director of the Company at the end Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 and as Committee in 2014, his personality, his committment to the such will no longer be considered independent from this date development of the Group and ensuring compliance with its pursuant to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the values, as well as his expertise, that it would be in the Company refers. Company’s interests to appoint him Vice-Chairman of the Board should the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting renew his term of office as director. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will work closely with the Vice-Chairman to prepare future developments in the Group's governance. 44 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ◗ Ms. Anne Bouverot Independence of the Board of Directors Ms. Anne Bouverot has been a director of Cap Gemini since 2013. An Independent Director, she is also a member of the Independence criteria Strategy & Investment Committee. Ms. Anne Bouverot has The Board of Directors periodically reviews the personal situation been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Safran Identity & of each director in light of the definition of independence adopted Security SAS (formerly Morpho SAS) since August 1, 2015. She by the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code (“a director is has spent the majority of her professional career in the Telecoms independent when he/she has no relationship of any sort with the sector, a key information technology sector, where she has held Company, the Group or its Management, that is likely to impair 2 leading positions in international organizations. The duties she his/her judgment”). has performed allow her to make a key contribution to The following criteria are examined, initially by the Ethics & Capgemini Group strategic discussions given the impact of Governance Committee and then by the Board, to determine mobile connections on technology uses. She also brings specific whether a director is independent (Article 8.5 of the Digital expertise to the Board of Directors in the areas of security AFEP-MEDEF Code): and identity in Digital and connected environments. ◗ is not and has not been during the course of the previous ◗ Mr. Pierre Pringuet five years: Mr. Pierre Pringuet has been a director of Cap Gemini since ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer of the Company, 2009. An Independent Director, he is also Chairman of the Compensation Committee and a member of the Ethics & ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer or director of a Governance Committee. Vice-Chairman of the Board of company that the Company consolidates, Directors of Pernod Ricard since August 29, 2012, Mr. Pierre ❚ an employee or executive corporate officer or director of the Pringuet brings to the Board extensive experience in the Company’s parent company or a company that this parent consumer goods sector, as a senior executive of an international company consolidates; group, as well as his strategy and development experience, ◗ is not an executive corporate officer of a company in which the particularly in international external growth transactions. Company holds directly or indirectly a directorship or in which an President of the Association Française des Entreprises Privées employee designated as such or an executive corporate officer (AFEP) (French Association of Private Enterprises) since June 29, of the Company (currently or within the last 5 years) holds a 2012 and a director of various listed companies, Mr. Pringuet directorship; also contributes to the Board his expertise in corporate governance and executive compensation. ◗ is not a customer, supplier, corporate bank or financing bank: A detailed individual presentation of these directors is available in ❚ material for the Company or its Group, Section 2.1.3 of this Registration Document. ❚ or for which the Company or its Group represents a material In addition, in order to improve the staggered renewal of the terms share of activity; of office of directors, particularly in anticipation of the numerous ◗ does not have close family ties with a corporate officer; offices that will expire in 2018, the Board wished to strengthen its ◗ has not been the statutory auditor of the Company in the last composition immediately by proposing to the Combined 5 years; Shareholders' Meeting of May 10, 2017 the appointment of Mr. Patrick Pouyanné as a member of the Board of Directors for a ◗ has not been a director of the Company for more than twelve period of four years. years (the status of Independent Director is lost on the date of the twelve-year anniversary). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL, Mr. Pouyanné will bring to the Board his expertise in macroeconomic and Ratio and Calculation rules geopolitical issues and his experience in managing a leading international energy group, a sector where new technologies play In companies with widely-held share capital, such as an essential role. The Board has indicated that Mr. Pouyanné may Cap Gemini S.A., the AFEP-MEDEF Code recommends that at be considered independent pursuant to the criteria of the least one-half of Board members should be independent. AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers. Directors representing employee shareholders and directors A detailed individual presentation of Mr. Pouyanné is available in representing employees are not included when calculating the Chapter 6 of this Registration Document. Board’s independence, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Accordingly, the percentage of Independent Assuming renewal of the terms of office of directors whose offices Directors on the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors on the date expire by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 of this Registration Document is calculated based on 12 members as well as the appointment of Mr. Pouyanné, the Board of and not the full 15 members of the Board. Directors would have 16 directors, with 62% of independent directors (excluding directors representing employees and employee shareholders) and 43% of female directors (the two directors representing employees are not taken into account in the calculation of this percentage). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 45 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors Directors not classified as independent Based on the periodic review of the personal situation of each director in light of the definition of independence adopted by the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, the Board considered in its meeting of February 15, 2017 that the following four directors (excluding directors representing employees and employee shareholders) could not be considered independent for the reasons given below: Director Reason Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company Yann Delabrière Director for more than 12 years, service provider of a Group subsidiary (through MM Consulting) for which the Group represents a material share of activity Phil Laskawy Director for more than 12 years Bruno Roger Director for more than 12 years, major corporate banker of the Group Directors classified as independent Independence of the Board after the 2017 Combined Based on the independence criteria set out above, the Board Shareholders’ Meeting considered in its meeting of February 15, 2017 that 8 of its The Board took due note that Mr. Daniel Bernard will no longer be 12 members, i.e. 66.66% could be considered independent, i.e.: considered independent at the end of the Combined Daniel Bernard, Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, subject to the renewal of Siân Herbert-Jones, Xavier Musca, Pierre Pringuet and Caroline his term of office by shareholders, as he will have been a director Watteeuw-Carlisle. of the Company for more than 12 years. Assuming the adoption of the resolutions presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and in particular the appointment of Mr. Pouyanné as member of the Board, the percentage of independent directors on the Board will therefore decrease to 62% from May 10, 2017 (i.e. 8 members out of 13). Overview of the independent status of the Board of Directors Percentage of Classification of Independent Directors Board members* At the date of the 67% Daniel Bernard, Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, 2016 Registration Siân Herbert-Jones, Xavier Musca, Pierre Pringuet Document and Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle Paul Hermelin, Yann Delabrière, Phil Laskawy, Bruno Roger At the end of the 62% Anne Bouverot, Laurence Dors, Carole Ferrand, Siân Herbert-Jones, Combined Shareholders’ Xavier Musca, Patrick Pouyanné, Pierre Pringuet and Caroline Meeting of May 10, 2017 Watteeuw-Carlisle Paul Hermelin, Daniel Bernard, Yann Delabrière, Phil Laskawy, Bruno Roger (*) In bold: members considered independent by the Board. Absence of conflicts of interest Committee. In addition, each year directors are required to issue a Article 7.1 of the Cap Gemini Board of Directors’ Charter requires statement to the Company regarding the existence or absence, to directors to comply with recommendation no. 19 of the their knowledge, of any conflicts of interest. AFEP-MEDEF Code concerning the prevention of conflicts of Taking account of these results, the Lead Independent Director interest: confirmed the absence of any conflicts of interest. “Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors These conflict of interest prevention measures supplement one of represent all the shareholders and are required to act in all the general duties of the Ethics & Governance Committee which is circumstances in the Company’s interest. They are required to to draw the attention of the Chairman of the Board of Directors to notify the Board of Directors of any one-off conflict of interest or any potential situations of conflict of interest it has identified potential conflict of interest and to refrain from voting on the between a director and the Company or its Group or between related decision. Any director who has a permanent conflict of directors. interest is required to resign from the Board.” In this respect, it was identified in October 2016 that Mr. Yann In light of the recommendations of the French Financial Markets Delabrière, a director of Cap Gemini, has been appointed a Senior Authority (AMF) and the Corporate Governance High Committee, Advisor at Capgemini Consulting, a strategy and transformation the Board of Directors implemented an appraisal procedure to consulting entity of the Capgemini Group. This appointment assess the absence of conflict of interest for directors. followed the end of a one-year services agreement between To this end, a statement of business flows between MM Consulting and Capgemini Consulting. Mr. Delabrière is the Capgemini Group and entities that are suppliers and/or clients of Chairman and CEO of MM Consulting. Further information on Capgemini Group and which have directors in common with Cap compensation received under this agreement is presented in Gemini was prepared and communicated to Daniel Bernard, Lead Section 2.4.3 (Attendance fees and other compensation received Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance by corporate officers). 46 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors considered Mr. Delabrière’s assignment to As far as the Company is aware, there are no: be compatible with his duties as director, noting that it concerned ◗ conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of the everyday activities of Capgemini Consulting and was governed Directors between their duties towards Cap Gemini and their by a service agreement entered into on an arm’s length basis. private interests and/or any other duties; ◗ arrangements or agreements with the principal shareholders, Declarations concerning corporate officers customers or suppliers pursuant to which one of the members As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members of of the Board of Directors was selected; the Board of Directors: 2 ◗ restrictions accepted by the members of the Board of Directors ◗ has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last on the sale of their investment in the share capital of Cap Gemini five years; (other than the obligation for Mr. Paul Hermelin to hold his ◗ has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation performance shares detailed in Section 2.4.1); at any time during the last five years; ◗ service contracts between the members of the Board of ◗ has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/or Directors and Cap Gemini or any of its subsidiaries that provide criminal liability pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority for the granting of benefits upon termination thereof. (including designated professional bodies), it being noted that: As far as the Company is aware, there are no family ties between In a decision dated December 18, 2014, the Sanctions members of the Board of Directors. Commission of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) considered that Faurecia S.A. and Mr. Yann Delabrière, in his Information on regulated agreements capacity of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia with related parties S.A., had failed to comply with certain obligations set out in No agreements governed by Article L.225-38 of the French Articles 223-1, 223-2 and 223-10-1 of the AMF General Commercial Code were authorized by the Board of Directors Regulations with respect to disclosures concerning the during the year ended December 31, 2016. Company’s objectives for 2012. Concerning Mr Yann Delabrière, based on Articles L.621-15 (paragraphs II (c) and III (c) of the The statutory auditor’s special report for the year ended French Monetary and Financial Code (Code monétaire et December 31, 2016 highlights the continuation in 2016 of the financier), financial penalties of €100,000, were handed down by Company’s supplementary pension plan set-up in favor of certain the AMF against him; Mr. Yann Delabrière filed an appeal senior executives regarded as having made a significant and together with Faurecia against this decision with the Paris Court lasting contribution to the development of the Group. Mr. Paul of Appeal on February 26, 2015. On June 30, 2016, the Paris Hermelin has been a beneficiary of this plan since 2007 (his rights Appeal Court confirmed the amount of financial penalties at were frozen with effect from October 31, 2015 without any €100,000 and Mr. Yann Delabrière and Faurecia S.A., appealed consideration). to the Court of Cassation, the French Supreme Court; More detailed information can be found in the Statutory Auditors’ ◗ has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of the special report on page 254 (Agreements and commitments administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer approved in previous years but not implemented during the year). or from participating in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer at any time during the last five years. Loans and guarantees granted to directors and managers of the Company None. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 47 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.3 Information on the members of the Board of Directors (at December 31, 2016) Since September 1, 2016, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has 15 members. The wide range of their experience and expertise contributes to the quality of discussions and the smooth operation of the Board, ensuring the best possible balance taking account of the Group‘s situation and the different challenges facing Capgemini. A detailed individual presentation of each director is presented below. PAUL HERMELIN Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Paul Hermelin is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École Nationale d’Administration (ENA). He spent the first fifteen years of his professional life in the French government, primarily in the Ministry of Finance. He held a number of positions in the Budget Office and on various ministry staffs, including that of Finance Minister Jacques Delors. He was chief of staff to the Minister of Industry and Foreign Trade, from 1991 to 1993. Date of birth: Mr. Paul Hermelin joined the Capgemini Group in May 1993, where he was first in charge of coordinating central April 30, 1952 functions. In May 1996, he was appointed member of the Management Board and Chief Executive Officer of Cap Nationality: Gemini France. In May 2000, following the merger between Cap Gemini and Ernst & Young Consulting, he became French Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Group and director. On January 1, 2002, he became Chief Executive Officer of Business address: the Capgemini Group, followed by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on May 24, 2012. He has been a member of Cap Gemini S.A. the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 24, 2002. 11, rue de Tilsitt He has also been a director of AXA, a global insurance and asset management company headquartered in Paris, since 75017 Paris April 30, 2013. First appointment: Principal office: 2000 Mr. Paul Hermelin has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Cap Gemini S.A. since May 2012. Expiry of term of office: OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 2018 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Chairman of: (Ordinary Shareholders’ ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2012) ◗ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S (since March 2016) Meeting held to Director of: ◗ CAPGEMINI LATIN AMERICA S.A.S. approve the 2017 (since November 2005) financial statements) ◗ AXA* (since April 2013) Number of shares Other offices in Capgemini Group: ◗ Sogeti France 2005 S.A.S. (since November 2005) held at Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ◗ CAPGEMINI 2015 S.A.S. (since December 2010) Dec. 31, 2016: ◗ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A.) Manager of: 297,048 (since April 2002) ◗ SCI PARIS ETOILE (since March 2016) ◗ CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A) Chief Executive Officer of: (since December 2000) ◗ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA, Inc. (U.S.A.) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: (since November 2005) ◗ CAPGEMINI N.V. (The Netherlands) (since November Director of: 2012) ◗ CGS Holdings Ltd (U.K.) (since June 1999) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Capgemini Group: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: Chairman of: ◗ CAPGEMINI GOUVIEUX S.A.S. (until April 2014) ◗ CAPGEMINI 2010 S.A.S. (until September 2015) ◗ CAPGEMINI N.V. (The Netherlands) ◗ CAMELIA PARTICIPATIONS S.A.S. (until January 2013) (until November 2012) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Director of: ◗ CAPGEMINI HOLDING INC. (U.S.A.) ◗ Capgemini Financial Services International, Inc. (U.S.A.) (until December 2013) (until March 2016) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ◗ IGATE Corporation (U.S.A.) (until May 2016) ◗ CAPGEMINI US LLC (U.S.A) (until July 2016) ◗ SOGETI S.A. / N.V. (until December 2013) ◗ CAPGEMINI ENERGY GP LLC (U.S.A.) ◗ CPM BRAXIS S.A. (Brazil) (until May 2013) (until December 2012) ◗ CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA Pty Ltd (until May 2014) Chief Executive Officer of: Member of the Supervisory Board of: ◗ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. (until March 2016) ◗ CAPGEMINI N.V. (The Netherlands) (until November 2012) (*) Listed company. 48 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors DANIEL BERNARD Lead Independent Director Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Daniel Bernard is a graduate of HEC business school. He started his career in the retail sector, where he was Chief Executive Officer of Socam Miniprix (from 1971 to 1975) and then Director of the La Ruche Picarde Group Mammouth and Delta hypermarkets. He was Chief Executive Officer of Groupe Métro France (from 1981 to 1989), followed by 2 member of the Management Board of Métro International AG (from 1989 to 1992). He became Chairman of the Date of birth: Executive Board of Carrefour in 1992 and was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1998. Mr. Daniel February 18, 1946 Bernard was also an Independent Director of Alcatel Lucent (from 1997 to 2014) and of Saint-Gobain (from 2000 to Nationality: 2006). He was a member of the Saint-Gobain Appointments Committee and chaired the Alcatel-Lucent Corporate French Governance and Appointments Committee. Business address: Provestis In 2006, Mr. Daniel Bernard joined the Board of Directors of Kingfisher Plc as Vice-Chairman and has been Chairman 14, rue de Marignan of the Board of Directors since 2009. He also chairs the Appointments Committee. Mr. Daniel Bernard is also President 75008 Paris of Provestis, his own investment company, and Senior Advisor of Towerbrook Capital Partners, L.P. First appointment: Mr. Daniel Bernard holds the ranks of Officer of the National Order of Merit and Knight of the Legion of Honor. 2005 Mr. Daniel Bernard has been a director of Cap Gemini S.A. since May 12, 2005 and Lead Independent Director since Expiry of term March 7, 2014. He was also appointed Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee on the same date. He has of office: been a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 26, 2006. 2017 He brings to the Board of Directors considerable experience in the management of leading international companies (Ordinary Shareholders’ where he has held top positions, together with reputed expertise in corporate governance, gained through major Meeting held to corporate governance responsibilities in leading listed companies in France and the United Kingdom. Mr. Daniel approve the 2016 Bernard also contributes to the Board’s strategic discussion, thanks notably to his considerable experience in the retail financial statements) sector and its digital transformation. Number of shares Principal office: held at Dec. 31, 2016: Mr. Daniel Bernard has been President of Provestis since 2006. 1,000 OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Senior Advisor of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2005) ◗ TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P. (U.K.) (since Chairman of the Board of Directors of: October 2010) ◗ KINGFISHER PLC* (U.K.) (since June 2009) Honorary Chairman of: President of: ◗ LA FONDATION HEC (since 2014) ◗ PROVESTIS SAS (since June 2006) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman of: ◗ MAF RETAIL GROUP (DUBAI) (until December 2015) ◗ LA FONDATION HEC (until March 2014) Director of: ◗ ALCATEL LUCENT * (until May 2014) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 49 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ANNE BOUVEROT Independent Director Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of École Normale Supérieure and of Télécom Paris, Ms. Anne Bouverot also holds a PhD in computer science (1991). She started her career as IT project manager with Telmex in Mexico, before joining Global One in the USA in 1996. In 2002, she was appointed Vice-President at Equant’s IT services unit. In 2004, she became Chief of Staff for the Chief Date of birth: Executive Officer of Orange in the United Kingdom, followed by Executive Vice-President, Mobile Services, for France March 21, 1966 Télécom Orange. In November 2006, Ms. Anne Bouverot became Executive Vice-President, International Business Nationality: Development, at France Telecom. From 2011 to July 2015, she was Chief Executive Officer of GSMA, the international French association of mobile network operators. In August 2015, she was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Business address: Safran Identity & Security (formerly Morpho), a world leader in security and identity solutions (biometrics and digital Safran Identity and identity). Security Ms. Anne Bouverot joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on October 8, 2013 and was appointed a 11, boulevard member of the Strategy & Investment Committee on the same date. Gallieni Ms. Anne Bouverot has spent the majority of her professional career in the Telecoms sector, a key information 92445 Issy-les-Moulineaux technology sector, where she has held leading positions in international organizations. The duties she has performed Cedex allow her to make a key contribution to Capgemini group strategic discussions given the impact of mobile connections First appointment: on technology uses. She also brings specific Digital expertise to the Board of Directors in the areas of security and 2013 identity in Digital and connected environments. Finally, as a director of Edenred and previously of Groupama, Ms. Anne Expiry of term Bouverot already has considerable experience as an Independent Director of Euronext listed companies. of office: Principal office: 2017 Ms. Anne Bouverot has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Safran Identity & Security SAS (formerly Morpho (Ordinary SAS) since August 1, 2015. Shareholders’ Meeting held to OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 approve the 2016 financial statements) Director of: Chairman of: Number of shares ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since October 2013) ◗ MORPHO USA, INC. (U.S.A.) (since 2015) held at Dec. 31, 2016: ◗ EDENRED* (since June 2010) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: 1,000 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ MORPHO DETECTION INTERNATIONAL, LLC (U.S.A.) ◗ Safran Identity and Security SAS (formerly MORPHO (since 2015) S.A.S.) (since August 2015) Member of the Supervisory Board of: Other offices held in Safran Identity ◗ MORPHO CARDS GMBH (GERMANY) (since 2015) and Security Group: Director of: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ MORPHO DETECTION, LLC (U.S.A.) (since 2015) ◗ MORPHO TRAK, LLC (USA) (since 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director of: Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ GROUPAMA S.A.* (until 2013) ◗ GSMA SV (SWITZERLAND) (until July 2015) Offices held in GSMA (International association of Director of: mobile network operators): ◗ GSMA LTD (U.S.A.) (until July 2015) Member of the Board of Directors as Permanent Representative of France Telecom Orange S.A.: ◗ GSMA (until July 2015) (*) Listed company. 50 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors YANN DELABRIÈRE Director Chairman of the Audit Committee until December 7, 2016 Member of the Audit & Risk Committee since December 7, 2016 BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Yann Delabrière is a graduate of École Normale Supérieure and École Nationale d’Administration and has a postgraduate degree in mathematics. 2 He began his career at the Committee of Public Accounts (Cour des Comptes) before working as Chief Financial Date of birth: Officer for the French export credit agency, COFACE (1982 to 1987) and the Printemps Group (1987 to 1990), before December 19, becoming Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee of PSA Peugeot Citroën Group (1998 to 1950 2007). He was also Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Banque PSA Finance. Nationality: Mr. Yann Delabrière has been a director of Faurecia since November 1996 and a member of its Strategy Committee. French He was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia from February 2007 to June 2016 and has been Chairman of Business address: the Board of Directors since July 1, 2016. Faurecia He was also a director of Société Générale from 2012 to 2016. 2, rue Hennape Mr. Yann Delabrière has been a director of Cap Gemini S.A. since February 25, 2004. He is now a member of the Audit 92735 Nanterre Cedex & Risk Committee, having chaired the Audit Committee for 10 years (2006-2016). First appointment: Mr. Yann Delabrière provides the Board of Directors with both financial expertise and his experience as an executive 2004 and director of highly international French companies. In addition to these skills, he brings considerable experience in Expiry of term the manufacturing sector, and particularly the automobile sector and its digital transformation. of office: Principal office: 2018 Mr. Yann Delabrière has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of Faurecia since July 1, 2016. (Ordinary Shareholders’ OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Meeting held to approve the 2017 Director of: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: financial statements) ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since February 2004) ◗ MM Consulting SAS (since October 2016) Number of shares Chairman of the Board of Directors of: held at Dec. 31, 2016: ◗ FAURECIA* (since February 2007) 2,550 OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Executive Officer of: Director of: ◗ FAURECIA* (until June 2016) ◗ SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE* (until May 2016) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 51 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors LAURENCE DORS Independent Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Laurence Dors is a graduate of École Normale Supérieure and École Nationale d’Administration. A former senior civil servant in the French Finance Ministry and former member of the Prime Minister’s staff (1995-1997) and the Ministry of the Economy’s staff (1994-1995), Ms. Laurence Dors has spent much of her professional career in international and executive management positions in major international groups (Lagardère, EADS, Dassault Systems, Date of birth: Renault). She is the cofounder and a Senior Partner of the consulting firm Theano Advisors (formerly Anthenor March 16, 1956 Partners). A specialist in governance issues and an Independent Director, she sits on the Board of Directors of IFA Nationality: (French Institute of Directors). French Business address: Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Crédit Agricole S.A. since May 19, 2009. She Theano Advisors chairs the Compensation Committee and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Appointments and Governance 57, rue Pierre Committee. She also sits on the Board of Directors of Egis, a non-listed engineering company specializing in consulting Charron and the development of projects offering added value through innovation. She also chairs the Compensation 75008 Paris Committee and is a member of the Engagements Committee. First appointment: Ms. Laurence Dors holds the ranks of knight of the Legion of Honor and Officer of the National Order of Merit. 2010 Ms. Laurence Dors has been a member of the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. since May 27, 2010. She has Expiry of term been a member of the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) and the Ethics & Governance of office: Committee since May 7, 2014. 2018 (Ordinary Ms. Laurence Dors brings to the Board of Directors her considerable governance experience, her financial and Shareholders’ business consulting expertise and her experience in the management of leading international groups in the technology Meeting held to sector. approve the 2017 Principal office: financial statements) Number of shares Ms. Laurence Dors has been a Senior Partner of Theano Advisors (formerly Anthenor Partners) since July 2012. held at OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2016: 1,000 Director of: Senior Partner of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2010) ◗ THEANO ADVISORS (since July 2012) ◗ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* (since May 2009) Member of: ◗ EGIS SA (since November 2011) ◗ IHEAL (Institute of Latin American Studies) Strategic ◗ IFA (French Institute of Directors) (since May 2012) Policy Committee (since June 2012) ◗ CEFA (Franco-German Economic Club) Policy Committee (since October 2005) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director of: ◗ INHESJ (French National Institute for Advanced Studies in Security and Justice) (until April 2016) (*) Listed company. 52 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors CAROLE FERRAND Independent Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Carole Ferrand is a graduate of HEC business school (class of 1992). She started her career at PriceWaterhouseCoopers, where she was an auditor and later a financial advisor in the Transaction Services Division. In 2000, she joined Sony France, the French subsidiary of the consumer and professional electronics branch of the Sony Corporation Group, as Financial Director before becoming General Secretary in 2002. In 2011, she held the 2 position of Chief Financial Officer of the Europacorp Group. Since January 2013, she has been Financing Director at Date of birth: Artémis Group and is in charge of strategic and financial support for certain investments. April 2, 1970 Nationality: Ms. Carole Ferrand was appointed to the Board of Directors of FNAC Group in 2013, where she is also a member of French the Audit Committee. Business address: Ms. Carole Ferrand joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on May 18, 2016 and has been a member of the Artémis Audit Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date. She brings to the Board her expertise in audit, finance 12, rue François 1er and financial issues. 75008 Paris Ms. Carole Ferrand also contributes her expertise in investment strategy and external growth and her experience and First appointment: knowledge of the challenges associated with rapid change in a competitive environment as well as disruption and 2016 particularly digital disruption in a wide range of environments. Expiry of term Principal office: of office: 2020 Ms. Carole Ferrand has been Financing Director at Artémis Group since January 2013. (Ordinary OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Shareholders’ Meeting held to Director of: Director of: approve the 2019 ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2016) ◗ SEBDO, LE POINT (since June 2013) financial statements) Number of shares Financing Director of: ◗ ARTEMIS 21 (since November 2013) held at ◗ ARTEMIS (since January 2013) ◗ ÉDITIONS TALLANDIER (since December 2014) Dec. 31, 2016: Honorary Chairman and Director of: ◗ PALAZZO GRASSI (since April 2016) 1,000 ◗ TERRA NOVA (association created under the 1901 Act) ◗ COLLECTION PINAULT-PARIS (since May 2016) (since December 2012) Offices held in Artémis Group: Director of: ◗ GROUPE FNAC* (since April 2013) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director and Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Director of: ◗ SOFICA EUROPACORP (until October 2012) ◗ SOFICA HOCHE ARTOIS IMAGE (until October 2012) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 53 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors ROBERT FRETEL Director representing employees Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Robert Fretel has an engineering degree from Institut du Génie Chimique (Toulouse). He began his carreer in 1981 as a mathematics teacher in France and then Tunisia under a cooperation program. In 1984 he joined the water treatment company, NALCO, as a technical sales engineer, where he developed software Date of birth: for the sales team. In 1986, he moved to Compagnie Générale d'Informatique, where during 7 years he performed October 17, 1957 assignments for clients such as CITROEN and then EDF, focusing on the design and development of the development Nationality: and operating technical architecture of an invoicing application (100 operating sites, BULL and IBM). He also performed French training assignments both internally and for clients such as Credit Agricole and Caisse d'Epargne. Business address: Mr. Robert Fretel joined Capgemini Toulouse in November 1993 and now has 23 years experience with the Group. Capgemini In addition to his operational duties, Mr. Robert Fretel has been an employee representative for 20 years within Technology Services Capgemini and has developed over this period employee dialogue and mediation with many employees and 109, avenue Management. He has also been a member of the International Works Council (IWC) for 10 years. Eisenhower 31036 Toulouse Mr. Robert Fretel has therefore gained considerable knowledge of employee representative bodies and their activities, First appointment: as well as of employee consultation processes. 2016 He joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on September 1, 2016 as a director representing employees. He Expiry of term is also a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee. of office: Mr. Robert Fretel brings to the Board the perspective of an employee with considerable knowledge and experience of 2020 technological environments and their digital transformation. As a result of his duties, Mr. Robert Fretel also has an (Ordinary in-depth understanding of the Capgemini Group and its businesses. Shareholders’ Meeting held to Principal office: approve the 2019 Mr. Robert Fretel is a software architect/MVS expert and software engineer with Capgemini Technology Services. financial statements) Number of shares OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 held at Director of: Dec. 31, 2016: 10 CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since September 2016) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) N/A (*) Listed company. 54 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors SIÂN HERBERT-JONES Independent Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A British Chartered Accountant, Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones initially worked for 15 years with PricewaterhouseCoopers in its London and then Paris offices, where she was in charge of mergers and acquisitions (from 1983 to 1993). She then joined the Sodexo Group, where she spent 21 years, including 15 years as Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive Committee (until February 28, 2016). She is currently a director of l’Air Liquide S.A. (since 2011) where she 2 chairs the Audit and Accounts Committee. She has also been a director of Bureau Veritas since May 17, 2016 and is a Date of birth: member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee. September 13, 1960 Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on May 18, 2016 and has been a member of Nationality: the Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date. British Business address: Of British nationality, she brings strong financial and audit expertise to the Board, as well as her experience with Cap Gemini S.A. international transactions, particularly in the service sector (BtoB). She also contributes to the Board her multi-cultural 11, rue de Tilsitt management experience and expertise and her experience as an Independent Director on the Boards of leading 75017 Paris international companies. First appointment: Principal office: 2016 Independent Director Expiry of term OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 of office: 2020 Director of: (Ordinary ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2016) Shareholders’ Meeting held to ◗ L’AIR LIQUIDE S.A.* (since May 2011) approve the 2019 ◗ BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2016) financial statements) ◗ COMPAGNIE FINANCIERE AURORE INTERNATIONALE, subsidiary of the Sodexo group (since February 2016) Number of shares held at OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Dec. 31, 2016: 1,000 Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive ◗ SODEXO REMOTE SITES EUROPE LTD Committee of: (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO* (until February 2016) ◗ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EURASIA LTD Others Offices held in Sodexo Group (until February 2016) Chairman of: ◗ SODEXO, INC. (until February 2016) ◗ ETIN S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO MANAGEMENT, INC. (until February 2016) ◗ SOFINSOD S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO REMOTE SITES USA, INC. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO ETINBIS S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO SERVICES ENTERPRISES LLC (until February 2016) Permanent Representative of Sofinsod S.A.S. on the Supervisory Board of: ◗ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO SERVICES DE VENEZUELA S.A. (until February 2016) ◗ ONE SCA (until February 2016) ◗ UNIVERSAL SODEXHO EMPRESA DE SERVICIOS Y Director of: CAMPAMENTOS S.A. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXHO AWARD CO (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO GLOBAL SERVICES UK LTD (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO JAPAN KABUSHIKI KAISHA LTD Member of the Management Board of: (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO EN FRANCE S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXHO MEXICO S.A. DE CV (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO ENTREPRISES S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXHO MEXICO SERVICIOS DE PERSONAL S.A. DE CV (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO PASS INTERNANTIONAL S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ SODEXO REMOTE SITES THE NETHERLANDS B.V (until February 2016) ◗ ONE S.A.S. (until February 2016) ◗ ONE SCA (until February 2016) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 55 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors PHIL LASKAWY Director Member of the Audit & Risk Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Phil Laskawy graduated from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania with a Bachelor’s degree in Economics. Mr. Laskawy served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ernst & Young (now known as EY LLP) from 1994 until his retirement in 2001, after 40 years of service with the professional services firm. Under his leadership, the firm Date of birth: expanded into a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. March 31, 1941 In 2006 and 2007, he has served as Chairman of the International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation, Nationality: which oversees the setting of accounting standards in over 100 countries. He was a member of the Independence American Standards Board, created by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the American Institute of Certified Public Address: Accountants to review and update rules regarding auditor independence, and the 1999 Blue Ribbon Committee on 9 Creamer Hill Improving the Effectiveness of Corporate Audit Committees. Greenwich, CT Mr. Phil Laskawy was appointed Chairman of Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) in September 2008 06831 at the commencement of Fannie Mae’s conservatorship and retired from Fannie Mae’s Board of Directors in United States March 2014. First Appointment: Mr. Laskawy had previously served on the Board of Directors of General Motors Corp. until June 2013, of which he 2002 also was the Audit Committee chair. Expiry of term of office: Mr. Phil Laskawy is a member of the Board of Directors of Loews Corp (and is a member of its Audit Committee). He 2018 has been a director of Henry Schein, Inc. since 2002 and has served as its Lead Director since 2012. He also is (General Meeting Chairman of the nominating and Governance Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and of the Strategic approving the 2017 Advisory Committee of Henry Schein, Inc. Mr. Phil Laskawy has served as a director of Lazard Ltd and Lazard Group financial statements) LLC since July 2008 and also is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Compensation Committee of Number of shares the Board of Directors of Lazard Ltd. held at Dec. 31, 2016: Mr. Phil Laskawy joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini in 2002 further to the acquisition by Capgemini Group of 1,000 the systems integration business of Ernst and Young, of which he was Chief Executive Officer. He also is a member of the Audit & Risk Committee. Mr. Phil Laskawy brings to the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini the outlook and experience of a highly respected individual in the economic and financial sector in the United States. He also contributes the accounting and financial expertise amassed throughout his career with Ernst and Young, his experience in the governance of listed companies in the United States, as well as in strategy and external growth operations in technological environments. Principal office: Non-Executive Director OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: ◗ LAZARD LTD* (USA) (since July 2008) ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since 2002) ◗ LOEWS CORPORATION* (USA) (since 2003) ◗ HENRY SCHEIN, INC.* (USA) (since 2002) ◗ LAZARD GROUP LLC (USA) (since July 2008) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman of the Board of: Director of: ◗ FANNIE MAE* (USA) (until March 2014) ◗ GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION* (USA) (until June 2013) (*) Listed company. 56 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors KEVIN MASTERS Director representing employees Member of the Compensation Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Kevin Masters joined the Capgemini Group in 1973. Experience gained within Capgemini mainly revolves around managing large groups of people in an operations or support environment. Mr. Kevin Masters has been engaged in the employee consultation process as the Chairman of both the Outsourcing 2 Forum and National Works Council Groups since 2001. He was elected as the UK representative for the International Date of birth: Works Council (IWC), then as a member of the IWC Office, of which he was the Secretary until his appointment as May 27, 1956 director representing employees in September 2016. Nationality: Between July 2014 and September 2016, Mr. Kevin Masters was invited as Secretary of the IWC to become a British non-voting member of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors. He was then also a permanent guest of the Business Address: Compensation Committee. Capgemini UK Mr. Kevin Masters was designated as director representing employees on the Cap Gemini S.A.’s Board of Directors No. 1 Forge End with effect on September 1, 2016, he is also a member of the Compensation Committee. Woking – Surrey Mr. Kevin Masters brings to the Board of Directors his great knowledge of the Capgemini Group and of its businesses, GU21 6DB his experience of technological environments, as well as the vision of an employee of Anglo-Saxon culture, thus United Kingdom contributing to the diversity of profiles represented on the Board. First appointment: Principal Office: 2016 Expiry of term Project Management, Cloud Infrastructure Services with Capgemini UK. of office: OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 2020 (General Meeting Director of: approving the 2019 CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since September 2016) financial statements) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Number of shares held at N/A Dec. 31, 2016: 0 (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 57 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors XAVIER MUSCA Independent Director Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee since December 7, 2016 BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of Institut d’Études Politiques in Paris and École Nationale d’Administration, Mr. Xavier Musca began his career at the General Finance Inspectorate in 1985. In 1989, he joined the Treasury Directorate, where he became head of the European Affairs Bureau in 1990. In 1993, he was called to the Prime Minister’s staff, then returned to the Treasury Directorate in 1995. Between 2002 and 2004, he was Principal Private Secretary to Francis Mer, Minister for the Economy, Finance and Industry, then appointed Treasury Director in 2004. He was subsequently appointed Date of birth: Director General of Treasury and Economic Policy in June 2005. In these positions, he played a key role in preparing February 23, 1960 major European and global summits at the start of the financial crisis. He was the French negotiator at IMF and World Nationality: Bank meetings and coordinated the bailout of the European Union banking sector with his European counterparts. In French 2009, he became Deputy Secretary General to the French President in charge of economic affairs and was responsible Business address: for negotiations at the April 2, 2009 G20 meeting in London, which was dedicated to the repair and supervision of the Crédit Agricole S.A. global financial system and the fight against tax havens. He was appointed Secretary General to the French President 50, avenue Jean Jaurès in 2011. 92120 Montrouge On June 13, 2012, Mr. Xavier Musca was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit Agricole S.A., responsible First appointment: for International retail banking, Asset management and Insurance. He has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Crédit 2014 Agricole S.A., as effective second Executive Director of Crédit Agricole S.A. since May 2015. Expiry of term Mr. Xavier Musca is a Knight of the Legion of Honor, the National Order of Merit and the Order of Agricultural Merit. of office: Mr. Xavier Musca joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on May 7, 2014. He has been a member of the 2018 Audit & Risk Committee (formerly the Audit Committee) since this date and was appointed Chairman on December 7, (Ordinary 2016. Mr. Xavier Musca brings to the Board of Directors his management experience with a major international group Shareholders’ Meeting held to and his financial expertise. He has in-depth knowledge of the financial sector, including both retail and BtoB services, approve the 2017 which accounts for some 25% of Group revenues. He also provides the Board with his knowledge of economic financial statements) globalization issues. Number of shares Principal office: held at Dec. 31, 2016: Mr. Xavier Musca has been Deputy Chief Executive Officer of CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A. since July 2012. 1,000 OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Director – Vice-Chairman of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2014) ◗ PREDICA (since November 2012) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director of: Deputy Chief Executive Officer (since July 2012) and ◗ CA ASSURANCES (since November 2012) effective second Executive Director (since May 2015) ◗ CACI (since June 2013) of: Director – Member of the Compensation ◗ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE S.A.* Committee of: (Member of the Management Committee – Member ◗ CARIPARMA (ITALY) (since October 2015) of the Executive Committee) Permanent Representation of Crédit Agricole S.A. on Chairman of: the Board of Directors of: ◗ AMUNDI S.A.* Director (since July 2012, renewed on ◗ PACIFICA (since October 2012) April 2015) and Chairman (since December 7, 2016) ◗ CA CONSUMER FINANCE (since July 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Deputy Secretary General and then Secretary Member of the Executive Committee of: General to the French President (until 2012) ◗ CARIPARMA (ITALY) (until 2015) Offices held in Crédit Agricole Group: Director – Vice-Chairman of: Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ◗ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE EGYPT S.A.E. * (until 2015) ◗ CRÉDIT DU MAROC * (until 2015) Director of: Vice-Chairman of: ◗ BESPAR (until May 2014) ◗ UBAF (until 2015) ◗ BANCO ESPIRITO SANTO (until December 2014) ◗ CACEIS (until 2015) (*) Listed company. 58 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors PIERRE PRINGUET Independent Director Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Pierre Pringuet is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École des Mines. He started his career in the French civil service, where he was appointed as an advisor to government minister Michel Rocard (1981–1985), before being given responsibility for the Farming and Food Processing Industries at the Ministry of Agriculture. He joined Pernod Ricard in 2 1987 as Development Director, playing an active role in the Group’s international development and holding the Date of birth: positions of Managing Director of Société pour l’Exportation de Grandes Marques (1987–1996) and then Chairman and January 31, 1950 Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard Europe (1997–2000). In 2000, he joined Patrick Ricard at the headquarters as Nationality: one of Pernod Ricard’s two joint CEOs. He was appointed a director of Pernod Ricard in 2004 and led the successful French acquisition of Allied Domecq in 2005 and its subsequent integration. In December of the same year, he became the Business address: Group’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief Operating Officer. In 2008, Mr. Pierre Pringuet carried out the Pernod Ricard acquisition of Vin&Sprit (V&S) and its brand Absolut Vodka, which completed Pernod Ricard’s international 12, place des États-Unis development. Following the withdrawal of Mr. Patrick Ricard from his operational duties, Mr. Pierre Pringuet was 75783 Paris appointed Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard on November 5, 2008. He performed his duties as CEO until Cedex 16 February 11, 2015, the date of expiry of his term of office pursuant to the Company’s bylaws. He is Vice-Chairman of First appointment: the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard since August 29, 2012 and plays an active role, together with the 2009 Appointments, Governance and CSR Committee, in the management of all corporate governance issues. He is also a Expiry of term member of the Pernod Ricard Strategy Committee and Compensation Committee. of office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet is President of the Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) (French Association of 2017 Private Enterprises) since June 29, 2012. In addition, he is Vice-Chairman of the Vallourec Supervisory Board and Lead (Ordinary Independent Director since February 23, 2015. He is also Chairman of the Vallourec Appointments, Compensation and Shareholders’ Governance Committee. Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed to the Board of Directors of ILIAD SA on July 25, 2007 and Meeting held to is a member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee. approve the 2016 financial statements) Mr. Pierre Pringuet holds the ranks of Knight of the Legion of Honor, Knight of the National Order of Merit and Officer of Number of shares the Order of Agricultural Merit. held at Mr. Pierre Pringuet joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on April 30, 2009. He is Chairman of the Dec. 31, 2016: Compensation Committee since May 7, 2014 and was appointed a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee on 1,700 the same date. Mr. Pierre Pringuet brings to the Board extensive experience in the consumer goods sector, as a senior executive of an international group. He shares with the Board his expertise in corporate governance issues and executive compensation, as well as his strategy and development experience, particularly in international external growth transactions. Principal office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet has been Vice-Chairman of Pernod Ricard since August 2012. OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Chairman of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since April 2009) ◗ AFEP (French Association of Private Enterprises) ◗ ILIAD S.A.* (since July 2007) (since June 2012) ◗ AVRIL GESTION S.A.S. (GROUPE AVRIL) (since ◗ Amicale du Corps des Mines (ACM) (since 2015) December 2014) ◗ Fondation ParisTech (since January 2016) Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ◗ Scotch Whisky Association (since December 2014) ◗ PERNOD RICARD* (since August 2012) Vice-Chairman and Lead Independent Director of: ◗ VALLOUREC* (since February 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ PERNOD RICARD *(until February 2015) Chairman of: ◗ AgroParisTech (until December 2016) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 59 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors BRUNO ROGER Director Chairman of the Strategy & Investment Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Bruno Roger is a graduate of Institut d’Études Politiques (IEP) in Paris. He began his career with Lazard Frères in 1954. In 1973 he was appointed Manager of Lazard, followed by Managing Partner and then Chairman in 2002. He has been Managing Partner of Maison Lazard et Cie since 1976. Date of birth: Mr. Bruno Roger was appointed Chairman of Lazard Frères SAS and Compagnie Financière Lazard Frères SAS in August 6, 1933 2002. He was also Managing Partner of Lazard Partners Ltd (1984-1999) and Managing Director of Lazard Frères and Nationality: Co, New York (1995-2001). He has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of Lazard Frères Banque since 2009 and French Chairman of Global Investment Banking of Lazard Group since 2005. Mr. Bruno Roger is Managing Director and a Business address: member of the Executive Committee of Lazard Group. Lazard Frères After serving as Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eurafrance (1974-2001) and Chairman and Chief 121, boulevard Executive Officer of Financière et Industrielle Gaz et Eaux, and subsequently Azeo (1990-2002), Mr. Bruno Roger was Haussmann appointed Chairman of the Eurazeo Supervisory Board (following the merger of Azeo and Eurafrance) in 2002. He has 75008 Paris been Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eurazeo and a permanent guest of the Finance Committee since First appointment: May 5, 2004. 2000 Mr. Bruno Roger was also a member of the Supervisory Board of UAP (now Axa) (1994-2005) and Pinault-Printemps Expiry of term (1994-2005), and served on the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain (1987-2005), Thomson CSF (now Thales) of office: (1992-2002), Sofina (1989-2004), Marine Wendel (1988-2002), SFGI (1987-2001) and Sidel (1993-2001). 2018 (Ordinary A philanthropist, Mr. Bruno Roger is also Chairman of the Aix-en-Provence International Music Festival, Vice-Chairman Shareholders’ of the Amis du Quai Branly and a member of the Board of Directors of the Decorative Arts festival. Meeting held to Mr. Bruno Roger holds the ranks of Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor and Commander of the Order of Arts and approve the 2017 Letters. financial statements) Number of shares He has sat on the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. since May 23, 2000. He has been Chairman of the Strategy & held at Investment Committee since May 7, 2014 and a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee since July 26, 2006. Dec. 31, 2016: He brings considerable expertise in international development strategy and external growth to the Board of Directors. 1,100 As a Director of Cap Gemini, the only directorship of a listed company he has wished to continue, Mr. Bruno Roger brings to the Board his proven corporate governance experience on numerous prestigious French boards of directors. Principal office: Mr. Bruno Roger is Chairman of Lazard Frères SAS, Compagnie Financière Lazard Frères SAS and Lazard Frères Banque. OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* ◗ EURAZEO *(since May 2004) Chairman of: Honorary Chairman of: ◗ LAZARD FRÈRES S.A.S. (since 2002) ◗ LA SOCIÉTÉ FRANÇAISE DES ANALYSTES ◗ COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE LAZARD FRÈRES S.A.S FINANCIERS (since 2002) Member of the Board of Directors of: ◗ GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING of LAZARD FRÈRES ◗ PARIS EUROPLACE GROUP (since 2005) ◗ ARTS DECORATIFS Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman of: ◗ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE (since 2009) ◗ AIX-EN-PROVENCE INTERNATIONAL MUSIC FESTIVAL Managing Partner of: ◗ FOUNDATION MARTINE AUBLET ◗ LAZARD FRÈRES (since 2000) Vice-Chairman of: ◗ MAISON LAZARD ET CIE (since 1976) ◗ LES AMIS DU MUSÉE DU QUAI BRANLY Member of the Executive Committee and Managing Director of: ◗ LAZARD FRÈRES GROUP (since 2000) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE Non-voting director of: ◗ EURAZEO *(until 2013) (*) Listed company. 60 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors LUCIA SINAPI-THOMAS Director representing employee shareholders Member of the Compensation Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Lucia Sinapi graduated from ESSEC business school (1986) and Paris Law University Panthéon Assas (1988), was admitted to the Paris bar (1989), and has a financial analyst degree (SFAF 1997). She started her career as a tax and business lawyer in 1986, before joining Capgemini in 1992. She has more than 20 years’ experience within Capgemini Group, successively as Group Tax Advisor (1992), head of Corporate Finance, Treasury and Investors 2 Relations (1999), then head of Risk Management and Insurance (2005), and member of the Group Review Board. She Date of birth: was Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2013 until December 31, 2015. Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas is Executive Director January 19, 1964 Business Platforms at Capgemini. Nationality: French Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas was appointed to the Dassault Aviation Board of Directors on May 15, 2014, where she is Business address: also a member of the Audit Committee. She has also been a director of Bureau Veritas since May 22, 2013 and was Capgemini Service appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on the same date. 76, avenue Kléber Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. as a director representing employee 75016 Paris shareholders on May 24, 2012. She has been a member of the Compensation Committee since June 20, 2012. First appointment: Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas brings to the Board her finance expertise and her extensive knowledge of the Capgemini 2012 Group, its businesses, offerings and clients, enriched by her ongoing operating responsibilities. In addition, her Expiry of term experience as a director of Euronext listed companies provides her with a perspective offering insight relevant to of office: Capgemini’s various activities. 2020 Principal office: (Ordinary Shareholders’ Ms. Lucia Sinapi Thomas has been Executive Director Business Platforms of Capgemini Group since January 2016. Meeting held to OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 approve the 2019 financial statements) Director of: Director of: Number of shares ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since April 2009) ◗ CAPGEMINI SOGETI DANMARK A/S (Denmark) held at Dec. 31, 2016: ◗ BUREAU VERITAS* (since May 2013) (since June 2014) 24,110 ◗ DASSAULT AVIATION* (since May 2014) ◗ SOGETI SVERIGE AB (Sweden) (since November 2008) Executive Director: ◗ SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (Sweden) ◗ Business Platforms, Capgemini (since January 2016) (since November 2008) Other offices held in Capgemini Group: ◗ SOGETI NORGE A/S (NORWAY) (since January 2009) Chairman of: ◗ CAPGEMINI POLSKA Sp.z.o.o. (Poland) ◗ CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE S.A.S. (since March 2016) (since June 2012) ◗ CAPGEMINI BUSINESS SERVICES (Guatemala) Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: (since April 2016) ◗ FCPE Capgemini Member of the Supervisory Board of: ◗ FCPE ESOP CAPGEMINI OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in Capgemini Group: Deputy Chief Financial Officer of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A. (until December 2015) Director of: ◗ CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL S.A. (UXEMBOURG) (until April 2016) ◗ EURIWARE S.A. (until July 2015) ◗ Sogeti SA/NV (Belgium) (until December 2013) ◗ CAPGEMINI MIDDLE EAST FZ LLC (Dubai) (until February 2012) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 61 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors CAROLINE WATTEEUW-CARLISLE Independent Director Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle graduated from the University of Gent, Belgium, in Chemical Engineering, Modeling and holds a Master of Science (MS) in Biochemical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania (U.S.A). Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle started her career in 1977 working for Hoffman as a research scientist. In 1979, she Date of birth: joined Office of the Future & Netcube Inc. where she rose from consultant to President, a position she left in 1994 to February 24, 1952 become Managing Director, Risk Management & Financial Services Technology at the Bankers Trust Company. In Nationality: 1997 she became Managing Director Information Technology at Credit Suisse, and in 2000 was Executive American Vice-President and CTO at TradingEdge, the first electronic bond trading exchange. Between 2001 and 2004 she was Address: Managing Director and Global CTO of iFormation Group, a venture capital fund representing a collaboration between 6913 Wescoat Drive The Boston Consulting Group, Goldman Sachs, and General Atlantic Partners. Colleyville, TX 76034 She joined PepsiCo in June 2004 as CIO for North America, supporting both the Beverage and the Food Businesses. United States In 2007 she was promoted to Global Chief Technology Officer and SVP of Business Information Solutions of Pepsico, First appointment: where she managed all infrastructure and enterprise application support systems, and technology innovations like 2014 advanced digital media and mobile platforms integrated with real-time data analytics. From October 2014 to Expiry of term summer 2016 she was a Technology Officer for Warburg Pincus, one of the leading global Private Equity firms, of office: responsible for IT diligence for prospective investments, as well as providing Technology Advisory Services to 2018 Warburg’s existing portfolio companies. (General Meeting Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on May 7, 2014. She has also been approving the 2017 appointed as member of the Compensation Committee and of the Strategy and Investment Committee at the same financial statements) date. Number of shares held at Born in Belgium, Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle has spent her entire professional career in the United States as a Dec. 31, 2016: technology officer in the financial sector and then the consumer goods sector. She has intimate knowledge of 1,000 technology developments and of their digital transformation and an understanding of their impact on user companies, both on their organizations and on their relationships with clients and partners. Furthermore, Ms. Watteeuw-Carlisle’s dual European and US background gives her a perfect understanding of the two regions where the Group generates 92% of its revenues. Ms. Watteeuw-Carlisle contributes to the Group’s strategic discussions through both her professional experience and personal history. Principal Office: Since June 2016, Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle is EVP and Chief Technology Officer of Caliber Home Loans, located at 3701 Regents Blvd, Irving TX, USA. OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Member of the Board of Trustees of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2014) ◗ NEW YORK INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (NYIT) (since EVP and Chief Technology Officer of: January 2016) ◗ Caliber Home Loans (since June 2016) Chief Technology Advisor of: Member of the Advisory Committee of: ◗ BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA (since June 2016) ◗ BLUE YONDER GmbH (since August 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Technology Officer of: Member of the Advisory Committees of: ◗ WARBURG-PINCUS LLC (U.S.A) (until June 2016) ◗ HP PRINTING MANAGED SERVICES BOARD OF Global Chief Technology Officer and SVP Business ADVISORY COUNCIL (until July 2014) Information Solutions of: ◗ INTEL CAPITAL (until September 2013) ◗ PEPSICO (until September 2013) ◗ ACORIO (until September 2013) ◗ OCULUS360 (until October 2014) (*) Listed company. 62 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.1 Governance structure and composition of the Board of Directors 2.1.4 Transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors and other senior managers involving the Company’s shares The following transactions were carried out in 2016 by directors and senior managers involving the Company’s shares, based on AMF disclosures, Article 223-26 of the AMF’s General Regulations and information communicated to the Company for the preparation of the Registration Document pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 and Regulation (EU) no. 596/2014 of April 16, 2014: 2 ◗ Mr. Paul Hermelin (Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) ◗ Mr. Aiman Ezzat (Chief Financial Officer) disclosed that he had disclosed the following transactions: sold 1,872 redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants ❚ exercise of 23,620 redeemable share subscription or (BSAAR) on April 5, 2016 at a unit price of €46.921 (declaration purchase warrants (BSAAR) on March 31, 2016 at a unit 2016DD424166). price of €34 (declaration 2016DD422719), ◗ The following transactions performed by Mr. Serge Kampf in ❚ sale of 6,000 redeemable share subscription or purchase 2015 were also disclosed after his death: warrants (BSAAR) on April 1, 2016 at a unit price of €48 ❚ sale of 49,882 shares on March 5, 2015 at a unit price of (declaration 2016DD422720), €73.0241 (declaration 2016DD432875), ❚ sale of 14,370 redeemable share subscription or purchase ❚ sale of 100,000 shares on November 10, 2015 at a unit price warrants (BSAAR) on April 4, 2016 at a unit price of of €80.317 (declaration 2016DD422395), €47.8765 (declaration 2016DD423070), ❚ sale of 12,000 shares at a unit price of €84.9 and 68,000 ❚ sale of 23,620 shares on April 5, 2016 at a unit price of shares at a unit price of €85.1632 on November 27, 2015 €81.52 (declaration 2016DD424307); (declaration 2016DD432872). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 63 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors AUDIT & RISK COMMITEE ETHICS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE 6 67% 4 Members Members independent 75% independent 96% (3) 100% 6 meetings in 2016 attendance BOARD OF DIRECTORS (1) 6 attendance meetings 15 members including : in 2016 ◗ 1 Lead Independent Director ◗ 2 Directors representing employees COMPENSATION ◗ 1 Director representing employee STRATEGY & INVESTMENT COMMITTEE shareholders COMMITTEE ◗ 6 meetings in 2016, with 93% attendance and 4 Members 2 executive sessions 6 100% 60% (2) Members (2) independent independent 100% attendance 100% 3 meetings in 2016 attendance 5 meetings in 2016 (1) As at December 31, 2016. (2) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with Article L.225-27 of the French Commercial Code. (3) Based on the current composition of the Ethics and Governance Committee, excluding Mr. Serge Kampf who passed away on March 15, 2016. 64 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2.1 Organization of the Board of Directors The role of the Board of Directors ◗ set up four specialized Board Committees the Audit & Risk The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the key Committee, the Compensation Committee, the Ethics & strategies of Cap Gemini and the Group it controls, to ensure that Governance Committee, and finally the Strategy & Investment these strategies are implemented, to validate the legal and Committee and given each a clearly defined role (see operational structure of the Group and the appointment of key Section 2.2.4); managers and, more generally, to address any issues that arise in ◗ adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby 2 respect of the day-to-day operation of the Group. Given the majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board Capgemini’s business as a service provider, the Board pays and Committee meetings (see Section 2.2.5); particular attention to the management of the Group’s 193,077 (1) ◗ periodically reviewed the personal situation of each director employees and thousands of managers across the globe. in light of the definition of independence adopted by the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code (“a director is Operating rules independent when he/she has no relationship of any sort with For many years, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has applied the Company, the Group or its Management, that is likely to the best governance practices now aligned with the impair his/her judgment”) (see Section 2.1.2); recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance ◗ regularly assessed its organization and operation, either at Code to which Cap Gemini refers. Accordingly, the Board has: the time of the annual internal assessment performed by the Lead Independent Director or three-yearly, through the ◗ prepared, adopted, applied and amended where useful or assessment conducted by an external consultant under the necessary the Board of Directors’ Charter, particularly as part responsibility of the Lead Independent Director (see of a constant drive to improve the governance of the Company Section 2.2.3). (see below); Under the “Comply or Explain” rule provided for in Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code and stipulated in Article 27.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies revised in November 2016, the Company considers that its practices comply with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. However, the Company has deviated from certain provisions for the reasons explained in the following table. Stock options and performance shares Calendar period Article 24.3.3: “The Board must ensure Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The Board of Directors decided to grant that awards are made at the same performance shares each year at the same calendar period at the Board meeting held at calendar periods, e.g. after the disclosure the end of July or in October, despite the fact that they are a different type of financial of the financial statements for the previous instrument whose value is not linked to the grant date. financial year, and should preferably Exceptionally, following the acquisition of the IGATE group in 2015, Cap Gemini decided do so each year.” to grant free shares to certain of these employees in February 2016. Cap Gemini is constantly seeking to improve its governance and Board Charters regularly monitors its compliance with the provisions of the The Charters of the Board of Directors and the specialized Board AFEP-MEDEF Code. Committees are available on the Company’s website: Accordingly, the Company has voluntarily brought the following www.capgemini.com. issues, explained in previous years by the Company, into compliance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code: Regularly updated Charters ◗ the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 amended When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a the Company’s bylaws to provide for the staggered renewal of traditional limited liability company (société anonyme) in May 2000, the terms of office of directors, in line with Article 13.2 of the a new Charter was debated and adopted by the Board of AFEP-MEDEF Code; Directors. ◗ in accordance with Article 21 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the The Charter has since been amended several times in line with employment contract of the Chairman and Chief Executive changes in the Company and as part of the constant drive to Officer was terminated on February 18, 2015; improve governance with the dual aim of facilitating the collective ◗ in light of the recommendations of the AMF and the Corporate performance of the Board of Directors’ activities and satisfying the Governance High Committee, the Board of Directors corporate governance expectations of shareholders and their implemented an appraisal procedure in 2015 to assess the representatives. absence of conflict of interest for Independent Directors. In particular, the position of Lead Independent Director was Furthermore, following recent changes in the AFEP-MEDEF Code created in 2014. The respective duties of the Compensation in November 2016, the following points no longer represent Committee (formerly the Selection & Compensation Committee) deviations from the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code: and the Ethics & Governance Committee were revised in 2014, with the Compensation Committee focusing exclusively on setting ◗ performance shares are granted to executive corporate officers executive corporate officer compensation and defining conditional upon the acquisition of a defined quantity of shares compensation policy for Group senior executives and the duties of once the shares granted are available; the Ethics & Governance Committee expanded to include the ◗ the Audit Committee has a minimum period of two days to selection of and succession plans for key managers of the Group. review the accounts before their review by the Board. Following the 2015 Board assessment which identified the need to improve the coordination of risk monitoring activities by associating the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, the (1) At December 31, 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 65 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Charter of the Audit Committee was revised in December 2016 to Limits on the powers of the Chief Executive Officer extend and clarify its risk monitoring duties. The Committee’s The Charter stipulates that the Chief Executive Officer must seek name was also changed to the Audit & Risk Committee. The and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors for any Charter of the Board of Directors was also amended in 2016 in a decision which is of major strategic importance or which is liable variety of areas, including risk monitoring and the participation of to have a material impact, either directly or indirectly, on the directors representing employees on the Board. The most recent financial position or commitments of the Company or those of one amendments to the Charter were adopted on December 7, 2016. or more of its principal subsidiaries. This applies in particular to: Organization of powers ◗ the draft annual budget prepared in accordance with the three-year plan; The Charter sets out or clarifies the scope of and bases for exercising the various powers entrusted to the Board of Directors, ◗ the approval of the annual investment and divestment budget; the four Specialized Board Committees, the Chairman and Chief ◗ the conclusion of material strategic alliances; Executive Officer, the Vice-Chairman and the Lead Independent ◗ acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not recorded Director. in the annual investment budget, individually worth more than The Board of Directors represents shareholders. With the €100 million, or for smaller investments, resulting in the exception of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the €300 million cumulative annual ceiling being exceeded; directors have no individual powers and actions and decisions ◗ financial transactions with a material impact on the Company must therefore be taken on a collective basis. financial statements or the consolidated financial statements of The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to the Group and particularly issues of securities granting access to study and document the issues that the Board has scheduled for the Company’s share capital or market debt instruments; discussion and to present recommendations on the subjects and ◗ the grant to employees of incentive instruments granting access sectors within their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. The to the Company’s share capital and particularly performance Committees are consultation bodies and therefore hold no shares; decision-making powers. Their members and the Chairman are appointed by the Board of Directors and are selected exclusively ◗ material internal reorganization transactions; from among Cap Gemini directors. They are appointed in a ◗ material changes to the scope or range of businesses; personal capacity and may under no circumstances be ◗ increases or decreases in the share capital of a direct subsidiary represented at the meetings of the Committee(s) to which they of Cap Gemini, concerning an amount in excess of €50 million; belong. The Board reserves the right to amend at any time the number and/or make-up of these Committees, as well as the ◗ specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, scope of their duties. Finally, the Charters of each of the four security and guarantees, other than the delegation of authority Committees and any amendments thereto which the granted annually to him up to the maximum amount set by the Committee may later propose must be formally approved by Board of Directors. the Board. Lead Independent Director As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer prepares, organizes and leads its work. He As part of the constant drive to improve governance within the sets the agenda of meetings, communicates to directors all Company, the position of Lead Independent Director was created information necessary to carry out their duties and oversees the in May 2014 and entrusted to Mr. Daniel Bernard. proper operation of the Company’s bodies, the correct When the functions of Chairman of the Board of Directors and implementation of Board decisions and compliance with the rules Chief Executive Officer are exercised by the same person, the of good conduct adopted by Cap Gemini. He chairs Combined Board of Directors appoints a Lead Independent Director. The Shareholders’ Meetings to which he reports on the activities and duties of the Lead Independent Director are entrusted by the decisions of the Board. Board to the Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, The Vice-Chairman chairs meetings of the Board of Directors elected by the Board of Directors from among its members and Shareholders’ Meetings in the absence of the Chairman. classified as independent. The duties of Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee A Lead Independent Director is appointed where the duties of may be revoked at any time by the Board of Directors. Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are regrouped. As for any other director, the Lead Independent Director may be a member of one or more Specialized Board Committees in addition The roles and composition of the Specialized Board Committees to the Ethics & Governance Committee that he chairs. He may are presented in Section 2.2.4. The role and prerogatives of the also attend the meetings of Specialized Board Committees of Lead Independent Director are set-out below. which he is not a member. As Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the most extensive powers to act in all circumstances in the name of the Company, subject to the restrictions presented below. 66 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Roles of the Lead Independent Director Report on the Lead Independent Director’s activities The roles of the Lead Independent Director, resulting from the in 2016 Charter of the Board of Directors and Board decisions, are as The Lead Independent Director focused his activities on the follows: following areas in 2016: ◗ he is consulted by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the ◗ he was heavily involved in the preparation of Board of Directors’ proposed Board meeting schedule presented for the approval of meetings, particularly as concerns the different governance the Board and on the draft agenda for each meeting of the issues presented to the Board and was consulted by the Board of Directors; 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on the agendas of all ◗ he can propose to the Chairman the inclusion of items on the Board meetings; agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings at his own initiative or at ◗ in the context of the Ethics & Governance Committee, he led the the request of one of more Board members; search process for candidates upstream of the Combined ◗ he can bring together Board members in the absence of Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 which appointed executive corporate officers in so-called “executive sessions”, at two new female directors; his own initiative or at the request of one of more Board ◗ at the beginning of 2016, he led the internal assessment of the members, to discuss a specific agenda; he chairs any such Board and its Specialized Committees for 2015, based on a meetings; questionnaire and individual meetings with each of the members ◗ he leads the assessment of the performance of the Board of of the Board (see Section 2.2.3); Directors and the specialized Committees; ◗ he also steered the 2016 assessment performed with the ◗ he steers the search for new candidates for the Board of assistance of an external consultant in the fourth quarter of 2016 Directors; (see Section 2.2.3); ◗ he chairs the annual meeting of the Board of Directors convened ◗ he participated in the integration of the new directors appointed to assess the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 and Officer and any Deputy Chief Executive Officers; the two directors representing employees that joined the Board in September 2016; ◗ he holds regular discussions with the other directors to ensure they have the means necessary to perform their duties in a ◗ he chaired the executive session of the Board in satisfactory manner and in particular that they receive sufficient December 2016, held without the presence of the Chairman and information prior to the Board meetings; Chief Executive Officer, which covered (i) the individual objectives of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for 2017 ◗ he reports on his actions to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. and an initial discussion of the attainment of his individual The Lead Independent Director is assisted by the General objectives for 2016 and (ii) the assessment of the Board and its Secretary in the exercise of his duties. Specialized Committees; ◗ he attended all meetings of the Board of Directors and the Ethics & Governance Committee which he chairs and the Strategy & Investment Committee, of which he is also a member; ◗ he also reported to shareholders of the Company on his activities and on the activities of the Board and its Specialized Committees at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. During the last two Board assessments, the directors expressed their full satisfaction with the role played by Mr. Daniel Bernard as Lead Independent Director, highlighting the importance of his role and activities in achieving the balance desired by the Board, in line with best governance practices. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 67 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 Ms. Laurence Dors will be appointed as the Chairman of the Currently an Independent Director, Mr. Daniel Bernard will exceed Compensation Committee. An independent director, Ms. Dors has the threshold of 12 years as a director of the Company at the end been a director of the Company since 2010. She is currently a of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 and as member of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Ethics & such will no longer be considered independent from this date Governance Committee. pursuant to the criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the The Board of Directors considers that given Mr. Daniel Bernard’s Company refers. significant contribution to the smooth functioning of the Board As the Company's Charter and the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code since his appointment as director and then Lead Independent issued in November 2016 state that the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee in Director must be an independent director, it was Mr. Bernard's 2014, his personality, his committment to the development of the wish that the Company could comply with these provisions from Group and ensuring compliance with its values, as well as his the end of the Combined Shareholders' Meeting of May 10, 2017. expertise, that it would be in the Company’s interests to appoint Mr. Daniel Bernard has therefore decided to resign his duties as him Vice-Chairman of the Board should the Combined Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Shareholders’ Meeting renew his term of office as director. The Governance Committee from May 10, 2017. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will work closely with the Vice-Chairman to prepare future developments in the Group's The Board warmly thanks Mr. Daniel Bernard for his work since governance. 2014, and indicated at its meeting of March 8, 2017 that it wishes to appoint Mr. Pierre Pringuet as Lead Independent Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee following the Director ethics Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. An The Charter of the Board of Directors sets out the main Independent Director, Mr. Pringuet has been a director of the obligations of the Code of Business Ethics that Cap Gemini Company since 2009. He is also a member of the Ethics & directors undertake to comply with throughout their term of office. Governance Committee and Chairman of the Compensation An extract of the Code of Business Ethics is included in the Committee. He will vacate the Chair of the Compensation Charter of the Board of Directors and detailed below: Committee but will remain a member. “The Directors (and any other person who attends Board or may not hold more than two other directorships in French or Committee meetings) are required to treat as strictly confidential foreign listed companies that are not members of the matters discussed during Board or Committee meetings and all Capgemini Group; they must request the opinion of the Board or Committee decisions, as well as any information of a Board before accepting any new appointment in a listed confidential nature or that is presented as such by the Chairman company. If the Chairman is not also the Chief Executive and Chief Executive Officer or Chairman (as applicable) or any Officer, the Board may issue specific recommendations, other Director. given his/her status and specific assignments. Each Director undertakes to comply with the following During the term of their office at the Company, Directors obligations, unless he/she has informed the Chairman and Chief must keep the Chairman of the Board informed of any offers Executive Officer or Chairman (as applicable), in writing, of any of appointments they would like to accept in other French or objections to one or several of such obligations: foreign companies, and their membership on Board Committees of these companies, as well as any change in 1 Although they are themselves shareholders, the Directors their appointments or participation in these committees. If represent all the shareholders and are required to act in all the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are circumstances in the Company’s interest. They are required combined, he/she will inform the Chairman of the Ethics and to notify the Chairman of the Ethics and Governance Governance Committee. The Chairman informs the Board of Committee or the Board of any one-off conflict of interests Directors of appointments accepted. (or potential conflict of interests) and to refrain from voting on the related decision. Any director who has a permanent 4 The members of the Board of Directors must attend all conflict of interests is required to resign from the Board. meetings of the Board and all meetings of the Committees of which they are members, as well as all shareholders’ 2 Each Director undertakes to hold (or to purchase within six meetings. In its annual Registration Document, the Company months of his/her election) at least 1,000 shares of the publishes Directors’ individual attendance rates at meetings Company. The shares acquired to fulfill this obligation must of the Board and the Committees of which they are be held in registered form. This obligation does not apply to members, as well as their average attendance rates. directors representing employees and employee shareholders. 5 The Directors are obliged to keep abreast of the Company’s situation and development. To this end, they may ask the 3 The Directors are required to devote the necessary time and Chairman to communicate on a timely basis all information attention to their functions. The Directors may not hold more that is essential to allow them to contribute effectively to the than four other appointments in French or foreign listed discussion of matters included on the agenda of the next companies that are not members of the Capgemini Group Board meeting. Regarding information not available to the and must comply with all applicable regulations restricting public that is obtained in their capacity, Directors are subject the number of directorships held by a single person. The to secrecy rules extending beyond the simple requirement of Chief Executive Officer and any Deputy General Managers discretion imposed by law. 68 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 6 In accordance with laws and regulations applicable to insider ❚ during a period commencing on the thirtieth calendar day trading, as set more specifically by the French Monetary and preceding the public release of mid-year and full-year Financial Code and the AMF’s General Regulations, the results and ending after the close of the first trading day members of the Board of Directors shall refrain from: on the Paris Bourse following the said public release, ◗ carrying out any transactions on the securities (including ❚ and during a period commencing on the fifteenth calendar 2 derivatives) of companies about which (and in the extent day preceding quarterly announcements and ending after to which) they have privileged information by virtue of their the close of the first trading day on the Paris Bourse position as member of the Board of Directors of the following the said public release. Company, 7 In conformity with the Monetary and Financial Code and with ◗ carrying out any transactions, whether direct, indirect or the General Regulations of the Autorité des marchés financiers through derivatives, involving the securities of the (AMF), each Director is required to notify the AMF and the Company: Company by electronic means of all transactions carried out involving Cap Gemini S.A. securities within three business days following their execution.” The Board seeks to comply with and ensure compliance with all the Lead Independent Director and the Board Secretary. In rules of good governance together with a certain number of values addition, the new members joining the Audit & Risk Committee which each Board member has solemnly undertaken to respect. A receive information on the specific accounting, financial and Code of Business Ethics was drafted at its initiative and distributed operating aspects of the Company. Finaly, the two directors to all Group employees (and is signed by all new recruits) with the representing employees who joined the Board in September 2016 following main objectives: received special external training at the end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017, enabling them to obtain and perfect the ◗ ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of knowledge and techniques necessary to the exercise of their rules of good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity in duties, in accordance with legislative provisions. the conduct of business and the management of employees; ◗ implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning Ongoing training non-compliance with the core values of the Group, or prevailing Cap Gemini ensures that the directors have sufficient laws and regulations in the relevant country; understanding of the Group, its ecosystem and its challenges. The ◗ provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls and Board members therefore meet regularly with the members of the dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems Group Executive Board during Board and Committee meetings. identified by these measures. The directors are also invited to the Group “Rencontres” gatherings, a two-yearly event bringing together, over three days, The minutes of the work of the Ethics & Governance Committee 400 of the Group’s key managers and emerging talent. In (see below) describe in detail the corporate actions undertaken in addition, each year a Board meeting dedicated to strategy is held 2016 by the Ethics & Compliance Department and the “off-premises” in the form of a seminar and invites key managers implementation of the Code of Business Ethics. Each of the of the Group to contribute to Board discussions. These seminars directors signed this Code, evidencing their commitment and also enable directors to constantly refine their understanding of support (both individual and collective) for all the measures the challenges facing the Group through themed-based contained therein. presentations and site visits. In 2016, this seminar was held in San Francisco at one of the Director training Group’s innovation centers. Specializing in co-innovation with established hi tech brands and startups, the San Francisco Integration of new directors innovation center allows organizations to immerse themselves in Cap Gemini ensures that directors joining the Board receive the understanding, experimentation and application of all aspects training in the specific aspects of the Group, its businesses and of emerging technologies, as well as address the business activity sectors, particularly through meetings with the various disruptions confronting them and their industries. This seminar members of General Management. New directors are also advised was also an opportunity for members of the Board to meet with on the specific aspects of the Board of Directors of the Company several of the Group’s leading Cloud and Digital partners. during meetings with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 69 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.2.2 Activities of the Board of Directors in 2016 Board of Directors’ meetings “off-premises” meeting held at the Group innovation center in San Francisco, focusing entirely on Group strategy. This meeting was Number of meetings and attendance rate held on October 3, 4 and 5, 2016. The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened In addition, the Board held two executive sessions chaired by the by the Chairman in accordance with a schedule decided by the Lead Independent Director and without the presence of the Board before the end of the prior year. This schedule may be Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, during its meetings of amended during the year in response to unforeseen February 17, 2016 and December 7, 2016. circumstances or at the request of more than one director. In The following table presents individual attendance rates at 2016, the Board met six times, with an average attendance rate of meetings of the Board of Directors and the Specialized 93%. In 2016, the Board retained the principle of an Committees on which the directors sit. Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and its committees in 2016 and individual attendance rates Ethics & Strategy & Board of Governance Investment Audit & Risk Compensation Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 6 6 5 6 3 (1) Average attendance rate 93% 96% 100% 100% 100% Individual director attendance rates Ethics & Strategy & Governance Investment Audit & Risk Compensation Board of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee No. of No. of No. of No. of No. of Name meetings % meetings % meetings % meetings % meetings % Paul HERMELIN 6 100% 5 100 % Serge KAMPF(2) 0/2 0% 0/2 0% Daniel BERNARD 6 100% 6 100 % 5 100 % Anne BOUVEROT 5 83.33% 5 100 % Yann DELABRIÈRE 6 100% 6 100 % Laurence DORS 6 100% 6 100% 6 100% Carole FERRAND(3) 3/3 100% 3/3 100 % Robert FRETEL(4) 2/2 100% 2/2 100 % (3) Siân HERBERT-JONES 3/3 100% 3/3 100 % Phil LASKAWY 6 100% 6 100 % (4) Kevin MASTERS 2/2 100% 1/1 100% Xavier MUSCA 6 100% 6 100 % Pierre PRINGUET 6 100% 5 83 % 3 100% Bruno ROGER 6 100% 6 100% 5 100% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 6 100% 3 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 6 100% 5 100% 3 100% (1) Based on the current composition of the Ethics and Governance Committee, excluding Serge Kampf who passed away on March 15, 2016. (2) Mr. Serge Kampf passed away on March 15,2016. (3) Ms. Carole Ferrand and Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones were appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. (4) Mr. Robert Fretel and Mr. Kevin Masters, directors representing employees, joined the Board on September 1, 2016. It is recalled that the Group’s founder, Mr. Serge Kampf, died on his duties as Secretary of the International Works Council in March 15, 2016. Due to ill health, he was unable to travel to the accordance with the law). Board and Committee meetings held prior to his death. With the entry into office of two directors representing employees, Mr. Kevin Masters, Secretary of the International Works Council, including one appointed by the International Works Council, the attended as a permanent guest all meetings of the Board of Board noted that it was no longer necessary to invite the Directors and the Compensation Committee held prior to Secretary of the International Works Council as a permanent guest September 1, 2016, the date at which he took office as a director to meetings of the Board of Directors and the Compensation representing employees (prior to which Mr. Masters resigned from Committee and amended its Charter accordingly. 70 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Organization and preparation ❚ the Group’s Cloud positioning and its Digital strategy and The Notice of Meeting, sent to directors two weeks before the goals, meeting date, contains the agenda set after the Chairman and ❚ the transformation of the Group and the enrichment and Chief Executive Officer has consulted with the Vice-Chairman, the retention of talent to accompany this transformation. Lead Independent Director and any directors who proposed specific points to be discussed by the Board. 2. Talent management In accordance with the Board of Directors’ Charter, preparatory ◗ monitoring of the management of the Group’s key talent and its documentation is sent to directors a week before the meeting. enrichment and retention; 2 Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing ◗ monitoring of changes in the composition of the Group the share price of the Cap Gemini share to that of various general Executive Committee. and sector indexes and to its main competitors, as well as the last known consensus. In addition, important press releases (signature 3. The active management of the Group’s balance of major contracts, alliances, etc.) issued by the Company sheet and liquid assets together with financial analysts’ studies of Cap Gemini or the ◗ authorization of a multi-year share buyback program with a sector are regularly brought to the attention of directors. maximum amount of €600 million in February 2016, increased Documents relating to the Board of Directors as well as the by €500 million by the Board of Directors on December 7, 2016; above-mentioned information are communicated by a secure ◗ early redemption of all outstanding zero-coupon platform accessible solely by Board members using an individual ORNANE bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or password. This platform is hosted on a server located in France. existing shares issued on October 25, 2013 and maturing on In 2015, this platform, which is used for Board of Directors’ and January 1, 2019; Committee meetings, was reviewed and modernized in response ◗ share capital reduction of €4,937,880 by cancellation of shares to wishes expressed by directors during the 2014 Board purchased under the multi-year share buyback program. assessment, to make it more mobile, accessible from any location and even more secure. 4. Group governance ◗ changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and its Activities of the Board during 2016 committees, particularly with the appointment of two new female The agenda of Board of Directors’ meetings is defined not only to directors by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting in May 2016, provide directors with an overview of the Group’s position, but the arrival of two directors representing employees in also with regard to Group governance principles, which, pursuant September 2016 and the change in the Chairman of the Audit to prevailing texts and to the Board of Directors’ Charter, Committee at the end of 2016 ; presuppose that Board members will make decisions on specific ◗ assessment of the Board of Directors: internal assessment of topics. Board activities in 2015 performed by the Lead Independent Accordingly, in addition to approving the 2015 annual financial Director and 2016 assessment performed by an external statements and the financial statements for the first-half of 2016 consultant under the supervision of the Lead Independent and convening the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, Director (executive session during the Board meeting on 2016, the activities of the Board of Directors focused on: December 7, 2016) ; ◗ changes in the Company’s bylaws enabling a staggered renewal 1. Group strategy and performance of the terms of office of directors and the appointment of ◗ monitoring implementation of the decisions made at the most employee directors; recent Rencontres gathering in Rome in 2015 (Rencontres ◗ overhaul of the Charter of the Audit Committee, renamed the gathering: two-yearly event bringing together, over three days, Audit & Risk Committee and amendments to the Charter of the 400 of the Group’s key managers and emerging talent) and in Board of Directors ; particular the set-up and performance of the Strategic Business Units and Group functions whose scope was amended at this ◗ the proposed conversion of the Company to a European time; Company (see Section 7.1.2); ◗ monitoring of Group performance and activities; ◗ the monitoring of dialogue between the Company and its shareholders and proxy advisors in connection with the ◗ monitoring of the integration of IGATE following its acquisition in preparation of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting; July 2015; ◗ the monitoring of new regulations (statutory audit reform, ◗ during the annual strategy seminar in October, the Board of European Market abuse regulation) and changes in the Directors was informed of and debated the different market AFEP-MEDEF Code and the integration of their impact by the trends, changes in the Group’s competitive environment and the Company. strategic challenges facing the Group over a three-day period. These activities focused particularly on: ❚ major technology trends, particularly in cybersecurity, the Cloud, mobile networks and new customer relationship management tools, as well as the new opportunities offered by the development of artificial intelligence, Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 71 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 5. compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive compensation by the Board of Directors’ meeting of Officer and the long-term compensation of employees February 15, 2017 (executive session during the Board meeting ◗ in February 2016, the setting of his compensation for 2015 and of December 7, 2016); the assessment of the attainment of 2015 variable ◗ exceptional grant on February 15, 2016 of free shares to certain compensation objectives and the setting of his fixed employees of IGATE group purchased on July 2015; compensation and objectives for 2016 (executive session during ◗ the grant, on July 26, 2016, of performance shares to the Board meeting of February 17, 2016); 1,175 managers of the Group, including Paul Hermelin. ◗ in December 2016, an initial assessment of the attainment of his 2016 objectives with a view to the setting of his 2016 variable 2.2.3 Assessment of the Board of Directors In accordance with the three-year frequency recommended by the ◗ Board meetings systematically included exchanges between AFEP-MEDEF Code, a formal assessment of the activities of the operating managers and Board members, both during informal Board of Directors and its committees was performed at the end discussions and presentations on operating issues; of 2016 with the assistance of an external service provider, under ◗ a project was launched, with the assistance of an external the responsibility of the Lead Independent Director. consultant, to prepare succession plans for executive managers. An external assessment of the activities of the Board of Directors The conclusions will be presented to the Board in the first half of and its committees has already been performed four times, in 2017; 2005, 2008, 2011 and 2013. Moreover, an internal review was ◗ the risk monitoring activities of the Board and the Audit conducted in both 2015 and 2014 by the Lead Independent Committee were reviewed with the assistance of an external Director. consultant, leading to an overhaul of the Charter of the Audit Committee, renamed the Audit & Risk Committee and an 2015 assessment: conclusions and actions amendment to the Charter of the Board of Directors in this implemented in 2016 respect. The Lead Independent Director conducted a review of the activities of the Board of Directors and its committees in 2015 2016 Assessment: conclusions and priorities which was presented in detail in the Company’s 2015 Registration for 2017 Document. The formal assessment of the Board and its committees The following priorities were identified: conducted at the end of 2016 and covering the year in progress was performed by an external consultant under the responsibility ◗ Executive Sessions of the Lead Independent Director, who guaranteed the ❚ Organize at least two executive sessions a year, to be confidentiality of opinions expressed, the objectivity of analyses prepared by the Lead Independent Director and the and the consultant’s ability to freely express his Chairmen of the Committees, with the possibility to hold recommendations. This review assessed changes in the activities more sessions at the request of a director. of the Board compared with the last external assessment carried ◗ Duties and activities of the Committees out in 2013. ❚ Improve the programming of Strategy & Investment To ensure independence and avoid any conflict of interest, it was Committee meetings and the coordination of the work of this decided to appoint a firm that was not otherwise involved in the committee with that of the Board. recruitment of directors on behalf of the Group. The assessment was therefore conducted by Mr. Jean-Philippe Saint-Geours, a ❚ Improve the anticipation and risk monitoring activities by partner with the firm Leaders Trust International, which conducted associating the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. the assessments in 2011 and 2013, helping to put in context any ◗ Identification of talent and preparation of succession plans recent changes or changes still required and facilitating open ❚ Organize meetings even more frequently with operating dialogue with members of the Board of Directors and managers. management. ❚ Briefings on succession plans, in particular for Group For the purposes of the assessment, each director was asked to Executive Board members. complete a detailed questionnaire validated beforehand by the Lead Independent Director. The answers provided were used to ◗ Organization of Board of Directors’ meetings prepare “interview guidelines” for meetings held with each director ❚ Hold one Board meeting every six months outside France. to obtain, with complete anonymity, their comments and As a result of this assessment, the following changes were suggestions. made in 2016 to the operation of the Board and its committees: The questions focused on the activities of the Board of Directors ◗ two executive sessions were held and chaired by the Lead and its committees and enabled a self-assessment of the effective Independent Director during the year and discussed the contribution of each director. A similar exercise was performed compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and during the internal assessment of activities in 2015. The Lead the 2016 assessment of the activities of the Board of Directors Independent Director provided individual feedback on these and its committees; assessments of the effective contribution of each director. ◗ the Board’s annual strategy seminar was held outside France, at the Group’s innovation center in San Francisco; 72 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Meetings were also organized with the Group’s key managers in ◗ Ongoing training for directors order to assess the quality of interaction between the Board of ❚ Extend knowledge of the Group, its businesses and its Directors and the management team. competitive environment, including through sessions with A summary report was presented to the Board of Directors on external advisors. December 7, 2016 by the external consultant, analyzing the ◗ Strategy monitoring information gathered both through the questionnaires and the individual meetings. This report was discussed in detail during the ❚ Further explain potential acquisitions in light of the Group’s executive session. strategic pillars. 2 ❚ Further improve the coordination of the work of the Strategy The assessment highlighted the continued progress in the & Investment Committee and the Board by enriching the activities of the Board and its committees since 2013 and Committee’s report to the Board and setting the agenda of confirmed the collective approach to the Board’s work and the the Board accordingly. spirit of openness which characterizes its discussions. The improved momentum of plenary strategic meetings was noted ◗ Risk monitoring and the move in recent years to create a closer relationship ❚ Annual risks review by the Board and implement ation of the between the Board and Group management is fully appreciated. strengthened risk monitoring as planned following the The role and activities of the Lead Independent Director were overhaul of the Charter of the Audit Committee at the end of identified as facilitating the balance desired by the Board, in line 2016 (renamed the Audit & Risk Committee as a result). with best governance practices. ◗ Talents After expressing their satisfaction with the main improvements ❚ Regular information on progress made in relation to talent introduced in 2016 following the 2015 internal assessment, the management and particularly with respect to mobility. directors set out the following priorities for 2017: ◗ Corporate Social Responsibility ❚ Regular briefings on initiatives and the results of the Group’s CSR policy. 2.2.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees of risk exposure and material off-balance sheet commitments of The Audit and Risk Committee the Company, as well as the accounting options adopted. Secondly, the Audit and Risk Committee ensures the existence and efficiency of internal control systems, internal audit and the AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE IN 2016 (1) management of major risks to which the Group is exposed in the course of its business. Following the strengthening of these risk MEETINGS ATTENDANCE INDEPENDENT monitoring duties, the Committee must now review the major risks DIRECTORS to which the Group may be exposed at least once a year, in particular through a review of the risk mapping prepared by the Group Management Risk Committee. 6 100% 67% Finally, the Committee is responsible for monitoring the statutory audit of the annual and half-yearly consolidated financial statements of the Group and of the annual accounts of the (1) As at December 31, 2016. Company, ensuring the independence of the Statutory Auditors and generally monitoring the conduct of their engagements. Committee duties Where it considers it useful or necessary, the Audit & Risk The duties of the Audit Committee were changed on December 7, Committee may be assisted by experts appointed for this 2016 to strengthen risk management and include the impacts of purpose. the European statutory audit reform. The Committee name was Composition and participation also changed to the Audit & Risk Committee. This committee has six directors since May 18, 2016, the date at These changes in the Committee’s duties followed the wish which Ms. Carole Ferrand and Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones took office: expressed by directors during the assessment of the Board’s Mr. Yann Delabrière (Chairman until December 7, 2016), activities in 2015 to improve risk monitoring by associating the Ms. Laurence Dors (Independent Director), Ms. Carole Ferrand Board of Directors and the Audit Committee. (Independent Director), Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones (Independent In accordance with Article L.823-19 of the French Commercial Director), Mr. Phil Laskawy and Mr. Xavier Musca (Independent Code, the AMF recommendation of July 22, 2010 and best Director and Committee Chairman since December 7, 2016). market practice, the duties of the Audit & Risk Committee fall into Mr. Xavier Musca became Chairman of the Committee on three categories. Firstly, the Audit Committee monitors issues December 7, 2016, after Mr. Yann Delabrière decided to resign concerning the preparation and control of financial and accounting as Committee Chairman given the new provisions of the information. It monitors the financial information preparation AFEP-MEDEF Code regarding director independence. process and, where applicable, suggests recommendations to Mr. Delabrière has undertaken to assist the Audit & Risk guarantee its integrity. It examines the draft annual and half-yearly Committee during a transitional period running at least until the consolidated financial statements of the Group, the annual approval of the financial statements for the year ended accounts of Cap Gemini S.A. and the management presentation December 31, 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 73 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Through their professional careers, Audit & Risk Committee acquired considerable expertise in the French and international members have amassed the necessary accounting and financial financial and banking sectors throughout his career in the French expertise to perform their duties. Mr. Yann Delabrière was Chief civil service, ministerial offices and the private sector. Finally, Ms. Financial Officer of PSA Peugeot Citroën from 1990 to 2007, Ms. Laurence Dors’ career in executive management positions and the Carole Ferrand was Chief Financial Officer of Sony France from Economy and Finance Ministry allows her to contribute both 2000 to 2011 and then of Europacorp Group in 2011 and 2012, financial expertise and a transversal view of organizations. Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones was Chief Financial Officer of Sodexo The Committee met six times in 2016, with an average attendance from 2001 to 2016 and Mr. Phil Laskawy was Chief Executive rate of 100%. Officer of Ernst & Young from 1994 to 2001. Mr. Xavier Musca The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Audit & Risk Committee was as follows: Yann DELABRIÈRE 100% Laurence DORS 100% Carole FERRAND* 100% Siân HERBERT-JONES* 100% Phil LASKAWY 100% Xavier MUSCA 100% (*) Ms. Carole Ferrand and Ms. Siân Herbert-Jones joined the Board of Directors on May 18, 2016 and attended the three committee meetings held after this date. Committee activities in 2016 The Compensation Committee The Committee reviewed the company statutory and the Group consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and the Group consolidated financial COMPENSATION COMMITTEE IN 2016 (1) statements for the half-year ended June 30, 2016. MEETINGS ATTENDANCE INDEPENDENT It focused in particular on the accounting treatment of events with DIRECTORS (2) a material impact on the annual or half-year financial statements. With respect to the annual financial statements, it reviewed in particular the measurement of goodwill and deferred tax assets. 3 100% 100% The Committee similarly reviewed the change in Group commitments, including pension obligations, focusing in particular on the analysis of the research tax credit in France and the monitoring of changes therein. In addition, the Committee examined the situation in Brazil and its impact on Group performance. 1 EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR 1 DIRECTOR REPRESENTING EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS The Committee also interviewed: (1) As at December 31, 2016. ◗ Mr. Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning him (2) The directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken on working methods, planning, areas of intervention, the findings into account in calculating this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. of audits carried out during the year ; ◗ Mr. André Cichowlas, Delivery Director (Production/Methods Committee duties and Support) and Support Services, questioning him in particular on the impact on the operating accounts of major contracts that On October 8, 2014, the Selection & Compensation Committee are separately monitored and the development and roll-out of changed its name to the “Compensation Committee” and now shared access and industrial procedure ; concentrates exclusively on setting the compensation of executive corporate officers and defining compensation policies for Group ◗ finally Mr. Jean-Baptiste Massignon, Group General executives. This committee has several duties set out in its Secretary also in charge of pre-sales risk management, Charter recently amended by the Board of Directors on June 17, questioning him on the activities of the Group Review Board 2015. Firstly, it must present proposals to the Board of Directors during the period and the terms and conditions of major on the fixed and variable compensation of executive corporate commercial proposals. officers and, with regards to the variable portion and where The Statutory Auditors reported to the Committee on the quality of appropriate, propose a detailed list of individual objectives the accounting monitoring of projects and the good control of the (quantitative and qualitative), enabling an assessment of accounts closing process. performance and the calculation of the variable compensation component(s). To this end, the Committee meets in the final quarter of each year (Y) to propose to the Board of Directors executive corporate officer objectives for the following year (Y+1) and at least once at the beginning of Y+1 to prepare the assessment by the Board of Directors of performance in the previous year. The Committee reviews the information presented to shareholders for the vote on executive corporate officer compensation (so-called “Say on Pay”) and is consulted on 74 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors financial terms and conditions in the event of the appointment or Composition and participation departure of an executive corporate officer. This Committee has four directors since September 1, 2016, the The Compensation Committee must be informed of the date at which Kevin Masters took office as a director: Mr. Pierre compensation policies adopted by Capgemini Group companies Pringuet, Chairman and Independent Director, Mr. Kevin Masters in the management of senior executive careers and the application (Director representing employees), Ms. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas of these policies with respect to the Group’s medium and (Director representing employee shareholders) and Ms. Caroline long-term strategy presented to the Board of Directors. The Watteeuw-Carlisle (Independent Director). Committee must also be informed annually by Group Mr. Kevin Masters was invited, as Secretary of the International 2 Management of the (fixed and variable) compensation of Executive Works Council, to attend all meetings of the Compensation Committee members. Committee held prior to September 1, 2016, the date at which he Finally, the Committee reviews the various schemes enabling senior took office as a director representing employees (prior to which executives to better share in the Group’s profits (longterm incentive Mr. Masters resigned from his duties as Secretary of the instruments and particularly performance share grants, Group International Works Council in accordance with the law). savings schemes, etc.) and proposes to the Board of Directors the This committee met three times in 2016, with an average incentive instruments it considers appropriate and capable of being attendance rate of 100%. implemented in all (or certain) Capgemini Group companies. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Compensation Committee was as follows: Pierre PRINGUET 100% Kevin MASTERS* 100% Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% (*) Mr. Kevin Masters joined the Board of Directors on September 1, 2016 and attended the Compensation Committee meeting held after this date. Committee activities in 2016 In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured The Committee also reviewed a first draft of the presentation of throughout 2016 the consistency of the Group’s senior the compensation policy of the executive corporate officer in executive management compensation policy. Its Chairman anticipation of the so-called “Sapin II” legislation introducing an regularly reported on the Committee’s work and presented ex-ante shareholders vote on the principles and elements of recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the such compensation. following areas: ◗ the consistency of the general compensation policy of the The Ethics and Governance Committee Group and its subsidiaries; ◗ the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and that of members of the Executive Committee and the ETHICS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE IN 2016 (1) Group’s key managers. These recommendations focused at the beginning of the year on: MEETINGS ATTENDANCE (2) INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS ❚ an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these managers compared with objectives set at the beginning of the year, ❚ calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in the first quarter of the next year, 6 96% 75% ❚ adjustment of the fixed compensation and theoretical (1) As at December 31, 2016. variable portion for the following year, (2) Based on the composition of the Committee at year-end, excluding Mr. Serge Kampf who died on March 15, 2016. ❚ setting objectives to be used for the current year as a basis for defining the calculation of the actual variable portions due. Committee duties Since October 8, 2014, the roles of the Ethics & Governance The Committee studied the principle and means of granting Committee now include not only executive corporate officer shares to certain managers of IGATE, acquired in July 2015, selection and succession plans and the proposal of new subject to employment linked conditions. It drafted and directors to ensure the balanced composition of the Board but communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed individual also Group senior executive selection and succession plans. allocation of these shares to the Board of Directors for agreement on February 17, 2016. The Committee also studied the principle and means of granting performance shares to certain managers. It drafted and communicated a list of beneficiaries and the proposed individual allocation of these performance shares to the Board of Directors for agreement on July 26, 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 75 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The main remit of this committee (created in July 2006 by place within the Group. The Committee is briefed on succession decision of the Board) is to verify that the Group’s seven core plans for key operating and functional managers of the Group. It values (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, is also informed of the policy for the identification, development Modesty and Fun) are correctly applied and adhered to, and retention of high potential executives. The Chairman and defended and promoted by the Group’s corporate officers, Chief Executive Officer is involved in this work. The Committee senior management and employees in all of its businesses and must be consulted by Group Management prior to any in all subsidiaries under its control, in all internal and external appointment to the Executive Committee. communications including advertising and in all other acts undertaken in the Group’s name. Composition and participation It is also tasked more generally with overseeing the application Since the death of Mr. Serge Kampf on March 15, 2016, this of best corporate governance practice within Cap Gemini and its committee has four directors: Mr. Daniel Bernard subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Committee is responsible (Independent Director) was appointed Chairman of the for all matters relating to the selection, appraisal, annual Committee on March 5, 2014 to replace Mr. Serge Kampf, who independence review and compensation of the Company’s remained a committee member until he passed away on directors. It draws the attention of the Chairman of the Board of March 15, 2016. As Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Directors to any potential situations of conflict of interest it has Committee, Mr. Daniel Bernard is also the Lead Independent identified between a director and the Company or its Group or Director since May 7, 2014, as the Board of Directors’ Charter between directors. It must be ready to implement the measures confers the duties of Lead Independent Director on the necessary should the need to replace the Chairman and Chief Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee. Executive Officer suddenly arises. It must handle and propose to The other members of the Committee are Ms. Laurence Dors the Board any changes it considers appropriate or relevant to (Independent Director), Mr. Pierre Pringuet (Independent Director) the Board’s operation and composition (co-opting a new and Mr. Bruno Roger. director or replacing a resigning director, increasing the proportion of female directors, diversity of profiles and expertise This committee met six times in 2016, with an average of directors, etc.) or to the governance structure currently in attendance rate of 96% based on the current composition. The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Daniel BERNARD 100% Laurence DORS 100% Pierre PRINGUET 83% Bruno ROGER 100% It is recalled that the Group’s founder, Mr. Serge Kampf, died on (in addition to issues concerning the composition of the Board March 15, 2016. Due to ill health, he was unable to travel to Ethics referred to above), notably with respect to changes to the & Governance Committee meetings held prior to his death. bylaws concerning employee representation on the Board of Directors and the introduction of a mechanism enabling the Committee activities in 2016 staggered renewal of the terms of office of directors; The activities of the Ethics & Governance Committee focused on ◗ debated several times the changes in and composition of the the following issues in 2016: Specialized Board Committees; ◗ issued recommendations to the Board on changes in the Audit Governance Committee’s risk management role based on a study conducted The Ethics & Governance Committee: by an external consultant and prepared the resulting ◗ was involved in the definition of the profile and the choice of two amendments to the Charters of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, renamed the Audit & Risk Committee; new female directors, under the supervision of its Chairman, the Lead Independent Director, and recommended the candidacy of ◗ prepared amendments to the Charter of the Board of Directors Ms. Sîan Herbert-Jones and Ms. Carole Ferrand to the Board of covering a range of issues in addition to risk management, Directors, which proposed their appointment to the Combined including the participation of directors representing employees Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016; on the Board and amendments required by the entry into effect ◗ was briefed on the process to renew the term of office of the of new regulatory provisions; employee representing employee shareholders; ◗ under the auspices of the Chairman, the Lead Independent ◗ debated the consequences of changes in the composition of the Director, was briefed on and discussed the annual assessment of the activities of the Board and its Specialized Committees Board on total attendance fees; performed at the beginning of 2016 in respect of 2015; ◗ monitored the dialogue between the Company and its ◗ was briefed on and discussed the formal assessment of the shareholders and proxy advisors in connection with the Board’s activities in 2016 conducted at the end of 2016 by an preparation of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and external consultant under the responsibility of its Chairman, the prepared the governance issues presented to the Board and Lead Independent Director; then to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 76 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors ◗ deliberated the independence of directors and the absence of ◗ in the second section of the report, an audit report concluding conflict of interest in preparation for the Registration Document; that the ethical framework within which the Group has decided ◗ monitored changes in the AFEP-MEDEF Code and their impacts to operate, is, overall, correctly understood and followed on the governance of the Company; throughout the Group. The report contains recommendations following 2016 audits to help further improve compliance with ◗ was briefed on changes in legislative and regulatory provisions Group ethical rules and principles. (statutory audit reform, European market abuse regulation, so-called “Sapin 2” law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of the economy) and their The Strategy and Investment Committee 2 consequences for Cap Gemini; ◗ was also briefed on the conclusions and observations of the High Committee for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de STRATEGY & INVESTMENT COMMITTEE IN 2016 (1) Gouvernement d’Entreprise, HCGE) presented in its 2016 5 ATTENDANCE activity report and of the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) presented in its 2016 report on corporate governance and executive management compensation in listed companies; MEETINGS 100% 60% ◗ prepared the work of the Board on the proposed conversion of the Company to a European company (SE); ◗ launched a debate on the composition of the Board and its Specialized Committees in preparation for the Combined 1 EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS (2) Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. (1) As at December 31, 2016. (2) The directors representing employees are not taken into account in calculating Talent Succession plans this percentage, in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The Ethics & Governance Committee: ◗ was briefed by Mr. Hubert Giraud, Director of People Committee duties Management and Talent Development, on the Group’s talent The role of this committee is to: pool and recommended that the pool of potential employees for promotion to the Group Executive Board and the Executive ◗ study in-depth the strategic options available to the Group to Committee be widened and include more women and ensure its continued growth, improve its profitability and international employees as well as former IGATE employees; maintain its independence to enrich Board discussions; ◗ was briefed on the launch of an assessment of the potential and ◗ determine the amount of investment required to implement each prospects of around 30 high potential Group employees; of these possible strategies; ◗ ensured that its Chairman was ready to implement the measures ◗ identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would necessary should the need to replace the Chairman and Chief appear able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of Executive Officer arise suddenly; these strategies; ◗ debated the director terms of office expiring at the 2018 ◗ finally, recommend a choice to the Board of Directors, by Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, including that of the executive presenting an opinion and/or recommendations (or at least corporate officer. establish an order of priority). More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on any Ethics direction or issue considered relevant to the Group’s future, The Ethics & Governance Committee interviewed the Ethics, provided it does not compromise the smooth running of Compliance and Internal Audit Director (Mr. Philippe Christelle), operations and guarantees operating and financial stability. these two functions being held by the same person since September 2015. Mr. Philippe Christelle submitted his report to Composition and participation the Committee presenting: From May 7, 2014 to September 1, 2016, this committee had ◗ in the first section an overview of the three Ethics & Compliance five directors: Mr. Bruno Roger, Chairman, Mr. Daniel Bernard activities (training, communication and professional warning (Independent Director), Mr. Paul Hermelin, Ms. Anne Bouverot procedure). This report highlighted the Group's major efforts in (Independent Director) and Ms. Caroline Watteeuw-Carlisle e-learning, in particular to integrate former IGATE employees to (Independent Director). the Group's Ethics & Compliance program (over 80,000 E&C This committee now has six directors, as Mr. Robert Fretel e-learning sessions were followed by former IGATE employees in joined the Strategy & Investment Committee when he became a 2016, representing approximately 50,000 hours of training). director representing employees on September 1, 2016. Finally, it highlighted that Capgemini was recognized as “One of the World’s Most Ethical Companies” in 2013, 2014, 2015 and The Committee met five times in 2016, with an average 2016 by the American Institute, Ethisphere, thereby confirming attendance rate of 100%. the quality of the Group's ethical responsibility culture towards our all its stakeholders; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 77 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors The individual attendance rate of each current member of the Committee was as follows: Bruno ROGER 100% Paul HERMELIN 100% Daniel BERNARD 100% Anne BOUVEROT 100% Robert FRETEL* 100% Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE 100% (*) Mr. Robert Fretel joined the Board of Directors on September 1, 2016 and attended the two Strategy & Investment Committee meetings held after this date. Committee activities in 2016 Group’s activity portfolio towards digital offerings, cloud migration In a year marked by the acquisition of IGATE, the Committee and new service platforms. spent a large part of its time monitoring the integration of this Finally it prepared the Board’s strategy meeting held in the fall, company. regularly reviewing working assumptions in light of market It also accompanied the management team with the developments. As this seminar, which seeks to adapt the Group’s implementation of the transformation and development plan, strategy priorities, was held in San Francisco this year, it also systematically reviewing external growth opportunities in-depth offered an opportunity for enriching discussions with the Group's before their presentation to the Board of Directors. In priority, it leading technology partners and to discover the Group's network studied opportunities helping to accelerate the rotation of the of Applied Innovation Exchanges. 2.2.5 Director compensation Total attendance fees The members of the Committees receive fees of €2,500 for each In compensation for the time spent participating in Board and attendance at a meeting. Committee meetings, the Company was authorized by the It was also decided to take account of the travel time of directors Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 to pay by awarding them additional attendance fees of €5,000 per Board attendance fees to directors of up to €1,200,000 per year. or Committee meeting for directors residing outside Europe and of The authorization given by the Combined Shareholders Meeting of €2,000 for directors residing in Europe but outside France. This May 18, 2016 to increase the total maximum amount of additional attendance fee is not allocated to directors representing attendance fees enabled the strategic objectives set by the Board employees, whose travel costs are covered otherwise. of Directors to be attained. This increase in the total amount of Attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the first attendance fees allowed the Board to continue the renewal of its six months and at the end of the year. composition, welcoming four new directors in 2016 including two These amounts could be reduced if circumstances require the directors representing employees, while focusing the increase Company to hold a greater than scheduled number of meetings, both on directors not residing in France and on those heavily resulting in aggregate attendance fees exceeding the threshold involved in the work of the Committees (as Chairmen or members authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting were these of several committees), while retaining the international outlook of “rates” to be maintained. the Board consistent with the international development and global presence of the Group. Attendance fees calculated and paid to directors in respect of fiscal year 2016 totaled €798,500, representing 67% of the ceiling authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Attendance fees allocation rules Attendance fees include for each director a fixed portion of It is recalled that Mr. Paul Hermelin voluntary waived his right to €15,000, and an amount of €4,000 for each attendance at a collect attendance fees as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in Board meeting. respect of 2016 (as both Mr. Serge Kampf and he had done for the last seven years). Attendance fees for the Specialized Board Committees were set with regard to the specific role of each committee and the ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive exclusively a fixed Other compensation annual payment of €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and A breakdown of compensation paid in respect of fiscal year 2016 Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee, €35,000 for the to the executive corporate officer, Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and €25,000 for the and Chief Executive Officer, is presented in section 2.4.2. Chairmen of the Compensation Committee and the Strategy & Mr. Paul Hermelin’s 2017 compensation is presented on page 85 Investment Committee. of this Registration Document. A fixed annual fee of €45,000 was allotted to the Vice-Chairman. A breakdown of attendance fees and other compensation paid to Mr. Serge Kampf waived his right to collect this fee in respect of other directors in respect of 2016 is presented in the section 2015, like all other attendance fees since 2009. entitled “Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers” on page 91. 78 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3.1 Operational structure The operational structure of the Group combines the key ◗ two systems integration and applicative maintenance Strategic 2 principles that have guided its development since its creation. The Business Units (Application Services) in the following regions and first principle, decentralization of the operating conduct of countries: business, seeks to ensure that operating managers act as ❚ AppsOne: North America, the United Kingdom and the Asiaentrepreneurs, committing to a budget and personal and Pacific region, collective objectives, the attainment of which decides their variable compensation. The second principle is the collective ambition to ❚ AppsTwo: Continental Europe; develop internationally and to lead the markets in which the Group ◗ the Group’s operations in Latin America (including the joint operates. The Company must therefore set operating managers venture in Brazil) encompassing the Application Services and ambitious commercial and financial performance objectives and Cloud Infrastructure Services businesses. provide them with the necessary means to react rapidly to market These basic units grouped, depending on their number, into requirements, to provide consistent responses to changes in larger business units reflect the Group’s presence in around forty demand and to implement the new opportunities offered by countries, which are in turn grouped into eight geographic areas, (1) particularly rapid and abundant technological innovation. The third useful for reporting purposes and comparing performance principle is financial performance, which enables external growth year-on-year: and development, ensuring the independence of the Group. ◗ North America; The Group organizational structure combining these principles, announced at the Rencontres gathering in Rome, was ◗ the United Kingdom and Ireland; implemented from January 1, 2016. ◗ France; It comprises Basic Business Units (BUs) of a size that allows their ◗ the rest of Europe which comprises of Germany and Central managers to remain in close contact with their clients and European countries, Benelux, Nordic countries and Southern technology partners, to know their employees well and to tightly Europe; manage the projects they entrust to them. ◗ and finally the Asia-Pacific and Latin America (LatAm) region. These basic units are grouped by business covering a given Alongside this organization by business and geographic area and market corresponding to either a geographic area or a sector or in order to accelerate the shift of the Group’s offering towards offering, known as “strategic businesses units”, “domains” or “Cloud” and “Digital” technologies, two transversal entities were “practices”. This grouping by business ensures consistent created, able to mobilize technology or functional resources economic models, the sharing of experience, the industrialization making them available to all Group business units and their clients: of distributed delivery processes and methods enabling the demands of international clients to be served efficiently and ◗ a Cloud Foundation Services department, mobilizing expertise in consistently. the shift to Cloud computing and particularly consulting, information systems architecture and transformation expertise; There are eight Strategic Business Units (SBUs): ◗ a Digital department, mobilizing competent technology ◗ five global Strategic Business Units: resources across three key digital transformation pillars: (i) ❚ Consulting Services, Insights and Data, i.e. data analysis and processing offerings (Big Data), (ii) Digital Customer Experience offerings allowing ❚ Cloud Infrastructure Services, i.e., the design, installation and Group clients to constantly optimize their customer relationships maintenance of client IT infrastructures, whether based on and finally (ii) Digital Manufacturing offerings, grouping together own tools (data center) or the use of public or partially the Group's know-how in the digitalization of industrial privatized capacities (Cloud), processes, the optimization of production assets and ❚ Business Services, grouping together B.P.O. (Business technologies enabling the connection of things. Process Outsourcing), operating solutions, inherited primarily The migration of the delivery system towards a distributed model from IGATE and Prosodie, which operates the customer combining resources located in different countries contributing relationship platforms, together to project performance or the maintenance of information ❚ Sogeti, present in around fifteen countries, which brings to systems and the desire to satisfy client cost expectations, led to the Group’s clients its network, infrastructure and local the creation of a specific department to steer improvements in the services experience and all of its technology services offer, Group's competitiveness on a cross-functional basis. It brings particularly security related, together in a streamlined management team, the production, ❚ Financial Services, which develops and promotes the Group methods and support department, a new industrialization Financial Services application offerings (systems integration, department tasked with reducing Group delivery costs and the applicative maintenance and testing) and, in close procurement department. The internal IT department reports to conjunction with the Business Services and Infrastructures this department since January 1, 2017. Services entities, leads the Group’s commercial efforts in these areas with major clients in this sector; (1) See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 79 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group 2.3.2 Group Management Five special-purpose committees assist Group Management: ◗ the Group Review Board, chaired by the Chairman and Chief Group Management, led by Paul Hermelin, is structured around Executive Officer, which examines the major business proposals two bodies: in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national or ◗ the Group Executive Board (GEB), whose role is to facilitate the multi-business framework agreements entered into with clients carrying out of Group operations and take the necessary steps or suppliers and major contracts involving guarantees given by with respect thereto. The GEB defines the broad strategies and the Group; actions to be submitted to the Executive Committee for approval ◗ the Merger & Acquisitions Committee which examines and ensures their implementation by the major business units. At which examines acquisition and divestment projects in the December 31, 2016, the GEB was comprised of Paul Hermelin course of identification, selection, assessment or negotiation; and the following six individuals presented in alphabetical order: ◗ the Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial ❚ Global functions: Officer, which reviews and provides advice with respect to ◗ Aiman Ezzat, Group Chief Financial Officer, projects requiring investment, including those involving real estate or investment in technologies; ◗ Hubert Giraud, Director of People Management and Talent Development, ◗ the Intellectual Property Committee which decides Group priorities and investments in this area and in particular the global ◗ Patrick Nicolet, Director of Group Competitiveness and roll-out of innovations resulting from local initiatives; India operating control. ◗ the Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, ❚ Operations: which is in charge of the effective implementation of the risk ◗ Thierry Delaporte, Financial Services Strategic Business identification and risk management system and which leads the Unit CEO and Latin America Strategic Business Unit associated internal controls. operating control, Finally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered useful ◗ Salil Parekh, AppsOne Strategic Business Unit CEO, Sogeti or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main countries), a and Cloud Infrastructure Services Strategic Business Units Coordination Committee was appointed bringing together local and Cloud Foundation Services operating control, managers of the different Group businesses and tasked with ◗ Olivier Sevillia, AppsTwo Strategic Business Unit CEO, improving cooperation (particularly with respect to actions carried Capgemini Consulting and Business Services Strategic out individually by one or other business for the major clients Business Units and Digital operating control; appearing in a list drawn up at the beginning of the year). ◗ the Executive Committee, whose role is to assist Group Management define broad strategies concerning the Group’s operating structure, the choice of priorities, production rules and 2.3.3 The central departments organization and the implementation conditions for human resources management. The Executive Committee meets once Group Management is assisted by the following central a month with, in addition to the Chairman and Chief Executive departments: Officer and GEB members: ❚ the Global Sales Director, The Finance Department The Finance Department is headed by Aiman Ezzat, who is ❚ the Delivery Director (Production/Methods and Support), responsible for: ❚ the General Secretary, ◗ Group operating management control, comprising supervision of ❚ the Marketing and Communications Director, the preparation of budgets, monthly forecasts and performance ❚ the Strategy and Development Director, monitoring as well as operational reporting and financial ❚ the Technologies and Intellectual Property Director, consolidation; ❚ the Head of Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility ◗ financing and treasury; and Commercial Coordination in the United Kingdom ◗ accounting books and records and accounting standards; ❚ the Heads of the above-mentioned Strategic Business Units, ◗ taxation and insurance; ❚ the Head of Application Services North America Business ◗ financial information systems and the transformation of finance; Unit, ◗ financial communication and investor relations; ❚ the India Operations Director, ◗ real estate and real estate transformation projects. ❚ the Asia-Pacific Executive Chairman. He also heads the Group’s global risk management process. The Executive Committee comprises a total of 21 persons. 80 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group People Management and Talent Development Capgemini India Department Srinivas Kandula is CEO of Capgemini India. He is responsible for The People Management and Talent Development Department is the development and performance of delivery centers based in headed by Hubert Giraud. Mr. Giraud is in charge of managing the India that employ some 100,000 people at December 31, 2016 to Group’s human resources policy with the principal aim of serve the Group's various businesses and countries. developing the skills and productivity of the Group’s employees. Mr. Kandula's main task is to bring operating performance to the His role is to lead local initiatives so that they reflect our on-going levels achieved by best-in-sector companies in India. commitment to performance, encourage a new generation of 2 managers and set up diversified and complementary career paths. He is responsible for modernizing and simplifying employee The General Secretary management tools as well as the policies rolled out in this area by This position is occupied by Jean-Baptiste Massignon who is the Group’s subsidiaries, particularly with respect to the retention responsible for: of high potential managers and their career orientation. He is ◗ legal affairs, which encompasses governance of the listed assisted by the Group Talent Management Director, who is company Cap Gemini S.A., the management of subsidiary legal responsible for talent management, developing leadership and affairs and legal support to operating activities; succession plans for our main executive managers. The Group Compensation and Benefits Director is responsible for the ◗ the management of the control process for risks presented by management of compensation policies applied in the Group, certain business proposals. In this respect, he prepares the those of Group managers and related share capital incentive decisions presented to the aforementioned Group Review programs. Board; ◗ the IT Security and Data Protection department which seeks to Competitiveness Department ensure the Group's compliance with the highest IT security standards, through the implementation of appropriate tools, The Competitiveness Department is headed by Patrick Nicolet, training and controls; who is responsible for: ◗ corporate secretarial services for Capgemini Service, the entity The Production/Methods and Support department which carries which provides operating and support services to Cap Gemini out the governance functions of risk management, compliance S.A. and production quality as well as other operating functions, as detailed below: The Global Sales Department ◗ the industrialization department, which is tasked with reducing Headed by Srikanth Iyengar, this department encompasses: delivery costs through the consolidation of processing volumes, the global organization of delivery centers and the roll-out of new ◗ the management of client offerings and the launch of growth delivery technologies. Action is focused in priority on automation, initiatives; with notably the launch in July 2016 of the Automation Drive ◗ the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the following initiative; sectors: Utilities / Distribution & Consumer Goods / Automobile ◗ the procurement department, which over and above managing Industry / initiatives managed centrally but entrusted, in the relations with all Group suppliers, contributes to arbitrating name and on behalf of the whole Group, to operating entities; between internal developments and the use of outside service ◗ the definition and standardization of sales support processes. providers and the supply of resources to our engagements; ◗ effective January 1, 2017, the Group internal IT department Technology and Intellectual Property Department manages the Group’s global infrastructures and applications. A This department, run by Lanny Cohen, manages technology complete overhaul of the network is currently being rolled-out directors for all of the Group's businesses and coordinates the and will serve as a basis for the digitalization of operations. work for all proprietary solutions making up the Group's intellectual property. It conducts and develops the technological The Production / Methods and Supports dialogue with the Group's major strategic partners and is department committed to placing their innovations and the Group's solutions Headed by André Cichowlas, this department is tasked with at the core of the Group's offering and service portfolio. designing and disseminating prevailing methodologies within the Group, certifying certain categories of employee (project leaders, architects, etc.) and performing audits of risk-sensitive projects conducted by specialized teams known as “flying squads”. It leads and supervises the various standardization and productivity improvement programs undertaken by the Group strategic business units. The current priority is optimizing management of the work force. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 81 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.3 General organization of the Group Development and Strategy Department The Ethics & Compliance and Internal Audit This department, managed by Pierre-Yves Cros, deals with all Department issues related to Strategy, as well as acquisitions and Headed by Philippe Christelle, the Internal Audit department divestments. It is primarily tasked with fostering deliberations on reports directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and is strategic issues by Group Management, the Board of Directors, its tasked with controlling the correct application by business units of Chairman and the Strategy & Investment Committee. As such, it Group principles and rules, particularly with respect to risk summarizes and develops the Group's internal and external management and control. The implementation of Internal Audit strategy. It maintains close relations with leading firms specializing recommendations by the relevant business units is systematically in analyzing the market and trends therein. The department monitored. oversees compliance with the Group's internal transformation program and monitors, in conjunction with the Technologies Philippe Christelle also heads the Ethics & Compliance Department, the emergence of innovative potential partners that department of the Group, reporting directly to Paul Hermelin. could contribute to the Group's organic growth. It examines acquisitions and divestments in close conjunction with the Finance Advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Department. Officer Mr. Cros is also responsible for relations with the Group's major Philippe Grangeon, Marketing and Communications Director until strategic and technology partners. December 31, 2015, occupies the position of Advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2016. He The Marketing and Communications Department serves as Chairman of Capgemini Université and of Capgemini Gouvieux, the company which operates the Fontaines site, a place Virginie Régis heads this department since January 1,2016. It is of training and meeting for Group employees and which also hosts responsible for the Group's internal and external communication events for non-Group clients. Philippe Grangeon also chairs the and is tasked with coordinating actions implemented in this area Board of Directors of Capgemini Technology Services Maroc. by operating subsidiaries as well as their marketing deliberations and initiatives. The Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility department Ms. Christine Hodgson is in charge of the Group’s social and environmental responsibility policy which is managed by a department that she heads and a committee that she chairs comprising Group managers and employees from a wide range of backgrounds. This committee considers the challenges of protecting the environment, diversity and corporate citizenship. She reports to Hubert Giraud, Director of People Management and Talent Development, in respect of these duties. Ms. Hodgson also chairs the United Kingdom Commercial Coordination committee and reports directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in this respect. 82 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers The description of the compensation policy in the section 2.4.1 below, corresponds to the report of the Board of Directors to shareholders established pursuant to the provisions of Article L225-37-2 of the Code de Commerce related to the principles and criteria of the Executive Officers compensation. It remains subject to shareholders' approval at the Combined Shareholders's meeting of May 10, 2017. 2 2.4.1 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer compensation policy General Principles adequate level compared with comparable sector compensation The procedures for setting the compensation of the Chairman and in France and abroad. The Group also ensures that the respective Chief Executive Officer comply with the recommendations of the proportions of fixed and variable components and share grants revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in November 2016. valued in accordance with IFRS are balanced, in line with market Compensation components and structure were determined in practices and linked to Company’s performance and aligned accordance with the recommendations of this Code, whether to Group strategy. The fixed component is determined in fixed or variable compensation, the grant of equity instruments or accordance with a major philosophy specific to the Group, which supplementary pension benefits. aligns the compensation structure of the Chief Executive Officer with that of key operating managers. One of the historical In addition to complying with “market” rules and in line with past rules of the Group is that the remuneration of executive Group practice, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does management comprises a fixed component equal to 60% of the not have an employment agreement, is not entitled to termination target theoretical compensation and a variable component equal benefits, is not covered by a non-compete clause and receives no to 40% of this amount subject to the attainment of pre-defined benefits in kind. In addition, he has waived his right to receive collective and individual objectives. attendance fees since fiscal year 2009. The Compensation Committee also monitors the main practices of These principles are regularly reviewed and discussed by the its international competitors. Compensation practices in North Compensation Committee which submits a report on its work and America and India are structurally and culturally different from its resulting proposals to the Board of Directors for approval. those applied in European companies. Observing their practices The Compensation Committee refers in particular to comparative nonetheless provides relevant information on the nature of the studies to ensure the transparency, consistency and market and compensation levels. In American companies such as competitiveness of both the compensation level and structure CSC, Accenture and IBM, total compensation includes a and calculation methods with market practice. The Committee’s substantial proportion of long-term share-based compensation recommendations take account of executive management compensation levels and components in CAC 40 companies as Procedures for setting fixed and variable well as observed practice in leading French and foreign Group compensation competitors in the IT services and consulting sector. The procedures for setting Mr. Paul Hermelin’s compensation in Compensation publication practice varies significantly between the respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the Board of Directors’ countries and legal structures of competitors, in particular in the Meeting in Y held to approve the financial statements of fiscal case of partnerships. CAC 40 companies are therefore the most year Y-1. As indicated above, this compensation comprises – as relevant benchmark and the most transparent, but additional does that of all key executive managers of the Group – fixed analyses take account of the international and competitive aspects compensation paid in 12 monthly installments equal to 60% of the of the sector in which the Company operates. total theoretical amount if objectives are achieved and variable The Compensation Committee took due note of the observations compensation equal to 40% of this total theoretical amount, issued to Cap Gemini in July 2014 by the High Committee for closely correlated to the Company’s performance. Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de Gouvernement The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning of the d’Entreprise, HCGE) and of its 2015 and 2016 activity reports, as year for the year in progress: well as of the AMF 2015 and 2016 reports on corporate governance and executive management compensation in listed ◗ the theoretical fixed and variable compensation components. companies. These observations were taken into account and The theoretical variable component is in turn split into two parts: integrated into the items detailed below. No observations were V1 tied to Group performance indicators and consolidated made in 2015 and 2016. results and V2 based on the attainment of individual objectives, with 50% minimum based on quantified objectives, set by the When performing comparisons with French companies of Board of Directors. Each of these components can vary comparable size and ambition, the Compensation Committee between 0% and a ceiling equal to 200% of the theoretical ensures that Cap Gemini’s practices are in line with the best amount. Therefore, as a result of this system, fixed plus variable practices of CAC 40 companies in terms of both the clarity and compensation may vary between 60% and 140% of annual consistency of methods applied. As in previous years, the Group theoretical/target compensation. The variable component and participated in 2016 in comparative studies of the main French the total compensation are therefore both capped and the companies carried out by specialist firms. These comparisons variable component may not represent more than 133% of show that Mr. Paul Hermelin’s global compensation is close to the fixed compensation as indicated in the summary table median compensation for CAC 40 companies, and is of an below; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 83 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers ◗ the fixed component is not reviewed annually, but after several The V1 component varies in line with a formula applied for many years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Mr. Paul decades within the Group, that accelerates actual performance Hermelin’s fixed compensation was increased in 2008 and was upwards and downwards such that: only reviewed in 2013 (+10%) following an extension of his ◗ the V1 component is nil if the weighted performance of financial responsibilities and to reflect the strong growth and international indicators is less than or equal to 75%; expansion of the Group and has remained unchanged since; ◗ the V1 component can reach twice the theoretical amount if the ◗ the internal performance indicators included in the calculation of weighted performance is greater than or equal to 125%; varying the V1 component and the weighting applied to each indicator. on a straight-line basis between these two limits. The level of attainment of these indicators is determined based on a comparison of actual audited and budgeted Group The level of attainment of objectives and the amount of the consolidated results. The indicators adopted in line with the key variable compensation components are decided pursuant to the indicators presented regularly to the market and are tied to: recommendation of the Compensation Committee, by the Board of Directors’ meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial ❚ growth through Group Revenue for 30%, statements of fiscal year Y. The Committee meets on several ❚ operating profitability through Group Operating margin for occasions before the Board of Directors’ Meeting to appraise the 30%, percentage attainment by Mr. Paul Hermelin of his objectives. An ❚ cash generation through the Group Free Organic Cash Flow executive session of the Board was held in December 2016 and for 20%, another one in February 2017 to assess such performance before the Board of Directors which decides the level of attainment by ❚ shareholders return through net profit for another 20% as this Mr. Hermelin of his objectives. is the driver to assess the dividend level; The variable compensation used to be paid end of March, after ◗ the individual performance objectives underlying V2 the Board of Directors’ Meeting that approves the financial compensation. The strategic and operating objectives for 2016 statements for fiscal year Y, underlying the calculation of the felt into four main categories, “Succesfull IGATE integration”, various variable compensation components and that decided the “New Strategic Development”, “Strategic agenda around percentage attainment of individual objectives set. Going forward, Industrialization and account centric culture” and “HR the variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive transformation”. The Board of Directors ensured the objectives Officer will be paid following approval by the Shareholders Meeting were based on directly measurable items so that overall 75% of of the compensation elements for fiscal year Y. the total variable compensation was based on quantitative data and, that objectives are clearly tied to the roll out of the Group’s strategy priorities approved by the Board of Directors as conditions to deliver the long term strategic plan. Summary table of the theoretical structure of fixed and variable compensation Theoretical compensation structure, base 100 Target Min Max Gross fixed compensation 60 60 60 Annual variable compensation V1 20 0 40 Annual variable compensation V2 20 0 40 Multi-year variable compensation 0 0 0 THEORETICAL TOTAL IF OBJECTIVES ARE ATTAINED 100 60 140 % variable / fixed 67% 0% 133% Cap Gemini share-based incentive policy ◗ the performance conditions are set in the resolution submitted procedures for shareholders' approval and include, internal and external performance conditions in accordance with the AMF The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and now recommendation, and are calculated over a 3 year period; grants performance shares in accordance with the following principles: ◗ the number of shares granted to executive corporate officers pursuant to the resolutions presented to shareholder vote is ◗ performance shares are granted subject to the same conditions limited (maximum of 10% of shares available for grant set in the of presence and performance as applicable to other Group last resolution voted on May 18, 2016 and maximum of 5% for beneficiaries and all shares are subject to performance an Executive Director alone). The performance shares granted to conditions. Mr. Paul Hermelin received performance shares in Mr. Paul Hermelin in 2014 and 2015 represented 3.14% and 2009, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 but was not granted 2.32% respectively of the total amount authorized by the any shares in 2010 or 2011; Combined Shareholders Meeting for the corresponding periods ◗ the performance conditions are ambitious, as demonstrated by and 3.58% and 3.2% of the total amount granted to all the first two share grants in 2009 and 2010, where the vesting beneficiaries within these resolutions. These percentages were rates were only 50% and 68.5%, respectively, of the number of 2.44% and 2.52% respectively for 2016. Since 2009 and over shares initially granted; eight performance share grants, the average percentages are 2.19% and 2.99% respectively; 84 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers ◗ the IFRS value of shares granted targets not to exceed around The terms of the supplementary pension which rights were frozen 100% of the theoretical yearly cash compensation for a given in 2015 following the closing of the plan are described in section year, and over the last 3 years this value has ranged from 60% 2.4.2 thereafter, being specified that when implemented the plan to 93% of the theoretical cash compensation; was fully aligned with AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations. ◗ Mr. Paul Hermelin is required to hold all vested performance A one off award, if any would only be applicable in case of an shares received under the 2009, 2012 and 2013 plans until the external hiring of an Executive Officer with the need to buy out later of: awards that would be lost following this hiring decision. In such ❚ the end of the mandatory two-year holding period (2009 case, the award would be proportionate to the lost amounts. 2 plan), extended to four years (2012 and 2013 plan), and Fixed and variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief ❚ the expiry of his term as corporate officer. Executive Officer for 2017 ◗ since then and in accordance with the recommendation of the Following the principles just described, The Board decided, AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors decided that vested pursuant to the recommendation of the Compensation performance shares representing at least 50% of shares must Committee, to leave Mr. Paul Hermelin’s theoretical compensation be retained, where the amount of shares held represents less unchanged for 2017 at €2,420,000 (since 2013). This implies that than twice the theoretical annual salary (fixed and variable). Once the fixed part of Mr. Hermelin, will remain at €1,452,000 for 2017. this threshold is reached, the obligation to retain performance The Board also set the procedure for calculating the variable shares only applies to one third of shares vested. As this component of Mr. Hermelin’s compensation for fiscal year 2017, threshold had been attained at the time of the July 2014 grant defining the performance indicators underlying the V1 calculation, and similarly as of the July 2015 and 2016 grants, the obligation as well as the personal strategic objectives adopted for the V2 to hold shares that vest as a result of these grants was set at component. one-third of vested shares vested. Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for 2017 V1 ◗ given the significant number of shares held by Mr. Paul compensation will remain as follows: Hermelin, he has not been required to buy a set number of ◗ revenue growth: 30% weighting; shares on the delivery of the vested shares; ◗ operating margin rate: 30% weighting; ◗ share hedging transactions are prohibited before the end of the mandatory holding period. This prohibition is included in the ◗ pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; grant plan rules and applies to all beneficiaries. It applies since ◗ free cash flow: 20% weighting. the first performance share grant plan in 2009. The level of attainment of these indicators will be determined as in ◗ in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF past years, based on a comparison of actual audited and Code, performance share grants will be performed from now on budgeted Group consolidated results and will be subject ot the at the same calendar periods and will be decided by either the accelerated formula (upward or downward). Board of Directors’ Meeting at the end of July or the following The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2017 V2 variable meeting. This was the case in 2015 and 2016 as the grant was compensation have been assigned an individual specific weight. made in July in both cases; They relate to the operational transformation of the Group in 2017 ◗ however a special grant was made in February 2016 targeting in line with its strategic plan and associated indicators, in particular former IGATE employees as at the time of the 2015 grant made around: in July 2015, IGATE had just been bought not leaving enough time to ensure a proper selection of the beneficiaries. Therefore i) the Digital and Cloud strategic road map, 40% weighting (out of and after having informed the HCGE of our intention, a special which 15% quantifiable); grant has been made in February 2016 for this specific and ii) the HR and delivery strategy around diversity, talent limited population. Neither the Chief Executive Officer nor the management and mobility, 30% weighting (out of which 15% Group Executive Committee members were concerned by this quantifiable); and grant. iii) the growth of the North American market, 30% weighting (out of which 20% quantifiable). Other items The Compensation Committee has formalized these objectives in The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: such a way as they can be clearly assessed on objective grounds ◗ has waived his right to receive director’s fees since 2009; at the end of 2017 with a weight of 50% based on quantified objectives and the Board shared the same imperative when ◗ is not entitled to termination benefits; finalizing the objectives. Therefore 75% of the variable part will be ◗ is not covered by a non-compete clause; subject to a quantitative evaluation in 2017. ◗ does not benefit from a multi-year variable or deferred Payment of the variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief compensation mechanism; Executive Officer for fiscal year 2017 remains subject to approval ◗ does not benefit from one off awards; by the shareholders at the Shareholders' Meeting to beheld in 2018. ◗ does not have fringe benefits. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 85 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.4.2 2016 Compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (gross amounts) Compensation in respect of 2015 Compensation in respect of 2016 Mr. Paul Hermelin: Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter Paid in 2015 Paid in 2016 Total 2015 Paid in 2016 Paid in 2017 Total 2016 Gross fixed compensation 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 1,452,000 Annual variable compensation 24,200 1,085,279 1,109,479 24,200 1,051,655 1,075,855 Multi-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind* 3,652 3,652 TOTAL COMPENSATION DUE IN RESPECT OF FINANCIAL YEAR 1,479,852 1,085,279 2,565,131 1,476,200 1,051,655 2,527,855 In addition, the value of performance shares granted during the year and valued as per the IFRS rules on grant date are reported below: Value of multi-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of options granted during the year Value of performance shares granted during the year 2,266,678 2,266,678 2,212,650 2,212,650 TOTAL 2,266,678 2,266,678 2,212,650 2,212,650 (*) no benefits in kind in 2016 Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in November 2016 with which Capgemini complies, the compensation of executive corporate officers due or awarded in respect of the year then ended of each executive corporate officer must be presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for a mandatory vote. The following table summarizes the compensation components subject to shareholder advisory vote pursuant to the say on pay policy. 86 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2016 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and subject to shareholder mandatory vote Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2016 was approved by the Board of Directors 2 compensation (paid in 2016) on February 17, 2016 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged on 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Paul Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and the evolution and internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.2% per annum. This theoretical compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives. Annual €1,075,855 During the Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 15, 2017, the Board, based on the audited and variable (paid in 2017) approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount compensation of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2016, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results as compared to an ambition decided by the Board: 1) % attainment of the revenue: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2016 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the objectives set by the Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 17, 2016. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 98.39%, 94.98%, 95.07% and 120.22% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted attainment rate of 101.07%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 75% (was 70% last year), the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 125% (was 130% last year), the V1 component will be capped and equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 4%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 100.1% in 2016 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 104.28%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*104.28 = €504,735. V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into four categories: “Success of IGATE integration” for 30%, “new strategic development” for 20%, “Strategic agenda around industrialization and account centricity culture” for 25% and “HR transformation” for 25%. For the first category (Success of IGATE integration-30%), the Board set three indicators each with the same weight, including two quantitative measures around i) ensuring the retention of the IGATE VP talent base and ii) ensuring the retention of the IGATE top 20 client base, through a net revenue increase in 2016 vs. 2015. For these two quantitative measures the achievements were on i) exceeded and on ii) an increase superior to Group growth. For the third indicator, the Board made a qualitative evaluation of the integration impact on the strengthening of our Indian and US operations and of our client centric culture and highlighted in particular, a reinforced account centricity culture and Capgemini brand. In regard to the achieved quantified indicators and to the qualitative evaluation, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been achieved at 140%. For the second category (Next strategic development-20%), the Board based its recommendations on two qualitative objectives i) the identification of appropriate acquisition targets and ii) the Cloud and Digital development strategy. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 90%. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 87 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation For the third category (Industrialization and account centricity-25%), the Board took into consideration three quantitative indicators each with a 5% weight i) the revenue growth of Cloud and Digital offerings, ii) a corresponding ambitious contribution margin trend and iii) the growth of Group & countries strategic accounts to be higher than the Group revenue growth. For these three indicators the achievements have been considered respectively i) exceeded with a growth of Cloud and Digital offerings higher than 20%, ii) not reached and iii) exceeded. In addition, the Board considered from a qualitative standpoint accounting for 10% overall, that covers i) the successful European transformation plan, ii) the launch of a reinforced Digital organization driving high growth in this domain and iii) the drive toward a global mindset through the Power of One initiatives and set the qualitative part at 100%. The Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 133% for the quantitative objectives and at 100% for the qualitative ones for an overall total of 120%. For the fourth category (HR transformation-25%), the Board considered as well two set of quantitative measures counting for 15% around i) the hiring and development of Senior Executives with a refreshment of the VP population including external hires and ii) an acceleration of mobility within the Group in 2016. For these indicators the achievements have been respectively i) achieved for the refreshment ratio and exceeded with a number of recruited VPs from Cloud & Digital domains aligned to our growth in these sectors and ii) an increase of the mobility with 26% more moves than targeted within the VP population. In addition, the Board evaluated from a qualitative standpoint accounting for 10% overall, the HR strategy implemented to accelerate cross unit mobility and succession plans looking at i) the deployment across all units of the Strategic Talent Reviews aimed at covering successions plans, improving gender diversity and boosting mobility, ii) the study made with a top notch company to evaluate a set of Group top executives and iii) the deployment of a revamped leadership model. The Board considered that the HR transformation objectives have been reached at 112%. The Board approved a rounded weighted performance of 118% as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative IGATE integration 20% 10% 30.1% 12% New strategic development 20% 18% Strategic agenda 15% 10% 20% 10% HR transformation 15% 10% 18.2% 10% Total 50% 50% 68.3% 50% Target 100% Proposed 118% leading to a V2 calculation of €571,120. Accordingly, a variable compensation of €1,075,855 was approved by the Board for 2016, i.e. 74.1% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 111.1% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2016 is therefore €2,527,855 i.e. 104.5% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2016 Variable compensation calculation for Mr. Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets % of Indicators Weight achievement Weighted Total Revenue 30% 98.4% 29.5% Operational Margin % 30% 95.0% 28.5% Net results before tax 20% 95.1% 19.0% Organic Free cash Flow 20% 120.2% 24.0% Total weighted R/B before flex 101.1% Total weighted after 75/125 flex (4*weighted R/B-3) 104.3% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 504,735 88 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation V2: qualitative part based on 2016 objectives Categories Weight Weighted total Succesful IGATE integration 30% 2 Next strategic development 20% 118.0% Account centricity and Industrialisation 25% HR strategy 25% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 571,120 TOTAL 2016 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1,075,855 As a % of the total variable on target 111.1% As a % of fixed compensation 74.1% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid after the submission of the compensation policy to the shareholders. Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock Performance 42,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. options, shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance performance €2,212,650 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of shares or any (accounting the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2016 to 2018. The other form value on minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €2.4 billion. Above this threshold, shares vest of long-term grant date) progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of compensation €2.7 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 100% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 50% of the initial grant vests. The external condition has been strengthened as the effective vesting of shares starts from a minimum achievement of 100% of the basket of comparable companies, while it historically started at 90%. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.001% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. Ninth resolution Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on July 26, 2016 Stock No stock options or other items were granted. options = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect fees waiver attendance fees as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2016 (as both Mr. Serge Kampf and he have done for the last seven years). Valuation €0 No benefits in kind. of benefits in kind Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 89 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Other compensation components Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2016 that were presented to the Shareholders’ Meeting for vote pursuant to the regulated agreements and commitments procedure Amount subject to vote Presentation Termination payments €0 No entitlement to termination payments. Non-compete N/A No non-compete indemnities. indemnities Supplementary pension €0 No amount due in respect of the year benefits Mr. Paul Hermelin is a member of the supplementary collective defined benefit pension plan (Article 39) setup in 2006 in Capgemini Service, under the same conditions applicable to other employee members. This plan was reviewed by an external firm which confirmed that it complies with the AFEP-MEDEF recommendations of October 6, 2009, as it complies with the revised AFEP-MEDEF Governance Code issued in June 2013. The plan was closed to new beneficiaries in 2015 and rights of existing members have been frozen as of October 31, 2015. In order to receive benefits under this plan it is necessary to be with the Group at the time of retirement, to have at least 10 years of seniority, to have been a Group Executive Member for at least 5 years and to have a compensation level above 8 PASS (French annual social security ceiling) during 5 years at least. Benefits are based on reference earnings equal to the average of the three best years (fixed and variable part) from among the ten years preceding retirement. In addition, this supplementary pension is subject to three cumulative limits such that the pension amount cannot exceed: ■ 40% of reference earnings; ■ 50% of reference earnings, including pensions received under all other pension plans; and ■ reference earnings are capped at 60 times the French annual social security ceiling. Benefits are proportional to length of service (minimum of 10 years required and a maximum of 30 years), reflecting the required progressive acquisition of entitlement, which remains well below the threshold set by the AFEP-MEDEF code and the recent legal ceiling of 3% per annum. Entitlement is acquired at a rate of 1.5% per year for the first 10 years of seniority and for subsequent years only at rates of: 1% up to 20 PASS 2% between 20 and 40 PASS 3% between 40 and 60 PASS Therefore, the maximum possible annual entitlement is equal to 1.83% before potential impact of the cumulative limits. Due to the long seniority of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer( frozen at 23 years in 2015) the value of the annual pension is estimated at a net amount after income tax and employee social contribution of 300k€, corresponding to a gross amount of 901k€ or 37% of his 2016 theoretical compensation. The plan is financed through an external insurance company and as such the required funds to pay the pension support a contribution of 24%. Also as the pension is higher than 8 PASS the pension supports a contribution estimated at 30% as in previous years. 21 members have benefited from this regime since its launch with 9 presently active as of 31/12/2016. Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007 Fourth resolution in respect of regulated agreements. 90 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Employment contract of executive corporate his entitlement to pension benefits, given his seniority in the Group officers on this date (23 years) and the services he has rendered to the Company and was in no way motivated by a desire to maintain for With regards to Mr. Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers that his benefit any entitlement to a severance pay provision stipulated his employment contract has been suspended in its entirety since in his employment contract (his contract does not contain any May 24, 1996 (date from which he exercised his first term of office such provision). In keeping with this measure, Mr. Paul Hermelin as a member of the Management Board), but that it was decided following his commitment to the Board of Directors to waive his in 2009, pursuant to a recommendation by the Selection & employment contract on reaching the age at which he may legally Compensation Committee, to maintain jointly his term as 2 exercise his right to retire, informed the Board of Directors’ corporate officer and his employment contract. This decision was Meeting of February 18, 2015 that he waived his employment based on the desire to maintain for this executive corporate officer contract as from that date. Indemnities or benefits following appointment, Supplementary termination or Indemnities in Executive corporate officers: employment contracts and Employment pension plan change in respect of non deferred compensation contract (see before) function compete clause Mr. Paul Hermelin Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter No Yes No No 2.4.3 Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers In compensation for the time spent participating in Board and ◗ payment of a fixed amount of €2,500 for each attendance at a Committee meetings, the Company was authorized by the meeting of one of the four specialized Board Committees Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 to pay (excluding the Committee Chairmen); attendance fees to directors of up to €1,200,000 per year. The ◗ payment of additional attendance fees of €5,000 per Board or method of allocating attendance fees between directors was Committee meeting to take account of the travel time of reviewed in 2014, following the external assessment of the Board directors resident outside Europe and of €2,000 for directors of Directors performed in 2013 and sought to take better account resident outside France but in Europe. This additional of the increasing workload of Committee Chairmen and attendance fee is not allocated to Directors representing encourage good attendance at meetings as well as of the travel employees, whose travel costs are covered otherwise; time of Directors resident outside France. Accordingly, attendance fees are now allocated on the following basis: ◗ attendance fees are calculated in two parts, at the end of the first six months and at the end of the year and are paid in two ◗ payment of a fixed amount of €15,000 per year to each director; installments; ◗ payment of a fixed amount of €4,000 for each attendance at an ◗ these fixed amounts could be reduced if circumstances require official meeting of the Board; the Company to hold a greater than scheduled number of ◗ attendance fees for the specialized Board Committees were set meetings, resulting in aggregate attendance fees exceeding the with regard to the specific role of each committee and the threshold authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. ongoing work required of Chairmen, who now receive a fixed It is recalled that Mr. Paul Hermelin voluntarily waived his right to annual payment of: collect the attendance fees that should have been paid to him as ❚ €45,000 for the Lead Independent Director and Chairman of director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2016 (as both Mr. Serge the Ethics, Governance and Selection Committee and Kampf and he have done for the last seven years). €45,000 for the Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors, In application of the above principles, total attendance fees of ❚ €35,000 for the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, €798,500 were paid to directors in respect of 2016, representing ❚ €25,000 for the Chairmen of the Compensation Committee 67% of the maximum amount authorized by the Combined and the Strategy & Investment Committee; Shareholders’ Meeting. After deduction of French and foreign withholding tax, a net amount of €518,650 was paid in respect of 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 91 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Attendance fees due in respect of one fiscal year and paid during another fiscal year are detailed below: Amount due in Amount due in respect Gross amount paid Gross amount paid (in euros) respect of 2016 of 2015 in 2016 in 2015 Serge KAMPF (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Daniel BERNARD 96,500 110,000 98,000 110,883 Anne BOUVEROT 47,500 76,500 63,000 76,500 Yann DELABRIÈRE 74,000 82,000 74,000 84,288 Laurence DORS 69,000 80,000 73,000 70,500 Carole FERRAND 29,500 n/a 5,000 n/a Robert FRETEL 18,000 n/a 0 n/a Siân HERBERT-JONES 29,500 n/a 5,000 n/a Paul HERMELIN (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) Phil LASKAWY* 74,000 92,500 80,500 85,500 Kevin MASTERS 15,500 n/a 0 n/a Xavier MUSCA 54,000 49,000 47,500 51,000 Pierre PRINGUET 76,500 86,000 80,500 83,277 Bruno ROGER 79,000 90,000 83,000 84,277 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 46,500 65,000 50,500 61,000 Caroline WATTEEUW-CARLISLE* 89,000 112,500 95,500 115,500 TOTAL 798,500 843,500 755,500 822,725 (*) As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these non-resident beneficiaries. A 36.5% deduction at source for income tax and CSG/CRDS social security contributions was also applied to amounts paid to beneficiaries resident in France. The non-executive directors did not receive any compensation Chairman of Capgemini Service SAS, Chairman of Capgemini other than attendance fees, with the exception of the directors Switzerland since its creation in 1968, Director of Capgemini North representing either employee shareholders (Ms. Lucia America Inc. (USA) and sole partner of S.C.I. Paris Étoile. He Sinapi-Thomas) or Group employees (Mr. Robert Fretel and Mr. received a total compensation of €198,260 in respect of these Kevin Masters), who hold employment contracts from their duties in 2016. respective Group legal entities in respect of their local functions, With regard to Mr. Yann Delabrière, MM Consulting, a legal entity that are unrelated to their corporate office in the Company and of of which he is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has Yann Delabrière who has contracted a senior advisor contract contracted a one year agreement with Capgemini Consulting in with a Group entity (see below). order to support this entity Digital manufacturing go to market With regard to Mr. Serge Kampf, Group founder, readers are strategy, leveraging his knowledge of the automotive industry. The reminded that he has exercised– in addition to his duties as agreement started in October and for the work performed in 2016 Chairman of Cap Gemini S.A. until May 24, 2012several other fees billed to the consulting entity amounted to €87,000. duties within the Group until his death in March 2016, such as 92 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers 2.4.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares The following tables present a breakdown of stock options and ◗ in regard to the external performance condition, due to the performance shares granted to, exercised by or vested to strong share price performance over the calculation period, the executive corporate officers during 2016 and historical information relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share price vs. the on stock options and performance shares granted: basket of comparable companies has been above 110%, target enabling to definitely grant 100% of shares related to the It should be noted that: external condition. In regard to the internal condition, the organic 2 ◗ stock options have not been granted within Group since 2009; free cash flow generation over the period 2013 to 2015 has ◗ performance shares have vested to Mr. Paul Hermelin in 2016 been above the ceiling of €1.1 billion which was initially set to for a total of 50,000 shares corresponding to the vesting of the enable the maximum grant allocation associated to the internal grant of performance shares of 2014; performance condition. Therefore the two set conditions have exceeded the maximum limits, enabling full allocation and the French fiscal residents beneficiaries have therefore been granted 100% of their initial grant proposal, associated in their case of a minimum holding period of four years, Mr. Hermelin being in addition subject to specific rules described before. Value of options Stock options granted Number and type using the method during the year to each (purchase or adopted in the executive corporate officer Plan date subscription) of consolidated by Cap Gemini S.A. and/or and options granted financial any other Group company number during the year statements Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Stock options exercised Number of during the year by each Plan date options executive corporate and exercised during officer number the year Strike price Exercise period Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Value of shares Performance shares calculated using granted during the year Theoretical the method to each executive maximum adopted in the corporate officer by Cap Plan date number of shares consolidated Gemini S.A. and/or any and granted during financial Potential Potential Performance other Group company number the year statements vesting date availability date conditions A detailed description Later of the end of the conditions is of his term of presented in Note 12 8th plan of office and of the Consolidated Paul HERMELIN 07/26/2016 42,000 €2,212,650 08/01/2019 08/01/2021 Financial Statements Performance shares Plan date Number of vested to each executive and shares vested Vesting Year of corporate officer number during the year conditions grant 5th plan Paul HERMELIN 2014 50,000 n/a 2014 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 93 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Historical information concerning stock options granted to corporate officers The Group has not granted any stock options since 2008 and the last grant performed on June 1, 2008 expired in 2013. Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 10/01/2005 10/01/2006 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 Plan number 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted 1,915,500 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 o/w granted to Serge Kampf (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to Paul Hermelin 50,000 50,000 (nil) (nil) (nil) o/w granted to the ten employees receiving the greatest number of shares 109,000 200,000 86,000 114,000 60,000 Start of exercise period 10/01/2006 10/01/2007 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 Expiry date 09/30/2010 09/30/2011 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 30 43 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years Historical information concerning performance shares Plan number 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan 2013 Plan 2014 Plan 2015 Plan 2015 Plan 2016 Plan Grant date 03/05/2009 10/01/2010 12/12/2012 02/20/2013 07/30/2014 07/29/2015 02/17/2016 07/26/2016 Number of performance shares initially granted 1,148,250 1,555,000 1,003,500 1,209,100 1,290,500 1,068,550 180,500 1,663,500 o/w granted to Paul Hermelin* 50,000 (nil) 50,000 50,000 50,000 40,000 (nil) 42,000 Number of shares vested 485,750 881,048 383,000 355,600 391750 n/a n/a n/a o/w to Paul Hermelin* 25,000 (nil)) 50,000 50,000 50,000 n/a n/a n/a Cumulative number of shares cancelled or expired 662,500 673,952 121,000 189,600 122,500 25,600 6,600 10,900 Number of shares potentially available for grant at the end of 2016 499,500 663,900 776,250 1,042,950 173,900 1,652,600 o/w to Paul Hermelin* n/a n/a 0 0 0 40,000 0 42,000 Vesting date-France 03/05/2011 10/01/2012 01/01/2015 03/01/2015 08/01/2016 03/01/2018 03/01/2018 08/01/2019 Vesting date-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 End of holding period-France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2019 03/01/2019 08/01/2020 03/01/2021 03/01/2020 08/01/2021 End of holding period-outside France 03/05/2013 10/01/2014 01/01/2017 03/01/2017 08/01/2018 08/01/2019 03/01/2020 08/01/2020 Share price at grant date (in euros) 23.3 37.16 33.15 36.53 53.35 87.6 71.61 83.78 (*) Complete historical information on performance shares granted is provided on Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements 94 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.4 Compensation of executive corporate officers Historical information concerning stock options granted to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are as follows: Stock options granted to/exerciced by the ten Total number of stock employees (non-corporate officers) having received the options greatest number of shares granted/exercised Weighted average price Plan number 2 Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares None n/a None Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of shares None n/a None Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares are as follows: Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees Total number (non corporate officers) having received the greatest number of of shares vested/ shares granted Plan number Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received 8th Performance the greatest number of shares 122,500 share plan Performance shares (held previously on Cap Gemini S.A.) to the 5th Performance ten Group employees holding the greatest number of vested shares 100,000 share plans Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 95 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures This section is based on the contributions of several departments In accordance with the Law of July 3, 2008, it was reviewed and and, in particular, the Group departments responsible for sales, approved by the Board of Directors on February 15, 2017, production, IT, finance, insurance, legal affairs, human resources, following a review by the Audit & Risk Committee. as well as ethics, compliance and internal audit. 2.5.1 Definition of the internal control and risk management systems Framework ◗ the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control processes The Group builds on the reference framework and the application safeguarding assets; and guidance published initially in January 2007 and updated on ◗ the reliability of accounting and financial information. July 22, 2010 by the AMF. The risk management and internal control systems contribute in a Scope of the internal control and risk complementary manner to controlling the activities of the Group management systems and satisfy objectives that are also complementary. Capgemini Group ensures the implementation of risk management and internal control systems within its subsidiaries. In 2016, such Objectives of the internal control and risk systems covered all consolidated subsidiaries and Group management systems businesses. The Group’s internal control and risk management systems seek Acquired companies are integrated progressively into the internal to create and protect the Group’s value, assets and reputation, control and risk management system. All material Group and identify and measure the major risks to which the Group is subsidiaries are currently integrated into the general system exposed, anticipate and foresee changes in these risks and finally presented in this report. implement risk prevention and transfer measures. A list of the main companies concerned by this system is In this context, Capgemini Group has defined and implemented a presented in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. control system that seeks to ensure: ◗ compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and Limitations regulations; While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational ◗ compliance with the Group’s seven core values and support functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk guidelines set by the Board of Directors and/or Group control, this system does not however offer an absolute guarantee Management; of the control of all possible risks imaginable, no more than it can irrespective of the skills of the employees performing the controls ◗ application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated; guarantee alone the attainment by the Group of all objectives set. 2.5.2 Organization of the internal control and risk management systems Group values ◗ raise awareness of compliance with international and national Since its creation, Capgemini has placed significant importance on laws and regulations; compliance with the values and principles which guide and inspire ◗ highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to prevent its actions and, in particular, our business practices. These seven and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence in these core values, defined by the Group’s founder Serge Kampf, are areas. honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, team spirit, modesty and fun. They represent the Group’s fundamental DNA and justify its General internal control and risk management reputation as an ethical and responsible company. In this respect, principles Capgemini has, for several years, been rated one of the “World’s Most Ethical companies” by the Ethisphere Institute. Group Management has distributed a set of rules and procedures known as the Blue Book. Compliance with the Blue Book is The ethics system founded on the Group’s values and the Code mandatory for all Group employees. The Blue Book sets out and of Business Ethics has been supplemented by several policies. comments Capgemini’s seven core values, sketches out the This system seeks to: overall security framework within which the Group’s activities must ◗ develop within new recruits an ethical culture promoting integrity be conducted, and, finally, describes the desired behaviors and of behavior; specify the interdictions to be followed in each of the Group’s main functions. 96 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures These principles is to ensure consistent and efficient Risk management and internal control players decision-making. They concern: In 2016, the Group a risk management system administered by a ◗ the delegation of decision-making powers and risk committee and involving various parties operating at different authorization; the decision-making process applied within the levels of the organization. These key players are presented below Group is based on rules governing the delegation of powers for each of the three lines of defense. complying with the principle of subsidiarity and corresponding to These rules and procedures are updated periodically to reflect the the three levels of Capgemini’s organization: development of the Group’s business activities and changes in its ◗ the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit, 2 environment. ◗ provisions to the Strategic Business Unit (SBU) for all issues concerning several Business Units under its authority, Governance bodies ◗ the Group (Committee, Group Management, central functions, The Audit & Risk Committee etc.) where a decision concerns a wider scope than the The Group Audit & Risk Committee of Cap Gemini S.A. Board is Strategic Business Unit and for all transactions that must be responsible for monitoring the efficiency of risk management and decided at Group level due to their nature (acquisitions, internal control systems. The Audit & Risk Committee will therefore divestments, etc.) and/or whose financial impacts exceed be required to review all systems implemented by Group well-defined materiality thresholds. Management. These reviews encompass the overall consistency This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix of the system, the priority risks identified, new or emerging risks which requires both prior consultation and the provision of and actions plans for priority risks. sufficient information to the parties involved. Recommendations submitted to the final decision-maker must include the views of Group management and the Risk Committee all interested parties as well as an assessment of the advantages Group management has delegated to a Risk Committee, created and drawbacks of each of the possible solutions. in 2016, the definition and implementation of the various activities ◗ the framework of general policies and procedures; the relating to the risk management process within the Group. The Blue Book defines the governance and organization of the Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer, is Group and the main principles and basic guidelines responsible for the effective implementation of a risk management underpinning the Group’s internal control procedures, and sets and internal control system within the Group. It reports to the out the Group's requirements in each of the following areas: Audit & Risk Committee on all issues concerning these systems. ❚ Group key principles, The Risk Committee brings together the main members of Group Management with key players in the risk management process within ❚ Group organization and governance, the Group. At least two meetings are held annually to discuss the ❚ authorization and approval processes, following main issues: ❚ sales and production rules and guidelines, ◗ monitoring of the implementation of risk management and ❚ risk management, pricing, contracting and legal rules, in the internal control systems within the Group; client contract pre-sale phase, ◗ the identification and prioritization of risks; the Risk Committee ❚ financial management, merger, acquisition, and insurance validates the mapping of the Group’s main risks; rules and guidelines, ◗ the monitoring of plans defined and implemented for priority ❚ human resources policies, risks; ❚ marketing and communications, knowledge management ◗ the potential review of new or emerging risks communicated by and Group IT, the various Business Units. ❚ procurement policies, including ethical requirements and The Risk Committee is also responsible for: supplier selection, ◗ proposing to the Board of Directors the acceptable Group’s risk ❚ environmental and community policies. level ; This set of rules and procedures, which has force of law within the ◗ monitoring changes in the Group’s main risks; Group, reminds employees of their obligations in this area and ◗ selecting the priority risks to be covered by short-term action inventories the tools and methods which help them control risks plans; identified in the exercise of the Group's businesses. ◗ monitoring these action plans in conjunction with the managers This rules and procedures were updated in 2016 to reflect the responsible for the priority risks, as designated by the Risk development of the Group's business activites and changes in its Committee; environment. At an operating level, the Risk Committee builds on the actions of the Insurance Director, who is responsible for coordinating the Group risk management and who supports the risk managment activities of the Risk Committee, and the managers of the various Business Units and functional departments. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 97 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures In this respect, the risk management coordinator: ◗ auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present significant risk; Internal Audit uses one or more technical experts ◗ Makes methodology tools and approaches available to the (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from among a list of various management bodies. Group accredited professionals according to their skills (and also ◗ Coordinates all risk management activities within the Group. their complete independence from the unit being audited). ◗ Centralizes and consolidates all work and particularly work Each Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual program performed by the various priority risk. covering the entire Group: the Chairman and Chief Executive ◗ Encourages the sharing of good practice within the Group. Officer has the power to modify this program in the event of an emergency (delays and irregularities, major divergence from 1st line of defense: from management to employees budgetary commitments, etc.). At the request of the Chairman Operations and Business unit management supplement and and Chief Executive Officer, the Internal Audit Department may adapt the Blue Book drafted by Group Management, by drawing also perform special assignments to review specific situations. up detailed internal control procedures which comply with the relevant laws, regulations and customary practices in the country The Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Department is directly where they operate, in order to exercise control more effectively responsible for the ethics and compliance programs and the over risks specific to their local market and culture. ethics phase of due diligence assignments on companies that the Group is considering acquiring. These reviews involve an Operations and Business Unit management duties include the examination, from an ethical stance, of all the activities of the identification and control of risks relating to their own environment, target company in order to ensure, in particular, their compatibility in compliance with the rules and procedures implemented and with Capgemini Group expectations. communicated by the Group functional departments. During 2016, the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit: 2nd line of defense: function departments with risk expertise ◗ 51 audits of units belonging to all Group Strategic Business The various Group functional departments assist the Risk Units. Each audit involved an average of 36 man-days in the field Committee with the identification and prioritization of risks. Each and concluded with the issue of an action plan that department defines and rolls out risk control systems in its activity management of the unit audited undertook to implement as sector and ensures, in particular, the consistency of actions quickly as possible in order to improve or correct the points undertaken in the Business Units with these guidelines. It assists identified by the audit. Internal Audit uses a tool covering the all Group entities by facilitating the sharing of risk management entire Group and enabling it to monitor real-time the and internal control best practice. implementation of recommendations following the audit, focusing particularly on priority actions; 3rd line of defense: internal audit For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central Internal ◗ 1 special assignments at the request of the Chairman and Chief Audit function. Its Director reports directly to the Chairman and Executive Officer; Chief Executive Officer, guaranteeing the independence of the ◗ 1 ethical due diligence assignment. internal audit function with respect to the functions and Business The Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Director presents: Units audited. The internal audit team comprises 32 auditors, representing 12 different nationalities and covering 90% of the ◗ twice annually to the Audit & Risk Committee of Cap Gemini languages spoken locally in the Group. This significant S.A. Board, a comprehensive report on the department’s work internationalization of the internal audit team reflects the desire to during the half-year (particularly regarding internal control accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of the efficiency and risk management in the preparation and world; the Internal Audit Department also has a Bombay desk with processing of financial and accounting information); seventeen auditors including three technical experts specializing in ◗ once annually to the Ethics & Governance Committee of Cap the review of IT projects. Gemini S.A. Board a specific report on measures implemented In accordance with professional standards governing this activity, under the ethics program and the result of compliance audits of the internal audit function independently assesses the the Group’s Code of Business Ethics. effectiveness of internal control and risk management procedures Finally, the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Department may given that, irrespective of how well they are drafted and how at any moment draw up a special report for presentation to the stringently they are applied, these procedures can only provide Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on any matter that it reasonable assurance and not an absolute guarantee against considers should be brought to his attention and informs the Audit all risks. and Risk Committee and/or the Ethics & Governance Committee Internal Audit is therefore tasked with: where significant deviations have been identified. ◗ reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the The main risk exposures faced by the Group and the related risk Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to management systems are set out in the Risk Analysis section of ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules laid this Registration Document. down by the Group and with certain specific procedures enabling the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which they are exposed locally; 98 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures Implementation of the risk management and Section 1.7, Risk factors, sets out the various risks identified as internal audit system major for the Group and the related risk management systems implemented to mitigate such risks. The different risks are The analysis of the risks to which the Group’s activities are presented by type: exposed is an integral part of the Group’s various decision-making processes, whether for short-term annual plans or mid-term ◗ risks relating to operations and the strategy; strategic plans. ◗ operational risks; In this context, the Group has implemented a systematic and ◗ legal risks; 2 dynamic risk management process in order to ensure the proper ◗ financial risks. conduct of business and the attainment of the various strategic objectives, structured around four key stages identification, The risk management and internal control system comes from the prioritization, processing and steering the Group has an interaction between the Risk Committee and other risk players, up-to-date overview of its key risk exposures and has defined a including the Ethics, Compliance and Internal Audit Department, specific risk strategy for each risk considered a priority. the Insurance Department, the Business Units and the functional departments, which are responsible for day-to-day risk management in their specific areas. 2.5.3 Implementation of risk management and internal control objectives for the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information These procedures ensure the application of and compliance with All financial staff are required to apply the Group’s accounting accounting and financial rules defined by the Group relating to procedures and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, budgets and forecasts, operational reporting, consolidation, which sets out: financial control and financial communications. ◗ the strict rules of internal control; ◗ what information must be reported, when, and how often; a. Financial and accounting structure ◗ management rules and procedures; The Group’s financial functions are integrated into the operating structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have ◗ accounting policies, rules and methods; access to common resources encompassing accounting rules ◗ performance measures. and procedures, information and management systems and In addition, the Group has a single integrated management shared service centers. system (GFS). The application as a whole migrated to the Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting publisher’s latest version on January 1,2015 and its roll-out in the to the corresponding Strategic Business Unit’s financial controller) Group’s subsidiaries continued during 2016. The desired who is responsible for ensuring that the results of its activities are uniformity of management systems is therefore a step closer, accurately reported in the accounts in accordance with Group strengthening the control environment. accounting rules and methods. The financial controller verifies that Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting processing services are correctly billed and paid, checks profit estimates for resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main centers are ongoing projects and assesses their accounting impact, and located in Cracow (Poland) and Calcutta (India). These various attests to the quality of the information contained in the financial centers are consolidated within a globalized structure. reports and accounting packages used as the basis for preparing the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The Strategic Business Unit financial controllers, whose main responsibility is to b. Budgets, forecasts, reporting ensure that high-quality financial and accounting information is and consolidation reported to the parent company on a timely basis, report to the In order to exercise effective control over their operations, the Group Chief Financial Officer in order to safeguard the Group requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, independence required when preparing accounting results. quarterly, half-yearly and Annual Reports of all budget, forecast, Financial control is, therefore, decentralized. operational and accounting information required for the general The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial management of the Group as follows: Director, whose duties and responsibilities include rolling-out ◗ budget and forecasting process; budgets form the basic building Group systems and procedures in the country, helping maintain blocks in the management control process. They are debated an effective internal control environment, ensuring that all financial and negotiated at length between the different Group Business staff in the country or region are well-versed in the Group’s Unit managers and their superiors, with each budgetary item accounting policies and methods, checking compliance with local decided based on past performance, the Group’s chosen taxation and statutory reporting requirements, liaising with shared strategic priorities and available information concerning expected service centers and the Statutory Auditors, setting accounts market trends. Group Management sets quantified targets for closing and financial reporting timetables, signing off on the each geographic area, Strategic Business Unit and their consolidation packages of the subsidiaries under his or her component Business Units. The budget preparation process is a authority, signing the representation letter and bringing any and all key moment in the relationship between the different levels of the matters that he or she sees fit to the attention of the Chief Group’s management and makes it possible to substantially link Financial Officer. the variable portion of the compensation paid to Business Unit managers to the attainment of the budgetary targets of their Business Unit and the next level Business Unit to which they belong. A forecast operating income statement (for the current month, the following six months and the full year) is prepared monthly by each Business Unit manager. Variances from budget Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 99 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures are analyzed so that any corrective action plans that may be The Controls described above carried out by the Finance needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible; Department are supplemented by the work of two independent ◗ operational reporting process; information reporting is structured bodies tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control by geographic area and business. This allows revenues and environment and verifying the quality of the financial statements: costs to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by type and the internal auditors and the Statutory Auditors: function, and performance measures to be updated and ◗ the Internal Audit; based on a program covering the Group’s compared with budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) and Business Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman and prior-year figures (A/A). Balance sheet items are analyzed on a Chief Executive Officer (to who it reports directly), Internal Audit quarterly basis. A monthly management report is prepared for is responsible for carrying out controls to ensure that procedures each Strategic Business Unit jointly by the manager and financial relating to the safeguarding of assets, the valuation of controller, and is submitted to Group Management for review. work-in-progress, the actual amount of trade accounts This report gives a detailed breakdown of actual performance, receivable, and the proper recognition of liabilities, are applied in forecasts for the following six months and actions taken in the each Business Unit in accordance with the rules and methods event of material variances between actual and budget figures. established by the Group. In particular, Internal Audit is required Reconciliations are performed systematically to ensure that to pay special attention to revenue recognition methods and to financial information derived from the operational reporting controlling the percentage of completion of projects, so as to system is consistent with the consolidated financial information ensure that these are accounted for on the basis of rigorous, provided by the legal entities within the Group; up-to-date technical assessments. The Internal Audit brief also ◗ consolidation process; at each yearly or half-yearly closing, the includes a review of the procedures and controls in place within scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by the Finance the Business Unit to ensure the security and validity of Department and validated by the Legal Affairs Department. transactions and accounting entries; Written instructions are issued providing the schedule for ◗ the Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, period-end tasks (particularly the reconciliation of inter-company carry out an ongoing review of internal control procedures with transaction balances), highlighting current accounting issues an impact on the preparation and quality of the financial requiring specific attention, and describing the control statements as part of their audit engagement. procedures applied during the preparation of the consolidated Communicating financial information is subject to rigorous internal financial statements. The consolidation process is based on control, with a particular focus on three key media used to report: accounting packages by geographic area, which must be signed off by the person responsible for preparing them. Income ◗ the half-year financial report and Annual Report; statements, balance sheets and other key management ◗ financial press releases; indicators required for subsequent analysis are stored in a single ◗ analyst and investor meetings. database maintained at Group level. Access to this information system is strictly controlled. The Annual Report has been a key component of the Group’s financial communications strategy for the past 42 years (the first During each annual closing period, the Finance Department sends edition concerned the 1975 fiscal year). The preparation of the out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries covering the application of report, its content, illustrations, design and distribution are general internal control principles and procedures relating to the therefore subject to close attention by Group Management. All the processing of reported financial and accounting information. sections of the Group’s Annual Report are written by employees These questionnaires are analyzed for any irregularities and and managers of the Group who are each responsible for corrective measures devised where appropriate. designing and setting out a chapter on their area of competence, within the general framework proposed by the Communications c. Financial information Department. The Registration Document, which is integrated in Financial information and its communication are subject to specific the Annual Report, combines all the information that must be controls at half-year and annual period ends. These include: provided pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements and is drawn up under the responsibility of the Finance Department. ◗ a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the Legal Department of all material operations and transactions occurring Financial press releases are only published further to formal during the period; validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Financial press releases are published outside ◗ a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in commitments and any other information liable to have significant exceptional circumstances. repercussions on the financial position of the Group or one of its subsidiaries at the period-end; Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, ◗ a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal entities; and their content is presented to the Board of Directors prior to such meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a ◗ a review of the value of intangible assets; framework for comments and explanations provided by the ◗ a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or employees in charge of investor relations during the meetings. 100 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL 2.5 Internal control and risk management procedures 2.5.4 Measures implemented as part of constant improvements to risk management and internal control systems Focus on the main measures implemented ◗ the roll-out of a global application for personnel management in 2016 and the implementation of a new performance management information system; During 2016, the Group implemented and carried on a number of measures aimed at rolling-out and standardizing processes and ◗ the definition of a People Safety global governance system; 2 procedures within the Group and thereby strengthening the ◗ the overhaul of the management process for international travel; Group’s internal control environment. Among these measures, the ◗ a strategic review of talent with the identification of actions following may be highlighted: focusing on management teams of the main units and the formal ◗ an update to the risk mapping including the identification of documentation of succession plans. major Group risks; ◗ the systematic follow-up of Group Review Board Constant improvement measures in 2017 recommendations in project reviews and during independent The risk management process will continue to be rolled out in technical reviews (“flying squads’’) of project teams performed 2017 based on the most recent risk mapping updated in 2016. by the Production/Methods and Support Department; Priority risk owners at Group level will formally document and ◗ the implementation of a Commercial and Contract Management implement action plans and risk monitoring measures, which will program in order to follow and mitigate operational, financial, be validated by the Risk Committee created in 2016. contractual and reputational risks, during the whole contract life cycle. This program is more focused on the major, complex and most risky contracts. Created in 2016, Commercial and Contract Management entity has implemented tools, methodology, process and trainings in risk management, in contractual prevention in order to meet the client requirements and to give a support to Delivery to respect contractual terms. The objective is to obtain client satisfaction and to maintain the profitability of projects; ◗ the introduction of a single sales management platform for the entire Group and a global sales development procedure, to provide a standardized view per client and improve the monitoring of sales actions; ◗ the implementation of models for the global management of client accounts, ; ◗ a global procedure and policy for sales-based compensation, integrating a three-year plan beginning in 2015, aimed at aligning all Business Units around the world; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 101 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL Statutory Auditors’ report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code 2.6 Statutory Auditors’ report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in accordance with Article L.225235 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your company in accordance with Article L.22537 of the French Commercial Code for the year ended December 31, 2016. It is the Chairman's responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report describing the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and providing the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code in particular relating to corporate governance. It is our responsibility: ◗ to report to you on the information set out in the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information; and ◗ to attest that the report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being specified that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness of this information. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Information concerning the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information The professional standards require that we perform procedures to assess the fairness of the information on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information set out in the Chairman’s report. These procedures mainly consisted of: ◗ obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information on which the information presented in the Chairman's report is based, and of the existing documentation; ◗ obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the report and of the existing documentation; ◗ determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information that we may have identified in the course of our work are properly described in the Chairman's report. On the basis of our work, we have no matters to report on the information given on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information, set out in the Chairman of the Board’s report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 24, 2017 Paris La Défense, February 24, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner 102 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Capgemini: People, Corporate 3 Social Responsibility (CSR) and business Ethics 3.1 Our approach 104 3.4 Partnering with external 3.1.1 Setting our ambitions and priorities in CSR 104 stakeholders on social and 3.1.2 Reinforcing our CSR governance 104 sustainability initiatives 146 3.1.3 Alignment with stakeholders expectations: 3.4.1 Engaging with communities 146 scope and materiality 105 3.4.2 Supporting our clients on their sustainability 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance program 105 journey 149 3.1.5 Cybersecurity and data protection 107 3.4.3 Committing to a socially and environmentally responsible supply chain 150 3.2 People and Talent Management 108 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability 3.2.1 Methodology, scope and topics 108 commitments and recognitions 152 3.2.2 A challenging Talent environment 108 Our Commitments 152 3.2.3 Fostering Diversity & Inclusion in the workplace 113 Our Achievements and Awards 153 3.2.4 Rewarding and incentivizing our People 120 Rating agencies 154 3.2.5 Developing our People 121 3.2.6 Enhancing our capabilities through certification 124 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 155 3.2.7 Organizing our activities in a safe and healthy environment 125 3.2.8 Promoting international mobility 128 3.7 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent 3.2.9 Building an effective employee communication and dialog 128 third party on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social 3.3 Managing our environmental impact 132 information included in the management report 158 3.3.1 Group environmental policy 132 3.3.2 Our environmental management approach 132 3.3.3 Managing climate risk 136 3.3.4 Our environmental performance 136 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 103 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.1 Our approach 3.1 Our approach 3.1.1 Setting our ambitions and priorities in CSR Firmly grounded on the Group’s 49-years old values, our The key components of our CSR strategy are: commitment to people management and social responsibility has Values & Ethics: it is about who we are and the way we do been both a guiding principle and an area for continuous business. Built on the foundation of the seven Group core values improvement and renewal as we broaden our business horizons. (Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit/Solidarity, 2016 marks a milestone in a sustained growth journey for the Modesty and Fun), our Code of Ethics supports our corporate organization, by fully integrating IGATE and its employees, thereby culture and permeates all our business practices, procurement significantly increasing our presence in India and North America, behaviors and employee welfare policies. while strengthening our footprint in Europe, Latin America and APAC. Consequently, we face new challenges and opportunities Diversity and inclusion: we are committed to being an employer of specific to these geographies and their business, social and choice for people who wish to develop in an open, diverse and environmental contexts. inclusive environment. Our priority is to promote the professional development and well-being of our employees by ensuring that As a provider of consultancy, technology and outsourcing both our business practices and our facilities empower excellence. services, Capgemini Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility runs We have a culture whereby we respect and value the diversity and across three key areas where our activity has a clear and direct creativity of all our people and we strive to ensure that both are impact: creating a diverse and inclusive work environment, thus recognized and promoted at all levels in the organization. enabling our people to fully develop professionally and bring the best value to our clients, reducing our impact on the environment, Community Engagement: we work with communities in which we and contributing to the development of the communities in which live and work to support their development and empowerment. As we operate. a major global employer, we work locally, nationally and internationally with authorities, non-governmental organizations Our approach is aligned with and supports all national and (NGOs) and other engaged stakeholders on their development international laws and regulations, in particular the fundamental priorities, with a strong focus on education at all levels, from conventions on labor standards of the International Labor elementary school to higher and professional education. The Organization, the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Group encourages the active involvement of each of our team Human Rights (where we refuse the use of forced and child labor) members in our communities. and the OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Environmental Sustainability: we recognize that, even though we During 2016, we have extended and enhanced our range of do not manufacture physical products, the business services we initiatives within our key focus areas and we continue to innovate, provide have an impact on the environment. We work hard to striving to identify opportunities to embed sustainability into the reduce this impact by saving energy and reducing waste, as well services we provide to our clients, helping them to adapt to a as by optimizing business travel. We also work to raise our rapidly changing world. employee awareness of the critical issues related to the environment. Furthermore, we look to embed sustainability considerations into our service offerings in collaboration with our clients. 3.1.2 Reinforcing our CSR governance In 2016, the Group renewed its Corporate Social Responsibility ◗ monitor progress versus strategy; Board, the governing body setting the ambition and direction for ◗ bring views, needs and priorities from our operations regarding our CSR strategy. The aim is to better reflect the variety of our CSR; services and geographies by bringing together a group of 18 committed executives around the table. The Board is ◗ challenge the status quo and foster innovation in our approach. co-chaired by Group Executive Board member Hubert Giraud, Board members commit individually to champion social and Christine Hodgson, Capgemini UK Plc Chairman. responsibility initiatives at local or global level, or both when The Board’s mandate is to: relevant. This highlights the importance of our social and environmental commitments through exemplary action and ◗ set the Group CSR ambition, strategy and targets in alignment personal commitment, as well as the place of CSR governance at with our business strategy; the highest level in the organization. 104 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.1 Our approach 3.1.3 Alignment with stakeholders expectations: scope and materiality In order to ensure that our People and Corporate Social reviewed in 2015 and 2016. This analysis, or materiality Responsibility strategy and actions remain aligned with assessment, is the result of a range of internal and external stakeholder expectations, an analysis of the relative importance of stakeholder interviews together with desk research and input from sustainability aspects and issues was first undertaken in 2014 and regular institutional meetings. Materiality matrix Highest Ethical Behavior Reduction of our Human Carbon Footprint Rights Climate change Talent engagement 3 Materiality of issues to our stakeholders Information security and Retention and Data Protection Supporting Clients Client Satisfaction with CR&S Challenges Talent Energy Women’s and Skills Security Empowerment Training and Digital inclusion Development Diversity and Inclusion Education in Communities Materiality of issues to Capgemini Highest Value and Ethics Environmental Sustainability Community Engagement Diversity & Inclusion Client Serves All Grenelle II (legislation: article R.225-105-1 of the French 15 indicators are considered to be the most relevant to our Commercial Code) indicators are listed in the table in section 3.6, business and relate in particular to diversity of talent and employee including explanations for indicators on which we do not report. engagement, to mitigating our environmental impact and to our As a result of our materiality assessment and on-going analysis, impact on our ecosystem through digital challenges. 3.1.4 Group Ethics & Compliance program The Group Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. launched our Creating an ethical environment also strengthens our reputation, Ethics & Compliance Program in 2009 to further strengthen the helps us win new business and allows us to take our place in the ethical culture that has been a core part of the Group since its “Champions League”, i.e., among the leaders in our industry. creation in 1967. As part of this program, the Group set up a global network of Ethics & Compliance Officers and launched a Ethics & compliance organization and network Code of Business Ethics, Group Anti-Corruption Policy and Group Competition Laws Policy, to reassert our Values in every country The managers of the Group’s operating units (SBUs/BUs) are in which we operate. All employees are expected to comply with accountable for ethics and compliance in their respective units. the principles embedded in these three fundamental documents, They are also responsible for driving the Ethics & Compliance and to complete an online training course (e-learning) on each of program in accordance with the local laws, regulations and them. procedures. In addition to demonstrating the Group’s deep-rooted Values and The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for strong ethical culture, the Ethics & Compliance Program helps to the Ethics & Compliance program across the entire Group. attract, develop and retain employees. The Company-wide Group The Ethics and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors Employee Survey shows that our employees’ engagement is reviews the Ethics & Compliance program and its achievements strongly linked to belonging to a Group with an ethical culture. annually (see section 2.24). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 105 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.1 Our approach General Counsels also serve as Ethics & Compliance Officers Ethics & compliance program in 2016 (GC-ECO) for their jurisdictions. They ensure implementation of the Ethics & Compliance program within their geographic regions Our Code of Business Ethics and liaise with the CECO. Our Code of Business Ethics, which encapsulates the Group’s ethical culture, is now available in fourteen languages. It has the Group fundamental principles, guidelines and collective and individual support of the members of the Board of policies: the Blue Book Directors, the Group Executive Committee and the Vice-President community. It has been updated in January 2016 and was shared In our largely decentralized and entrepreneurial organization, it is with all former IGATE employees in February 2016. essential to have a set of common guidelines, procedures and policies that govern our daily operations. The Company Capgemini expects all Group employees to adhere to the seven confidential Blue Book, so-called because of its color, was core Values and to the principles expressed in this Code. In created in 1989. It provides a common reference tool, enabling particular, employees are expected to commit to: each employee and company service or department to work ◗ respecting applicable laws and regulations; effectively and maintain unity across operations worldwide. ◗ applying health and safety rules and contributing to the creation The Blue Book contains: of a safe, inclusive work environment; ◗ Group fundamental principles: its mission, expertise, main ◗ acting responsibly in the marketplace, complying with applicable objectives, Values, Code of Business Ethics and collaboration competition laws and regulations and anti-corruption provisions, principles; avoiding conflicts of interest and insider trading, and providing ◗ Group governance and organization; accurate commercial and financial information; ◗ authorization and approval processes; ◗ building honest, clear relationships with clients, suppliers and business partners; ◗ sales and production rules and guidelines; ◗ maintaining the security and integrity of the assets of the Group ◗ risk management, pricing and contracting rules in presales and of any third parties with whom we work; activities; ◗ supporting the communities and respecting the environments in ◗ financial management, merger, acquisition, disposal and which we operate; and insurance rules and guidelines; ◗ refusing the use of forced labor and child labor. ◗ human resources policies; At the end of 2016, more than 170,000 employees had taken the ◗ marketing, communications, Group knowledge and IT Code of Business Ethics e-learning module, which is available in management guidelines; nine languages. This represents close to 88% of the Group’s ◗ procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier employees at year-end 2016. selection; and All new hires are expected to undertake to comply with the ◗ environmental and community policies. principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and to complete These policies, procedures and guidelines comprise the reference the e-learning module on the Code. standards that all entities are required to implement, while complying with national legal requirements and specificities. Specific policies Assessment of compliance with these guidelines is an integral part of our Internal Audit process. The Group Blue Book is updated Group Anti-Corruption Policy regularly and is available to all employees on the Group’s intranet. In 2011, the Group released a policy, available in twelve languages, outlining its commitment to zero tolerance for any form Our business ethics of corruption. At the end of 2016, more than 171,000 employees As re-emphasized in March 2016 by the Group Chairman and had followed the related e-learning module, available in CEO, Paul Hermelin, our seven core Values and our ethics are six languages. This represents approximately 89% of the Group’s among Serge Kampf’s most precious bequests to the Group. employees at year-end 2016. They rank amongst the most important of all our strategic dimensions. Our longstanding commitment to our Values has Group Competition Laws Policy shaped the Capgemini Group’s reputation in the market, and In 2012, the Group released a policy, available in nine languages, today, this reputation is an essential asset to our economic to help employees to identify and avoid situations that could performance. violate competition laws. At the end of 2016, more than 162,000 The Group launched its Ethics & Compliance program to protect employees had followed the related e-learning module, available in and maintain this reputation and, in so doing, to further strengthen five languages. This represents more than 80% of the Group’s our competitive advantage. The objectives of the program are to: employees at year-end 2016. ◗ develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces integrity New employees are expected to comply with the principles set and fosters ethical behavior; out in the Group Anti-Corruption Policy and in the Group Competition Laws Policy, and to complete the related e-learning ◗ strengthen knowledge and awareness of laws and regulations, modules. as well as internal policies applicable in Group companies; and ◗ implement initiatives aimed at reinforcing prevention and avoiding ethics and compliance breaches. 106 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.1 Our approach Integration of former IGATE employees Raising concern procedure: a dedicated During 2016, the main focus for the Group Ethics & Compliance procedure for requesting advice and raising Program has been on the integration of former IGATE employees concerns into this Program. Firstly, an updated Code of Business Ethics The Code of Business Ethics provides that an employee faced was communicated to all of them by top management and the with a question or issue involving ethics or compliance should Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer in February. Secondly, the three discuss the matter first with his/her local manager. If the issue is specific E&C e-learning modules described above (Code of not resolved by the manager, or if the employee is not comfortable Business Ethics, Group Anti-Corruption Policy, Group Competition discussing the matter with his/her manager or if other procedures Laws Policy) were assigned to them. Thirdly, former IGATE for dealing with individual grievances are not applicable, the employees were incorporated into the regular Group E&C employee may use the employees’ dedicated Raising Concern communication and learning activities. Procedure (RCP). Employees may in this way seek advice and More than 80,000 E&C e-learning sessions have been completed guidance on appropriate action from the local GC-ECO, or even by former IGATE employees in 2016, representing around 50,000 directly from the CECO in Paris. In operation since late 2013, the hours of training. Year over year, while integrating more than RCP is applied on a case-by-case basis in the countries where the 3 30,000 former IGATE employees in 2016, the total percentage of Group operates, in accordance with applicable legislation. Group employees (Capgemini + former IGATE) that have completed each of the 3 E&C e-learning modules has increased considerably. While efforts are ongoing, this already represents a significant achievement for the whole organization. 3.1.5 Cybersecurity and data protection In July 2014, Capgemini Group Management Board decided to Data protection and data privacy were a major priority on the transform its IT security approach to better take into account its 2016 agenda. Capgemini Binding Corporate Rules on personal clients requirements and issues of data protection. The CySIP data protection (BCRs) covering Group activities acting as data (Cybersecurity & Information Protection) Program was launched in controller and data processor – were approved by the French data November 2014 and is aimed at reinforcing Group protection authority, the CNIL, on March 2, 2016, on behalf of all competitiveness whilst anticipating new regulations such as European Data Privacy Authorities. All Capgemini Group entities personal data protection. have formally adhered to the BCR and the BCR are currently being implemented within the organization. The BCR have been Sponsored by the Group General Secretary, the CySIP Program published on the external website of Capgemini and clients now published 2015 a CySIP Strategy in March (stakes, objectives and have the opportunity to rely on BCRs for the transfer of their governance) and a CySIP Baseline (minimum and mandatory personal data within Capgemini Group globally. practices), a data privacy strategy and a personal data protection policy. These rules must be implemented within all Capgemini Since 2015, the CySIP operational projects focus on 3 major entities before the end of 2017. topics: Identity and Access Management (to reinforce access controls to applications and data) and Security Information and The CySIP program is composed of three communities that are Event Management (to reinforce detection and response working together under steering of the the Group CySIP Officer: capacities). The Capgemini Security Operation Centers in Europe the CySIP Officers in Strategic Business Units (focused on clients’ and India will provide new monitoring services of our requirements and security of delivery projects), the Data Infrastructures and IT systems. A BYOD (Bring Your Own Device) Protection Officers (DPO: focused on personal data protection policy and tool have been defined and implemented in 2016 to and sensitive data confidentiality) and the Chief Information secure access and data when using personal devices for Security Officers (CISO: focused on internal IT). professional purpose. Finally, maturity assessments related to the The three CySIP communities meet every year during two days to CySIP Baseline, data protection practices and operational projects prepare the annual work plan. By the end of 2016, the corporate implementation are performed on an annual basis. They are part governance is in place, policies and standards are harmonized. A of an overall Audit and Control Plan. global roll-out plan is sponsored by the Group CEO and has been The self-assessment is performed in order to verify whether launched for all employees. It includes mandatory e-learning mandatory practices are implemented, and is complemented by modules and other innovative multimedia tools. technical audits and penetration tests, enabling the definition of the yearly risk mitigation plan globally and for each entity. The purpose is to ensure that the objectives of the CySIP Strategy, governance and rules are reached by the end of 2017. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 107 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2 People and Talent Management As a responsible employer, we care about the people that choose to work for us, and we aim at nurturing the environment in which they can deliver their best and thrive. At the heart of our business culture lies our most important asset – our employees. Our priority is thus to ensure well-being at work, professional development, and to empower employees to excel in what they do. Furthermore, our culture respects and values diversity. 3.2.1 Methodology, scope and topics Three sources of information are available to provide the Group’s As for learning and development, the Group has implemented a HR and labor data. These sources are also used in this report: system accessible to all employees by simply registering. The system encompasses the full learning catalog (on site and virtual ◗ The Group financial reporting tool, which provides data reported courses, webcasts, videos…). It enables monitoring and tracking monthly or quarterly using common indicators, such as total of the training delivered. In 2016, 99% of the employees benefitted permanent headcount (permanent and fixed-term contracts including from the training offer via the system. non actively working, excluding temporary agencies staff, individual freelancers, independent workers, subcontractors, trainees) and Consistency checks and trend analyses are performed to ensure movements (hires/acquisitions/departures/turnover rate) as of 31th the quality of data and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, December 2016. The scope of this data is Group-wide; corresponding data are excluded. Whenever an explanation on ◗ An internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced methodology is necessary, the paragraph below the table with most local HR systems. It provides monthly statistics on provides it. Whenever an explanation on methodology is required, seniority, age range, gender and grading, whenever legal. 97% it is specified in the corresponding paragrahAll labor aspects of of Group employees data are consolidated within this tool; Article R225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code are covered in this report as, based on our analysis, they are declared relevant ◗ A questionnaire collecting labor and societal indicators, which for our business. are either qualitative or only needed annually. 3.2.2 A challenging Talent environment Strategic directions Recruitment Our Group Human Resources (HR) priority is to build the collective ◗ Every new recruit is carefully assessed in terms of competencies Talent capabilities to support our clients in answering their rapidly and skills to make sure they fit our business needs, and the and constantly changing technology and consulting needs. In HR candidate’s cultural fit with Group values; terms, this means we need to develop, appraise and promote our talents in order to boost employability and engagement, while ◗ Nearly 40% of recruits are young graduates; accordingly, we sourcing the skills required to fuel our business ambitions and have pursued and reinforced our partnerships with major growth. The Human Resources function continuously improves its schools and universities to make Capgemini an employer of business contribution by: choice; ◗ Managing ad hoc recruitment and induction processes in order ◗ Our external recruits and internal promotions are tracked for to serve business needs; gender mix, and most of our internal and external recruiters have signed the Group diversity charter (in place since 2013), thus ◗ Creating and making readily available all the appropriate levers committing to support Capgemini in attaining its diversity and means to manage employees’ career progression and gender balance goals; development, thus deepening their professional experiences and career paths, taking into account employees’ diverse profiles’ ◗ We pursue our policy regarding the employment of people with specific needs and expectations; different abilities; ◗ Providing employees with the means to develop and strengthen ◗ Lastly, Capgemini adapts to the evolving recruitment practice, personal employability for a sustainable performance enabling and is a prominent user of digital channels such as LinkedIn to constant adaptation to a changing work environment, bringing reach the talents in the labor market globally. ad-hoc support to mobility, virtual working and learning; ◗ Maintaining employees’ safety in all circumstances. 108 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Talent Management improve the leadership pool, e.g. by implementing dedicated ◗ Capgemini offers a wide array of professional development Talent reviews and targeted development programs designed to opportunities, open to all. The Career & Competency Framework the fit their needs. Mobility guidelines and succession plans design enables all employees to define their professional ensure continued exposure of VPs to our different business development and thrive in the wide variety of different roles, thus activities and practices across the group, thus enhancing their responding to each one’s personal aspirations, motivations and understanding and ability to act upon them and perform. This career preferences. All employees can take their own career community aspires to embody the Group’s culture. progression in charge ; Learning & Development ◗ As a global organization, we must guarantee to our clients excellence and consistency in the delivery of our services, ◗ The Career & Competency Framework defines the development regardless of where we do it. Employees on their side expect track for each role by job family. Each employee commits to clarity in the career options available to them. The Career & sustain his / her employability by taking the development Competency Framework defines and describes a standard set opportunities offered by the Group. of roles for our businesses, regardless of region, business unit ◗ In the same spirit, the Group University and L&D team offer a 3 (BU), project or account, sector or technology specialization. wide array of training opportunities, available to all employees. In Each employee is thereby able to understand the breadth of 2016, approximately 6.5 million hours of training to more than options available at a glance. Each role requires core attributes, 185,000 employees were delivered this year. All training and a set professional competences applies for each and every programs are designed to incorporate new methodologies, client role, independently of your business location ; requirements and required skills. Training is continuously ◗ Our promotion policies and processes promote diversity and adapted in view of reconciling our clients’ evolving needs with gender balance. our employees’ skills and experience. ◗ Today, approximately 36% of training is virtual. The Digital Age Leadership Learning initiative seeks to optimize our trainings’ efficiency, A strong effort to boost Leadership footprint and capabilities was tapping into the digital capabilities to increase individual and launched in 2016 aimed at enhancing our leadership capabilities collective ability to develop, accessible to all. and behaviors, both individually and collectively. The initiatives are: Mobility ◗ A renewed Leadership Model describing six strongly ◗ Capgemini encourages employee mobility at local and global interdependent dimensions: La Niaque, Business Builder, Profit level. In 2016, 23,537 employees had the opportunity to take Shaper, People Developer, Agile Player, Active Connector. They international assignments in more than 110 countries. We reflect the challenges leadership faces in the current business provide visibility on job vacancies through the ecosystem. Accessible for all, leadership dimensions allow the www.capgemini.com website, and internally through MyMobility development of the needed behaviors in each business and system, supporting a “promote 1st, hire 2nd” approach. people context, fostering leadership at all levels in the organization. Further organic headcount growth in 2016 ◗ Leadership Teams can rely on the 1,500 Vice Presidents who are recruited, assessed, rewarded and promoted based on a and dynamic demographics global policy that encompasses the six dimensions of the Group The Group workforce was just below 68,000 people ten years ago, Leadership Model. The policy is implemented consistently and in passed the bar of 100,000 employees in September 2010, grew full alignment across all Business Units and Group support again by more than 25% in 2015 (primarily following the acquisition functions. of the IGATE company -31,323 employees as of December 31, 2015) and grew further organically in 2016 by 6.3%. The average ◗ Several management and leadership development initiatives headcount is calculated by adding the average of opening have been carried out in order to identify and continuously headcount and the 12 monthly headcount divided by 13. Average headcount End-of-year headcount √ Year Number Change Number Change 2006 (reminder) 64,013 7.2% 67,889 11.2% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 2011 114,354 17.2% 119,707 10.1% 2012 121,829 6.5% 125,110 4.5% 2013 128,126 5.2% 131,430 5.1% 2014 137,747 7.5% 143,643 9.3% 2015 177,722 29.0% 180,639 25.8% 2016 185,593 4.4% 193,077 6.9% Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 109 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management The data above on headcount as of December 31, 2016 encompasses the whole Group scope (coverage 100%). The IGATE acquisition in 2015, an on-going strong organic growth, notably in Asia-Pacific, and the post-2009 economic crisis that affected continental Europe to a greater extent, significantly impact the geographical distribution of Group employees. This development is summarized in the following table: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 Headcount % Headcount % Headcount√ % North America 9,874 6.9% 16,034 8.9% 16,895 8.8% United Kingdom & Ireland 8,766 6.1% 8,656 4.8% 9,025 4.7% Nordic countries 4,145 2.9% 4,007 2.2% 4,067 2.1% Benelux 8,547 6.0% 8,307 4.6% 8,037 4.2% Germany and Central Europe 10,596 7.4% 11,342 6.3% 12,464 6.4% France 23,637 16.5% 23,882 13.2% 24,504 12.7% Southern Europe 7,446 5.2% 7,434 4.1% 8,075 4.2% Asia-Pacific 59,854 41.7% 91,584 50.7% 101,422 52.5% Latin America 10,778 7.5% 9,393 5.2% 8,589 4.4% TOTAL 143,643 100% 180,639 100% 193,077 100% The share of the APAC region which increased by 9 points in Breakdown of workforce by length of service: 2015, as a result of the IGATE acquisition which was primarily 2014-2016 changes present in India, kept growing and exceeded the bar of 31.6% 100,000 employees in December 2016 to close at 101,422. As a 31.0% result, the share of this region has grown further in 2016 by 1.8 points thanks to an organic growth in India of 9.3% and an above 27.6% 16% growth in the rest of the APAC region. North America region 25.0 % 25.5% which increased by 62% in 2015 thanks to the IGATE acquisition 22.7 % kept growing by 5.4% in 2016. The ongoing difficult economic situation in Brazil explains the headcount decrease in Latin 17.8% 17.3% 16.8% America whose share dropped by 3 points between 2014 and 16.1% 15.0% 13.5% 2016. 14.0% 13.4% 12.8% Moreover, India saw a very strong growth in recent years with its headcount rising from slightly under 2,000 people in 2004 to more than 96,600 in 2016. The country represents now 50% of the total Group workforce. Growth in Central Europe is notably due to the development of the Business and Infrastructure Services in Poland and Romania, which went from less than 500 employees in 2004 to slightly above 7,500 at year end 2016 in these two countries. The Benelux is the main region in Europe to see its headcount fall < 1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + for the fourth year in a row, due to a difficult economic situation. Other European geographies experienced growth ranging from december 2014 december 2015 december 2016 less than one percent, to up to 6% in South Europe. In France, the headcount remained very stable but its share is percentage-wise lower in 2016. The coverage rate for the data above is 97% of year-end headcount. Changes for average length of service reflect the Group’s recruitment dynamics over the last five years, with a growing number of recruits reaching a record high number of recruits in 2016 (above 53,700), explaining the growth in the percentage of people of less than one year seniority. The high percentage of employees with less than three years’ service (57% of our headcount) is clearly due to this high level of recruitment over last 3 years. The average length of service in the Group stands at 4.6 years in 2016. This varies according to the geographical area, ranging from 2.8 years in India, or 3.1 in Asia-Pacific (where lies the majority of recruitments) to 8.8 in the Benelux countries, 7.8 years in France, or 7.6 years in the UK. For the purpose of calculating length of service, it should be noted that it is the date of recruitment by the acquired company, and not the date of integration into Capgemini, which is taken into consideration. 110 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Breakdown of workforce by age √: headcount by -8.5% due to the recession of the Brazilian 2014-2016 changes economy. The coverage rate for the data below is 98.7% of year-end In this still volatile environment, the employee turnover rate (the headcount. The average age of employees decreased slightly in percentage of voluntary departures) declined by 1pt to 18.3%, 2016 to 33.5 years (-0.1 year vs. 2015), mostly due to the being higher in Asia-Pacific, Poland and India (where the IT headcount growth in India where the average age is below 30 and Services market is more dynamic) than in Continental Europe or thanks to the hiring of young graduates (close to 40% of total North America. This rate is still, however, below the peak rate of recruits). The average age is stable in most countries however it the last ten years, which reached 19.7% in 2007. grew in Latin America, Southern Europe and North America geographies from +0.4 to +0.6 while it decreased in Nordic Turnover countries and Central Europe. The percentage of employees aged rate less than 35 years is stable at 63.3% with a slight increase of the 2005 (reminder) 15.4% below 25 years category. Average age is lowest, below 30 years, in Guatemala, India, China, Morocco and Romania, while the 2010 16.3% 3 United Kingdom, Sweden, Canada, Finland, Denmark and the 2011 18.1% Netherlands are the only countries with an average age at or just 2012 17.0% over 40 years. 2013 16.8% 48.0% 47.8% 2014 17.8% 47.2% 2015 (w/o IGATE data) 19.3% 2016 18.3% 22.9% The total turnover rate for 2016 (100% coverage rate) was at 23.6% 22.8% 22.7% √ . It covers both voluntary (resignations...) and involuntary 15.5% leavers (individual dismissals and collective redundancy plans, 15.3% 13.1% 9.9% retirement, end of short term contracts...) 11.5% 9.8% The number of voluntary departures in volume was at the highest 3.9% 4.4% 4.0% level of the last past 10 years at around 34,200. The associated attrition rate is constantly monitored to ensure that it remains in line with industry norms, using appropriate response initiatives < 20-24 years 25-34 years 35-44 years 45-54 years 55 years and + according to the needs of each business line and geographical region. december 2014 december 2015 december 2016 Promoting responsible employment across our Against a still uncertain economic situation in 2016, the Group geographies hired more than 50,000 employees for the first time in its history: a As the employer of more than 193,000 people in over significant increase over the average number of hires during the 40 countries, and with this year’s Group-record high number of past decade ending the year with more than 53,700 recruits in over 53,000 recruits, Capgemini makes an important social and 2016 (100% coverage for recruits). Hires are people on-boarded economic impact in many of the countries in which it operates. In into Capgemini payroll through the usual recruiting cycle during addition to being a major employer and our actions in the field of the period and accounted in headcount (it excludes recruits made community engagement (refer to section 3.4.1), we demonstrate through acquisition/big deals). our social and economic engagement and responsibility in three key areas: education & mentoring, responsible recruitment and External Acquisitions/ partnerships & events. hires√ transfers 2005 (reminder) 14,453 712 Education & mentoring 2010 30,139 7,579 As approximately 40% of our recruits are young graduates, thereby creating more than 20,000 employment positions in this 2011 32,713 3,158 category every year, we strongly recognize the importance of 2012 31,100 769 education. For this reason, we run several initiatives aiming at better bridging education and our business activities, through 2013 32,369 193 specific recruitment & placement programs, engaging in 2014 39,925 2,110 mentoring projects and training initiatives. 2015 46,181 30,265 In France, a number of job fairs have been set up with universities 2016 53,784 1,462 and other higher education institutions to showcase the professions and careers Capgemini Group offers. Following the This increase was not observed in the same way across all 2012 signature of three education agreements and the creation of geographic regions and countries, with offshore countries a specific university degree, several initiatives were launched contributing strongly to this recruitment dynamics, with two-thirds enabling students to be trained with, then ultimately join, of all recruitment in 2016. India saw its headcount grow Capgemini. Organizations such as Passeport Avenir facilitate organically by more than 8,100 people in 2016 (and inorganically mentoring of students enrolled in engineering and management by a further 1,000 people), representing overall more than 70% of schools and universities – each student is mentored by a Group organic net headcount growth. On the contrary, Latin volunteering Capgemini employee, who acts as a tutor America and in particular Brazil, is showing a decrease in (250 employees in 2016), supporting the student all along the Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 111 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management yearly term with professional development advice, up to the job Responsible recruitment search stage. We recruit a high number of new colleagues on a yearly basis. In In India, an important channel of employment generation at the this respect, we are committed to make a positive impact in the entry level is called our “Train & Hire Program”. This initiative social environment we operate in, and to nurture and sustain an focuses on identifying specific technologies, providing training at inclusive working environment (refer to section 3.2.3). Specific our cost to the students identified and then hiring them. This not initiatives include: only creates fresh employment, but also creates value through ◗ in India: education on skills in demand in the industry. We are also involved in various other initiatives supporting education and development, ❚ 7,394 young people trained to enhance their employment including supporting: opportunities, with a special focus on youth with different abilities and inclusion of women through Livelihood Education ◗ 2,000 girls through Enlight – Capgemini’s Girl Child Sponsorship through Action against Poverty (LEAP) and LEAP Inclusion, Program which works towards providing access to quality education for girls coming from multiple marginalized ❚ 17 exclusive centers have been set up across the country to backgrounds; provide market-aligned employable skills to school and college dropouts; ◗ 90 schools across India covering 91,200 students, 1,200 teachers, 90+ school principals and 100 communities ◗ in Poland: through Capgemini’s School Adoption Project; ❚ cooperating with labor agencies and career centers in order ◗ 485 individuals who are pursuing engineering and medical to decrease the number of unemployed: organizing job courses along with Capgemini’s senior leaders as mentors markets for the unemployed, schools and universities job fairs through Capgemini Scholarship for technical and medical and career days, education; ❚ sponsoring events and job fairs dedicated to job seekers, ◗ 630 children in difficult circumstances are covered through ❚ organizing speed recruiting, CV check point, road shows and bridge schools and another 25,966 through study centers. recruitment interview simulations to support job seekers; In countries such as Poland and the UK, we cooperate with ◗ in Germany, where we have put a specific focus on training and universities and other educational institutions, in order to recruiting refugees through our program refugees@capgemini, contribute to a better fit between market/business needs and and a similar initiative running in Capgemini Sweden since 2016. university curricula. We partner with other organizations and regularly participate in job fairs, workshops, contests and expert Partnerships & events lectures. As major IT and technology player, we contribute to various In order to provide talented individuals with an opportunity to gain non-profit initiatives related to our core activities and engage in work experience and insight in our business, many of the Group’s partnerships supporting non-profit organizations. business units run internship or apprenticeship programs. Ranging In the Netherlands, for example, we partner with Sport & Zaken from short-term placements of 2 months to multi-year programs, (Sport & Business) to support sports organizations with business many of these initiatives are a key and reliable source for young advise and in that way we contribute to the economy in the professionals’ recruitment. More than 2,000 individuals took part Netherlands. In this country we also partner with JINC. JINC gives in such programs in 2016 across the Group’s top five largest young people from 8 to 16 years of age the opportunity to entities (India, France, UK, US and Poland). experience what the labor market has to offer and what skills one Recognizing the importance of English as the business language, needs for specific jobs. JINC’s projects reach more than all the more so in IT and technology, we also actively support 25,000 students annually from the primary school level to the programs to enhance English proficiency for students in countries vocational secondary level. The goal is to enable them to make such as China and Guatemala. the right choice in terms of study, to reduce the likelihood of students dropping out and to offer them better prospects for work. In Poland we run various innovation-related initiatives, such as ITand “techtalks”, during which IT-developments and achievements are presented and discussed for a wide range of participants, not just for our own employees. 112 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.3 Fostering Diversity & Inclusion in the workplace Ever since the founding of the Capgemini Group in 1967, diversity ◗ encourage and support our employees to consider diversity and and inclusion (D&I) have been integral to our business, workplace, inclusion in our everyday business decisions (e.g. procurement, and people culture. Embedded in our Code of Business Ethics building a team, initiative sponsorship); and reflected in many of our other Group and local policies, ◗ integrate diversity and inclusion principles into Capgemini’s diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our core values of business systems and activities based on five key drivers: honesty, boldness, trust, freedom, team spirit, modesty and fun, workplace, workforce, marketplace, community, and executive established by Group founder Serge Kampf. The principles of engagement across the Group; diversity and inclusion shape how we work with our colleagues, clients, partners and suppliers around the world. ◗ comply with all applicable laws concerning diversity and inclusion supported through enabling employees to obtain With over 193,000 people in more than 40 countries, Capgemini is guidance or report concerns on compliance and misconduct; proud to represent nearly 130 nationalities and its cultural diversity. Our holistic definition of diversity extends beyond ◗ report our progress, best practices and results across the Group both internally and externally based on our inclusion and 3 gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity, race, age and religion. Capgemini views diversity as everything diversity success measures; and that makes us who we are as an organization, including our social ◗ enhance Capgemini’s external employer brand through the background, our experiences in life and work, our communication promotion of our diversity and inclusion achievements. styles and even our personality. These dimensions contribute to Our differences are a source of creativity, innovation and the type of diversity we value the most: diversity of thought. inspiration. Embracing diversity and inclusion equips us to reflect Capgemini’s success, brand identity and client experience are today’s global marketplace in the communities where we operate, determined by the talented people who work for the Group. We enables us to generate new ideas and anticipate market trends as believe that people perform better when they are empowered to thought leaders in our chosen markets, and supports us in better be their authentic self at work and feel included and welcomed in understanding the challenges of our clients, partners and the work environment. Cultivating an inclusive environment and suppliers. We believe this will enhance the employee experience ensuring that every voice of Capgemini is heard and considered around the Group, create greater opportunities for sustainable maximizes our capability to win and deliver business, and makes business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a global employer of Capgemini a great place to work. choice. Our Group Global Charter for Diversity and Inclusion sets out the We make every effort to adapt to the needs of our people with a Group's commitment to continually: wide range of personal circumstances and to provide them with a work environment which encourages their development. In a ◗ engage with our clients, partners and suppliers to ensure there is number of countries, where allowed, employee data is monitored understanding and alignment to our values, diversity and according to criteria such as socio-cultural group, age group and inclusion commitments and clear expectations; different abilities, etc. Diversity performance indicators are also ◗ recruit and retain a talented and diverse workforce to deliver included in the annual HR audit. innovative, world-class solutions for our clients; ◗ foster an inclusive workplace environment that offers every Capgemini France, expanding diversity through employee the opportunity for a successful career; recruitment and supporting work life balance ◗ engage employees in the diversity and inclusion agenda through Capgemini and Sogeti France signed the Charte de la Diversité communication, awareness, education to build cultural (French corporate Diversity Charter) in 2006, and actively competencies, and career development opportunities; participate in IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité, an independent ◗ review and integrate employee feedback to implement programs organization responsible for promoting the Charter in order to that provide employee engagement opportunities and drive increase diversity in the public and private sectors in France. leadership accountability; Among other illustrative actions in 2016, Capgemini supports ◗ design, implement and regularly review and update policies to employees with toddlers in finding day care close to home or the ensure that we, as an organization, are embracing diversity, workplace: a network of inter-company nursery and home cultivating inclusion, and responding to our employees’ needs; childcare network is now available through a shared platform. ◗ support and leverage local and global networks across the Capgemini France pursues partnerships and targeted initiatives in Group business operations for employees and led by employees order to recruit beyond the limited scope of engineering schools, building communities to drive inclusion across culture, thus broadening the social background of the talents to be commerce, career, and community; recruited. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 113 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Capgemini North America, working towards choice for talented men and women is vital if we are to unleash sustained diversity & inclusion the full potential of our Group and deliver the best results for our clients, partners and, generally speaking, our stakeholders. It is a Capgemini North America has consistently engaged in initiatives known fact that mixed teams bring innovation and value, create a aimed at raising and sustaining greater awareness and inclusion of more inclusive environment, contribute to strengthen our DNA, diversity across the organization. A few examples of this are: improve employee engagement and foster collaboration. ◗ People Culture Week and Communication Strategy to expand Capgemini has started a journey aimed at improving gender the reach and impact of D&I efforts through awareness and balance. The efforts are led by the Head of Corporate Social engagement: monthly webinar topics, People Culture Week Responsability with the support of Women@Capgemini team, programming, monthly blog topics, CSR Talent Newsfeeds with encompassing a number of women and men dedicated to content nearly every week and social media engagement via accelerate gender balance within the Group. It was created in @Join Capgemini; 2012 with the CEO’s sponsorship, and covers all geographies and ◗ External Partnerships to grow Capgemini North America’s brand service lines. Women@Capgemini’s Program is organized around on the D&I topic and support collaboration with current and three pillars: Recruit, Retain and Develop. Its actions are potential clients with organizations such as Diversity Best coordinated with the Group Talent and CSR functions. Practices, National Diversity Council, ITSMF, Anita Borg Institute, In 2016, the program launched a number of new visible initiatives Human Rights Campaign, Korn Ferry and EDGE to assess our intended to recruit and retain more women and promote their role situation and progress, share best practices, and engage in in the work force. These actions are expected to have an impact innovative partnering; as early as 2017-2018: ◗ Capgemini’s Culture, Bias, and the Brain Executive Leadership ◗ Creation of a “Gender Balance Index” (GBI), allowing to track the Program has been specifically designed to advance our culture percentage of women joiners, leavers, and promoted. and engage employees to migrate unconscious bias which impacts workplace inclusion. It equips employees with the skills ◗ Obtaining a Gender Balance Certification from EDGE (Economic to define our future culture: Dividends for Gender Equality) Foundation, in the US and in France, which served as pilot countries, as part of the Group ❚ recognizing various dimensions of diversity beyond ethnicity journey towards a global certification in 2017. EDGE provides a and gender, global assessment methodology and business certification ❚ discussing the supporting network to maintain a more diverse standard for gender equality. Its purpose is to support workforce, companies in providing an optimal workplace for women and ❚ agreeing on the specific actions they will commit to taking to men, thereby bringing value to the whole organization. The create this new work environment for Capgemini. approach encompasses benchmarking, metrics and accountability. Policies, business practices and figures are Unconscious bias assessed over five distinct areas of analysis: equal pay for equivalent work, recruitment and promotion, leadership Exposing unconscious bias, the tendency for individuals to favor development training and mentoring, flexible work and company people like themselves, is critical to the promotion of diversity and culture. inclusion within any organization. Consequently, together with an external expert from Southern Methodist University in Dallas, ◗ Programs launched across geographies, notably Brazil, Capgemini North America has developed an Unconscious Bias Morocco, China, Poland, in addition to those existing in Europe, training module which has been deployed and run since 2013. In North America, India and in service lines (Capgemini Consulting, 2014, over 200 of the Group’s top executives from around the Financial Services and Infrastructure). globe attended a similar training lead by a renowned expert on ◗ Specific Leadership programs launched in several countries. unconscious bias. More than 500 employees globally have Some of the initiatives have proven useful beyond their original completed training on this topic and Capgemini North America scope, i.e. advancing women in their careers, by providing an reported a 12% gain in retention among team members who inclusive work framework that can be easily extended to other completed unconscious bias training. India and the UK ran employees with a benefit, e.g. Capgemini Germany, enabling unconscious Bias training programs as well in 2016, supporting women on maternity leave to remain in touch with Capgemini. This our Group commitment to grow culture competencies across our best practice has been extended to employees on sick leave, regions. sabbaticals..., the purpose being to stay in touch and facilitate the return to work. Measures taken in favor of gender balance In October 2016, Women@Capgemini hosted its annual meeting For Capgemini, gender balance is both an obligation and an and workshop to define 2017 gender balance action plan. Short opportunity: as a large global organization, we bear a and long-term initiatives were set to ensure sustained progress responsibility for advancing women in the organization, and we and were approved by the Group Chairman and CEO who recognize the fact that having more women at all levels of attended the workshop. responsibility is a competitive advantage. Being an employer of 114 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Breakdown of workforce by gender √:changes in Overall gender breakdown reflects, for most part, the information 2014-2016 technology sector’s situation as a whole, which tends to attract The coverage for the data below is 99.7% of the year-end engineering graduates, predominantly male, but also sheds light headcount. on the impact of our business and country mix on the gender balance picture. The percentage of women in the workforce continued to rise steadily, reaching 30.3% in 2016, an increase of 0.8 point over Female presence in the workforce is driven by three types of 2015 following a 0.7 point improvement the year before. Women business: Financial Services (FS, 30.9%), Consulting Services (CC, representation differs across the Group, depending on the type of 38.2%) and Business Services (BSv, 43%), displaying the highest activity (43% in Business services versus 23% in Infrastructure) percentages of women. Regarding the split by country, France, and, to a lesser extent, on the country mix (30.8% in India versus US, Canada, and India have launched several initiatives with around 25% in France and the UK, 24.6% in the US, but only Women@Capgemini in order to improve the gender mix, and 17.9% in the Netherlands). consequently, our attractiveness. 70.5% Regarding recruitment, the Group reached an overall rate of 71.2% 69.7% 33.5% women, an effort to be sustained in order to further 3 improve gender balance. On retention, women’s voluntary attrition rate of 18.9% is aligned with male attrition rate overall. However, moving up in the pyramid, there is a clear progressive decline in female presence, 29.5% 28.8% 30.3% requiring sustained action to increase the share of women, currently of 40% at early grades, falling down to a 13% at senior management level. Female Male december 2014 december 2015 december 2016 2016 voluntary attrition Women attrition Men attrition North America 15.4 % 11.8 % United Kingdom & Ireland 15.9 % 14.9 % Nordic countries 26.2 % 23.9 % Benelux 13.3 % 15.1 % Germany and Central Europe 23.0 % 24.0 % France 9.2 % 12.4 % Southern Europe 10.7 % 14.8 % Asia-Pacific 21.0 % 21.4 % Latin America 26.0 % 34.0 % TOTAL 18.9 % 18.9 % On development, the Group has focused on fostering women in The countries where BSv is developing strongly bring in a fair leadership, moving from a promotion rate of 18% in E and F share of women into the Group: Poland, China (+0.4 point) and grades at the top of the pyramid towards an objective of 25% in Guatemala (+0.6 point), all of which exceed 47% of women in the 2018. A few countries such as Poland, Spain and Italy have workforce. shown real commitment with promotion rates of 51%, 34% and Conversely, the percentage of women is less than 25% in thirteen 33.4% respectively. countries covering 22% (-8 points) of the workforce in scope, and The increase in female workforce is partly due to strong growth in notably Benelux and the USA. recent years of Business Services (business process outsourcing) an Last but not least, the significant headcount growth in Consulting activity where the proportion of female workforce can reach 50%, and Services, traditionally recruiting in a more gender diverse talent traditionally attracts more female workers. BSv has managed to pool, contributes to the Group’s gender balance with a 38% sustain this significant female presence in spite of its recent expansion female in workforce. to other countries and sectors (notably Infrastructure services), where women’s presence in the workforce is much weaker. In addition to this, the percentage of women is increasing in some geographies like in India (+1.3 point, now above 30% at 30.8%) which significantly contributes to improve Group gender balance given India’s overall size of workforce, or Poland which displays a 57.6% of women in workforce. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 115 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Proportion of women in executive positions by geography 25% 22.9% 20.6% 19.7% 20% 16.7% 16.1% 16.4% 15.8% 15.5% 14.9% 15% 12.6% 12.7% 11.8% 10.3% 10% 5% 0% ic a Ki N x C Ge e So fic a a 16 5 4 n & gdo co or lu en rm nc ut ci ic di 01 01 er Ire m un dic ne tra a Fr h Eu ern Pa er In 20 l2 l2 Am la tri Be a ro Am es l E ny To To nd pe ia l ta ta ta th d ur & As tin To or te op La N U ni e The proportion of females in the executive grades in 2016 Capgemini UK, taking steps to advancing women decreased due to the workforce mix’s evolution, as while the through active inclusion proportion of E and F in India is positively evolving, as the India E&F ratio is currently below Group average, the volume impact of Capgemini UK is committed to have a workforce that is made up India has driven an overall negative evolution. India excluded, the of diverse experiences and perspectives, supported and thriving in evolution was positive on gender balance. The rate reported at the an inclusive environment. In that respect we are making ongoing end of 2015 has been adjusted from 16.8% to 15.8% to reflect efforts to be leading in workplace gender equality. Our actions are data adjustments made in Benelux and Nordic countries. focused on both increasing the share of women in our workforce through recruitment and specific programs and through providing The ratio remains lower than the total percentage of women in the a wide range of tailored benefits and opportunities to our women Group’s workforce, across all grades. Continuing growth of the colleagues, highlighting our Family Friendly approach. Group’s headcount in countries with a low female presence in the talent pool and engineering-trained graduates impacts heavily the We recognize that our employment policies have to be designed overall women in workforce ratio. However, it is worth pointing out with the needs of our employees in mind and pay specific that the proportion of women working for Capgemini in these attention to the pressures that having a family can have on our countries is higher than the overall proportion of women in the IT employees. Our maternity policy has therefore been designed with market. our population of mothers at its centre, and we are committed to offering as much support as possible to ensure that maternity at At the end of 2016, 21.3% of employees who had been promoted work, and beyond, is as exciting a time as it should be for our to the role of “Vice-President” were female, a percentage above expectant mothers and their families. Capgemini also recognizes 20% for the second year in a row, even though the 2016 the pressures placed on personal and family life created by the percentage was slightly lower than in 2015 by 1.9 point. We have increasing demands of the modern working environment. For that a clear picture of our female talent pool, provided by the strategic reason we’ve established a Work Life Harmony policy which talent reviews undertaken throughout the Group and ranging from objective is to ensure that our employees can have an amazing CEO-led reviews of the leadership teams to Business Unit level and fulfilling career with us, while at the same time enabling reviews identifying top talents at all levels and grades. All Business parents and individuals to fulfill their caring responsibilities. Units are required to identify and sustain a female management talent pool and pipeline. To support these efforts, local Capgemini UK has also set some ambitious new gender balance management training courses, mentoring by senior executives, targets: and increased exposure and visibility are provided to women ◗ to increase the proportion of women from 26.6% in 2013 to identified as top talents, thereby advancing female presence and 30% by 2020; leadership in the Vice-President community. ◗ to increase the proportion of senior women from 16.9% in 2013 The Group’s largest countries have set up women’s councils and to 20% by 2020; and networks with action plans focused on recruitment, retention, ◗ to ensure that 50% of our apprentice intake are female by 2025. leadership and communication. 116 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Capgemini North America, spearheading actions Capgemini India launches emblematic program towards greater gender balance for gender balance Several illustrative initiatives to advance women’s careers are in The country-wide initiative, labeled “WinspirE”, is globally aligned place: to the Women@Capgemini program. The four main goals of the global program are to: ◗ Women’s Leadership Development Program: ❚ designed to provide training, mentoring, career ◗ encourage cultural change, to position gender diversity as a objective-setting and outside coaching for high performing / business imperative; high potential women in Senior Managers positions in the ◗ put women at the heart of client relationships, to show that we North America organization, have a gender-diverse workforce; ❚ program tracks include executive presence, fostering and ◗ address HR policies, group-wide, to create flexible working leading relationships, and creating an executive edge. conditions and foster equal opportunities for women; Selected candidates are nominated based on current ◗ provide networking opportunities, to share best practices and performance and potential; experiences. 3 ◗ EDGE Certification: level 1 EDGE Certification obtained: “WinspirE” supports women colleagues in their career ❚ EDGE is a global assessment methodology and business development and encourages them to take on new responsibilities standard on gender balance in the workplace. and leadership roles. It acts as a network offering strong support, ◗ Gender Balance Diversity Recruiting: both professionally and personally, where we help Recruit, Retain, Develop to Promote, and Build Awareness about gender balance ❚ to support a gender balanced leadership pipeline, a 20% or in the workplace. Key features of the program are: more hiring target of women at level C and above, ◗ extension of maternity leave (commitment signed in 2016) to ❚ to support these objectives KPIs will be rolled out to 26 weeks applicable for the calendar year 2017; recruiters and in a next phase for hiring managers as well; ◗ additional incentive pay-out to vendor partners for D&I hiring in ◗ Capgemini NA actively participate in the Women In Leadership business services; Symposium (WILs) Global Sponsorship (NDC) flagship program sponsored by the National Diversity Council (NDC). The NDC is a ◗ additional employee referral bonus for women candidates hired non-partisan organization dedicated to being both a resource at managerial grades; and an advocate for the value of diversity and inclusion. ◗ intentional Career Pathing (ICP) programFocused development and acceleration programs of 6 month-duration for women at Capgemini France, taking significant steps in Grade B in Bangalore; gender balance improvement ◗ Women Leadership Development Program (WLDP)Focused Capgemini and Sogeti have pursued their efforts towards greater development and acceleration programs of 6 month-duration for gender balance in 2016 by promoting careers in the Digital space women at Grade C and D in Mumbai and Bangalore; among young women students. A few significant initiatives: ◗ parenting workshop planned and conducted for parents with ◗ Young women entrepreneurs award Prometteuse du Digital young children; co-created by Capgemini France; ◗ creating a flexible work options framework to enable and ensure ◗ Women@Capgemini partners with the city of Bordeaux to attract work-life-balance. women to Digital careers; ◗ Capgemini’s Gender balance forum held on March 7, gathering Better inclusion of people with disabilities in the top executives and around a hundred employees; workplace ◗ EDGE Certification obtained (level 1); At Capgemini, we firmly believe that people with disability bring great value and a specific perspective to our business, while ◗ commitment to ensure equal pay for equal work or work of equal reflecting the diversity and variety of the society we live in. For this value between women and men through a detailed action plan reason, not only we comply with national and international legal over the next six years, accompanied by a dedicated budget of and labor requirements on this topic (e.g. quotas of people with €1.5 million; disability to be recruited) as a responsible employer, but we recruit ◗ targets set for gender balance on promotions and women in these individuals convinced that their presence contributes to leadership positions, aiming to reflect women’s presence in total more diverse and effective teams. workforce in France. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 117 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Capgemini France 3. Engagement: Engaging all employees through sensitization In compliance with national regulations and quotas, Capgemini and training programs aimed at cultivating etiquettes on how France supports initiatives and partners that raise awareness on to behave with persons with disability , and people with disabilities and the challenges they face, facilitating 4. Evangelism: Evangelizing inclusion beyond the company, their recruitment and onboarding in the workplace. A few with customers, partners and other organizations. examples of this are: Program key features: ◗ Tadeo, specialized in language skills for the hearing impaired; ◗ Engaged 14000+ employees through events/activities like panel ◗ Accede, supporting access to the internet for the visually discussion, experiencing disability workshop, online quiz series, impaired; technology kiosk. ◗ Arpejeh, which aims to improve and foster the training and ◗ D & I awareness sessions are conducted as part of Induction: employment of young people with different abilities Discover Program at key locations. ◗ Capgemini is a founding member of Hanploi, a job search ◗ Relaxation in recruitment norms for candidate with disabilities. platform and website dedicated to the differently abled; ◗ Provision of support during commute, at work station, through ◗ Defi H 2016: a technology innovation and mentoring program assistive technologies as per data captured through the led in partnership with engineering schools around a technology Disability Self Identification Form -DSIF, released on a quarterly / IT project aimed at improving the lives of people with basis. disabilities. ◗ Partnered with Social Equity for physical accessibility audit of In 2016, Capgemini France increased significantly the volume of Erstwhile IGATE and DTP office locations. purchases to preferred suppliers (as defined by law, promoting ◗ Customized communication up-skilling program for sixteen jobs for people with disabilities), reaching 2 million Euro. employees with hearing disability commenced on 15th July 16 to Other key actions led in 2016: enable career advancement sensitization sessions for recruitment panelist hiring candidates with different abilities ◗ Training students with disabilities in IT, partnering with Cergy University; ◗ Partnered with Barrier Break to conduct sensitization sessions on assistive technologies at Mumbai and Bangalore locations. ◗ Environmental innovation Award with Nodixia, specialized in recruitment of people with disabilities; Capgemini Poland and innovative initiatives fostering ◗ Signature of an agreement to advance employment for people inclusion and people with disabilities with disabilities in Small business in the Paris area; Since 2014, together with Managers of the Future Foundation ◗ Roll out of friendly infrastructures policy for people with (MOFFIN), Capgemini Poland has partnered, around the shared belief that the successful inclusion of people with disabilities is Capgemini India pursuing an ambitious disability both an obligation and an opportunity for private companies and program the society at large. Capgemini India’s disability inclusion program started in 2012. It Within this framework, Capgemini Poland recruits people with continues to gain momentum year on year with over 215 People disabilities, running internal disability awareness trainings (100 with disability availing reasonable adjustment. The program has people trained in 2016), adapting the workplace, and four pillars, namely Accessibility, Career, Engagement and implementing the necessary technologies for effective work. Evangelism. In 2016 in partnership with Select Training Solutions a language 1. Accessibility: Removing barriers to inclusivity, by ensuring school and the MOFFIN Foundation, Capgemini created a unique accessible infrastructure, IT systems and grievances English Language Course for persons with disability, with fully mechanism. adapted materials. This is an absolute first in the country for this 2. Career: Ensuring inclusion through policies in recruitment, type of disablement, and is fully replicable. engagement, and development. The initiative has been recognized as a Diversity and Inclusion best practice on the 3rd Diversity Congress in Poland. Furthermore, a unique partnership, beyond boundaries and across sectors and companies, resulted in the creation of “Come CloSeR to Disability Task Force”, aiming at broadening the sectors and companies recruiting people with disabilities. 118 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Number of employees in the Group with a disability: 2014-2016 1.590 1.479 1.468 544 563 535 502 416 428 3 215 156 177 129 114 101 123 114 82 90 95 79 28 17 20 India France Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Total Central Europe Latin America & Ireland 2014 2015 2016 A disability is defined as anything preventing or limiting someone ◗ talented individuals from different backgrounds are recruited and to participate to corporate, social life due to a long term or retained; definitive reduction of his/her mental or physical capabilities. These ◗ individuals are shown respect and treated fairly; figures reflect both voluntary and legal declarations depending on countries and their respective disability disclosure laws and ◗ our working environment is free from all forms of harassment or policies. abuse; The coverage rate for the data above is 75.3% of year-end ◗ our people are encouraged and helped to keep a good balance headcount some countries being excluded from the scope for between work and private life; legal reasons such as USA or Sweden. In 2016, figures indicated ◗ the health and well-being of our employees is supported and that the Group employed 1,590 people with disabilities, of whom encouraged; and 34.2% are in France and 31.6% are in the UK & Ireland. Our ◗ a sound and fair working environment is provided, where our Indian entities now employ 215 people with disabilities, following a people can develop and flourish. program launched in 2012. Capgemini will not tolerate any form of discrimination in the workplace on any grounds. Discrimination can take two forms, Measures against discrimination direct and indirect. Direct discrimination occurs when someone is In all the countries where we operate, the Group not only complies treated less favorably, for example on grounds of their gender, with local labor legislation and international labor regulations but race, age, disability, religion or sexual orientation. Indirect also with our own Charter championing diversity and inclusion. In discrimination occurs when a condition or rule is applied which line with our commitment to the principles of the fundamental disqualifies a large proportion of one group from an activity and conventions on the labor standards of the International Labor there is no genuine reason for imposing that condition. A organization and the Principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration “grievance escalation process” is in place in all countries where of Human Rights including the UN Guiding Principles on Business the Group is present. This process enables the escalation of any and Human Rights, we are committed to: complaint from our employees who feel discriminated against in any form. Each claim is investigated fully and disciplinary actions can be taken if discrimination is proven. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 119 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.4 Rewarding and incentivizing our People The Group’s remuneration policy is based on shared principles, 2014 and was again a success with close to 17,000 subscribers applied in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market joining this new plan. As a result of these two active plans our conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: employees, as a whole, are amongst the Group’s main shareholders with close to 5.3% of the share capital. ◗ attract and retain talent; ◗ reward individual and collective performance with a Lastly, Capgemini launched a share price performance-related remuneration model that is motivating yet flexible; product (the BSAAR) in 2009. This product was made available to Group managers at the price of €3.22 (at fair value and in ◗ be fair and consistent with the Group’s financial and operational accordance with a valuation carried out by an external expert) and targets. was accompanied by an information memorandum approved by Where local rules permit, employees can select the components the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF). BSAARs of their remuneration package from a predefined package and in represented an opportunity for managers who wanted to make a some countries can elect to enhance benefits through additional long-term investment in the Company (from 4 to 7 years) while employee contributions. This provides employees with additional being fully exposed to fluctuations in the share price. This product flexibility, enabling them to reconcile their financial and personal expired in July 2016. situations in the best possible way. Employee benefits are provided that are market competitive and Allocation of share-based incentive schemes respect legal requirements in all jurisdictions in which we operate. Cap Gemini S.A. has allocated share-based instruments 96% of the population is covered by Medical Insurance and 97% (previously stock options and performance shares since 2009) on of the population has a life insurance cover, which is often a regular basis in line with its corporate governance rules. These bundled with an Accidental Death and Dismemberment insurance. allocations are made selectively with the aim of rewarding Vice-President and senior executive compensation schemes are employee loyalty, namely for those who have made exceptional reviewed and authorized at the Group level for both fixed salaries contributions to company sales, production, innovation or to and variable components. The principles of compensation reward those who have been acknowledged for specific initiatives schemes for other employees, which are locally designed and or who are seen as transformation agents. Any employee in the managed, are subject to Group approval with the intent to Group may be selected to receive them. They are an exceptional progressively better align schemes to favor mobility and ensure reward and do not form part of the general remuneration policy. consistency and fairness. The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country options to 2,298 beneficiaries under the sixth plan and to always exceed or are equal to the legal minimum wage in force in 3,918 beneficiaries under the performance shares plans. The the country concerned, and are sometimes higher by a very management report, presented at each Cap Gemini S.A. significant proportion. Salary increases guidelines are also Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown of reviewed and approved at Group level. the performance share allocations. Profit-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local Concurrently, stock options granted to executive corporate regulations applicable in the country. officers form a very low percentage of the total options distributed. Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total number of The evolution of compensation (which can be found in the Note 6 options allocated was awarded to executive corporate officers, to the consolidated financial statements of the Registration and no options are exercisable as all plans are now closed. Document) is subject to regular analysis as compensation costs Regarding performance shares, resolutions set a limit of 5% or represent 61% of the Group revenue. A quarterly analysis is made 10% to be allocated to Directors and the volume effectively of the average compensation cost across SBUs/countries to allocated represented 3% of the total grants of all performance evaluate the impact of staff movements (recruits, leavers, share plans since 2009. Moreover, share-based instruments are promotions, transfers, etc.) on the evolution of this key indicator. not allocated on an automatic and/or annual basis. The Compensation Committee of the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Detailed information regarding performance shares allocated by Directors is in charge of supervising compensation of the Cap Gemini S.A. to directors and to the ten main beneficiaries Company’s executive corporate officers and to review (non-directors), the options exercised by the latter, and details of compensation policies related to the Group senior managers, in these plans are provided on section 2.4.5 of this Registration particular equity based incentives subject to Board approval. Document. In addition, following a negotiation with French employee Employee access to stock holding representatives, the Board decided to pay an incentive through Capgemini launched its first international employee stock shares subject to a presence condition of two years and with a ownership plan, covering 19 countries, in 2009. This plan was compulsory holding period of another two years in two occasions very successful, with more than 14,000 employees applying for (2012 and 2014), instead of paying a bonus in cash for the “profit shares. After authorization was granted by shareholders, a new sharing bonus” implemented in 2011. As a result, more than international plan was launched in 2012 covering all employees of 16,000 employees became shareholders in July 2014 and again the 19 countries, which was again very successful, with more than 15,200 employees out of the initial 20,000 beneficiaries 12,000 employees subscribing. As the 2009 plan was ending in became shareholders in October 2016. December 2014, a new international plan has been launched in 120 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.5 Developing our People Career & Competency Frameworks depending on learning objectives, the size of the target audience, Global Competency Frameworks help to identify and measure an business imperative and the type of skills being targeted. Delivery individual’s attributes and skills against the competencies required channels include classroom learning programs, virtual classrooms, to perform at a particular grade for each role. The models provide facilitated virtual learning journeys, online books & videos, easily our people with guidance on what roles exist at Capgemini, and accessible databases & KM (Knowledge Management) what is expected and required in order to perform in a job or to 3.0 communities, team rooms, collaborative learning portals, move up or across different jobs in the organization. enterprise social media (Yammer), mobile applications, on-the-job Competencies are independent of organizational structures. This learning, and mentoring systems. Capgemini also organizes approach allows for consistency of measurement across roles and regular physical learning and mobilization events that can include countries, enables global common processes and forms the skill boosters, co-creation challenges and hackathons. framework for our curriculum. Learning content, delivery and organization 3 Learning & development policy Global Learning content At Capgemini, we believe our success is delivered and sustained Global learning programs offered to our people are being through our people and their expertise. That’s why we support our continuously renewed. In 2016, Capgemini University released people in the development of their competencies and capabilities 29 new blended and classroom courses and 127 new virtual from the day they are hired and throughout their career, thereby classroom courses and made available new content from our ensuring that we achieve the full potential for our clients in a alliance partners and Skillsoft library. In addition to global market characterized by rapid technological innovation and programs, specific programs are designed and delivered at local, disruption. regional or business-unit level to support specific business needs. Capgemini University partners with Group Learning & Capgemini University offers learning solutions for all the Group’s Development (Group L&D) to support business acceleration (by core professional communities. The results-oriented portfolio prioritizing the right content to the right people at the right time), supports the business priorities of the Group and is composed of respond to client needs by ensuring our people have the right four clusters, with 48 curricula and more than 280 detailed capabilities, support the ongoing employability and growth of our learning maps. Each learning map consists of several (or all) of the people and ensure we are aligned across the Group by sharing following learning formats: instructor-led classrooms, virtual the same content and ways of working. classrooms, e-learning modules, videos, podcasts, books, white We bring our values and a collaborative, multicultural approach to papers and webinars. Capgemini’s Global Curriculum Framework life and engage our learners virtually, locally or at our world-class is separated into the following clusters: campuses in Les Fontaines, France and Pune, India. Capgemini ◗ Core Curriculum cluster: the foundation that aligns the mindset University leverages its rich history and its accreditation among of every Capgemini team member on core Group knowledge. It best-in-class learning organizations to guarantee excellence in also provides a complete set of programs that support the building the capabilities that the Group and Capgemini’s clients leadership development of our members; need for today and tomorrow. ◗ Role-based Curriculum cluster: role-specific learning that Learning Technology supports our members throughout their career development, providing the necessary knowledge and skills for our people to The Group’s on-line learning management system, MyLearning, is better perform in their respective roles and reach the open to all employees for informal, just-in-time learning and for professional excellence desired by clients and ultimately the structured learning events. MyLearning contains all the Group Group; programs and, for many regions, local curricula. We know the importance of delivering a modern Digital Age Learning experience ◗ Partner Curriculum Cluster: responsible for the deployment of for all Capgemini Group employees and are therefore continuously relevant partner curricula that supports global strategic growth investing in content and user experience enhancements of initiatives. Learning maps contain a blend of assets available MyLearning. Our learning content can be found and accessed through various media, both internally and directly with our anywhere and anytime, including via mobile devices. partners, to help prepare our people for relevant certifications; Our learning functions partner with the Group to formalize, ◗ Sectors and Service Lines (SSL) Curriculum cluster: focuses on package and deploy Digital Age Learning (DAL) content on supporting capability development for sectors and specific Capgemini-specific differentiators, knowhow and industry Capgemini portfolio offers. The following sectors are covered: standards. Capgemini’s best practitioners and external experts Automotive, Banking, Consumer Products and Retail, Public deliver this content. Content is delivered using various channels Sector, Insurance and Utilities. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 121 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Learning & Development figures Focus on Group L&D and Learning Business Partners In 2016, 185,833 Capgemini employees (96% of our workforce) The Global Learning Business Partner Team is composed of the took part in learning programs using various channels. The total Learning & Development (L&D) Executives of all Strategic Business volume of learning hours√ provided by the Group was 6.5 million, Units (SBUs) and of the main countries – led by Group L&D. of which 4.1 million hours was Global University Content, Group L&D and University work together with the business to representing 64% of total learning hours. strengthen our people capabilities by : 1.8 million hours of global curricula classroom learning has been ◗ focusing on new content linked to hot market topics such as followed by more than 42,000 employees (+8% compared to disruptive technologies, global service offers and sector trends 2015). This was delivered at one of the Capgemini’s global to create business value; campuses in Les Fontaines, France or Pune, India and local locations where the Group or our clients are present. Regarding ◗ building professional capabilities in key roles such as architects, the number of training hours delivered: engagement managers, management consultants, sales professionals or software engineers; ◗ hours of training tracked by the business units via MyLearning system (i.e. 96% of the total training hours delivered in 2016) are ◗ creating and delivering learning events bringing cross discipline calculated on the basis of the predefined duration for each teams together to sell and deliver on key market trends in Digital, training session (and not on the time effectively spent by Social, Mobile, Analytics, Cloud, Cybersecurity and the Internet employees on the training). of Things; and ◗ hours of training tracked out of the system (i.e.4% of the total ◗ strengthening leadership capabilities to better enable our teams training hours delivered in 2016) are calculated on the basis of to successfully adapt to the fast pace of technology and market the data collected the two previous years. evolutions. In addition to these cross Strategic Business Unit (SBU) 185.833 interventions, the University and Group L&D also worked with each of the SBUs to deliver specific learning and mobilization events at the Group’s physical campuses in Les Fontaines 143.415 136.461 (France) and Pune (India). These events delivered content that was 119.601 96% both targeted at each specific SBU, strengthened key 110.097 101.751 96% 84.714 communities with Capgemini, and supported the Group’s overall 95% target. 91% 88% Focus on Capgemini University 85% A powerful business alignment and acceleration tool, the 78% University brings our teams together in order to develop their skillsets, thereby contributing to develop our clients’ full potential. To achieve this goal, the University’s mission is to deliver a learner centric end-to-end experience, leveraging the principles of Digital Age Learning around the following four key objectives: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ◗ Inspire, train and develop key communities all along their career Headcount Total % Unique Employee Trend progression; ◗ Develop and manage Executive and Leadership Education; ◗ Build aligned capabilities with agility and speed in order to drive Nb: 2015 data doesn’t include former IGATE. business impact and client value ; In 2016 we saw a decline in the percentage of content delivered ◗ Amplify, deploy and nurture the Group’s Culture. virtually. This was caused by ‘breaking up’ learning into smaller nuggets in line with our Digital Age Learning strategy. In parallel, Capgemini University aims at delivering to each trainee an effective we saw an increase in the duration of classroom onboarding learning experience by leveraging digital technologies and programs in India, which increased the overall classroom learning innovative learner engagement principles. In order to bring the percentage. best value and impact, the University aligns required competences and skill sets, communities, curricula and certification, thus 6.54 guaranteeing high quality delivery for our clients. 5.19 4.69 4.78 4.25 3.87 3.52 47% 36% 43% 39% 33% 15% 19% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Classroom learning (in Hours in million) Virtual learning 122 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Personal development and appraisals Workforce – percentage of employees who had a A key challenge for a services company such as Capgemini is to performance and career review between 2014 and 2016 guarantee a consistent and transparent assessment of individual The coverage ratio for the data below is 93.3% of year-end performance based on a set of clearly-defined and explained headcount. criteria. By establishing such a framework, the company can In 2016, 89.1% of the workforce concerned had undergone an support the professional development and promotion of all annual performance review; The ratio is slightly declining in the employees and provide for equal opportunities. past three years due to the recruiting dynamics as joiners in the The performance and development process is driven by regular last months of the year are not going through the performance meetings between the employee and the evaluator, generally evaluation process on the basis of an insufficient evaluation period conducted in relation to assignments. The mentoring system has to support this process. Some regions are further ahead than been set up to allow employees benefit from career management others in this area, such as Europe, where figures are in a 90advice from more experienced colleagues throughout their 99% range. careers. Expectations and skills descriptions are set out for each Depending on local HR policies, business units may use different grade, and are used for setting objectives, evaluation and 3 criteria to assess the level of completion of the employee promotion preparation. Priority is given to different dimensions of performance assessment process. There is no common definition skills development for each grade, drawing attention to areas on applicable to the whole Group for determining the performance which employees should focus. assessment process completion. 99% 99% 99% 98% 99% 100% 97% 97% 98% 96% 97% 98% 97% 94% 91.4% 90% 89% 91% 90% 92% 89.9% 87% 86% 89% 88% 88.3% 89.1% 85% 85% 83% India France North Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland countries 2014 2015 2016 External awards and recognition ❚ Two Gold medals for Connect & Drive (Talent Management / Not only do Group L&D and University focus on developing our Best Advance in High Potential Development & Leadership employee’s competences and skills, they also strive to develop Development / Best Unique or Innovative Leadership their expertise in learning delivery and pedagogy. Ready to take on Program), new challenges in this areas, the team applied for external ❚ Gold medal for the DevOps Hackathon (Learning and evaluations and won a number of awards, such as: Development / Best Use of Games and Simulations for Learning), which was staged held during the Business Priority ◗ ‘Most International Corporate University’ in the inaugural Week in November at Capgemini University’s Les Fontaines U-Spring le Printemps des universités d’entreprise (Corporate campus, Universities’ Spring) awards, which rewards the best practices in corporate learning and was organized under the senior ❚ Bronze medal for the Cybersecurity launch event [Sales patronage of the French Ministry of Labour; Performance / Best Unique or Innovative Sales Training Program], a mobilization event held at Les Fontaines. ◗ 2016 Skillsoft Innovation Award for the EMBARK leadership program in the category ‘Empowering Continuous Talent Capgemini University is accredited by the EFMD (European Development’; Foundation for Management Development). The accreditation is a mechanism for quality benchmarking, mutual learning and sharing ◗ Two citation awards for the Connect & Drive talent acceleration of good practices where internal self-assessment is combined program in the ATD Excellence in Practice Awards; with an external review from experienced peers against a ◗ Three Gold and one Bronze medal in the annual Brandon Hall comprehensive set of rigorous criteria. Capgemini University HCM Excellence Awards, often referred to as the “Academy received its initial five-year EFMD accreditation in 2009 and was Awards of corporate learning: reaccredited in 2015. It is the only Corporate University from the IT industry to have such an accreditation. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 123 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.6 Enhancing our capabilities through certification Internal certification External certification This in-house peer review process enables skills to be assessed The Group has a longstanding external certification policy on the basis of precise and clearly identified criteria such as enhanced by on-line learning programs and face-to-face experience gained, knowledge sharing, use of in-house tools and programs that enable study for external certification, including methods, mentoring and leadership. on-line mentoring. The process has three objectives, namely: All training programs to support those external certifications are curated or designed in partnership with our Strategic partners ◗ to create strong and recognized professional-interest groups by (EMC, HP, IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, SAP). This close partnership sharing information, knowledge and skills in specific areas; with strategic actors in the IT-market allows Capgemini employees ◗ to ensure blended distribution and graduated progression of to access certification processes run directly by our partners. skills, both for in-house and client service requirements; and Employees may also apply for the following external certifications: ◗ to create, in the process, a competitive edge for both the Group Java, Cisco, Linux Professional Institute. and its employees, thereby increasing their “employability”. New trends are important to monitor, which is why Capgemini The Group has run internal certification programs for a number of evaluates the most promising technology trends on a regular basis years, primarily to drive the professional development of our and ensures that our employees can access learning content and engagement managers, architects, software engineers, lean six certification programs when relevant. Our current portfolio sigma professionals and network engineers. Training programs partners are Amazon Web services, Google, NetSuite, Pivotal, are developed jointly with the University to support a consistent SalesForce and VMWare. deployment of methods and content around these different topics within the Group. To support our Strategic offers, we also internally run External Certification processes such as those related to TMAP Next, At the end of 2016, more than 4,800 engagement managers and ISTQB and REQB for Testing and Lead Auditor, Lead Implementer 1,800 architects had either obtained or reconfirmed their internal and Risk Manager certification for Cybersecurity. certification. A specific focus for 2016 has been put on increasing the number of senior engagement manager certifications. Our Certifications on Industry Standards such as Six Sigma (Green Indian operations have also created a pool of 1,400+ Lean Six Belts, Black Belts and Master Black Belts), Project Management Sigma Yellow Belt certified professionals through classroom Institute (PMI), ITIL, Agile and Scrum are also widely present in the trainings and hands-on projects. Group, and Facilitated Virtual Learning Journeys are organized to support our capabilities building such as certification readiness of The Integrated Architecture Framework (IAF) which was created Capgemini employee. Finally, 951 architects have received a as the Capgemini Architecture Framework 20 years ago has since TOGAF certification by the Open Group which makes us the then been in use by Capgemini and our clients, as well as Company with the largest TOGAF community worldwide. TOGAF integrated by Software vendors in their Enterprise Architecture was created based on our internal IAF features, and as a platinum (EA) modelling tools (e.g. SPAX, Qualiware). At the end of 2016 we member we are working with the Open Group on the next TOGAF have 954 IAF certified architects within the Group. In addition a version. new, framework-agnostic Capgemini Architects Certification was launched in 2016 and 662 architects have already been certified. We also have a certification program focusing on new joiners in our Development and ERP practices as part of our global on-boarding process, run mainly in India but open for all countries to join. 124 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.7 Organizing our activities in a safe and healthy environment Health and safety in the workplace working conditions in our offices. To further enhance Health and Health and Safety in the workplace is an important feature of Safety in the workplace Capgemini India has launched human resources and facilities management. Even though the standardized medical services for all its locations which includes a Group’s businesses do not involve high-risk activities, Health and doctor, a paramedic and a full time ambulance. Safety responsibilities are taken very seriously and the Company As a significant part of our employees work on client, has therefore established specific programs and measures. At a subcontractor or other non-Capgemini sites, we require that minimum, across the Group we comply with all local Health and adequate facilities, training and access to safety information is Safety legal requirements. Next to that all our entities have Health provided and we cooperate with clients and subcontractors in and Safety policies in place which are in most countries governed some instances to ensure Health and Safety in the workplace. In by Health and Safety Committees (HSCs). Our Health and Safety that respect we also expect our employees to observe and policies are the basis for providing information, instructions and cooperate with any client rules regarding Health and Safety and training on Health and Safety and cover, amongst others: emergency procedures. 3 ◗ Health and Safety in the work place, including handling of Next to ensuring a healthy and safe workplace, we strive to accidents, providing first aid, emergency procedures and safe improve the general health and well-being of our employees. handling, use and disposal of hazardous substances and PPE; Various e-learning modules on Health and Safety matters are ◗ guidelines for Capgemini employees working on client sites and available to our employees including a module called Well Being for business travel; Essentials which addresses a variety of topics including health challenges, work-life balance, healthy eating, fitness, grief and ◗ initiatives on improving working conditions, including loss, etc. Some entities, such as in Brazil, organize Health and work-life-balance programs, employee-manager relationships, Safety events which run for one week and focus on a specific physical and psychological well-being; topic; for example focusing on ergonomic risks and environmental ◗ sickness, disability and rehabilitation. awareness. In cooperation with external parties such as health The Health and Safety policies are further concretized in specific insurers and healthcare providers we also run various initiatives to procedures and handbooks. New joiners in most of our entities enhance health and well-being and prevent from diseases. In are informed and instructed on the applicable Health and Safety some countries, such as Sweden, all employees have access to procedures and guidelines during their onboarding process. In occupational health services in the cities where we have an office. some entities, such as Poland, new joiners also have to formally Through that system they have access to doctors, physiatrists, sign a special (declaration) stating that they are familiar with the physiotherapists, etc. without being charged for the service. Health and Safety procedures and guidelines. In compliance with Employees of some of our entities, such as in Finland and local regulations and depending on changes in the applicable Portugal, undergo a medical check-up when they start working for Health and Safety policies, employees in various entities have to Capgemini. Periodic checkups are also performed, depending on complete periodic trainings / e-learnings in order to remain the age of the employee. properly informed. Completion of such trainings is mandatory and We consider both the prevention of sickness and the recovery / monitored by the local L&D teams. rehabilitation a shared responsibility of the employee and Guidelines, instructions and supplies for activities and situations Capgemini. In that respect we strive to minimize the duration of affecting the day-to-day Health and Safety, such as emergency the sickness / disability by following a smooth and efficient instructions and first-aid activities are clearly visible and available in process and through close cooperation with external parties in the most of our offices. The offices of various entities are also regularly healthcare domain. More and more of our entities develop specific audited on Health and Safety aspects including working initiatives to improve the health and well-being of sick employees conditions, humidity and lighting levels, temperature, air and to enable a quicker return to work. A successful initiative that conditioning, minimal space per employee, etc. In some countries, was launched this year in The Netherlands focused on the such as Germany, we also regularly survey our employees on the re-integration of employees who suffered from (breast) cancer. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 125 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Breakdown of part-time workforce in 2014-2016 14.4%14.5%14.6% 9.7% 9.2% 8.4% 7.4% 7.3% 6.9% 5.3% 6.4% 5.8% 6.0% 6.1% 5.6% 5.2% 5.4% 5.3% 4.5% 4.8% 3.9% 3.6% 3.1% 2.8% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% India France North Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland countries 2014 2015 2016 Part-time staff is defined as any resource working less than the headcount as India does not report part-time staff. The figures normal/legal working hours schedule of each country of payroll. show significant variation between regions: part-time working is most widespread in the Benelux countries with 14.6%, followed The coverage rate for the above data is 94.4% of year-end by the United Kingdom with 8.4%. Conversely, in North America headcount. and Latin America (excepted Brazil), part-time working is not The percentage of part-time employees in the Group decreased widespread. In France, 5.3%, or approximately 1,300 people, from 3.1% of the total headcount in 2015 to 2.8% in 2016. This work on a part-time basis and the percentage has remained decrease is mostly linked to the growing share of India in overall stable over the last three years. Breakdown of workforce by fixed working hours in 2014-2016 54.4% 52.5% 42.2% A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide variation between the regions. This study covered 94.4% of the 35.8% workforce at year-end. France, representing 12.6% of the total 29.1% workforce, was singled out, with a 35-hour working week. 28% of 27.8% our employees have a 40-hour working week but is the collective timetable of most of the countries in which we operate in particular in most european countries (except UK, Finalnd and Denmark 15.2% where the collective timetable is 37.5-hour per week). The % is 13.2%12.6% mechanically decreasing due to growing share of India with a collective timetable of 45 hours per week. North America. 6.8% Guatemala, Chile and Morocco are on a 44-hour working week, 4.9% 4.6% Mexico is on a 48-hour working week. Mexico, with a 48-hour 0.0% 0.3% 0.5% 0 working week has the highest collective timetable. 35h 36-39h 40h 41-47h 48h 2014 2015 2016 126 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Rate of absenteeism in 2014-2016 5.2% 4.9% 4.9% 3.8% 3.4% 3.3% 3.4% 3.0% 3.0% 2.6% 2.7% 2.6% 2.4% 2.5% 2.5% 2.3% 2.4% 2.4% 2.0% 2.1% 2.1% 1.9% 1.6% 1.2% 1.0% 1.1% 0.8% 3 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% India France North Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland countries 2014 2015 2016 The rate of absenteeism is expressed as the number of sickness This low percentage is due to the fact that some countries such days excluding maternity (sickness covers all absence declared as as India (which represents more than 50% of our workforce) do such by employees which can cover anything from headache to not collect data on the number of days of sick leave as such. In surgery) versus the number of total working days less holidays and 2016, the rate of absenteeism for sickness in the sample vacation for the average headcount. remained stable at 2.4%. It was highest in Germany and Central Europe,(4.9%), driven by Poland with a high level of 5.7%, The coverage rate for this study is 43.2% of the year-end followed by Scandinavia at 3.4%. France at 2.5% is just below the headcount. The number of theoretical hours worked by Group average rate of absenteeism. employees is determined either by using an average FTE headcount, or when this data is not available by using the year end headcount. Number of work-related accidents/headcount in 2014-2016 1.0% 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% 0.6% 0.6% 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.39% 0.4% 0.4% 0.38% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.26% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% India France North Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland countries 2014 2015 2016 A work-related accident is defined as a non-fatal injury resulting in 480 accidents corresponds to an overall ratio of incapacity for work at least three consecutive days, excluding the accidents/headcount of 0.0026, a decrease of 0.13 pointt versus day of accident. 2015. The majority of these work-related accidents were accidents during the home/workplace journey. Most of them were The coverage rate for the above data is 87.9% of the year-end accidents during the work-home travel. The Group recorded two headcount. In 2016, the Group recorded 480 work-related victils of accidents resuting in death in 2016: one in India and one accidents, of which 42% were in France on account of the in China. Both were related to work-home travel. regulations in force relating to the reporting of information. The Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 127 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management 3.2.8 Promoting international mobility As a global company, Capgemini is committed to offering exciting One of our main objectives is to ensure a working environment international career opportunities to its employees and to support that meets our standards on securing the physical safety of our businesses by assembling multi-national and multi-disciplinary employees. As stipulated in our risk management policy and teams in a cost-effective manner. International assignments are procedures, the Group has a strict approach on the therefore an important aspect of our business and we have the countries/locations in which our employees can work. ambition to progressively increase international mobility across our Assignments in countries considered “at risk” by our specialist geographies, SBUs, service lines and functions. external safety service provider are subject to strict rules and require formal Group approved in advance. Next to that we take To enhance this journey and make international assignments a several safety measures, amongst others: great experience for our employees, we have established an International Assignment Services network that comprises nearly ◗ advice and specific training courses on international mobility, 150 team members. This network supports the organization of including e.g. an e-learning training course on business travel international assignments through environmental safety safety that was launched in 2010. This course has been monitoring, ensuring that a medical assistance program is in completed by4,618 employees in 2016; place, addressing immigration needs (e.g. business visa or work ◗ the setup of a travel monitoring tool to identify where and when permits), supporting the assignee’s relocation and ensuring our employees are travelling. This tool also communicates travel compliance with local labor laws and social security, payroll & alerts and provides practical advice on local culture and customs taxation requirements. of the countries that our employees visit; Supporting our employees in making sure that international ◗ the establishment of a repatriation procedure and providing mobility is organized in a seamless way, the Internatioal Advisory specific insurance coverage, to limit, as far as possible, any risks Services team is committed to deliver the right information, faced by our employees in case trouble breaks out in a country support and tools. As the foundation, the Group International where they are present. Assignment Policy Book & Catalog of Services sets out the general conditions that apply to all stays abroad. All relevant In 2016, 23,537 of our employees have been proposed with information and tools are published on the Group intranet sites, 39,501 international assignments in 114 different countries. The including relevant rules & procedures and checklists. main countries of origin were India, USA, Poland, Netherlands and France. The main destinations were USA, UK, Sweden, Germany and France. 3.2.9 Building an effective employee communication and dialog Dialog and communication at the heart of the Blackberry’s Good Enterprise suite, users can now access of our relationships Talent on their mobile device seamlessly and securely. Efforts have also been made to continue to make Talent accessible to Capgemini believes employee involvement and commitment is a differently-abled colleagues who suffer from audio or visual condition to an open culture and facilitates this through effective and impairment. In 2016 we concentrated on transforming the back timely communication. With more than 193,000 employees, spread office Content Management System using the Bootstrap across more than 40 countries, and within four business lines and framework. This has significantly improved the user experience expertise in six major sectors, Group Internal Communications (GIC) and ensured better management of content for greater plays a vital role in sharing information, coordinating and mobilizing accessibility. The most recent accessibility audit and tests carried all teams around the Group’s priorities. out by Atalan (a consulting agency specialized in web accessibility for people with different abilities: http://www.atalan.fr/) confirmed Building one Capgemini that the Global Talent homepage was 96% compliant with WCAG Our global intranet, Talent, is home to all global and local Group (Web Content Accessibility Guidelines) 2.0 AA+, while the rest of intranet sites and provides a consistent user experience and the tested sample reached an equally impressive rate of 90%. We increased connectivity across the Company. Talent, through estimate that our compliance has increased further and we remain written and increasingly rich-media forms (videos, animations, committed to continuous improvement in the years to come. infographics and even live TV-style WebEvent broadcasts, etc.), In 2016, Talent registered over 59 million connections, almost a as well as its integration with Yammer, our internal social media 15% growth over 2015; the daily Talent News Alerts reached tool, provides employees with ongoing information and updates 109,000 subscribers and the weekly digest reached all employees about the Group’s main activities around the world. Talent enables globally every Friday. Yammer, with over 108,000 members and personalization and connects with team members through daily TeamPark, Sogeti’s social network with over 23,000 profiles, have and weekly digests. Through its news portal and information store, become internal Digital cybercafés, connecting people, fostering Talent also connects team members across the world, creating a discussions and debates, hatching new ideas, promoting key Capgemini without borders. programs and being a source of innovation. The Talent eCards In 2016, Talent continued to evolve as a fully responsive platform is also a service much in demand. More than web-designed site, offering an enhanced experience to those 70,000 eCards were sent over the course of the year. team members using the site via mobile devices. With the rollout 128 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management The rollout of a network of plasmas screens, TalentTV, to broadcast Engaging and recognizing through global and local content in open areas – e.g. receptions, cafeterias, communication campaigns open spaces – continued in 2016. Content broadcast on these screens is shared with the Internal Communications Network to GIC has been heavily involved in 2016 with the conception and enable reuse on various Capgemini sites. implementation of major transversal internal communications campaign on strategic topics. This is the case for Winning The Executive Corner on Talent is home to our Behaviors. Now!, a new program initiated right after the IGATE 1,500+ Vice-Presidents. To provide for their need for real-time integration to identify behaviors to promote and behaviors to kill. business information and equip them with information to carry out The program has been shared with top management so far and their client-facing responsibilities, GIC also shares press releases will be promoted to all employees in 2017. as soon as they are published and provides updates through regular key message documents. The Executive series, Another example of the GIC’s added value as an engine for comprising a monthly newsletter (The Executive Summary) and change is its contribution to the global launch of the new ad-hoc communications (The Executive Link), is also sent regularly group-wide Leadership Model. For a one-week focus campaign to our Vice-Presidents. on leadership several videos were recorded to gather real life experiences of so-called Leadership Model Change 3 Ambassadors. The videos were broadcasted via the Talent Enabling face-to-face connection intranet and were viewed more than 28,000 times altogether. To To improve the culture of oral communications and allow further engage our employees on the six dimensions of the model managers to share the Group story directly with their teams, GIC we used a gamification approach and held a quiz contest in which provided regular TeamTime communications packs comprising a over 5,300 employees across all our businesses participated. video animation, slides and voice-over documents. Feedback A number of mini-campaigns were also held to put the spotlight (from an online survey) indicated that 50% of managers held their on topics of importance to our business and society (Cloud, sessions via face-to-face meetings, while video conferences and innovation, mobility, diversity, environment, community conference calls were held with teams spread across engagement, values & ethics and information security), and to geographies. raise awareness and encourage the involvement of our employees GIC also continued to promote and deploy state-of-the-art with these issues. In 2016, we continued to include more and solutions to enable more frequent connection through virtual more gamification elements within our internal campaigns. We events, bringing top executives closer to their teams. These developed a ready-to-use template to ease the development of WebEvents offer a rich mix of contributions with live broadcast such applications across the world and the SBUs. combined with direct interaction between speakers and Gamification also was at the heart of the Soccer and Olympics audiences. The IGATE Integration status WebEvent held in internal competitions organized on the occasion of the World July 2016, for example, was notably a success in allowing top events. They combined quizzes testing knowledge of team managers of the Integration Team to interact with VPs of the areas members on these sports and on the Group’s key facts and most impacted by the activity with 450+ concurrent connections prediction games showcasing the business analytics skills of and replays. The quarterly Group CIO WebEvents attract talented team members from Capgemini Consulting UK. audiences in excess of 700+ live connections with the benefit of many groups of multiple attendees watching together in meeting rooms or open office areas. In many other cases, discussions Growing trust through communications facilitated through Lync Big Events (a service provided by Group To continue to engage and grow trust within the key community of IT) gathered hundreds of participants, mixing voice, presentations employee shareholders (those members who invested in the and live chat interactions. Company through one of the Employee Share Ownership Plans – ESOP), a number of communications took place in 2016: a newsletter in February; regular electronic communications (notably to provide members with the annual shareholders’ newsletter and H1 ESOP performance); a discussion group on Yammer; a dedicated contact at headquarter level; and a live broadcast meeting (WebEvent) in September that enjoyed 500+ live connections and 2,500 replays. The dedicated hub on Talent recorded 27,714 page views and the calculator allowing team members to follow their investment live was used almost 11,000 times. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 129 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Constantly striving to improve processes that comes along with a deep, fast-moving and GIC continues to design and promote applications, tools and continuous transformation of the business organization. templates. Some 8,000 team members from Sydney to San Employees are not only impacted but at heart of this success. In Francisco used these in-house applications to communicate in that respect, Employee Relations are a powerful engine to move 2014. To further improve the quality of internal communications, head while accompanying change safely. It is structured at each GIC organized a number of virtual sessions and workshops (live stratum of the organization being both local and global. and available for replay) in 2015 to share best practices and focus The appointment of a Group Employee Relations Director in 2015 on the deployment of key programs. has been a key decision to strengthen social dialogue globally. In 2016, the GIC team launched an initiative on how to evolve the 2016 showed a new turn with the successful re-negotiation of the Group Internal Communications set up to better answer constitution of the International Woks Council (IWC) which was employees expectations in terms of employee experience implemented in 2001 ahead of European regulations and enlarged (mobility, easy access to information, more modern style of to other regions of the Group. Its standing body is the Bureau who communication and more diverse formats). This work includes continues to meet on a monthly basis but has been deeply benchmark activity and designing of a new way to communicate. transformed to ensure a consistent representation of the The first results of this research should be visible in the course of Employees: it brings today seven delegates vs. four, the three 2017. top-sized countries being represented and four others elected allowing small countries to sit at the table of negotiation. The IWC Winning hearts and minds is now made with 52 employee representatives who meet Maintaining the motivation and satisfaction of existing employees four times a year: twice physically during eight days and twice is only a part of our communication challenges. The other part virtually after the Group yearly kick-off and the Big Picture or the comes from winning the hearts and minds of the many people Rencontres. Substitutes are now convened with primary members who join the Company each year, as new recruits, or as part of an and Asia-Pacific region is represented. Paul Hermelin joined outsourcing agreement or an acquisition. GIC facilitates the rapid physically the two General Meetings, Group Executive Board integration of new arrivals by providing them with the necessary (GEB) is systematically present and the IWC members able to run tools and communication channels, and helping build ‘One discussions with Group leaders directly. Capgemini’ across all continents. Capgemini was a precursor in 2001 and is now back in 2016 in the same position with an innovative, perennial and transparent Employee commitment: innovation, continuous Employee Relations. improvement and acceleration 2016 has been also the year where two directors representing the In 2015, due to the acquisition of IGATE, the Group decided not Employees have been appointed to the Board. One Board to launch an employee survey. In 2016, a new Group Employee member was designated by the French unions and the second Survey was launched which results are being presently analyzed has been elected by the IWC noting that this Board member was to develop actions plans. However, the participation rate remained already invited by the Chairman and CEO of the Company since high at 75% and it reports a further improvement of the employee 2015 to sit at the Board and in the Compensation Committee. engagement percentage of 2 points vs. 2014. Group keeps encouraging dialog in each country being ready to support key players when necessary or upon request. Countries Employee relations and dialog employee representatives and works councils are locally the Employee dialog is instrumental to the success of the Group spearheads on the overall effort being at the very front of any accompanying its Business development strategy in a world operational, organizational and strategic changes. In 2016, where performance and delivery to our customers make the 106 agreements were signed in ten countries by works councils difference. The delivery chessboard is more global and complex and Unions (primariily in Germany, Brazil, Mexico the Netherlands than ever bringing its horde of new ways of working and global and France). 130 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.2 People and Talent Management Examples of the type of agreements that were signed with environment. In 2016, the Group has not conducted any employee representative bodies in 2016 are listed thereafter: significant collective redundancy plan since June 2015 plan for Spain, with 375 redundancies. However, in a business where our ◗ France: Annual negotiation on compensation, Works Council best assets reside in our employees abilities, we must ensure the composition, elections organization (electronic vote, number of proper matching of our workforce skills to clients and market college, mandates duration, addendum on the disability needs. As a consequence, and linked to our high level of hiring agreement; (more than 53,000 hires in 2016), we implement lay-offs that ◗ Brazil: profit sharing agreements and shift work agreement; largely respond to a need for skills matching with the market, as ◗ Germany: re-skilling agreement, job rotation pilot, partial well as insufficient individual performance, terminations for cause, retirement; or layoffs as part of a reduction in workforce. This represents 3.3% of our headcount in 2016, which amounts to a reduction of ◗ Netherlands: pension scheme evolution. 0.9 point compared to 2015, when our Brazil operations had to Maintaining a transparent dialogue with the employee discontinue part of its activities in the Infrastructure space, and the representatives is particularly important in difficult economic operations in Chile came to an end. 3 % of layoffs/headcount 7.2% 7.0% 6.3% 5.7% 4.9% 4.9% 4.4% 4.1% 4.2% 3.8% 3.3% 3.3% 3.3% 3.1% 3.1% 2.8% 2.8% 2.9% 2.5% 2.3% 2.1% 2.1% 1.8% 1.5% 1.0% 1.1% 0.8% France North Germany & Asia-Pacific & United Kingdom Southern Europe Benelux Nordic Total America Central Europe Latin America & Ireland countries 2014 2015 2016 The coverage ratio for the above data is 94.4% of the year-end headcount. For some countries including France, layoff data includes leaves due to breach of contract. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 131 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact 3.3 Managing our environmental impact We are committed to the continual reduction of our environmental intensifying. We believe that companies like Capgemini have a impacts, specifically energy use from offices and data centers, our critical role to play beyond their own operations in addressing how business travel and waste. Our drive to improve our own efficiency Digital sustainability can meet these challenges. generates innovative thinking in the business, bringing operational We know our products and services will play a vital role in improvements as well as cost reductions – all delivering value for supporting the transition to a low carbon economy. We can our stakeholders. already see this happening in the acceleration of the Internet of The need for efficiencies and innovation has never been so great: Things (IOT), and the development of smart cities, enabled as the population and energy demands rise, resources are pushed through new technology solutions pioneered by Capgemini and to the planet’s boundary and the impacts of climate change are others. 3.3.1 Group environmental policy The Group Environmental Policy, endorsed by Chaiman and CEO improvement of environmental performance across our global Paul Hermelin, sets out the measures required by all Capgemini operations, specifically in the areas of energy, business travel and entities in support of our Global Environmental Sustainability waste management. The Policy can be found at: program. It reinforces our commitment to the continual https://www.capgemini.com/resources/group-environmental-policy 3.3.2 Our environmental management approach Advancing our environmental management and our IGATE operations in India and North America are now system certified under ISO 14001. Our certification now covers 13 countries and 73% of our operations as measured by Since 2009, a growing number of Capgemini entities have headcount. implemented an Environmental Management System (EMS) in accordance with ISO 14001. We have seen how this structured We have a target to ensure all Capgemini entities with a approach towards continuous environmental improvement helps headcount of over 1,000 employees are ISO 14001 certified by Capgemini entities in driving results. By streamlining our internal the end of 2020. capabilities on environmental management and establishing an Capgemini’s material operational environmental impact results Environmental Center of Excellence, we have been able to support from our use of energy (in both offices and data centers), as a and encourage an increasing number of Capgemini entities result of business-related travel and from the disposal of office towards certification. We designed a Group EMS platform with all waste. These impacts, together with smaller impacts such as from the necessary corporate and local processes and tools that make water consumption and fugitive air-conditioning emissions are it possible to implement ISO 14001 and respond to revisions to measured and reported as part of our sustainability accounting the standard in a very efficient and effective way, from the and reporting processes. Other environmental impacts, such as perspective of both time and budget. We are regularly those on biodiversity and noise pollution, while regularly reviewed, complimented for the robustness of our EMS platform by external are not currently considered significantly material to our operations auditors. and consequently are not discussed further in this report. Throughout 2016, Capgemini continued to extend the scope of its environmental management systems with Capgemini Germany 132 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact While certain local variations may exist, the Group’s main environmental aspects and impacts (for which data is collected) are shown in the table below. Main Environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Business travel The international and domestic business travel we undertake, by road, rail, air, and from staying in (approximately 56.5% of our GHG hotels, all involve the combustion of fossil fuels, which releases greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and emissions) other pollutants into the air. Tackling this remains a major challenge for our industry, which is reliant on the mobility of its people in order to best utilize their skills and experience in serving customers worldwide. We have in place a very comprehensive system to measure our business travel at a country, entity and business unit level, and are even able to support clients with project level reporting. Energy consumption We use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas, district heating and oil to light, heat and power (approximately 42.8% of our GHG our offices and data centers. Data centers are particularly energy-intensive due to the high level of emissions) IT-equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. Our energy use has an impact in terms of the 3 depletion of finite fossil fuels and associated GHG emissions. Energy security is also a growing area of concern in several of the countries where we operate. Waste Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated by office consumables and packaging, as well Management as smaller amounts of food waste from on-site cafeterias or brought in by employees. The (approximately 0.15% of our GHG transportation, processing and disposal of this waste emits GHG emissions, with high levels of methane emissions) emissions in particular associated with waste sent to landfill. Whilst waste emissions make up only a very small percentage of our total GHG emissions, waste management is also important in the context of mitigating against natural resource depletion and minimizing our material use. Water Given the nature of our services, our use of water is relatively low and has not been identified as a (approximately 0.25% of our GHG material environmental impact across the Group. However, concerns over water scarcity are growing in emissions) key countries where we operate such as India and Brazil, and will only grow in future. In the World Economic Forum’s 2016 Global Risk report, concerns over water supply have been identified as the greatest risk to society over the next decade, making it important that we play our part in measuring and controlling our water use. F-gas The man made gases used in our air conditioning units are known as Fluorinated gases (or F-gases) and (approximately 0.3% of our GHG whilst used in small quantities these have a high global warming potential. We measure and report on remissions) the F-gas leaked from air conditioning systems over time (or due to system faults). Collecting accurate data remains a challenge across the Group due to the fact that many of our sites are leased, with F-gas maintenance procedures not well regulated in some countries. Our F-gas data is split into: ◗ F-gas emissions which are considered to be GHG emissions (primarily HFCs, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol) – these are included in our Scope 1 GHG emissions; ◗ F-gas emissions which have a global warming potential but are outside the usual scope of GHG reporting (such as HCFCs, which are covered by the Montreal Protocol) – these are reported in a separate column in the tables at the end of this section. Committed to continuous improvement in the sections that follow. We detail the key changes we have We have been reporting our GHG emissions for the Capgemini made to our reporting this year below: Group since 2011, and have made significant improvements year 1. expanding the scope of our reporting – our IGATE operations on year to ensure the information we report is accurate, relevant, (which were excluded from our last Annual Report) are now consistent and complete. This includes, for example, gradually fully incorporated into our carbon accounting and increasing the coverage of our reporting to reach the high level of sustainability reporting processes. To ensure comparability we 98.8% coverage we are currently at (with the remaining portion have included a full year of IGATE data for 2015. This change estimated), as well as adding new emission sources to our increases our 2015 reported emissions by approximately inventory. In preparation for the launch of our new Group 98,000 metric tons CO2e; Environmental targets, we completed a review of best practices 2. change of emission factor for air travel – to align ourselves this year and have made a number of significant changes to our with recommended best practices and ensure we are taking methodology which affect our current year and historical data. as complete a view of our air travel emissions as possible we These improvements help ensure we maintain an industry-leading now use emission factors which take into account the impact approach. However, they have also had a significant impact on of radiative forcing (1). This increases our total air emissions for our emissions figures (in most cases resulting in an increase) and 2015 by 89%, and also has a significant impact of our total to ensure comparability we have therefore restated our 2015 data reported GHG emissions (20% increase); (1) Radiative forcing (RF) is a measure of the additional environmental impacts of aviation. These include emissions of nitrous oxides and water vapour when emitted at high altitude. Whilst there is some scientific uncertainty about the magnitude of radiative forcing, DEFRA recommend including their radiative forcing factor (approximately 1.9) to ensure organizations capture the full impact of air travel. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 133 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact 3. new regional emission factors for electricity – in line with 5. new commitment to audit full year data – as in previous years, guidance from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate due to the timing of the production of this report, Q4 2016 Standard, we are now using “regional” electricity emission data has been estimated for most countries. This year, we factors for the US (eGrid), Canada (National Inventory Report have asked our auditor KPMG to run a final review of Q4 2016 2015) and Australia (National Greenhouse Account 2015) and actual data once it becomes available, meaning we will have a the UK keeps using DEFRA classification. This has reduced full year of audited actual data. Our intention is to publish our 2015 electricity emissions for the US by 8.6%, Canada by full year results during H1 2017. 7.7% and increased Australia’s electricity emissions by 4.5%, though the overall impact on our total 2015 GHG emissions is Group targets minimal (-0.25%); The Paris Agreement on climate change has further underlined the 4. transition to IEA emission factors – with the exception of the need for businesses to take swift and significant action in reducing UK (which uses emission factors from the Department for GHG emissions. For the last few years, Capgemini’s emission Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA)), US, Canada reduction activities have been driven at a country level, with and Australia (which are mentioned above), for all other targets in place in our larger entities including India, France, the countries Scope 2 Electricity Emissions are now calculated UK, Brazil, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, USA and Canada. using the International Energy Agency (IEA) electricity emission To demonstrate our Group-wide commitment, we have set four factors, rather than DEFRA factors (country level factors were new ambitious Group targets this year, which will be measured discontinued by DEFRA this year). This has reduced our 2015 against our restated 2015 baseline. These targets will support emissions by 0.7%, largely due to the fact that we are using Capgemini entities in complying with the Group Environmental more recent IEA factors for each country; Policy and provide a framework within which to drive agendas at the local level. Headline target: To reduce total carbon emissions per employee by 20% by 2020. This covers our total reported GHG emissions, with a focus on reducing these per employee. As a provider of services in consulting, technology and outsourcing, people are at the centre of our business and the number of people we employ is the most significant factor in determining our emissions. This headline target aims at disrupting the link between our total emissions and our growth as a business. It is supported by additional reduction targets focused on our three most significant sources of emissions: Office Energy:To reduce office energy Business travel: To reduce business travel Data Center Energy Efficiency:To usage by 20% by 2020. emissions by 25% by 2020. reduce our average data center PUE This covers the use of electricity, district heating, This target covers emissions from all types of to 1.5 by 2020. gas and diesel to light, heat and power our business travel our employees undertake This target will focus on improving the owned or leased offices. To ensure we drive including the use of private and leased cars, air energy efficiency of our owned and credible performance improvement and make a travel, taxi journeys, national and international leased data centers, measured using contribution to addressing the issue of energy rail and hotel nights. We believe this is an area the industry metric of Power Usage security, we focus our target on reducing energy where we can make a significant difference by Effectiveness (PUE). In the absence of a usage in kWh. This will mean progress comes encouraging smart and sustainable travel, as standard method to measure data from actions taken to reduce our energy use, not well as providing innovative technology that centers energy efficiency across multiple just year on year emission factor changes as the challenges the need to travel. sites, we use a straight average of our grid decarbonizes). PUE across all our data centers. Measuring our environmental performance We have estimated the data for the remaining 1.2% of operations, by applying a relevant uplift to each emission source to account Scope & methodology for operations where we do not have data collection processes in The environmental data presented in this report has been taken place. This estimated data is provided within the environmental from our Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting system data tables at the end of this section labeled as ‘Other Operations’ which covers 28 countries (see the table at the end of and further explanations are given in the table footnotes. section 3.3.4 for details) representing 98.8% of Group headcount. 134 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Even where data is available for a particular country, it has Further disclosure about the scope of data available and sometimes been necessary to use assumptions and estimations. extrapolations employed is presented in footnotes under the data In general, fourth quarter data for 2016 was not available at the tables. time of reporting and therefore has been extrapolated based on Our managed approach to environmental data collection and available data. Other examples of the types of estimations and reporting is essential for meeting corporate reporting obligations, extrapolations which have been used for certain data include: such as the French Grenelle II legislation at Group level and the ◗ estimating unavailable 2016 data based upon available 2015 Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation for Capgemini UK. It data (according to documented methodologies related to also enables us to participate and score well in various voluntary differing circumstances and covering all aspects of energy, sustainability disclosures such as CDP and Vigeo-Eiris, as well as travel, water and waste management); to meet information requests from our clients. ◗ estimating usage data based on available cost data (employing We are recognized externally for the comprehensiveness of our metrics such as the cost per kWh for electricity and gas; and approach to carbon accounting. This year Capgemini Group was cost per liter of diesel or per kilometer of travel); or recognized by Bloomberg as being part of the “100% Carbon ◗ estimating usage data for a facility based on data available for Club”: an elite group of only 66 companies (out of around 3 other facilities (such as estimating electricity usage based on 3,000 assessed) which transparently report on 100% of their area of the facility, estimating waste disposal & water Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. consumption based on headcount of the facility). Overview of our Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting System We are able to generate monthly environmental reports at a global, national, business unit and project level. We track popular travel routes, and compare the size and headcount of our locations to provide insightful analysis to internal stakeholders. Using a centralized web-based By building in cost data to carbon accounting tool means all the tool we are also able to track Capgemini entities are able to access cost savings, strengthening information about their environmental the business cases for investing performance and track progress in new sustainability initiatives. against their targets. The carbon accounting team collect monthly or quarterly data from all 28 countries. Having one team managing all data processing and validation globally ensures high quality, consistent and accurate data across the Group. Offices and Data Centers Business Travel Fuel use Electricity Water Waste F-Gas Flights Rail & Bus Cars Taxis Hotel & Heating Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 135 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact 3.3.3 Managing climate risk Capgemini recognizes the importance of climate change and our the key risks and opportunities for Capgemini in the UK and responsibility as a business to mitigate our own impacts. We India, with a focus on key assets and operations, supply chain remain focused on reducing our greenhouse gas emissions and in risk and on the impacts within key sectors (such as retail and 2016 we set environmental targets for the whole Capgemini the public sector) which Capgemini serves; Group for the first time, to complement those already in place in 3. the completion of a materiality assessment (refer to our larger entities. section 3.1.3) also highlighted the importance of climate Climate change impacts and global temperature increases are not change mitigation, energy security and the continued need for only a future inevitability but are already being experienced. As Capgemini to reduce its GHG emissions to our stakeholders. well as minimizing our own contribution to climate change and To build further on this, we are currently in the early stages of working with clients to enable carbon reductions, we need to developing a Group-wide approach which will further integrate ensure we have the capability to adapt to climate change. This climate change risk into our corporate risk management. The means, for example, ensuring business continuity and supporting focus will be on evaluating climate change hazards (such as the wellbeing of our people in the face of extreme weather events. extreme weather events, changing weather patterns and water We have a number of mechanisms in place to identify, control and shortages) and assessing our capacity to adapt to these. The manage climate-related risks, including: evaluation will assess the vulnerability to climate change of our 1. all ISO 14001 certified entities have an “Aspects and Impacts assets, client workplace locations, suppliers and clients. We will Register”, which is reviewed annually. This identifies key also be identifying new climate-related opportunities from our environmental “aspects” (such as energy use or flooding), clients and our industry and considering how our services can what “impacts” these have (or could have) legally and support these. commercially for Capgemini, the risks associated with each Our commitment to managing our climate risk effectively and key mitigation steps taken; continues to be recognized externally, this year with a score of A2. in 2014, we commissioned NGO Forum for the Future to in the CDP Climate Change disclosure, placing us in the top 23% complete a Climate Change Risk Assessment. This looked at of companies in our sector. 3.3.4 Our environmental performance Overall emissions headline Group target, with a 4.7% reduction in emissions per In 2015, Capgemini’s total GHG emissions for the entire Group head in 2016 (from 2.98 tons CO2e per head to 2.84 tons of CO2e were 527,529 tCO2e. Comparison with the 2015 restated data per head (1). Primarily this has been driven by a reduction in our shows that total emissions have decreased very slightly by 0.5%, energy-related emissions per head of 6.6% and a reduction of our in spite of a significant 4.4% increase in average headcount during travel emissions per head of 3.2%. 2016. As a result we have already made progress against our Emissions per head by region 6 -11% -2% -4% 5 4 -6% 3 -5% -6% +8% 2 -4% +9% -8% 1 0 North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany & France Southern Asia-Pacific India Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe & Latin America 2015 2016 (1) For the purposes of measuring GHG emissions per head, an average headcount over the year has been calculated for both 2015 and 2016, which represents a more accurate calculation than using the December 2015 head count as compared to the December 2016 headcount. As a consequence, the headcount stats here may vary slightly from the absolute figures quoted in other sections of this report. 136 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Energy consumption over 4.4% within the period. Emissions associated with our use of Across the Group, total reported energy use has reduced by 6.9% energy have fallen a little over 2.4% in the same period. from 449,230 MWh to 418,432 MWh which is a significant This energy reduction has been driven by a broad range of energy achievement when you consider our headcount average rose just initiatives from around the Group, focused on six key areas: Energy Focus Areas 1. MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT ◗ Smart Meters & Demand Logic ◗ Energy audits 3 ◗ Fuel leak detection sensors ◗ Facility level reduction targets 6. SPACE UTILISATION 2. BUILDING CONTROLS ◗ Reducing under-utilised space ◗ Building Management Systems ◗ Moving to LEED or BREEAM ◗ Passive Infrared Sensors certified buildings ◗ Timers & thermostats 5. POLICY AND ENGAGEMENT 3. ENERGY EFFICIENT ◗ Energy Policy TECHNOLOGY ◗ Switch-off campaigns ◗ LED lighting ◗ Computer-based training ◗ Highly efficient chillers ◗ UPS technology 4. RENEWABLE ENERGY ◗ Solar PV installation ◗ Solar thermal installation ◗ Renewable energy purchasing Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 137 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Key achievements this year at a country level include: carried out a reconfiguration of equipment, with improvements to cooling systems to run them more efficiently and the removal ◗ despite a 9.3% headcount increase, Capgemini India achieved a of old and inefficient kit, such as unnecessary battery UPS and 2.3% reduction in energy use. Key energy initiatives generator systems; implemented this year include the installation of energy-efficient chillers in our Hyderabad and Pune Offices, upgrading UPS ◗ the reduction in energy use of 3.5% and associated emissions technology to a more efficient modular design in three offices, (around 3%) in The Netherlands is largely a result of space upgrading Building Management systems and installing LED optimization with electricity use reduced at our Amersfoort office lighting at our Mumbai and Bangalore offices. Drawing on our by 56% due to the closure of part of the office; Digital expertise, we have also been looking at how we improve ◗ in North America, energy use has remained flat despite an 8.3% our energy monitoring capabilities by digitizing engineering increase in headcount. Energy audits and energy efficiency plans maintenance services. For example, automated parameters are were completed for the five largest sites during 2016, and all now set for chillers and UPS, with automated alerts which new sites coming on board are now integrated into enable the engineering team to take swift action when a specific energy-efficiency policies. Energy-efficient lighting is also now threshold for a particular piece of equipment is breached; installed wherever possible; ◗ in France, total energy consumption reduced by 13% due to ◗ Capgemini Sweden reduced energy use by 3.9% in 2016, driven closure of two data centers and reduction of area in one data largely by the relocation of two sites into a more efficient, smaller center. There is also a reduction of over 21% in office electricity; building. New timers were also installed to improve the control ◗ within the UK, total reported energy use in MWh has reduced by over lighting in the Malmö and Helsingborg offices; around 9%. A significant portion of this reduction is due to ◗ Capgemini Finland reduced office energy emissions by around space optimization. We also consolidated our two existing 20%, largely driven by the relocation to a more energy efficient, London offices into one, closing the older, less efficient building, BREEAM certified building. Data center energy emissions were and refurbishing the other office, using technology and intelligent also reduced by around 29% due to a reduction in floor area. design to come up with a more efficient and more flexible way of using the space. In addition, we closed one data center as part Other initiatives to control and reduce energy use across the of a broader data center optimization strategy. In 2016, we also Group include: relocating an office into BREEAM certified building implemented an innovative demand logic pilot at two sites, using in Norway, switch-off campaigns (with visual reminders) in sophisticated data analytics and monitoring to identify Germany, setting facility-level energy reduction targets in Brazil, opportunities to optimize energy use, for example by adjusting improving the control over emergency lighting and exhaust fans in heating and cooling time settings. At our Toltec data center we India and installing diesel leak check sensors in the UK. 138 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Energy Use by Region 500.000 -7% 400.000 300.000 3 200.000 -2% 100.000 -13% -9% 0% -3% -6% -17% -13% -16% 0 North United Kingdom Nordic Benelux Germany & France Southern Asia-Pacific India Total America & Ireland countries Central Europe Europe & Latin America 2015 2016 Renewable Energy Purchasing India has made significant investments in renewable energy As well as controlling and reducing our energy use, we look for generation this year, including solar photovoltaic (PV) installations opportunities across the Group to switch our energy use to in Pune, Mumbai and Chennai creating a combined generation cleaner, renewable sources. Several Capgemini entities including capacity of around 1.9 MW in place by December 2016. We also the Netherlands, France, Sweden, the UK and India purchased a have in place solar PV and a small solar thermal installation in our significant portion of their electricity (between 10% and 97%) from Aston office in the UK. renewable energy sources in 2016. In addition to this, Capgemini Renewable Energy % of Renewable Renewable Other Energy from Renewable Country Energy Generated MWh Energy Purchased MWh Electricity Supplies MWh Sources France 0 11,122 64,171 14.8% UK 105 39,242 19,690 66.56% Sweden 0 1,973 128 93.9% Netherlands 0 19,511 547 97.3% India 269 14,258 122,915 10.6% All other reported regions 0 1,385 90,609 1.5% TOTAL 373 87,491 298,061 22.77% Business travel emissions increased by around 1.1% overall (compared to the Business travel makes up over half of our total reported GHG 2015 restated data), mainly on account of increase in travel within emissions and poses a significant cost to the business, making it Business Services. When measured on a per head basis travel an important area of focus. This year our business travel emissions have reduced by around 3.2%. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 139 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Business Travel Emissions by Type ◗ new controls to the expenses system in Brazil – so that only CEO of Capgemini Brazil can approve travel expenditure once 200.000 +4% the business unit budget has been exceeded; ◗ in Germany, an analysis has been carried out on the top five flight routes and new policies introduced to control these and 150.000 provide alternatives. More sustainable hotel choices have also been identified near each office location and a feasibility study was completed on the introduction of a personal mobility 100.000 budget. -11% 50.000 Waste and circular economy +20% As a provider of consulting and technology services, our waste is -2% largely generated from office consumables and packaging and 0 makes up a relatively small portion of our overall GHG emissions Air Car Hotel Taxi, Rail & Others (less than 0.15%). Nonetheless we are taking steps to minimize and reduce the volume of waste we generate across the Group 2015 2016 and some of our larger entities have ambitious waste reduction targets in place, such as Capgemini India which is committed to sending Zero Waste to Landfill by 2017. Whilst recognizing the importance of face-to-face time with our The most efficient way of reducing our impacts from waste clients, we continue to take pragmatic steps to reduce our disposal is of course to not generate waste in the first place. The travel-related impacts. Across the Group, the deployment of concept of “circular economy” is the idea of effectively “closing the integrated mobile, audio and video conferencing technology loop” – maintaining products and materials in a positive enables our people to work more flexibly without the need to development cycle for as long as possible to ensure as much travel. At the country level, the main results were: value as possible can be extracted. As a provider of services, we ◗ In India, emissions from business travel slightly reduced by 2% in have limited opportunities to practice circular economy principles 2016, a positive achievement given a corresponding increase in as part of our core business model. However, circular economy average headcount of 7% within the same period; thinking has influenced the way we buy goods and our overall waste strategy in various different ways across the Group. To give ◗ business travel emissions have decreased by 1% in France a few examples: where a Mobility Plan has been developed at our new site in Lyon, electric vehicle charging points were installed at ◗ in various Capgemini entities including the UK, India and North Capgemini’s headquarters in Suresnes and five car pooling only America, the provision of reusable mugs and water glasses or parking spaces were established in Montbonnot; bottles reduces the use of disposable cups. The deployment of ◗ in North America, communications and engagement on the follow-me-printing and double-sided printer settings in entities topic of sustainable travel have helped reduce travel emissions such as Netherlands and the UK has also significantly reduced per head by around 4.3%. Initiatives included the promotion of the amount of paper printed; car pooling and a Sustainable Business Travel focus week; ◗ in France, in 2016 we launched a program called Je recycle & Je ◗ in the UK, business travel emissions have increased by 1.7%. gagne, through which we arrange the purchase of employees’ Whilst there has been a reduction in car and rail journeys within smartphones at a competitive price for reuse and recycling. We the UK, this is counterbalanced by the significant increase in ensure personal data is erased and where a phone cannot be long haul flights; reused it is recycled to the latest environmental standards. As part of the same program, our people can buy reconditioned ◗ a sustained focus on reducing emissions from business travel in PCs or smartphones from Capgemini employees at prices up to The Netherlands has contributed to a further 7.4% reduction in 70% cheaper than buying a new one. In addition, since 2014, a business travel emissions since 2015. Capgemini Netherlands is collaboration with the company Nodixia has enabled Capgemini part of the Dutch Business Sustainable Mobility Pledge and to re-use more than 75% of our waste Electronic Equipment helped initiate the program Anders Reizen (“Travel Differently”). which is used to create reconditioned computers. This initiative Sogeti Netherlands introduced a new “Bike to Work” Day in also has social benefits, with Nodixia employing people with 2016 and was awarded the Cleaner Car Contracts Award in disabilities and reinvesting part of the profits in innovative social March, in recognition of the fact that the average emissions of projects; the Company car fleet is only 95 g CO2 per km. ◗ in the UK, the provision of energy-efficient hand dryers avoids Other initiatives implemented to reduce business travel across the the need for paper towels. We have been working with suppliers Group included: for a number of years to minimize packaging on the goods we ◗ an eight-week Green Commuting Challenge in Sweden, to buy. In addition, the development and launch of a new supplier promote more sustainable modes of transport; assessment tool during 2016 gives us a better ability to identify and engage with suppliers who have strong circular economy principles; 140 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact ◗ in India, we launched a “Zero Plastic” campaign in 2016, with all ◗ in the Netherlands, food waste reduction is achieved by on-site owned and leased facilities required to phase out the use of cafeterias making careful purchasing decisions for fresh plastics and an accompanying communications campaign to products, re-offering lunch products at dinner time at reduced explain the impacts of plastic waste to our people. Three offices prices (for example, smoothies prepared at lunch are offered for also organized a “No Tissue Paper Day”, to encourage people to free at dinner) and ensuring meals are prepared on request avoid the use of paper tissues. where possible; As well as reducing the amount of waste generated, we continue ◗ in the UK, food waste is segregated at key sites and disposed of to identify opportunities to increase recycling rates and provide through waste-to-energy-schemes (i.e. the food waste is used alternatives to sending waste to landfill: to generate electricity); ◗ in India, our “My Jashn” Capgemini celebration event not only ◗ in North America, cafeterias are not available on site but where broke the Guinness World Record for single largest Bollywood food is brought in for team events, leftovers are made available Dance Lesson (5,500 employees took part), it was also a to other employees. If there is a major event with large amount successful example of a “Zero Waste” event. The event was held of excess food, caterers will donate to local shelters. across eleven cities and generated 16.4 tons of waste (mainly In spite of these efforts, our reported total waste tonnage 3 food waste) out of which 85% was sent to a biogas plant and increased by 10% across the Group, which we believe is mainly 15% distributed to a pig farm; due to improvements in the quality and coverage of our waste ◗ in Poland, a communications campaign and new signage was data, with India and France in particular providing more developed to inform people about the importance of waste comprehensive data.One positive sign, is that the percentage of segregation; waste being recycled has increased across the Group, from 27% in 2015 to 30% in 2016. ◗ in France, Capgemini was placed 13th in the 2016 PAP50 ranking by WWF and was the highest ranking consulting firm, a recognition for our sustainable approach to purchasing, use and Other sources disposal of paper; Water data continues to be collected where this is available, with ◗ in Germany, improvements have been implemented on waste no assessment done to date regarding potential scarcity of supply segregation and awareness campaigns launched around across our global locations. Across several locations, we have e-waste to help encourage people follow the waste hierarchy invested in innovative technology to reduce water use, including (reduce, reuse and recycle). rainwater harvesting equipment (in two offices in India and one in the UK), waterless urinals (Bangalore, India) and a hydro Food waste is not a material environmental impact across the pneumatic pumping system (India). We have also made Group, as many countries do not provide cafeterias or food for improvements to tap fittings, sensors and flush controls in several employees. However, a number of initiatives to reduce food waste locations, as well as giving water awareness tips on posters and are in place at a country-level including: as part of training courses. ◗ in India (where on-site cafeterias are provided), people are The volume of measured water (used and recycled) in 2016 was encouraged to self-serve to ensure they are not given more food 1,236,685 m3, a reduction of around 16% compared to 2015 than needed. Ongoing communication campaigns have helped driven mostly by reductions in North America, India and the raise awareness of the amount of food waste being generated, Netherlands. for example, by equating waste to the number of meals that could have been provided; F-Gas emissions for 2016 are 1,545 tCO2e which is a reduction of ◗ in Sweden, food waste is segregated for several of our locations over 17% compared to the restated value of 1,866 for 2015. The including Stockholm, Göteborg, Malmö, Älmhult & Växjö. In UK accounts for the most of this reduction with lower levels of these locations, the municipal waste system enables food waste F-gas leakage and emissions reported in 2016. to be used for the generation of biogas; Further country-level details are provided in the tables and the ◗ in France, at our training campus (Les Fontaines), food waste is footnotes below. used to create compost which is then is re-used by gardeners for the maintenance of the 52-hectare park; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 141 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Summary of environmental data by country Table 1: energy use and related GHG emissions Total Energy Scope 1 Scope 3 Energy Use√ Emissions Scope 2 Emissions Emissions Emissions√ Scope and Metric (MWh) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) Data Electricity Electricity Total Energy Diesel / Center Office Office Urban T&D Energy Country (All sources) Gas Gas Oil Electricity Electricity Cooling Heating Losses Emissions India – Capgemini & Sogeti 141,097 63 911 N/A 108,507 N/A N/A 28,145 137,626 France – Capgemini, Sogeti & Prosodie 82,729 1,319 6 2,261 2,558 N/A 50 376 6,569 UK – Capgemini, incl FS & Sogeti 64,482 964 55 18,276 6,008 N/A N/A 2,196 27,500 Netherlands 21,320 213 9 6,724 2,341 N/A 15 338 9,641 North America 41,948 63 95 10,122 6,113 N/A N/A 1,260 17,653 Canada 8,777 N/A N/A 467 849 N/A N/A 167 1,484 USA – Capgemini & Sogeti 33,171 63 95 9,655 5,264 N/A N/A 1,093 16,170 Total Largest operations 351,576 2,621 1,076 37,383 125,529 N/A 65 32,315 198,990 Belgium – Capgemini & Sogeti 1,291 56 N/A N/A 197 N/A N/A 9 262 Czech Republic 231 21 N/A N/A 60 N/A N/A 5 86 Denmark – Capgemini 152 N/A N/A N/A 46 N/A N/A 3 48 Finland – Capgemini 7,661 N/A 13 964 144 N/A 261 40 1,423 Germany – Capgemini & Sogeti 10,906 189 N/A 3,184 1,337 N/A 118 207 5,035 Ireland – Sogeti 55 N/A N/A N/A 24 N/A N/A 2 26 Italy 4,057 315 N/A 546 257 N/A N/A 69 1,188 Luxembourg Sogeti 230 N/A N/A N/A 70 N/A N/A 2 72 Norway Capgemini 1,007 N/A N/A N/A 7 3 26 1 37 Poland 11,449 275 N/A N/A 6,545 N/A 295 544 7,659 Romania 794 28 N/A N/A 131 18 27 32 237 Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti 4,451 16 N/A N/A 1,079 N/A N/A 136 1,230 Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti 3,979 N/A N/A 3 24 82 255 3 367 Switzerland – Capgemini & Sogeti 203 N/A N/A 2 3 N/A N/A 1 5 Total Other Europe 46,467 900 13 4,699 9,924 103 983 1,054 17,675 Brazil 8,508 N/A 16 238 894 N/A N/A 112 1,261 Guatemala 1,220 N/A N/A N/A 354 N/A N/A 42 396 Mexico 280 N/A N/A N/A 142 N/A N/A 22 164 Total Latin America 10,008 N/A 16 238 1,389 N/A N/A 176 1,820 China Capgemini (including FS and BPO) 3,616 N/A N/A 272 2,299 N/A N/A 190 2,761 Philippines 626 N/A N/A N/A 361 N/A N/A 39 401 Vietnam 205 N/A N/A N/A 72 N/A N/A 14 87 Australia Capgemini (including BPO) 640 N/A N/A N/A 544 N/A N/A 37 581 Morocco 1,877 N/A N/A N/A 1,205 N/A N/A 173 1,378 Total Other Regions 6,965 N/A N/A 272 4,482 N/A N/A 453 5,207 Total Reported Countries 415,016 3,521 1,106 42,593 141,323 103 1,048 33,998 223,692 Total Non Reported Countries 3,416 41 12 N/A 1,741 1 13 380 2,188 GRAND TOTAL 418,432 3,562 1,118 42,593 143,064 104 1,061 34,378 225,880 142 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Table 2: other environmental impacts Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Water Scope 3 Scope Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions % of Use Emissions Total Emissions and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (in Tons) (t CO2e) Weight % (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) % of Total Waste % Total Business Total Diverted Total 2016 2015 Change F-Gas Travel Total Waste from Water Water Total Total from Country EmissionsEmissions√ Waste Emissions Landfill Use Emissions Emissions Emissions 2015 3 India – Capgemini & Sogeti 785 85,944 1,080 166 31.16% 880,896 927 225,447 223,043 1.08% France – Capgemini, Sogeti & Prosodie N/A 32,515 1,353 169 46.17% 94,223 99 39,352 40,421 (2.65)% UK – Capgemini, Aspire, FS, Sogeti 259 20,087 260 11 89.07% 57,527 61 47,917 54,203 (11.60)% Netherlands N/A 25,723 213 32 26.15% 14,391 15 35,411 37,733 (6.15)% North America N/A 65,979 895 173 3.36% 25,926 27 83,832 81,007 3.49% Canada N/A 2,767 192 38 0.00% 1,313 1 4,291 3,845 11.59% USA – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 63,211 703 134 4.29% 24,613 26 79,541 77,162 3.08% Total Largest operations 1,044 230,247 3,800 551 33.63% 1,072,963 1,129 431,960 436,407 (1.02)% Belgium – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 5,593 21 3 26.25% 2,147 2 5,860 5,766 1.63% Czech Republic 14 93 16 3 0.31% 259 0.27 196 251 (21.83)% Denmark – Capgemini N/A 176 42 1 100.00% 840 1 226 254 (10.85)% Finland – Capgemini N/A 798 50 3 82.83% 559 1 2,224 2,573 (13.58)% Germany – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 21,510 74 2 99.52% 3,708 4 26,550 26,680 (0.49)% Ireland – Sogeti N/A 203 1 0.03 100.00% 673 1 229 69234.39% Italy N/A 3,417 73 15 0.00% 42,369 45 4,664 4,829 (3.42)% Luxembourg Sogeti N/A 3,201 5 1 0.00% 1,082 1 3,276 2,874 13.96% Norway Capgemini N/A 816 31 5 31.41% 2,130 2 860 922 (6.75)% Poland N/A 5,369 376 60 22.24% 21,308 22 13,110 12,744 2.87% Romania N/A 320 27 5 2.79% 2,571 3 565 393 43.65% Spain – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 2,454 153 41 22.47% 13,445 14 3,740 3,956 (5.45)% Sweden – Capgemini & Sogeti 372 4,618 117 35 25.18% 4,066 4 5,396 4,437 21.62% Switzerland – Capgemini & Sogeti N/A 461 96 19 0.00% 1,509 1.59 487 466 4.44% Total Other Europe 386 49,028 1,084 193 29.74% 96,666 102 67,384 66,215 1.77% Brazil 76 4,603 20 0.42 100.00% 20 0.02 5,940 5,713 3.98% Guatemala 25 602 59 12 0.00% 8,149 9 1,043 1,145 (8.88)% Mexico N/A 961 7 1 1.15% 1,645 2 1,128 1,065 5.89% Total Latin America 101 6,167 86 14 23.48% 9,815 10 8,111 7,923 2.38% Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 143 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Waste Generated F-Gas Travel (non-hazardous) Water Total Emissions Scope 1 Scope 3 Scope 3 Water Scope 3 Scope Emissions Emissions Weight Emissions % of Use Emissions Total Emissions and Metric (t CO2e) (t CO2e) (in Tons) (t CO2e) Weight % (m3) (t CO2e) (t CO2e) % of Total Waste % Total Business Total Diverted Total 2016 2015 Change F-Gas Travel Total Waste from Water Water Total Total from Country EmissionsEmissions√ Waste Emissions Landfill Use Emissions Emissions Emissions 2015 China – Capgemini, FS & BPO N/A 4,376 52 10 3.02% 15,480 16 7,163 8,169 (12.32)% Philippines N/A 78 7 1 7.50% 2,088 2 482 481 0.30% Vietnam N/A 171 17 3 0.00% 4,638 5 266 262 1.61% Australia Capgemini (including BPO) N/A 4,151 24 4 25.55% 12,220 13 4,749 3,678 29.11% Morocco N/A 171 17 3 0.00% 8,235 9 1,561 1,671 (6.56)% Total Other Regions N/A 8,947 118 22 7.09% 42,661 45 14,222 14,261 (0.28)% Reported Countries 1,530 294,390 5,087 779 32.02% 1,222,105 1,286 521,676 524,805 (0.60)% Total Non Reported Countries 14 3,626 61 9 32.96% 14,580 15 5,853 5,270 11.06% GRAND TOTAL 1,545 298,016 5,148 788 32.03% 1,236,685 1,301 527,529 530,075 (0.48)% 144 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.3 Managing our environmental impact Footnotes: ◗ Energy: In line with guidance from the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, we are now using “regional” electricity emission ◗ Table key: N/A = Not Applicable where data sources are not factors for UK (DEFRA), the US (eGrid), Canada (NIR 2015) and applicable Australia (NGA 2015). ◗ Data included in the tables is for the reporting period January to ◗ Energy: For all other countries, a location-based emission factor December 2016 (unless otherwise indicated) from International Energy Agency (IEA) has been applied to ◗ “Scope” is a reporting term from Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. which is used in carbon accounting to categorize emissions ◗ Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s reported according to the level of control a company has over an offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to be emissions source. data centers but their presence should be taken into ◗ From 2016, air travel emissions factors take into account the consideration when comparing the energy usage of our offices impact of radiative forcing with a significant impact as this against those in other sectors. increased our total air emissions for 2015 by 89% and the total ◗ Energy: T&D losses refer to electricity transmission and GHG reported emissions by 20%. Date reported in the table above accounts for this restatement. distribution grid losses (the energy loss that occurs in getting the 3 electricity from the power plant to our facilities). ◗ “Total Non-Reported Countries” provides an estimate of the ◗ Energy: When actual data from invoices is not available, the data for the 1.2% of operations not currently covered by our 2016 consumption is estimated based on previous years’ data. carbon accounting and sustainability reporting. It is assumed that Capgemini has no data centers in these countries (given the ◗ F-Gas: As recommended by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol small size of operations) and therefore only office-related and Corporate Standard, emissions of F-gases not covered by the business travel data has been estimated. Kyoto Protocol (such as CFCs) are not reported as Scope 1 emissions and are therefore not included in the table above. ◗ All emission sources: With the exception of electricity and hotel Data of these F-gas emissions is, however, still captured with a nights (mentioned below), emissions have been calculated using value of just over 732 tCO2e for 2016. the conversion factors and methodology recommended by the DEFRA: ◗ Data related to business travel, generated waste and water https://www.gov.uk/measuring-and-reporting-environmentalusage have for some countries been evaluated using ad-hoc impacts-guidance-for-businesses methods when data were not handy. ◗ Energy: All Data Center Electricity Emissions and Office Electricity Emissions are currently reported according to the location-based” method (see GHG Protocol Corporate Standard for further explanation of “location based”). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 145 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives 3.4.1 Engaging with communities At Capgemini, we acknowledge our responsibility as global IT In 2012, we launched the MicroWorld platform in a number of player in putting our capabilities at the service of improving the countries with France being the most active to date. A total of communities we operate in. Coupled with this sense of 2,020 micro entrepreneurs’ projects have been co-funded since stewardship, we aim at the same time at providing as many this initiative was launched, with loans amounting to €162,265 opportunities as we can for our people to engage in activities for coming from more than 2,040 contributors. which they have passion and commitment. Furthermore, we In 2016, MicroWorld and Capgemini France broadened the scope believe that as a major global IT and technology player, we can of support that our people can offer through the platform, via skills bring significant social innovation. sharing, tutoring, mentoring and volunteering opportunities, We embed our community service program within our business thereby engaging our people in a new way of bringing support to lines and client assignments. We measure and share this communities and touching 1,200 lives. commitment with our people, our partners and our clients through various communication channels such as our externally published Naandi Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report, our internet site Since 2005, Capgemini has been working with the Naandi and our internal Talent intranet and Global Employee Survey. Foundation on the “Nanhi Kali” program, which focuses on Through the energy and creativity of our people, communities supporting the education of girls across India. In 2016, Capgemini have been impacted on every continent. people from eight countries contributed to the support of In 2016, Capgemini commenced the ambitious Community 3,267 school girls. Engagement strategy roll out. India alone touched more than Capgemini supports the education of girls (from the age of 735,000 lives through social and educational programs, being run five upwards) through Project Nanhi Kali. In both their formative as well over several Group countries. Building on the strategy set years and up to the 9th and 10th grades through extra tutorial in 2015 by the Group’s CSR Board, our engagement and efforts support, stationery and career guidance support. have progressively increased in the space of education and skills, where we believe our people’s own capabilities and skills can However, the fall in numbers supported since 2013 as shown in make a mark. Most countries contribute to this global objective a the table reflects the increase in support for our own internal different levels. programs such as Enlight in India. This kind of internally started and led initiatives are showing good results: Enlight has touched 2,000 number lives, with 2,000 employees engaged, and top Our global initiatives management supportt. As we go forward in our journey in 2017, we will focus on showcasing and supporting globally internally led Positive Planet initiative projects that show their value with effective results, and high Positive Planet is an international non-profit organization focused employee and management engagement. on enabling access to Financial Services for individuals and communities in developing countries in order to bring about Capgemini supports strongly and proactively girl's education and sustainable improvements to their living standards. Sogeti has commits to building an equal society. supported Positive Planet with IT expertise, enabling the organization to focus on its core activities of providing financial support. Number of Nanhi Kali girls sponsored 2013 7,881 2014 6,765 2015 5,502 2016 3,267 Capgemini supports strongly and proactively girls’ education and commits to building an equal society. 146 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives Other national initiatives with a focus on tooling and learn the German language. Other initiatives include education and skills CV reviews and specific internship opportunities. To achieve the program’s objective, all units and functions within Capgemini In 2016 we revisited the Global Community Engagement Awards, Germany also collaborate with external partners, e.g. with Kiron focusing on of the best Skills and Education projects carried out Open Higher Education. across diverse Capgemini locations, fully committed to enhancing the educational capabilities of local communities. The awards Digital Literacy in India encompass five categories: Capgemini’s National Digital Literacy Mission (NDLM) Project is a ◗ Basic & Secondary Education; CSR initiative that supports the nationwide “Digital India” ◗ Higher Education; movement, which aims at ‘One digitally literate person in every ◗ Skills and Education for Women; Indian household by 2020’. The program intends not only to bridge the digital divide existing within the country but to empower ◗ Skills for Innovation; its beneficiaries to adopt internet technology and improve their ◗ The People’s Choice Award (open to all employees’ voting). living. 3 In 2016, 45 projects referring to skills and education were received Currently, Capgemini supports twelve operational centers that from nine Group countries, with over 4,662 of our people voting match major cities where we operate – Mumbai, Bangalore, Pune, for their choice in the ‘People’s Choice’ award. The following Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata, Noida, Trichy and Salem. A specific section highlights some of those entries along with other notable initiative has consisted of setting up a Digital Literacy center for initiatives from around the Group. differently abled youth and children to equip them with essential digital skills at the Navi Mumbai Center. Basic Education and Infrastructure The training on Digital literacy is provided free of cost to the most Capgemini Guatemala provided Guatemalan children of Ciudad marginalized communities and upon successful completion of the Quetzal Community with the basic infrastructure conditions to training, the candidates are awarded with certificate recognized by support their education journey. This community is located in a government of India. marginal area of the country and was flooded by heavy rains in 2014, thus destroying the one-room teaching facility. With the Schools program in the UK monthly volunteer contribution of 480 employees and Capgemini Over the past three years, Capgemini UK has supported over matching, we were able to raise 45,000 euros in nine months. On 15,000 young people to build skills, confidence, networks and a three day volunteering action, our team members built technical knowledge In order to inspire and prepare young people four classrooms, restrooms, and provided the furniture needed to for the working world. In 2016, we worked with 60 schools increase school capability and provide the children with a safe supporting employability skills and demonstrating to students environment. what they need to succeed. In addition to this, Capgemini has an Capgemini India initiated a unique girl children education absolute commitment to focus on young girls encouraging them program, called Enlight. It aims at reaching 10,400 girls from to join the Tech industry and on social mobility, so that the disadvantaged families who are left out from the educational industry and Capgemini best reflect the UK society as a whole. As journey because of secondary preference for girl education in the we work with clients to create digital solutions for all UK traditional Indian families. The underprivileged communities they consumers and citizens, the ability to understand and reflect live in or the health issues they face build up for further society as its widest points has become critical. The schools discrimination, and higher risk of abuse. Enlight works closely with program provides a diverse talent and recruitment pool for the the girl children of these families and provides them with the Apprentice program, a chance for employees to support local opportunities to access quality education. The program aims to schools which are at the heart of their communities, and ultimately ensure that each girl completes a minimum 10 years of schooling. skilled youngsters with more and better employment As part of our employee engagement initiatives, we link the 2,000 opportunities. At least 1% of UK employees volunteer on the girls in the program with 2,000 employees for mentorship support. schools support program. The program has created high impact in the communities, and strong engagement in the workforce. Education for Employability Capgemini Italy initiated the #imiglioridavvero® campaign to Education and Inclusion for Refugees contribute to the reduction of the dramatic youth unemployment Capgemini Netherlands has created solutions to support the (locally at +40%) in Italy. Using digital channels we aim to foster education of specific groups of students. These groups include the dialogue between graduates looking for jobs and young migrant children and youngsters which face issues in attending professionals in various organizations. For that reason we’ve also regular education programs. As the language barriers is one of the teamed up with companies such as l Sky, Fastweb, Sirti, Techint foremost issues faced by migrant children, they have been and Sodalitas. Using the #imiglioridavvero® digital open space, provided with managed tablets with applications to support them young professionals, who recently joined these companies or in learning Dutch. Capgemini, can share their experiences with those who are Capgemini Germany supports the integration of refugees in the searching for a first job. This enables young graduates to learn German economy and society through its program from failures and successes how to write an effective CV, to refugees@capgemini. The program helps refugees to obtain approach an interview and, once they’ve succeeded in finding a knowledge about the German IT sector, to provide access to IT job, to grow their career. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 147 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives Capgemini US The Veterans Employee Resource Group of span of 12 months we have worked with over 24 Merivis veterans Capgemini US joined the Merivis Foundation and partnered across the organization's two cohorts. Many of the veterans that together to train military veterans and veteran spouses in we worked with through Merivis had no IT experience at all, and Salesforce Administration, and assist them with finding rewarding were working in low-skilled jobs. Many of them however, are now careers in IT. We provided direct assistance to veteran students leading the way at Capgemini BTS, Dell, and Google (just to name through CV reviews, interview preparations, Linkedin branding a few companies) and are able to provide better futures to their tips, cover-letter preparations and professional mentorship. Over a families. Community investment and donations Summary of donations made Countries Donations Programs India 1,835,994€ Hope fondation (109k€), Sri Sri Ravishankar Vidya Mandir Trust (262k€); Sarthak Educational Trust (166k€); Anirban Rural Welfare Society (107k€); SRF Foundation (104k€) France 421,655€ Ashoka (264k€); Passeport Avenir (50k€), Social Builder Program (20k€), Program Booster (20k€), Scholarships Lille University (15k€) Germany and 65,721€ Managers of the Future Foundation (6k€), Rak'n'Roll Foundation (3k€); Wroclawskie Centrum Central Europe Opieki i Wychowania (3k€);various local initiativesin Germany(ranging from 500€ to 5k€) North America 485,474€ , United Way (94k€); National MS Society (39k€); Centraid (38k€); Life Project 4 Youth (14k€); Steve Stricker American Family Insurance Foundation (14k€) Asia-Pacific and 99,130€ Ciudad Quetzal Community school project (63k€); Fundacion Incluyeme (13k€); Big Brothers, Latin America Big Sisters (11k€); Ayrton Senna Institute (7k€) Largest 2,907,974€ operations sub-total Nordics countries 115,736€ Naandi 65k€; John Nurminem foundation (40k€); Croix-Rouge (8k€) Benelux 46,795€ St. Opkikker (35k€) South Europe 176,092€ Fundacion Adecco (60k€); Fundacion Randstadt (40k€); Save the children (20K€); CADIN (24k€); Téléthon (13k€) UK & Ireland 99,612€ Naandi 12k€ TOTAL 3,346,209€ Sponsoring and partnership approach Regarding sponsorship, the Group has established a longstanding Group sponsorship of sports, cultural, social, educational or partnership with the rugby world, especially in France, for a business events, either occasional or recurring, forms part of number of reasons: Capgemini’s communication and marketing activities with ◗ the team spirit which characterizes this sport fits with our own customers and other stakeholders. Sponsorship is different from values; charitable donations, as its purpose is to promote and strengthen ◗ the quality of the relationship which can be developed with the Group brands and impact. To ensure that it serves its clients around this theme; intended purpose, each sponsorship must be pre-approved and it should also comply with applicable laws and be aligned with ◗ the strong local nature of rugby teams reinforces the link with Group’s “Seven Values”, internal policies and Code of Business regional communities. Ethics. It is the Group’s policy not to make, directly or indirectly, any cash or in-kind contribution to any political organization. Under certain circumstances, the Group wishes to have a positive impact on the communities in which it operates or where its employees live. As a major global player, it works with national and international charities on community projects: ◗ the goals are compatible with its “Seven Values”, its Code of Business Ethics and its Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability policy; ◗ the organization is a legitimate charitable organization. 148 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives 3.4.2 Supporting our clients on their sustainability journey Capgemini works in collaboration with its clients to deliver services Enabling sustainable and resilient cities which underpin their own sustainability goals and aspirations. Capgemini is involved in public-private consortia that accelerate the deployment of innovative platforms to support citizen services Enabling client transformation and the energy transition. Projects such as Descartes 21 (Marne la Clients are increasingly expecting their service providers to help Vallée, France) will industrialize the design and implementation of them address their own sustainability challenges, for example, not connected platforms that will enable the transformation to more only providing the most efficient business solutions but minimizing sustainable and resilient cities. The project organization involves and avoiding detrimental impacts to the environment, representatives from the city council, operators, energy suppliers communities and society in the process. As a provider of business and citizens who cooperate on the design of new use cases and transformation and consultancy services for our clients, we believe business models for the global city ecosystem. Capgemini that we are well positioned to help with such challenges. provides the technology that enables smart cities to plan, manage and control multi-energy systems, and the platforms that connect Specifically, as an IT service provider and consultancy firm, we 3 public equipment in order to enhance operational efficiency and have the opportunity to help clients reduce their own carbon reduce energy consumption. footprint and wider sustainability impacts through the advice that we offer and the solutions that we design and deliver. Capgemini also recognizes that operational efficiency is a key driver in Reducing water consumption using Capgemini's ensuring longevity for our clients, a driver that is often analytics platforms complemented by reduced carbon emissions. Water companies have already made great progress in reducing Digital Transformation brings many opportunities to develop new leakage, but innovation in the ways it is managed going forward is business services while improving the time to market. We are critical if we are to deal with water scarcity and the demand using and mastering Internet Of Things, Cloud, Big Data, Mobility, balance while reducing service costs. An essential enabler for Automation, Artificial Intelligence to help our clients creating meeting this requirement is business-driven analytics: insights that innovative services. But sustainability must be a key success enable clients to tackle the key optimization problems inherent in factor of this transformation. Designing lean architectures, managing leakage, by integrating and analyzing multiple data respectful of our environment, optimizing energy consumption and sources – including both current and historic data, and both computer resources, data transmission, data center hosting, internal and external sources. Capgemini has developed an quality coding, Internet of Valuable Things is our way to promote As-a-Service Analytics platform that helps identifying where on the an innovative & sustainable Digital Transformation. network leakage is likely to occur, and when a leak does occur, narrowing the search area to find and fix it as quickly as possible. It also helps in allocating capital expenditure to vulnerable Accelerating the transition towards sustainable infrastructure before leaks occur and to optimize the pressure on energy the network to prevent from leaks. This platform has achieved The energy sector is undergoing a massive transformation on a some very encouraging results for a large UK water companies. global scale, from fossil energy to a renewable energy system, and The platform is proven to: detect 84% of leaks, be right 72% of from commodity to a Digital services sector. To tap into the the time and alert a leak 21 days earlier than the current average. potential of new technologies and address sustainability themes, utilities require a new business strategy. Capgemini has developed Energy optimization as a service an offering to help energy companies transform, from “U” as Utility Building on the same As-a-Service Analytics platform and to “ES” as Energy Services (U2ES) – a utility company into an approach as the Leakage initiative, Capgemini service enhances energy services company. and extends the functionality of traditional building energy As a strategic innovation partner of Capgemini in this field, Eneco, management systems. the leading Dutch energy company has been fully focused on Typically, today’s systems analyze the “as-is” position within a sustainability in the last decade. Next to investing in renewable building. Together with some historic data, this enables an energy, Eneco has introduced smart energy solutions to its engineer to monitor the system via a terminal, with the intention of customers. A key example is the Toon, Eneco’s smart thermostat recognizing any anomalies and resolving them in as efficient a and smart home solution which provides tangible insight in, and manner as possible via human interaction. Capgemini’s approach control over, energy consumption. is to collect far more data regarding the energy profile of an estate, Eneco, its subsidiary Quby and Capgemini have partnered to link it with other data sets – such as weather and real-time make the Toon available to other utility companies, thereby occupation statistics – to make adjustments through a direct helping to accelerate the energy transition. Leveraging the feedback loop. This rapidity of reaction provided by the real-time Group’s global presence, our Cloud Infrastructure Services unit bidirectional control of energy management enables the will operate the new platform behind Toon and Capgemini fine-tuning of the system at a rate faster than that which can be Consulting is involved in driving the joint go-to-market including achieved with human intervention, significantly increasing the fulfillment scale up preparations. Building on Eneco’s initial efficiency with which energy usage is optimized, leading in turn to success, the partnership will create a global ecosystem that will significant extra savings. be a powerful enabler for reducing energy consumption and for other smart and sustainable energy solutions around homes and offices such as electric mobility, solar power and energy storage. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 149 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives Key to the approach is the collection of data from multiple Sustainability consultancy services monitoring systems across each building within an estate without Capgemini provides Consulting Services for climate change the expensive overhead of implementing additional physical management, as well as operational efficiency and industry metering. Utilizing “Big Data” analytics and the IoT for data operations. Our global network of sustainability experts integrates management, Capgemini may: complex business issues with sustainability goals. ◗ Monitor energy and reduce energy consumption of an estate, We also deliver specialized services for smart verticals, such as globally; utility (energy and water), transportation, consumer products, ◗ Rapidly identify and resolve break/fix issues within the estate; retail, oil and gas, and the public sector. ◗ Improve preventative maintenance, exploiting historic fail and As companies face increasing scrutiny from consumers and mean time to fail data; regulatory bodies alike, Capgemini is positioned strongly in ◗ Micro manage the climate within a building, both reducing collaborating together with clients, technology partners and energy use and improving the working environment, and industry bodies to implement powerful tools and processes to be proactive in meeting these demands proactively. With extensive ◗ Provide engineers with the capability to review the system on the experience in supply chain visibility, product information device of their choice on a truly mobile basis. management, smart metering, product lifecycle management, risk and compliance management, Capgemini is a partner in end to end sustainability management. 3.4.3 Committing to a socially and environmentally responsible supply chain Capgemini’s commitment to supplier relationship is reflected in its Supplier diversity and equal opportunity is encouraged: we aim to comprehensive set of guidelines on purchasing ethics, on the allow qualified small and very small businesses the opportunity to selection and management of suppliers. receive a share of the market. Our “eco-system” approach with major clients aims to foster this and level the entry barrier where Purchasing principles practical. In our purchasing activities, the Group takes into account Our suppliers are expected to conduct their relationships with us environmental issues, social impacts, human rights, and the fight and any of our clients, commercial partners and other suppliers on against corruption. The ten key principles of the United Nations a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core principles Global Compact guide Capgemini’s activities throughout our of sustainability. These principles apply both to the products and business. In other words, the Group is committed to ensuring that services provided, to the suppliers’ activities and, where we only work with suppliers with ethical practices and which appropriate, to their downstream supply chains. respect human rights. Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff is expected to work according to Our procurement procedures are based on the following the same Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability criteria principles: as our own employees; in tandem, we apply the same health and safety and diversity criteria to contractors and suppliers as to our ◗ treating suppliers fairly; own employees. ◗ selecting suppliers based on value, performance, price and sustainability; Our ethics & sustainable procurement principles ◗ selecting suppliers in accordance with a justifiable and In 2015, Capgemini developed and implemented its “Supplier transparent process; Standards of Conduct (SSC) & Compliance Management ◗ preserving the confidentiality of supplier information; Requirements” that structures all of the above principles for our ◗ managing supplier risk; supply chain and also reminds that Capgemini operates to a “Purchase Order Mandatory” policy. All suppliers are requested to ◗ ensuring supplier contracts have clauses relating to ethical and agree upon the principles that are set out in this document prior to sustainable procurement; working with us. Should a supplier fail to respect these ethical and ◗ maintaining relationships with suppliers based wholly on sustainability guidelines, Capgemini is then entitled to cancel the competition. contract with the supplier. 150 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.4 Partnering with external stakeholders on social and sustainability initiatives During 2016 we have further uplifted our activities in this respect business critical suppliers. This approach allows us to engage in with the development of a Group-wide supplier management an objective way with our key suppliers to monitor performance, process. This new process further enforces the SSC approach for discuss performance improvement and maintain a close dialog new suppliers to the Capgemini Group and is currently being about future requirements and intentions. Supplier Relationship implemented into our operating countries. Management is one of the core activities of procurement and probably the one with utmost long-term impact. As we go one “Capgemini Supplier Standards of Conduct & Compliance step above transactional activity we need to encompass total cost Management Requirements” document is available here: of ownership, roadmap alignment, operational performance, risk ◗ https://www.capgemini.com/resources/capgemini-suppliermanagement as well as co-innovation and differentiation. For this, standards-of-conduct-compliance-management-requirements there is no better way than align our organizations, have clear Other reference documents and actions can be found at the communication matrixes, perform regular reviews covering all following addresses: aspects of our relationship and performance and last but not least, build trust and executive relationships rewarding alignment, ◗ for ethics: http://www.capgemini.com/resources/our-ethics-for-you cooperation and problem solving in a win-win spirit. ◗ for CSR and sustainability with SMEs: Experience has proven that successful and positive supplier 3 http://www.uk.capgemini.com/about/corporate-responsibility/ relationship management is valued by our partners and suppliers. business-information-for-small-medium-enterprises Last but not least, crisis resolution, deal making and decisive Furthermore, our suppliers have the possibility to notify us of any moves are facilitated by SRM bringing facts and evidences to be known or suspected improper behavior in their dealings with built upon as well as trusted & streamlined communication Capgemini or by Capgemini employees or agents, by sending a channels. message to the following email address: Supplierstandardsofconduct@capgemini.com, which is accessed Our journey towards SRM is continuing with growing scope and only by our Group Chief Procurement Officer and Chief Ethics & emphasis placed upon this aspect to strengthen governance and Compliance Officer. performance across our supply chain. So far in 2016 we have held more than 30 senior executive level meetings & performed more Supplier relationship management than 66 business performance surveys for our top suppliers under our SRM framework approach. In 2016, Group purchases from its top one hundred and top ten suppliers totaled respectively €1,040 million and €606 million. The We continue to apply the Capgemini approach of “Think Global number one, top five and top ten suppliers represented 3%, 12% and Act Local” by ensuring that our SRM approach addresses and 19% of Group spend, respectively. both global and local suppliers and ensuring that, as well as our global and Group based supply chain activities, we support the Through 2016 Capgemini has continued to roll out its new local Capgemini entities in their communities through locally led Relationship Management (“SRM”) approach (introduced in 2015) supply chain initiatives and approaches for sustainability, to our top suppliers globally, and locally to our high spend & community and ethical trading. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 151 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability commitments and recognitions 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability commitments and recognitions Each year, Capgemini is recognized by independent research agencies, sustainability analysts and industry partners as a leader in Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability at both a Group level and across our different geographies. These awards and recognitions inspire us to think bigger, reach higher and be bolder with our Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability program. Our Commitments For Capgemini, our commitment to CSR & Sustainability extends A number of important commitments have also been made in beyond strict legal compliance, we have made public various certain countries, including: commitments in a number of areas: In France, where we: ◗ Capgemini CEO Paul Hermelin signed the Business Proposals ◗ implemented a carbon off-setting program during COP 21; for COP 21 in support of the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change ◗ became a member of the “Grande École du Numérique” in in 2015; 2016; ◗ Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact ◗ signed a number of business commitments; Charte de la since 2004. The member companies of this program diversité in 2006; the Charte de la banlieue 2.0 in 2010; the support/comply with ten principles in the areas of the Charte de la parentalité and Charte de l’apprentissage in 2011; environment, human rights, labor rights, and the fight against and the Charte Entreprises et Quartiers avec le Ministère corruption; Délégué à la Ville in 2013. ◗ Capgemini supports the principles of the 1948 Universal In the UK, where we: Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental conventions ◗ became the first IT services and consulting company to publish of the International Labour Organization (ILO) refusing the use of approved science-based targets consistent with the COP 21 forced labor or child labor; 2015 Paris Agreement to keep temperatures below the 2°C ◗ Capgemini supports the OECD guidelines for multinational threshold; enterprises; ◗ signed a series of six communiqués on Climate Change ◗ Capgemini has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact’s organized by the Prince of Wales’s Corporate Leaders’ Group “Caring for Climate” initiative since its inception in 2007; on Climate Change. They are the Trillion Tonne (2014), Climate Change (2012); etc.; ◗ Capgemini has been a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles since their inception in 2011; and ◗ registered our support for the “Think Act report” initiative, a voluntary framework developed by the UK Government with the ◗ Capgemini is a signatory of the 2010 Guadalajara ICT aim of promoting gender equality within the workplace. Declaration on Transformative Low-carbon Solutions. This document urged governments at the 2010 Cancun Summit to In Germany, where we: use the power of ICT to make the transition to low a carbon ◗ signed the Charta der Vielfalt (the Diversity Charter) in economy. October 2014. In the Netherlands, where we: ◗ committed to MJA3, which is the third Energy Efficiency Plan (2017-2020) with ambitious targets and innovative energy efficiency measures. This is public/private collaboration program aiming for more effective and efficient energy use. 152 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability commitments and recognitions Our Achievements and Awards ◗ attained the “Welcoming Handi Standard” to promote greater accessibility and safety for employees with different abilities; As a result of its on-going commitment to CSR & Sustainability in ◗ were awarded the Baromètre PAP50 by WWF for our approach 2016, Capgemini: to responsibly handling paper. ◗ was once again recognized as one of the World’s Most Ethical In North America, where we: Companies in 2016 by The Ethisphere® Institute, a leading ◗ featured on the Diversity Value Index organized by the Human international think tank specializing in research on ethical Capital Management Advisory Group, recognizing a business practices; commitment to Diversity and Inclusion; ◗ became part of the Standard Ethics Index having been assigned ◗ received the Global Business Certification of Gender Equality, a high scoring Solicited Sustainability Rating (SSR); awarded by Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE); ◗ continued its inclusion in the FTSE4Good index; ◗ were named in the 2016 Top Companies for Women ◗ was reconfirmed as a constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Technologists by the Anita Borg Institute; Index (ESI) Excellence Europe in September 2016; 3 ◗ were awarded the Diversity Best Practices Above & Beyond ◗ became a new constituent of the STOXX ESG leader indices; Honorable Mention, for the Capgemini Cares initiative; ◗ received a score of ‘A-’ in the CDP climate change disclosure, ◗ received the National Diversity Council Corporate Commitment placing Capgemini in the first quantile of all companies assessed Award; by CDP; ◗ were recognized as one of Canada’s Best Diversity Employers ◗ maintained the OEKOM Prime Status in the OEKOM Corporate (2016), and Canada’s Top Employers for Young People 2016; Responsibility Index; ◗ were recognized by the Human Rights Campaign, featuring on ◗ was confirmed as a constituent of the EURONEXT Vigeo Eiris the ‘Best Places to Work Corporate Equality Index 2017’; Europe 120 and Eurozone 120 indices (our performance on ◗ received the AT&T Supplier Diversity Crystal Award 2015; environmental, social and governance issues places us in the Top 120 companies in Europe and the Eurozone); ◗ were awarded the “Buy Those That Buy Us” Supplier Diversity Award, given by Dallas/Fort Worth Minority Supplier ◗ maintained its position as a Gold rated supplier on the Ecovadis Development Council, Inc. collaborative CSR supply chain platform. In the UK, where we: Additionally, numerous awards have been won at a country level, recognizing the hard work taking place across our different ◗ achieved the platinum status in the 2016 Business in the geographies to embed sustainable and responsible business Community (BITC) Environment Index, which benchmarks practices. companies against all aspects of their environmental management and performance; In France, where we: ◗ maintained the ‘Community Mark’ from BITC for demonstrating ◗ received the Global Business Certification of Gender Equality, excellence in balancing community investment while remaining awarded by Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE); competitive and profitable; ◗ received the Label entreprise Handi accueillante recognizing ◗ were recognized in the Third Sector Business Charity Awards for actions and initiatives undertaken by a company in favor of an innovative people partnership with the Ironbridge Gorge disabled people; Museum Trust; ◗ were awarded the Label Développement Durable. This award is ◗ featured on the Top 300 companies in the Stonewall Workplace given to companies that excel in their employee mobility Equality Index; and program; ◗ were accredited with the Disability Confident Employer badge. ◗ received the Environmental and societal innovation Award for its partnership with Nodixia, an “adapted company” that employs people with different abilities; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 153 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.5 Our People, Social & Sustainability commitments and recognitions In the Netherlands, where we: ◗ were named as the best employer in IT by Computerworld; ◗ attained the highest level on the CO2 Performance Ladder Index ◗ were recognized for our Disability Inclusion Program by CR for our emissions reduction and energy efficiency performance; Navigator. ◗ were awarded the ‘Lean Green Personal Mobility Award’ by In Germany, where we: Connekt for our reduction in business travel; ◗ were featured in the CSR Jobs Awards for exceeding expected ◗ received silver level assurance from ‘FIRA’ for our approach to standards of responsibility within the issue “Compatibility of Job, CSR & Sustainability; and Family and Stages of Life”; and ◗ were acknowledged as a Gold rated supplier in the Ecovadis. ◗ received the HR Excellence Award from ‘Magazin Human In Poland, where we: Resources Manager’ for exceeding expected standards of responsibility within the issue “Diversity”. ◗ have been included in the Responsible Companies Ranking In Belgium, where we: each year since 2011– earning the 23th place overall and the 2nd place within the technology branch in 2016; ◗ were recognized as a Top Employer by the Top Employers ◗ were recognized as a Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute, which certifies excellence in employee conditions. Institute, which certifies excellence in employee conditions; In India, where we: ◗ have won the Bureaucracy Today CSR Excellence Award for Project Enlight in the “Care and Protection of Girl Child” category; ◗ were featured in Forbes India for our CSR initiatives. Rating agencies Capgemini continues to work with a number of independent corporate social responsibility and sustainability analysts and financial rating agencies. We take external analysis of our performance seriously and welcome assessments by reputable third parties as this gives us a clear reference position for our performance. 154 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.6 Grenelle correlation table 3.6 Grenelle correlation table The following Grenelle II table details the indicators included in the legislation and which Capgemini has reported. Explanations for not reporting any indicator are also included. HR data indicators ■Y/ ■N Explanation a) Employment ■ Total headcount; Distribution of employees by gender, age and geographical area ■ See pages 109 to 111 and pages 115 to 116 ■ Recruitments and redundancies ■ See pages 111, 115 and 131 ■ Remunerations and their evolution ■ See page 120 b) Work organization 3 ■ Working time organization ■ See page 126 ■ Absenteeism ■ See page 127 c) Labor relations ■ Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, consultation and ■ See pages 128 to 131 negotiation with the employees ■ Summary of collective agreements ■ See pages 130 to 131 d) Health and safety ■ Occupational health and safety conditions ■ See page 125 ■ Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions ■ See pages 125 and 131 or the representatives of the Company health and Safety Committee ■ Occupational accidents , including accident frequency and severity rates, and ■ occupational diseases See page 127 e) Training ■ Policies implemented regarding training ■ See pages 121 to 122 ■ Total number of training hours ■ See pages 121 to 122 f) Equal opportunity ■ Measures implemented to promote gender equality ■ See pages 114 to 117 ■ Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled ■ people See pages 117 to 119 ■ Policy against discrimination ■ See page 119 g) Promotion and compliance with ILO fundamental conventions relative to ■ The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining ■ ■ The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ■ See pages 105 to 107 ■ The elimination of all forms of forced labor ■ ■ The abolition of child labor ■ Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 155 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Environmental indicators ■Y/ ■N Explanation a) General environmental policy ■ The organization of the Company to integrate environmental issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding ■ See pages 132 to 134 environmental issues ■ Information and training measures for employees regarding the protection of ■ See pages 132 to 134 the environment Due to the nature of our activities, our impact is mostly linked to associated carbon emissions. Hence the most relevant indicator has been identified as Greenhouse Gas ■ Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and pollution ■ Emissions and to the set of actions implemented to reduce and optimize energy resources and sustainable resources in general ■ Amount of the environmental risks provisions and guarantees, unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the Company in an ongoing ■ as above litigation b) Pollution ■ Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges into the ■ as above atmosphere, water and soil, impacting severely the environment ■ Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution ■ as themes a, b c) Circular economy i) Waste prevention and management see pages 140 to 141 ■ Measures of prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste ■ Actions against food waste ii) Sustainable use of ressources ■ Water consumption ■ As water usage is not a significant environmental aspect for Capgemini, it has ■ Water supply adapted to the local constraints ■ been excluded from the data tables.The Group roll out of our carbon accounting system requires the inclusion of water consumption at which time it can be identified if the water used in cooling systems (especially in our data centers) is significant ■ Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to improve Due to the nature of our business we do not ■ efficiency in their use consume raw materials ■ Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve energy efficiency ■ See pages136 to 145 and renewable energy use As there is very little land or “green” space at our office locations for which we have ■ Land usage ■ responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered applicable d) Climate Change ■ Greenhouse gas emissions ■ See pages136 to 145 We evaluate the risks in terms of energy costs. ■ Adaptation to consequences of climate change ■ The aim going forward is to set reduction targets globally e) Biodiversity protection As there is very little land or “green” space at our office locations for which we have ■ Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity ■ responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered applicable 156 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS 3.6 Grenelle correlation table Social and communities indicators ■Y/ ■N Explanation a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the Company activity ■ Regarding regional employment and development ■ See pages 146 to 150 ■ On the local populations ■ See pages 146 and 150 b) Relations with stakeholders , including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment, consumers organization and local populations ■ Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders ■ See pages 146 to 150 ■ Actions of partnership and sponsorship ■ See pages 146 to 150 c) Subcontractors and suppliers ■ Integration of social and environmental issues into the Company procurement ■ See pages 150 to 151 policy 3 ■ Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with ■ See pages 150 to 151 subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility d) Fair business practices ■ Action implemented against corruption ■ See pages 105 to 107 Due to the nature of our activities, we are not faced with consumers and are not ■ Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety ■ building products which may impact health or security of consumers e) Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights ■ See pages 105 to 107 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 157 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS Report by one of the Statutory Auditors 3.7 Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31, 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Cap Gemini S.A. (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certified by COFRAC under number 3-1049 (1), we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year ended December 31, 2016, included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). Company’s responsibility The Board is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), summarised in the management report and available on request, from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L.822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Statutory Auditor’s responsibility On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: ◗ attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); ◗ express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information); ◗ at the request of the Company, express reasonable assurance that information selected by the Company and identified by the symbol √ in the chapter 3 of the management report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR information). Our work involved six persons and was conducted between September 2016 and February 2017 during a thirteen week period. We were assisted in our work by our CSR experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated May 13, 2013 defining the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and with the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000 (2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programs arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. (1) “whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr” (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. 158 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS Report by one of the Statutory Auditors For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we verified that explanations were provided in accordance with article R.225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We verified that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as defined by article L.233-1 and the controlled entities as defined by article L.233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological note, presented in the sections 3 of the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted around ten interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of 3 collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: ◗ assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; ◗ verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. (3) Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important : ◗ at parent entity level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and verified, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also verified that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; ◗ at the level of a representative sample of entities selected by us (4) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied and to identify potential undisclosed data, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents 60% of headcount considered as material data of social issues and between 56% and 70% of environmental data considered as material data of environmental issues(5). For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the Company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. (3) Quantitative information: Human resources indicators: Total headcount, Workforce broken down by geographical area, age and gender, Number of external hires, Total turnover rate, Number of training hours, Absenteeism ratio, Breakdown of part-time workforce, Percentage of employees who had a performance and career review. Environmental indicators: Total direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel. Qualitative information: Occupational health and safety conditions, Policies implemented regarding training, Measures implemented to promote gender equality, policies implemented regarding employment and integration of disabled persons, The organization of the Company to integrate environmental issues and the certification process regarding environmental issues, Actions taken to prevent corruption, Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety, Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights. (4) Human resources indicators: Capgemini Poland, Capgemini France, Capgemini India (ACIS, FS and IGATE). Environmental indicators: India, France, Germany and The Netherlands (5) See the list of environmental indicators presented in footnote 3. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 159 3 CAPGEMINI: PEOPLE, CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) AND BUSINESS ETHICS Report by one of the Statutory Auditors 3. Reasonable assurance on a selection of CSR Information Nature and scope of the work For the information selected by the Company (6) and identified by the symbol √ in the chapter 3 of the management report, our audit consisted of work of the same nature as described in paragraph 2 above for the CSR information considered the most important, but in more depth, particularly regarding the number of tests. The sample selected represents 60% of headcount and between 56% and 70% of the quantitative environmental information identified by the symbol √. We consider that this work enables us to express a conclusion of reasonable assurance for the information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √. Conclusion In our opinion, the information selected by the Group and identified by the symbol √ in the chapter 3 of the management report is fairly presented, in all material aspects, in compliance with the Guidelines. Paris La Défense, February 24, 2017 Sustainability Services KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner (6) Human resources indicators: Total headcount, Workforce broken down by geographical area, age and gender, Number of external hires, Total turnover rate, Number of training hours. Environmental indicators: Total direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to direct energy consumption, Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel. 160 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Financial information 4 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. consolidated results 162 Financial Statements 232 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over 4.3.1 Income statement 232 the past year 162 4.3.2 Balance sheet 232 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group 4.3.3 Appropriation of earnings 233 consolidated financial statements and outlook 4.3.4 Share capital and ownership structure 233 for 2017 166 4.4 2016 Financial statements 234 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 168 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015 and 2016 234 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 168 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized in December 31, 2015 and 2016 236 equity 169 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements 237 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position 170 4.4.4 Statutory auditor’s report on the financial 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows 171 statements 253 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 172 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements party agreements and commitments 254 for the year ended December 31, 2016 173 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated 4.5 Other financial and accounting financial statements 231 information 255 4.5.1 Five-year financial summary 255 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments 256 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 161 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year In 2016, Capgemini made further tangible progress in its Other operating income and expenses total €292 million. The operational efficiency and significantly improved its financial increase compared to the €240 million recorded in 2015 is mainly performance. The Group’s strategy, which has been in place for due to expenses related to the acquisition of IGATE (notably the several years, is based on investment in innovation and amortization of intangible assets recognized as part of this industrialization of its operations, this year again allows for a acquisition and the integration costs). Restructuring costs of substantial increase in operating margin and organic free cash €103 million are in line with the envelope set for the year. flow which exceeds for the first time the billion euros. The operating profit for 2016 increased to €1,148 million and On an operating level, the integration of IGATE has been 9.2% of revenues. Operating margin rate is up 0.6 point successfully completed: direct and operational cost synergies are compared with that of 2015. deployed ahead of initial targets, while strong growth recorded in The financial expense is €146 million, up from €118 million IGATE’s major historical customers validates customer value recorded the previous year. This increase is mainly due to the created through this acquisition. The year 2016 also saw the recognition this year of 12 months of interest on the debt raised in acceleration of investments in innovative offerings and automation July 2015 in connection with the financing of the acquisition of initiatives, primarily in the areas of Business Process Outsourcing IGATE. (BPO), infrastructure services and application test and maintenance. In respect of income tax for the year 2016, the Group recorded a tax expense of €94 million compared to a €203 million income in The Group’s portfolio continues to transition toward Digital and 2015. These amounts include a tax income of €476 million in Cloud at a solid pace. Revenues driven by Digital and Cloud 2015 following the reassessment of deferred tax assets on tax increased by 29% at constant exchange rates in 2016 to loss carry-forwards in the United States and a tax income (net) of represent 30% of revenues. Geographically, continental Europe €180 million in 2016 related to goodwill arising from legal recorded solid growth while North America was affected by the reorganizations. Adjusted for these non-recurring non-cash items, contraction in demand in the Energy & Utilities sector. the effective tax rate is 27.3% in 2016 and 30.1% in 2015. The Group generated revenues of €12,539 million in 2016, up On this basis, net profit attributable to owners of the Company is 5.2% compared with 2015. Excluding the impact of fluctuations in €921 million in 2016, compared with €1,124 million in 2015 and Group currencies against the euro growth is 7.9%, in line with the basic earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 is 2016 guidance. Organic growth, i.e. excluding the impact of €5.44. The Group defines Normalized net profit as the Group currencies and changes in Group scope, is 2.6%. The impact share in net profit for the year adjusted for the impact of items from changes in Group scope mainly arises from the consolidation recognized in “Other operating income and expense”, net of tax of 12-month IGATE revenues in 2016 compared with 6 months in calculated using the effective tax rate. Prior to the recognition of 2015, as IGATE was acquired in July 2015. the one-off tax profits, 2016 normalized net profit is up 14% Operating margin amounted to €1,440 million, or 11.5% of year-on-year to €953 million and Normalized earnings per share is revenues, up 14% year-on-year. This 0.9 point improvement in up 16% year-on-year to €5.62. profitability reflects the improvement in gross margin generated by Organic free cash flow (cash flow from operations less acquisitions the investments made in the innovation and industrialization of of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets, net of Group’s operations. The 2016 operating margin is at the top end disposals, and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost) of the target range raised during the publication of the half-year is €1,071 million up 31% compared to 2015. In 2016, Capgemini results in July 2016. paid a dividend of €229 million and devoted €340 million to the share buyback program. 162 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results Operations by major region 20% 16% France United Kingdom & Ireland 8% Asia-Pacific & Latin America 30% 4 North America 26% Rest of Europe North America reported revenues of €3,800 million in 2016 (30% Manufacturing & Automotive sectors. By business, performance of Group revenues), a 14.5% year on year increase at constant was particularly strong in Application Services. The operating exchange rates. This growth reflects the impact of the margin for 2016 increased by 18% in value and by 1.0 point in consolidation of 12 months of IGATE revenues in 2016. Excluding rate to reach €234 million and 9.1% of revenues. IGATE, the year 2016 was marked by the severe contraction in The Rest of Europe region (which includes Benelux since the Energy & Utilities sector, which fully offset the 3.3% organic January 2016 and now represents 26% of Group revenues) with growth recorded in other sectors, notably in Financial Services revenues of €3,214 million reported a 5.3% growth at constant and Manufacturing. Operating margin for the region rose 0.5 point exchange rates. Retail & Consumer goods, Manufacturing & year-on-year to 15.4% of revenues. Thus, at €587 million, the Automotive as well as the Public sector were among the most operating margin has more than doubled in the past two years. dynamic sectors this year. Geographically, Germany and United Kingdom and Ireland reported 2016 revenues of Scandinavia recorded the strongest growth in the region, while €1,993 million (16% of Group revenues) rose 4.1% at constant activity in the Benelux remained stable. Operating margin was exchange rates to €1,993 million. Local momentum was fueled by €339 million and 10.5% of revenues, up 0.3 point year-on-year. the private sector (now accounting for 57% of the region’s The Asia-Pacific and Latin American region (8% of Group revenues) which grew organically at around 10% while public revenues) recorded growth of 8.2% at constant exchange rates to sector revenues were down as anticipated. The Brexit vote did not €965 million in 2016, with this year again contrasting trends. materially affect the activity in the region, however, the Growth in the Asia-Pacific region, supported by the development depreciation of the pound sterling against the euro led to a 7.3% of Financial Services, remains very strong. The situation in Brazil decline in consolidated revenues and has lowered by 2 points to continued to weigh on the performance of Latin America, which 16% the region’s weight in the Group. The operating margin is recorded a further contraction in revenues. The operating margin €290 million, representing an operating margin rate of 14.6%, up was €64 million in 2016, compared with €39 million the previous 1.2 points on 2015. year. The improvement in profitability in Asia Pacific has more than France reported revenues of €2,567 million (20% of Group offset the deterioration in Latin America, resulting in an operating revenues) up 5.0% year-on-year driven by strong growth in the margin rate expansion of 2.4 points to 6.6%. Retail & Consumer goods, Financial Services and the Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 163 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results Operations by business Kingdom and the Rest of Europe region. The utilization rate was overall stable compared to 2015 and reached 70% in the last quarter. The operating margin stood at 10.7% of revenues 4% compared with 9.1% in 2015. Consulting Services Technology & Engineering Services (15% of Group revenues, previously known as Local Professional Services) grew 6.9% at constant exchange rates. Growth in the Rest of Europe and North 21% 15% America regions more than offset the slight slowdown persisting in Other Managed Technology France, and adds to the IGATE impact. The operating margin Services and Engineering improved 120 basis points to 12.8% in 2016. Services Application Services (60% of Group revenues) growth was a strong 10.6% at constant exchange rates. In addition to the positive IGATE impact, growth was driven by strong momentum in Europe notably France, the United Kingdom, Germany and Scandinavia and Asia. Application Services are also the first beneficiary of the rapid development of Digital and Cloud services. The operating margin rate is 12.7%, up 80 basis points on 2015. 60% Other Managed Services (21% of Group revenues) reported a Application Services 2.2% increase in revenues at constant exchange rates in 2016. Excluding changes in Group scope, revenue is down year-on-year despite growth in Business Services (Business Process Outsourcing and platforms). The pressure from the transition to Consulting Services (4% of Group revenues) grew 2.7% at the Cloud on traditional infrastructure services was accentuated constant exchange rates and is supplemented by the rapid this year by the decline in the UK public sector, which was development of Digital Consulting Services initiated and billed by anticipated at the beginning of the year, but also lower equipment the other businesses. Overall, the activity volume increased by resale. The operating margin rate at 10.0% is up 40 basis points more than 5.0%. This increase was driven notably by the United on 2015. Results by business Revenues (in millions of euros) 2015 2016 Consulting Services 480 506 Technology and engineering services 1,744 1,873 Application Services 6,997 7,557 Other Managed Services 2,694 2,603 TOTAL GROUP 11,915 12,539 Operating margin (as a % of revenues) 2015 2016 Consulting Services 9.1% 10.7% Technology and engineering services 11.6% 12.8% Application Services 11.9% 12.7% Other Managed Services 9.6% 10.0% TOTAL GROUP 10.6% 11.5% The following table presents the utilization rates (on a like-for-like basis) measuring the percentage of work time, excluding vacation, of production employees. 2015 utilization rates have been computed to better take into account the onshore/offshore mix. It should be noted that the year-on-year decrease in the utilization rate in Application Services at the end of the year is mainly attributable to the high number of graduates recruited in offshore production centers. 2015 2016 Utilization rate Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting Services 71% 71% 68% 70% 70% 71% 68% 70% Technology and Engineering services 81% 82% 84% 83% 82% 83% 83% 83% Application Services 81% 81% 82% 83% 81% 81% 82% 81% 164 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results Headcount On a financial level: At December 31, 2016, the Group’s total headcount is ◗ the Capgemini Board of Directors decided in February 2016 the 193,077 employees compared with 180,639 employees one year launch of a €600 million multi-year share buyback program, earlier. This 12,438 net increase (+6.9%) reflects: before increasing it to €1,100 million in December 2016; ◗ 55,246 additions; and ◗ on November 29, 2016, Capgemini redeemed on maturity its ◗ 42,808 departures (including 34,803 resignations), representing €500 million bond issue paying an annual coupon of 5.25%; a weighted attrition rate of 18.3% of the headcount in 2016 ◗ on November 21, 2016, Capgemini completed the early (compared with 19.3% in 2015). redemption of the ORNANE bonds (zero-coupon net share settled bonds convertible into new shares and/or exchangeable Order book for existing shares of Cap Gemini due January 1, 2019); Bookings during the year totaled €13,027 million. New orders of ◗ in November 2016, Capgemini successfully placed a €11,538 million were recorded in 2015. Book-to-bill ratio stands at €500 million senior unsecured bond issue with a 0.5% coupon. 1.04 for the year 2016. In Digital and Cloud: Capgemini launched new service offerings and solutions and Significant events of 2016 particularly: Within the Group, 2016 will remain marked by the death, on ◗ Digital Manufacturing, a service offering focusing on the Digital March 15, of Serge Kampf, founder of the Capgemini Group and transformation of the manufacturing industry (May 2016); still Vice-Chairman of the Board and Honorary Chairman when he passed away. He built Capgemini based on principles that still ◗ IoT platform for next generation building energy management solutions, launched with Siemens (May 2016); 4 apply today: a spirit of enterprise, a passion for clients, an obsession to help employees grow, ethical conduct at all times ◗ Automation Drive, a unified suite of automation technologies and performance at its best. designed to accelerate the Digital transformation of companies (July 2016); On another note: ◗ new security monitoring services in partnership with IBM ◗ for the fourth year running, Capgemini was recognized as one of Security (August 2016); the world’s most ethical companies by Ethisphere Institute, an independent think tank dedicated to promoting ethical and ◗ Mov’InBlue, a smart Digital mobility solution for corporate fleets corporate governance best practices (March 2016); and vehicle rental companies, launched with Valéo (October 2016). ◗ Capgemini signed a new agreement encouraging the employment of persons with disabilities (March 2016); The Group also continued to develop a Digital ecosystem with: ◗ Capgemini obtained from the CNIL, the French Data protection ◗ the opening of three new innovation centers, including San Authority, certification for its Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) for Francisco (January 2016), which is the nerve center of the global the protection of personal data (March 2016); network of 10 Applied Innovation Exchange; ◗ Capgemini supported female entrepreneurs with the creation of ◗ the acquisition of two companies in the Digital sector, Oinio, one the Prometteuse du Digital prize, awarded to a woman working of European’s leading Salesforce partners and Fahrenheit 212, a in the Digital sector in the Pays de la Loire region of France US innovation strategy and design firm (January and (May 2016); February 2016); ◗ Capgemini University was awarded the “Most International ◗ the strengthening of its relationship with Amazon Web Services, Corporate University” prize at the first U-Spring Corporate under its extended migration services program (February 2016); University event. This event rewards best continuing education ◗ the broadening of its partnership with SAP to address the Digital practices in companies (June 2016); transformation needs of the manufacturing industry ◗ in June 2016, Capgemini organized a capital market day for (September 2016). financial analysts and investors at its Munich Applied Innovation On the commercial front, the Group won in particular the following Exchange, during which it presented its recent Digital, Cloud and contracts and assignments driven by new Digital and Cloud Cybersecurity developments and an update on the automation needs: of its client’s project delivery. During this day, the Group confirmed its medium-term ambition to achieve operating margin ◗ application migration and supervision consulting assignment for of between 12.5% and 13.0% and organic growth of between a global soft drinks company transitioning to the Cloud; 5% and 7%; ◗ development of an integrated banking solution for a leading Irish ◗ Capgemini launched to its French employees a mobile phone bank, drawing on Capgemini Consulting, infrastructure and recycling initiative in partnership with Nodixia (December 2016). Financial Services expertise, while increasing the Digital footprint of the bank through a dedicated solution; ◗ delivery of solutions improving the Digital capacity of a leading credit rating agency; Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 165 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results ◗ development of APIs (customer interface for communication of ◗ automation of testing and transformation for a US finance software components) to power a new Digital platform for a company; major global bank; ◗ building a new membership program, data model, deployment ◗ Capgemini is the preferred partner of a French mass catering phase on a Digital customer engagement for a brand devised for company for innovation and transformation, was asked to the food retail business in the United Kingdom; mentor the Digital transformation of the Company and steer ◗ transformation program for a German automotive equipment more than 10 Digital projects; manufacturer to adopt next generation Digital technologies for ◗ major Digital transformation contract with a European telecoms Product Lifecycle Management (PLM). operator; Finally, the following contracts illustrate other commercial activity ◗ 7-year service agreement with a US insurance company in 2016: delivered through Capgemini’s IBAS platform (Integrated ◗ Capgemini secured its position as a strategic supplier to HMRC Business Administration Services); (the UK government department primarily tasked with tax ◗ digital transformation consulting assignment for a European car collection) notably in application development and management manufacturer; services through to June 2020 in support of HMRC’s ambition of ◗ cloud-based Big Data & Analytics assignment for global leader in being one of the world’s most digitally advanced tax authorities. submarine systems; In support of HMRC’s decision to take greater control of IT, Capgemini will transition a number of services between now and ◗ cybersecurity assignments for a leading European insurance June 2017 (March 2016); company, an environmental agency, a Dutch discount chain and a cruise ship operator; ◗ Capgemini announced the renewal of its managed services contact with the UK Ministry of Defense (March 2016); ◗ systems integration and infrastructure consulting assignment for a top-three European airport; ◗ Capgemini signed a contract with a global medical technology company based in the US to manage all IT applications and ◗ implementation of Digital applications for a Digital camera deliver end-to-end ADM services (September 2016). supplier; ◗ launch of a strategic transformation plan for an agricultural biotechnology company; 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini Group consolidated financial statements and outlook for 2017 Consolidated income statement Other operating income and expense (including the Consolidated revenues total €12,539 million for the year ended amortization of intangible assets recognized in business December 31, 2016, compared with €11,915 million in 2015, up combinations) represents an overall net expense of €292 million in 5.2% (+7.9% at constant foreign exchange rates). Operating 2016, compared with €240 million in 2015. This increase of expenses total €11,099 million compared with €10,653 million in €52 million is mainly due to integration costs as well as the 2015. amortization of intangible assets recognized in the context of the IGATE acquisition over 12 months in 2016. An analysis of costs by nature highlights a €351 million increase in personnel costs (+4.8%) to €7,611 million for 2016. Personnel Operating profit is €1,148 million (9.2% of revenues) compared costs represent 60.7% of revenues compared with 60.9% in with €1,022 million (8.6% of revenues) in 2015, an increase of 2015. The average headcount rose 15.1% in 2016 to 185,593, 12.3%. compared with 161,268 in 2015. Offshore employees represent The net financial expense is €146 million, up on 2015 56% of the total Group headcount, compared with 54% in 2015. (€118 million). This rise is mainly due to the recognition of the An analysis of costs by function reveals: coupon on the 2015 bond issue for a full 12 months in 2016. ◗ the cost of services rendered is €9,183 million, or 73.3% of An income tax expense of €94 million is recognized in respect of revenues, down 0.9 point on 2015. This enabled an 2016, compared with income tax income of €203 million in 2015. improvement in the gross margin to 26.7% of revenues in 2016; This is due to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in 2015 in the amount of €476 million and tax ◗ selling costs total €1,032 million, or 8.2% of revenues, a slight income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising on legal percentage increase on last year; restructurings in 2016. Adjusted for this non-recurring item, the ◗ general and administrative expenses total €884 million (7.0% of effective tax rate is 27.3% in 2016 (compared with 30.1% in revenues), a reduction of 0.2 point on 2015 as a result of a strict 2015). cost control policy. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is The operating margin is therefore €1,440 million in 2016, or €921 million in 2016, compared with €1,124 million in 2015. Basic 11.5% of revenues compared with 10.6% in 2015. earnings per share are €5.44 based on an average of 169,450,721 ordinary shares outstanding in 2016, compared with €6.67 based on an average of 168,452,917 ordinary shares outstanding in 2015. 166 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.1 Analysis on Capgemini 2016 Group consolidated results Consolidated statement of financial position bond issues (2016 bond issue offset by the early redemption of Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled the ORNANE 2013 bonds). €7,272 million at December 31, 2016, up €385 million on Accounts and notes payable mainly consist of trade payables December 31, 2015. This increase was mainly due to: and related accounts, personnel costs and accrued taxes other ◗ profit for the year of €921 million; than income tax and total €2,818 million at December 31, 2016, compared with €2,724 million at December 31, 2015. ◗ a €169 million increase in foreign exchange translation reserves; Consolidated net debt totaled €1,413 million at December 31, partially offset by: 2016 compared with €1,767 million at December 31, 2015. This ◗ the value of own shares deducted from consolidated equity for €354 million improvement was mainly due to: the year of €340 million under the share buyback program ◗ organic free cash flow, equal to cash flow from operations less launched by the Group, acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets ◗ the recognition in equity of actuarial losses on provisions for (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net pensions and other post-employment benefits of €257 million, interest cost, of €1,071 million; net of deferred tax, offset by: ◗ the payment to shareholders of the 2015 dividend of ◗ cash outflows of €340 million in respect of transactions in Cap €229 million. Gemini S.A. shares, Non-current assets total €10,590 million at December 31, 2016, ◗ payment to shareholders of the 2015 dividend of €229 million, up €55 million on December 31, 2015, mainly due to: ◗ an increase in lease finance liabilities of €60 million. ◗ a €121 million increase in goodwill, attributable to the positive 4 impact of foreign currency translation adjustments; Outlook for 2017 ◗ a €83 million decrease in other non-current assets, mainly due For 2017, the Group forecasts revenue growth at constant to: exchange rates of 3.0%, an operating margin of 11.7% to 11.9% ❚ the exercise of the call option on Cap Gemini S.A. shares and organic free cash flow generation in excess of €950 million. purchased on October 18, 2013 following the early redemption of ORNANE 2013 bonds, valued at €162 million In addition: in 2015, ◗ The Group expects the impact of currency movements on ❚ the fair value remeasurement of cash flow hedging derivative revenues to be minimal on a full year basis, with the impact of instruments contracted pursuant to the central management the pound sterling depreciation against the euro offsetting of foreign exchange risk, recognized through equity in the notably the appreciation of the US dollar and the Brazilian real. amount of €54 million. ◗ The Group looks into discontinuing its equipment resale activity Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) totaled in Brazil, which represented approximately €60 million in 2016. €3,074 million at December 31, 2016, compared with In order not to disrupt the analysis of quarterly trends, organic €3,055 million at December 31, 2015. Accounts receivable, net of growth and growth at constant exchange rates will be presented advances from clients and amounts billed in advance and after removing this activity from 2016 and 2017 revenues. excluding capitalized costs on projects, totaled €2,244 million at ◗ The impact of acquisitions on revenue growth is estimated at December 31, 2016 compared with €2,207 million at this stage to be a few tens of basis points. December 31, 2015 and represent 64 days annual revenue. Non-current liabilities increased €213 million at December 31, 2016 (to €5,206 million compared with €4,993 million last year), mainly due to the increase in provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, notably in the United Kingdom and to Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 167 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 2015 2016 in millions of euros Notes Amount % Amount % Revenues 4-6 11,915 100 12,539 100 Cost of services rendered (8,838) (74.2) (9,183) (73.3) Selling expenses (955) (8.0) (1,032) (8.2) General and administrative expenses (860) (7.2) (884) (7.0) Operating expenses 7 (10,653) (89.4) (11,099) (88.5) Operating margin* 1,262 10.6 1,440 11.5 Other operating income and expense 8 (240) (2.0) (292) (2.3) Operating profit 1,022 8.6 1,148 9.2 Net finance costs 9 (55) (0.5) (104) (0.8) Other financial income and expense 9 (63) (0.5) (42) (0.4) Net financial expense (118) (1.0) (146) (1.2) (1) (2) Income tax income (expense) 10 203 1.7 (94) (0.8) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,107 9.3 908 7.2 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 1,124 9.4 921 7.3 Non-controlling interests (17) (0.1) (13) (0.1) EARNINGS PER SHARE Average number of shares outstanding during the year 168,452,917 169,450,721 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 11 6.67 5.44 Diluted average number of shares outstanding 178,581,519 179,080,780 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 11 6.33 5.25 (1) Including the remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards in the amount of €476 million, (2) Including tax income (net) of €180 million in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures. 168 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity in millions of euros 2015 2016 (1) Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of tax 97 (257) Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of tax (2) 35 53 (2) Translation adjustments 255 173 TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY 387 (31) Profit for the year (reminder) 1,107 908 If this income and expense recognized in equity had been recognized in profit or loss, profit for the year would have been as follows: 1,494 877 Attributable to: Owners of the Company 1,514 886 Non-controlling interests (20) (9) (1) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. (2) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss. 4 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 169 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position in millions of euros Notes December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 Goodwill 13 -15 7,055 7,176 Intangible assets 13 848 813 Property, plant and equipment 14 763 754 Deferred taxes 16 1,412 1,473 Other non-current assets 18 457 374 Total non-current assets 10,535 10,590 Accounts and notes receivable 19 3,055 3,074 Current tax receivables 64 132 Other current receivables 20 543 627 Cash management assets 21 116 157 Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,950 1,879 Total current assets 5,728 5,869 TOTAL ASSETS 16,263 16,459 in millions of euros Notes December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 Share capital 1,377 1,373 Additional paid-in capital 3,499 3,453 Retained earnings and other reserves 887 1,525 Profit for the year 1,124 921 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 6,887 7,272 Non-controlling interests 26 13 Total equity 6,913 7,285 Long-term borrowings 21 3,161 3,287 Deferred taxes 16 221 227 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 24 1,216 1,374 Non-current provisions 25 28 26 Other non-current liabilities 26 367 292 Total non-current liabilities 4,993 5,206 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 21 652 125 Accounts and notes payable 27 2,724 2,818 Advances from customers and billed in advance 19 739 737 Current provisions 25 90 104 Current tax liabilities 61 109 Other current payables 26 91 75 Total current liabilities 4,357 3,968 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,263 16,459 170 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows Cash flows for the period are discussed in Note 22, Cash flows. in millions of euros Notes 2015 2016 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,124 921 Non-controlling interests (17) (13) Impairment of goodwill 13 -15 40 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 264 299 Change in provisions 8 (5) Losses on disposals of assets 17 6 Expenses relating to share grants 32 54 Net finance costs 9 55 104 Income tax expense / (income) 10 (203) 94 Unrealized gains on changes in fair value and other (19) (11) Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A) 1,301 1,449 4 Income tax paid (B) (137) (167) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (22) (45) Change in capitalized costs on projects (10) 13 Change in accounts and notes payable (80) 128 Change in other receivables/payables (48) (59) Change in operating working capital (C) (160) 37 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C) 1,004 1,319 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 13 -14 (198) (197) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 19 21 (179) (176) Cash inflows (outflows) on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (3,392) (23) Cash outflows in respect of cash management assets (2) (36) Other cash (outflows) inflows, net (13) (16) (3,407) (75) NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (3,586) (251) Proceeds from issues of share capital 564 Proceeds from issues of share capital subscribed by non-controlling interests 5 Dividends paid (198) (229) Net payments relating to transactions in Cap Gemini S.A. shares (81) (315) Proceeds from borrowings 2,775 505 Repayments of borrowings (691) (1,004) Interest paid (38) (115) Interest received 28 43 NET CASH (USED IN) / FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) 2,364 (1,115) NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F) (218) (47) Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H) 26 (31) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 21 2,140 1,948 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G+H+I) 21 1,948 1,870 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 171 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Total income and Consolidated Equity expense recognized retained (attributable in equity Additional earnings to owners NonNumber of Share paid-in Treasury and other Translation of the controlling Total in millions of euros shares capital capital shares reserves adjustments Other Company) interests equity At January 1, 2015 163,592,949 1,309 3,010 (60) 1,688 (10) (880) 5,057 26 5,083 Dividends paid out for 2014 (198) (198) (198) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 1,888,551 15 49 92 (18) 138 138 Adjustments to the put option granted to minority shareholders (32) (32) (32) Tax impact of the derivative instrument on Cap Gemini S.A. shares 22 22 22 Elimination of treasury shares (107) 2 (105) (105) Share capital increase 6,700,000 53 440 7 500 5 505 Transactions with minority shareholders (9) (9) 15 6 Transactions with shareholders 8,588,551 68 489 (15) (226) 316 20 336 Income and expense recognized in equity 258 132 390 (3) 387 Profit for the year 1,124 1,124 (17) 1,107 At December 31, 2015 172,181,500 1,377 3,499 (75) 2,586 248 (748) 6,887 26 6,913 Dividends paid out for 2015 (229) (229) (229) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 62 15 77 77 Derivatives on Cap Gemini S.A. shares, net of tax (32) (32) (32) Early redemption of ORNANE 2013 56 (37) 19 19 Elimination of treasury shares (340) (340) (340) Share capital reduction by cancellation of treasury shares (617,235) (4) (46) 50 Transactions with minority shareholders 4 4 (4) Transactions with shareholders (617,235) (4) (46) (172) (279) (501) (4) (505) Income and expense recognized in equity 169 (204) (35) 4 (31) Profit for the year 921 921 (13) 908 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 171,564,265 1,373 3,453 (247) 3,228 417 (952) 7,272 13 7,285 172 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 Note 1 Accounting basis 174 Note 18 Other non-current assets 205 Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group Note 19 Accounts and notes receivable 206 structure 175 Note 20 Other current receivables 207 Note 3 Alternative performance measures 177 Note 21 Net debt / net cash and cash equivalents 207 Note 4 Operating segments 178 Note 22 Cash flows 213 Note 5 Consolidated income statement 182 Note 23 Currency, interest rate and counterparty Note 6 Revenues 182 risk management 215 Note 7 Operating expenses by nature 183 Note 24 Provisions for pensions and other Note 8 Other operating income and expense 183 post-employment benefits 218 Note 9 Net financial expense 184 Note 25 Current and non-current provisions 223 Note 10 Income tax expense 185 Note 26 Other current and non-current liabilities 223 Note 11 Earnings per share 186 Note 27 Accounts and notes payable 223 Note 12 Equity 187 Note 28 Number of employees 224 4 Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets 196 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments 224 Note 14 Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) 198 Note 30 Related-party transactions 226 Note 15 Cash-generating units and asset Note 31 Subsequent events 226 impairment tests 200 Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies Note 16 Deferred taxes 201 by country 227 Note 17 Financial instruments 204 Note 33 Audit fees 230 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 173 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 Accounting basis The consolidated financial statements for the year ended b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not December 31, 2016 and the notes thereto were adopted by the adopted early (published by the IASB, endorsed by Board of Directors on February 15, 2017. The consolidated the EU, not yet in effect at January 1, 2016) financial statements will be approved by the Combined The potential impacts of the application of new standards, Shareholders’ Meeting, scheduled for May 10, 2017. amendments and interpretations on the Group consolidated financial statements will not be material. A) IFRS standards-base The Group worked together with international sector players and Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 of within Syntec Numérique in France on identifying application July 19, 2002, the 2016 consolidated financial statements have issues relating to IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with been prepared in accordance with international accounting customers. At the same time, the Group launched a project to standards (IFRS, International Financial Reporting Standards) as analyze, for a sample of contracts, any differences between issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) accounting policies currently applied and IFRS 15. The and endorsed by the European Union (EU). conclusions of this analysis and the potential impacts are currently The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by Syntec being finalized. Numérique, an organization representing major consulting and computer services companies in France, regarding the application c) New standards, amendments and interpretations not of certain IFRSs. yet endorsed (published by the IASB, not yet The main accounting policies are presented at the beginning of endorsed by the EU, not yet in effect at January 1, each note to the consolidated financial statements. 2016) The Group did not elect to adopt early the standards, B) New standards and interpretations applicable in 2016 amendments, and interpretations published by the IASB but not yet endorsed by the European Union at December 31, 2016 or in a) New standards, amendments and interpretations of effect at January 1, 2016. mandatory application (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, entered into effect on January 1, C) Use of estimates 2016) The preparation of consolidated financial statements involves the The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged on use of estimates and assumptions which may have an impact on those applied for the preparation of the 2015 consolidated the reported values of assets and liabilities at the period end or on financial statements, with the exception of new standards, certain items of either net profit or the income and expenses amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on recognized directly in equity for the year. Estimates are based on January 1, 2016 and which had no material impact on the Group economic data and assumptions which are likely to vary over time financial statements. and are subject to a degree of uncertainty. They mainly concern revenue recognition on fixed-price contracts accounted for on a percentage-of-completion basis, recognition of deferred tax assets, measurement of the recoverable amount of assets, provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, the fair value of derivatives, and provisions. 174 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 2 Consolidation principles and Group structure Consolidation methods The Group does not control any special purpose entities that The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled by have not been consolidated. the parent company are fully consolidated. The parent company Foreign currency translation is deemed to exercise control over an entity when it has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity The consolidated accounts presented in these consolidated so as to obtain benefits from its activities. financial statements have been prepared in euros. Investments in associates over whose management the parent The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of company directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies are translated without however exercising full or joint control, are accounted into euros at year-end rates of exchange with the exception of for by the equity method. This method consists of recording the equity accounts, which are carried at their historical values. Group’s share in profit for the year of the associate in the Income statements denominated in foreign currencies are Income Statement. The Group’s share in net assets of the translated into euros at the average rates of exchange for the associate is recorded under “Other non-current assets” in the year. However, for certain material transactions, it may be Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. relevant to use a specific rate of exchange. Differences arising from translation at these different rates are recognized directly Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 32, in equity under “Translation reserves” and have no impact on List of the main consolidated companies by country. the Income Statement. All consolidated companies prepared their accounts to 4 Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form an December 31, 2016 in accordance with the accounting policies integral part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are adopted by the Group. recognized in equity under “Translation reserves”. Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as Exchange differences on receivables and payables well as inter-company profits. denominated in a foreign currency are recorded in operating income or expense or financial income or expense, depending on the type of transaction concerned. The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average rate Closing rate 2015 2016 2015 2016 Australian dollar 0.67838 0.67230 0.67128 0.68512 Brazilian real 0.27480 0.26057 0.23193 0.29150 Canadian dollar 0.70630 0.68234 0.66155 0.70482 Chinese renminbi yuan 0.14349 0.13609 0.14163 0.13661 Indian rupee 0.01406 0.01345 0.01389 0.01397 Norwegian krona 0.11200 0.10765 0.10413 0.11006 Polish zloty 0.23916 0.22920 0.23453 0.22674 Pound sterling 1.37806 1.22455 1.36249 1.16798 Swedish krona 0.10691 0.10567 0.10882 0.10469 US dollar 0.90166 0.90404 0.91853 0.94868 N.B. the income statement of IGATE, purchased on July 1, 2015, was consolidated at average exchange rates for the second-half of 2015. Business combinations arising on an inter-company monetary asset or liability (e.g. an inter-company receivable denominated in a currency Business combinations are accounted for using the different from the functional currency of the subsidiary) acquisition method. Under this method, the identifiable cannot be eliminated. Such foreign exchange gains and assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at fair losses are recognized in the Income statement or in Income value at the acquisition date and may be adjusted during the and expense recognized directly in equity, if the underlying 12 months following this date. forms an integral part of the net investment in the foreign Exchange gains and losses on inter-company operation (e.g. a loan with no fixed maturity). transactions The fair values of hedging instruments relating to The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are inter-company operating transactions performed as part of included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements the centralized management of currency risk in the parent after the elimination of inter-company balances and company are eliminated. transactions. However, a foreign exchange gain or loss Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 175 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Acquisitions in 2016 following a round of syndication completed on June 2, 2015 (the In the first-half of 2016, the Group acquired Oinio in Germany bridge loan having been subscribed by a restricted group of (100 employees), strengthening Capgemini’s Digital transformation banks on April 24, 2015). This loan was drawn twice on offering around the Salesforce solution and platform. June 29, 2015, in the amount of €2,200 million and US$1,000 million (representing a total euro-equivalent of The Group also acquired Fahrenheit 212 in the United States €3,094 million) for the partial financing of the acquisition of (70 employees), an innovation strategy and design firm, to develop IGATE on July 1, 2015 and the refinancing of a portion of its new Digital offerings in North America. borrowings (see below); The acquisition price for these two acquisitions was €22 million, in ◗ a €500 million share capital increase (net of post-tax share issue addition to which earn-outs comprising conditions of presence are costs) launched on June 9, 2015 by private placement and recorded in “Other operating income and expense”. concerning 6,700,000 new shares. The subscription price was These acquisitions did not have a material impact on the Group €75.50 per share, representing a discount of 2.4% on the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016. volume-weighted average price of June 9, 2015; ◗ a “triple tranche” bond issue for a total nominal amount of Recap of the acquisition of IGATE in 2015 €2,750 million, placed on June 24, 2015 and with a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015. The three tranches of IGATE is a technology and services group based in the United this bond issue present the following characteristics (see States and headquartered in New Jersey. In 2014, it reported US Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents): GAAP revenues of US$1.3 billion and operating income of US$220 million, and had 33,484 employees at December 31, ❚ €500 million of notes due July 2, 2018, paying a floating 2014. North America is IGATE’s main market generating 79% of coupon of 3 month Euribor +85 pb (issue price 100%), revenues in 2014, followed by Europe (14%) and the Asia-Pacific ❚ €1,250 million of notes due July 1, 2020, paying an annual region (7%). coupon of 1.75% (issue price 99.853%), Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement announced on ❚ €1,000 million of notes due July 1, 2023, paying an annual April 27, 2015, Capgemini completed the acquisition of IGATE coupon of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). Corporation on July 1, 2015, which became a wholly-owned On July 7, 2015, the proceeds from this bond placement were subsidiary of the Capgemini Group at that date. On July 1, 2015, allocated to the repayment of the €3,094 million drawdown on the all issued and outstanding IGATE Corporation ordinary shares bridge loan. The bridge loan was cancelled in full on July 9, 2015. (other than IGATE Corporation ordinary shares held by the Company) and vested rights under stock option plans were Furthermore, Capgemini entered into the following transactions to converted into a right to receive cash of US$48 per security. The manage the interest rate and foreign currency risk associated with resulting purchase price was US$3,961 million. IGATE this acquisition: Corporation shares are no longer traded and have been delisted ◗ purchase of euro interest rate swaptions: all these options were from the NASDAQ Global Select Market. unwound before the acquisition of IGATE and were recognized IGATE is fully consolidated from July 1, 2015. in full in net financial expense at December 31, 2015; Since its acquisition on July 1, 2015, IGATE has contributed ◗ purchase of US dollar/euro call options: all these instruments €609 million to Group revenues, €88 million to Group operating were unwound before the acquisition of IGATE and were profit and €68 million to Group profit for the year. Had the recognized in full in net financial expense at December 31, 2015; acquisition been performed on January 1, 2015 and based on ◗ set-up, for a total notional amount of US$1,000 million and with information provided by IGATE in respect of the first-half of 2015, a 5-year maturity, of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps, the Group estimates that IGATE’s contribution to its revenues, classified as cash flow hedges for the interest rate component operating profit and profit for the year would have been and as fair value hedges for the exchange rate component. In €1,194 million, €160 million and €109 million, respectively for respect of these financial instruments, Capgemini will receive 2015. from the relevant banking counterparties a rate of 1.75% on a The goodwill balance recognized on initial consolidation was not notional amount of €894 million, in exchange for payment of an materially restated at the end of the allocation period. average rate of 3.51% on a notional amount of US$1,000 million (see Note 9, Net financial expense). Financing transactions Following its acquisition by Capgemini, IGATE repaid its main borrowings in July 2015: To finance this acquisition, the Group performed the following transactions to supplement available cash: ◗ a bond issue of a principal amount of US$325 million, maturing in 2019; ◗ negotiation of a bridge loan of US$3,800 billion (available for draw-down in US dollars and/or euro) with a group of 15 banks ◗ a bank loan with an outstanding balance of US$234 million. 176 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Employee incentive instruments The payment in respect of vested capital instruments is In the context of the acquisition of IGATE on July 1, 2015, the US$42 million. The US$75.5 million expense in respect of Capgemini Group decided to maintain the vesting conditions of instruments in the course of vesting is spread over the period capital instruments (share subscription options, reserved shares between the different grant and vesting dates. Accordingly, a and performance shares) granted by IGATE prior to the acquisition provision of US$54 million was recognized in the opening balance and to fix the price thereof based on the transaction price. A cash sheet in respect of services rendered between the grant dates and amount will therefore be granted at the initial vesting dates the date of acquisition of IGATE. The expense in respect of the calculated based on a price of US$48. The cash payment for period after the acquisition date is estimated at US$21.5 million share subscription options and reserved shares not vested at and will be recognized progressively in the Income Statement over July 1, 2015 will be made primarily in 2015 (post acquisition), the period from the acquisition date to the relevant vesting dates. 2016 and 2017 subject to compliance with the presence condition An expense of €7.7 million was recognized in respect of 2016 associated with these instruments at the vesting date. (€9.9 million in 2015). Note 3 Alternative performance measures The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group during the period, excluding treasury shares. Normalized net are defined as follows: profit or loss is equal to profit for the period attributable to owners of the Company corrected for the impact of items ◗ Operating margin is equal to revenues less operating recognized in other operating income and expense (see Note 8, expenses. It is calculated before “Other operating income and Other operating income and expense), net of tax calculated 4 expenses” which include amortization of intangible assets using the effective tax rate; recognized in business combinations, the charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair value of shares granted to ◗ Net debt (or net cash and cash equivalents) comprises (i) cash employees (including social security contributions and employer and cash equivalents, as presented in the Consolidated contributions), and non-recurring revenues and expenses, Statement of Cash Flows (consisting of short-term investments notably impairment of goodwill, negative goodwill, capital gains and cash at bank) less bank overdrafts, and also including (ii) or losses on disposals of consolidated companies or cash management assets (assets presented separately in the businesses, restructuring costs incurred under a detailed formal Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their plan approved by the Group’s management, the cost of characteristics), less (iii) shortand long-term borrowings. acquiring and integrating companies acquired by the Group, Account is also taken of (iv) the impact of hedging instruments including earn-outs comprising conditions of presence in when these relate to borrowings and own shares; companies acquired, and the effects of curtailments, settlements ◗ Organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the and transfers of defined benefit pension plans; Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from operations ◗ Normalized earnings per share are calculated by dividing less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding net interest cost. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 177 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 4 Operating segments Group Management analyzes and measures activity The business analysis enables the transversal management and performance: monitoring of resources and service production during the fiscal year in the strategic units, primarily business-focused and ◗ in the geographic areas where the Group is present; therefore the roll-out of uniform expertise and know-how in all ◗ in the different businesses (Consulting Services, Technology countries and regions. and Engineering Services, Application Services, and Other Managed Services). Accordingly, the Group presents segment reporting for the five geographic areas where it is located. The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the performance: Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding companies on behalf of geographic areas and businesses are ◗ of commercial development: it focuses on trends in major allocated to the relevant segments either directly or on the basis contracts and clients in Group markets across all its of an allocation key. Items not allocated correspond to businesses. This monitoring seeks to coordinate the service headquarter expenses. offering of the different businesses in the countries, given their considerable interaction and to measure the services Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length rendered. These analyses are performed by Group basis. Management within the Coordination Committee of the The performance of operating segments is measured based on geographic area, which brings together the business the operating margin *. This indicator enables the measurement managers operating in a given area; and comparison of the operating performance of operating ◗ at operational and financial level: management of treasury and segments, irrespective of whether their business results from support services, the operating investment and financing internal or external growth. policies and the acquisition policy are decided and The operating margin * realized by the main offshore production implemented by geographic area. centers (India and Poland) is reallocated to the geographic areas managing the contracts to enable a better understanding of the performance of these areas. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures and Note 5, Consolidated Income Statement. Segment reporting by geographic area which is constantly decreasing due to the geographic The Group now communicates segment information for five diversification of the Group outside Europe. geographic areas: North America, France, United Kingdom and Segment reporting is complemented by information on revenues Ireland, the Rest of Europe and Asia-Pacific and Latin America. and operating margin for each of the Group’s four businesses. The Rest of Europe area now includes Benelux, the weight of These areas are presented in detail below: Geographic area Main countries North America Canada, United States France France United Kingdom and Ireland Ireland, United Kingdom Rest of Europe Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland Asia-Pacific and Latin America Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, India, Japan, Mexico, Singapore 178 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Analysis of the income statement by geographic area AsiaPacific United and North Kingdom Rest of Latin HQ 2016 (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America expenses Eliminations Total Revenues ■ external 3,800 2,567 1,993 3,214 965 12,539 ■ inter-geographic area 151 200 155 273 1,251 (2,030) TOTAL REVENUES 3,951 2,767 2,148 3,487 2,216 (2,030) 12,539 OPERATING MARGIN* 587 234 290 339 64 (74) 1,440 % of revenues 15.4 9.1 14.6 10.5 6.6 11.5 OPERATING PROFIT 487 167 259 288 23 (76) 1,148 AsiaPacific 4 United and North Kingdom Rest of Latin HQ 2015 (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America expenses Eliminations Total Revenues ■ external 3,325 2,444 2,150 3,066 930 11,915 ■ inter-geographic area 151 185 162 239 1,051 (1,788) TOTAL REVENUES 3,476 2,629 2,312 3,305 1,981 (1,788) 11,915 OPERATING MARGIN* 494 199 289 313 39 (72) 1,262 % of revenues 14.9 8.1 13.4 10.2 4.2 10.6 OPERATING PROFIT 408 152 291 255 (24) (60) 1,022 (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 179 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Analysis of assets and liabilities by geographic area AsiaPacific United and At December 31, 2016 North Kingdom Rest of Latin Not (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America allocated Eliminations Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 3,507 2,611 1,620 2,835 1,910 39 12,522 ■ inter-geographic area 84 83 61 88 176 28 (520) TOTAL ASSETS 3,591 2,694 1,681 2,923 2,096 67 (520) 12,522 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1) 26 46 29 64 91 1 257 Deferred tax assets 1,473 Income tax assets 159 Cash management assets 157 Cash and cash equivalents 1,879 Derivative instruments 269 TOTAL ASSETS 16,459 Liabilities by geographic areas ■ external 907 1,197 1,405 1,070 732 10 5,321 ■ inter-geographic area 150 100 80 127 61 (518) TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,057 1,297 1,485 1,197 793 10 (518) 5,321 Equity 7,285 Deferred tax liabilities 227 Income tax liabilities 125 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 3,412 Derivative instruments 89 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 16,459 AsiaUnited Pacific At December 31, 2015 North Kingdom Rest of and Latin Not (in millions of euros) America France and Ireland Europe America allocated Eliminations Total Assets by geographic area ■ external 3,385 2,603 1,757 2,772 1,796 36 12,349 ■ inter-geographic area 69 77 56 88 137 39 (466) TOTAL ASSETS 3,454 2,680 1,813 2,860 1,933 75 (466) 12,349 o/w acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (1) 28 51 40 49 74 1 243 Deferred tax assets 1,412 Income tax assets 94 Cash management assets 116 Cash and cash equivalents 1,950 Derivative instruments 342 TOTAL ASSETS 16,263 Liabilities by geographic areas ■ external 814 1,192 1,378 983 645 8 5,020 ■ inter-geographic area 110 103 73 109 72 (467) TOTAL LIABILITIES 924 1,295 1,451 1,092 717 8 (467) 5,020 Equity 6,913 Deferred tax liabilities 221 Income tax liabilities 79 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 3,813 Derivative instruments 217 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 16,263 (1) Total acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is different from the figure reported in the Statement of Cash Flows (€197 million in 2016 and €198 million in 2015), which excludes acquisitions of assets held under finance leases (€60 million in 2016 and €45 million in 2015). 180 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Segment reporting by business ◗ Application Services, which devise, develop, implement and Segment reporting by business is presented according to the maintain IT applications covering the Group’s system integration following classification: and application maintenance activities; ◗ Other Managed Services, which integrate, manage and/or ◗ Consulting Services, which help to enhance the performance of develop either fully or partially, client IT Infrastructure systems (or organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries those of a group of clients), transaction services, on-demand and processes; services and/or business activities (Business Process ◗ Technology & Engineering Services, which provide assistance Outsourcing, BPO). and support to internal IT teams within client companies; Breakdown of revenues by business 2015 2016 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 480 4 506 4 Technology & Engineering Services 1,744 15 1,873 15 Application Services 6,997 59 7,557 60 Other Managed Services 2,694 22 2,603 21 REVENUES 11,915 100 12,539 100 4 Breakdown of operating margin* by business 2015 2016 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 44 9.1 54 10.7 Technology & Engineering Services 202 11.6 240 12.8 Application Services 830 11.9 960 12.7 Other Managed Services 258 9.6 260 10.0 Headquarter expenses (72) (74) OPERATING MARGIN * 1,262 10.6 1,440 11.5 (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 181 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 Consolidated income statement Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated of curtailments, settlements and transfers of defined benefit Income Statement by function. Operating expenses are broken pension plans. down into the cost of services rendered (corresponding to Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is then costs incurred for the execution of client projects), selling obtained by taking into account the following items: expenses, and general and administrative expenses. ◗ net finance costs, including net interest on borrowings These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses calculated using the effective interest rate, less income from which are deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin *, cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets; one of the main Group business performance indicators. ◗ other financial income and expense, which primarily Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating correspond to the impact of remeasuring financial instruments income and expenses from operating margin. to fair value when these relate to items of a financial nature, Other operating income and expenses include amortization of disposal gains and losses and the impairment of investments intangible assets recognized in business combinations, the in non-consolidated companies, net interest costs on defined charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair value benefit pension plans, exchange gains and losses on financial of shares granted to employees (including social security items, and other financial income and expense on contributions and employer contributions), and non-recurring miscellaneous financial assets and liabilities calculated using revenues and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, the effective interest rate; negative goodwill, capital gains or losses on disposals of ◗ current and deferred income tax expense; consolidated companies or businesses, restructuring costs incurred under a detailed formal plan approved by the Group’s ◗ share of profit of associates; management, the cost of acquiring and integrating companies ◗ share of non-controlling interests. acquired by the Group, including earn-outs relating to (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is conditions of presence in companies acquired and the effects defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures. Note 6 Revenues The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. the nature of the services rendered: However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts (transition and/or transformation costs) a. Time and materials contracts may be deferred when they are specific to a given contract, Revenues and cost of services are recognized as services are relate to future activity on the contract and/or will generate rendered. future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These costs are allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement by the b. Long-term fixed-price contracts client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. Revenues, including systems development and integration When the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract contracts, are recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” revenues, a loss to completion is recognized in the amount of method. Costs are recognized as they are incurred. the difference. Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized in the c. Outsourcing contracts Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under “Accounts Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over and notes receivable” when invoiced to customers and the term of the contract as the services are rendered. “Accrued income” when they are not yet invoiced. Advances from customers and billed in advance are included in current liabilities. Group revenues total €12,539 million (€11,915 million in 2015), representing a year-on-year increase of 5.2%, based on the year-end Group scope and exchange rates and 7.9% at constant exchange rates. 182 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 7 Operating expenses by nature 2015 2016 % of % of in millions of euros Amount revenues Amount revenues Personnel expenses 7,260 60.9% 7,611 60.7% Travel expenses 499 4.2% 521 4.2% 7,759 65.1% 8,132 64.9% Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,207 18.5% 2,254 18.0% Rent and local taxes 372 3.1% 380 3.0% Other charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 315 2.7% 333 2.6% OPERATING EXPENSES 10,653 89.4% 11,099 88.5% Breakdown of personnel costs in millions of euros Note 2015 2016 Wages and salaries 5,845 6,151 4 Payroll taxes 1,344 1,401 Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plans and other post-employment benefit expenses 24 71 59 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 7,260 7,611 Note 8 Other operating income and expense in millions of euros Notes 2015 2016 Amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (45) (68) Impairment of goodwill 13 -15 (40) Expense relating to share grants 12 (42) (58) Restructuring costs (81) (103) Integration costs for purchased companies (39) (68) Acquisition costs (16) (1) Other operating expenses (29) (5) Total operating expenses (292) (303) Other operating income 52 11 Total operating income 52 11 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (240) (292) Restructuring costs the cost of consultants involved in the integration and expenses Fiscal year 2016 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce relating to incentive instruments granted to IGATE employees. reduction measures in the amount of €91 million (€67 million in Integration costs also include earn-outs associated with 2015) and the streamlining of real estate and production assets in conditions of presence for companies purchased in 2016. the amount of €7 million (€11 million in 2015). In 2015, Other operating income included income of €35 million relating to the decrease in the present value of the benefit Integration costs for purchased companies obligation for the main Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan, following Integration costs for purchased companies total €68 million and an agreement with certain members regarding a reduction in their mainly concern the integration of the IGATE group and primarily defined benefits. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 183 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 9 Net financial expense in millions of euros Note 2015 2016 Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets 28 25 Net interest on borrowings (71) (95) Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate (43) (70) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (12) (34) Net finance costs at the effective interest rate (55) (104) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 24 (45) (37) Exchange gains (losses) on financial transactions 21 28 Gains (losses) on derivative instruments (20) (30) Other (19) (3) Other financial income and expense (63) (42) o/w financial income 143 219 o/w financial expenses (206) (261) NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (118) (146) Net interest on borrowings (€95 million) and the impact of July 2023 tranche, respectively (compared with total coupons of amortized cost on borrowings (€34 million) total €129 million and €26 million plus an amortized cost accounting impact of mainly comprise: €1 million in 2015 for these three bond issues performed on July 1, 2015) (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group ◗ coupons on the 2011 bond issue of €24 million (compared with structure); €26 million in 2015), plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €1 million (stable on 2015); ◗ the net cost of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps of €16 million. ◗ the expense relating to the “ORNANE 2013” bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares of €30 million Exchange gains on financial transactions and losses on derivative (compared with €10 million in 2015), including €22 million in instruments primarily concern inter-company loans denominated respect of the difference between the market value of the bond in foreign currencies and their related hedging arrangements. component of the ORNANE 2013 bonds (€400 million) and the Fair value gains and losses on the conversion option embedded in accounting value of the bond component at the redemption date the “ORNANE 2013” bonds and the call option on own shares (see Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents); purchased in October 2013 are included in “Gains (losses) on ◗ coupons on the bond issues maturing in July 2018, July 2020 derivative instruments” (see Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and and July 2023 of €50 million, plus an amortized cost accounting cash equivalents). Given the “matching” nature of the main impact of €3 million in respect of these bonds: floating coupon characteristics of these two derivative instruments, their respective of €4 million on the July 2018 tranche, coupon of €23 million on fair value gains and losses fully offset each other, resulting in a nil the July 2020 tranche and coupon of €26 million on the impact on the Group net financial expense. 184 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 10 Income tax expense The income tax expense is the sum of the current tax expense for a period and any adjustment to the current tax amount in and the deferred tax expense. It is recognized in net profit, respect of prior periods. The tax payable (or receivable) is except where it relates to a business combination or items calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or recognized in equity or in income and expense recognized in substantively enacted at the year-end. equity. Deferred taxes Current income taxes See Note 16, Deferred tax. The current income tax expense is the estimated amount of tax payable (or receivable) in respect of the taxable profit (or loss) The income tax expense for fiscal year 2016 breaks down as follows: in millions of euros Note 2015 2016 Current income taxes (226) (131) Deferred taxes 16 429 37 4 INCOME TAX INCOME (EXPENSE)/INCOME 203 (94) The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2015 2016 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 904 1,002 Standard tax rate in France (%) 38.00 34.43 Tax expense at the standard rate (343) 38.0 (345) 34.43 (1) Difference in tax rates between countries 53 (5.9) 16 (1.6) Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising in the period (31) 3.4 (26) 2.6 Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior to January 1 192 (21.3) 116 (11.6) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 4 (0.4) 3 (0.3) Prior year adjustments (8) 0.8 8 (0.8) Taxes not based on taxable profit (43) 4.8 (45) 4.5 Permanent differences and other items (97) 10.7 (1) 0.1 Income Tax expense and effective tax rate before tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructuring and remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards (273) 30.1 (274) 27.3 Tax income (net) in respect goodwill arising on legal restructuring 180 (18.0) Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 476 (52.6) Income Tax (expense) income and effective tax rate after tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructuring and remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 203 (22.5) (94) 9.3 (1) In 2016, includes the impact of the change in tax rate in France from 2020. The heading “Taxes not based on taxable profit” primarily consists of the Corporate Value-Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Entreprises, CVAE) and the additional 3% contribution on dividends paid in France, certain State taxes in the United States and the regional tax on productive activities (IRAP) in Italy. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 185 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 11 Earnings per share Earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and normalized both items being adjusted for the effects of all potential dilutive earnings per share are measured as follows: financial instruments corresponding to (i) bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares, (ii) performance ◗ basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit or shares (iii) free share grants and (iv) redeemable share loss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted subscription or purchase warrants; average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares. The weighted average ◗ normalized earnings per share are calculated by dividing number of ordinary shares outstanding is adjusted by the normalized profit or loss attributable to owners of the number of ordinary shares bought back or issued during the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares period and is calculated by reference to the date of outstanding during the period, excluding treasury shares held redemption or issue of shares during the year; during the period. Normalized net profit or loss is equal to profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company ◗ diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit corrected for the impact of items recognized in other or loss attributable to owners of the Company by the operating income and expense (see Note 8, Other operating weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding income and expense), net of tax calculated using the effective during the year as used to calculate basic earnings per share, tax rate. Basic earnings per share 2015 2016 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company (in millions of euros) 1,124 921 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 168,452,917 169,450,721 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 6.67 5.44 Diluted earnings per share ◗ the shares available for grant under the performance share grant Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of into ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding during Directors on July 26, 2016, representing a weighted average of the year. The average share price in 2016 was €80.91. 689,492 shares. The related performance conditions will be assessed in August 2019; In 2016, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose of ◗ the shares available for grant under the performance share grant calculating diluted earnings per share include: plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of ◗ the “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds issued on October 25, Directors on February 17, 2016, representing a weighted 2013, i.e. a weighted average of 5,305,591 bonds, as the average of 155,050 shares. The related presence conditions will €20 million interest expense recorded (net of taxes) on the be assessed in March 2018 and March 2020. bonds is lower per bond than basic earnings per share. These ◗ the shares falling within the scope of the free share grant plan bonds were redeemed early in the last quarter of 2016 (see open to all French employees, the terms of which were Note 21 – Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents); approved by the Board of Directors on October 8, 2014, ◗ shares to be delivered to French and non-French employees representing a weighted average of 67,429 shares; under the 2012, 2013 and 2014 performance share grant plans, ◗ the weighted average number of Redeemable Share representing a weighted average of 2,236,137 shares. At Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR), i.e. December 31, 2016, the only remaining condition applicable to 122,560 warrants, as the average price of the Cap Gemini S.A. these shares is the presence of the beneficiaries in the Group at share in 2016 is higher than the aggregate of the €34 strike price the delivery dates, scheduled for January and March 2017 and and the €3.22 issue premium. August 2018, respectively; ◗ all the shares available for grant under the performance share grant plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of Directors on July 29, 2015, representing a weighted average of 1,053,800 shares. The related performance conditions will be assessed in March 2018; 186 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements in millions of euros 2015 2016 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,124 921 Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of debt instruments, net of tax 6 20 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,130 941 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 168,452,917 169,450,721 Adjusted for: “ORNANE 2013” convertible bonds 5,958,587 5,305,591 Performance shares and free shares that can be granted 3,127,934 4,201,908 Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) 1,042,081 122,560 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 178,581,519 179,080,780 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 6.33 5.25 Normalized earnings per share in millions of euros 2015 2016 4 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 1,124 921 Remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards (476) Tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings (180) Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company – excluding the tax income (net) in respect of goodwill arising on legal restructurings and remeasurement of deferred tax assets on US tax loss carry-forwards 648 741 Other operating income and expenses, net of tax calculated at the effective tax rate 167 212 Normalized profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 815 953 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 168,452,917 169,450,721 NORMALIZED EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 4.84 5.62 Note 12 Equity Incentive instruments and employee share with IFRS 2, which incorporates assumptions concerning the ownership share price at the grant date, share transfer restrictions, the risk-free interest rate and the expected dividend yield. a) Instruments granted to employees The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition Shares subject to performance and presence conditions rates for eligible employee categories, which are reviewed each year and internal performance conditions (non-market Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group conditions). employees, subject to performance (internal and external) and presence conditions. Share grants become definitive after a This amount is recognized in “Other operating income and vesting period of at least two or four years, depending on the expense” in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over tax residence of the beneficiary. the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to equity. The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the b) Instruments proposed to employees value of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants The fair value of shares subject to external performance (BSAAR) conditions is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were grant date, implicit share price volatility, the risk-free interest proposed to employees and corporate officers of the Group. rate, the expected dividend yield and market performance They confer entitlement to subscribe for Cap Gemini S.A. conditions. shares at a strike price determined at their date of acquisition by the employees and corporate officers of the Group. The fair value of shares subject to internal performance and/or presence conditions is calculated using a model in compliance Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 187 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Employee savings plan ◗ the opportunity gain reflecting the possibility granted to Leveraged employee share ownership plans offering the employees to benefit from market terms and conditions possibility to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential identical to those of the Group. rate have been set up by the Group. When determining the In certain countries where the set-up of a leveraged plan IFRS 2 expense measuring the benefit granted to employees, through an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (fonds commun de the Group adjusts the amount of the discount granted by the placement entreprise) or directly in the name of the employee is Group to employees on the subscription price based on the not possible, the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) following two items: includes a Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism. The benefit offered by the Group corresponds to the amount of the ◗ the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to discount on the share subscription price. employees during a period of five years. This cost is measured taking account of the five-year lock-in period. It corresponds to the cost of a two-stage strategy under which Treasury shares the market participant enters into a forward sale effective at Cap Gemini S.A. shares held by the Company or by any the end of the five-year lock-in period and simultaneously consolidated companies are shown as a deduction from equity, borrows the amount necessary to buy a share available for at cost. Any proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken immediate transfer. This borrowing is financed with the directly to equity, net of the tax effect, so that the post-tax gain proceeds from the forward sale of the share and the dividends or loss on the sale has no impact on the Income Statement for received during the lock-in period. This cost is calculated the period. based on the following assumptions: ❚ the subscription price is set by the Chairman and Chief Derivative instruments on own shares Executive Officer pursuant to the powers delegated by the When derivative instruments on own shares satisfy IAS 32 Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to the classification criteria for recognition in equity, they are initially average Cap Gemini S.A. share price, adjusted for volume, recognized in equity in the amount of the consideration received during the twenty trading days preceding the decision of or paid. Subsequent changes in fair value are not recognized in the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to which a the financial statements, other than the related tax effect. discount is applied, Where these instruments do not satisfy the aforementioned ❚ the grant date is the date at which employees are fully criteria, the derivative instruments on own shares are informed of the specific characteristics and terms and recognized in assets or liabilities at fair value. Changes in fair conditions of the offer and particularly the subscription value are recognized in profit or loss. The fair value price, remeasurement of these instruments at the year-end is ❚ the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine recognized based on external valuations. the cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at which a bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on maturity without allocation, to a private individual with an average risk profile, for a term corresponding to the term of the plan; Incentive instruments and employee share B) Performance share plans ownership The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, 2013, May 6, 2015 and then May 18, 2016, authorized the Board A) Stock option plans of Directors to grant shares to a certain number of Group The Group no longer grants stock options since the plan employees, on one or several occasions and within a maximum authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed period of 18 months, subject to performance and/or presence in June 2008. conditions. On December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013, July 30, 2014, July 29, 2015, February 17, 2016 and July 26, 2016, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of these six plans. 188 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.5% 1.5% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,003,500 1,209,100 Date of Board of Directors’ decision December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first At the end of the first and second calendar years following and second years following the grant date the grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from the 2 years and 1 week as from the grant date (France) or 4 years grant date (France) or 4 years and ½ month as from the grant and 1 week as from the grant date (other countries) date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 4 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% 4 ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% -0.98% 0.59% -1.28% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 – 28.67 16.18 – 32.14 Of which corporate officers 16.18 18.12 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 521,500 713,500 o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 22,000 49,600 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) (2) (2) 499,500 663,900 Weighted average number of shares 510,550 688,700 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 33.15 36.53 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 189 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,290,500 1,068,550 Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Performance assessment dates Three years for the internal Three years for the performance condition and two years two performance conditions for the external performance condition Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date (France) 2 years and 7 months as from or four years as from the grant date the grant date (France) or (other countries) 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 3 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% -0.81% 0.10% -0.55% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value Monte Carlo for performance shares of shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 26.46 – 48.26 61.73 – 82.18 Of which corporate officers 29.32 56.66 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 1,232,500 1,064,650 o/w to corporate officers (1) (1) 50,000 40,000 Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 66,500 21,700 Number of shares vested during the year (3) 390,750 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan that may vest under the plan in respect of shares in respect of shares previously granted, subject previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) to conditions (performance and presence) (2) (4) 776 250 1,042,950 Weighted average number of shares 1,036,937 1,053,800 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.60 190 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 2016 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,721,815 shares 1,721,815 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% (5) (1) Total number of shares granted 180,500 1,663,500 Date of Board of Directors’ decision February 17, 2016 July 26, 2016 Performance assessment dates Presence condition only Three years for the two performance conditions Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date 3 years and 1 week as from (France) or four years as from the the grant date (France) or grant date (other countries) 4 years as from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 26.35% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.15% -0.03% 0.2% -0.17% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% 4 Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Monte Carlo for performance shares Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 55.45 – 57.59 54.02 – 77.1 Of which corporate officers 52.68 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) o/w to corporate officers Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 180,500 1,663,500 o/w to corporate officers (1) 42,000 Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 6,600 10,900 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) (6) (7) 173,900 1,652,600 Weighted average number of shares 155,050 689,492 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 71.61 83.78 (1) Grant subject to performance conditions only, (2) In respect of the “foreign” plan only, (3) Balance on the “French” plan granted in August 2016 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date, (4) Of which 354,750 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 688,200 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan, (5) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by IGATE, acquired on July 1, 2015, (6) Of which 7,500 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 166,400 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan, (7) Of which 453,350 shares in respect of the “French” plan and 1,119,250 shares in respect of the “foreign” plan. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 191 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements a) Shares vested under the 2014 plan ❚ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if Based on an assessment of the performance conditions of the the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 2014 plan for shares granted to beneficiaries tax-resident in 100% of the basket, France, 100% of the initial allocation vested to those beneficiaries ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if still present in the Group at the vesting date at the beginning of the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is August 2016. higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, With regards to the external performance condition, due to the ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and good performance of the share over the calculation period, the between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share compared to pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the that of the basket of comparable companies exceeded 110%, the Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the threshold above which 100% of the initial allocation vests in basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in respect of the external performance condition. the second case. With regards to the internal performance condition, cumulative Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. organic free cash flow* generation for fiscal years 2013 to 2015 share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only exceeded the €1.1 billion threshold, enabling the vesting of the 60% of the initial allocation will be granted in respect of the maximum number of shares in respect of the internal performance external performance condition (i.e. 30% of the initial allocation). condition. The terms of the external performance condition were tightened As both conditions exceeded the maximum vesting thresholds, for the 2016 plan and accordingly: 100% of shares initially allocated vested to beneficiaries ◗ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini tax-resident in France still present in the Group at the vesting share during the period in question is less than the performance date, subject however to a lock-in period of four years in of the basket of securities over the same period; accordance with plan rules. ◗ the number of shares ultimately granted: A total of 390,750 shares vested under the 2014 plan, ❚ is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if representing 94.3% of the maximum possible amount. the performance of the Cap Gemini share is at least equal to The performance conditions are assessed at the same dates and 100% of the basket, under the same conditions for non-French beneficiaries, however ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the shares vest at the end of a four-year period, subject to their the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is higher presence in the Group at this date. Vested shares are not, than or equal to 110% of the basket, however subject to a lock-in period. ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a pre-defined schedule, where the b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 performance of the Cap Gemini share is between 100% and 2014, 2015 and 2016 plans 110% of the basket. In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external each security equally weighted: performance condition when granting performance shares, the Board of Directors decided from the 2010 plan to add an internal ◗ 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / condition to the external condition initially planned. CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; The following internal and external performance conditions apply: ◗ 2014, 2015 and 2016 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / CAC 40 index / CGI Group / Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions calculation as does the internal performance condition. is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte Carlo model, together with a discount for non-transferability for the External performance condition shares granted in France. The external performance condition is applied in an identical manner across the 2012 to 2015 plans and in line with the Internal performance condition conditions applied to the first two plans, as follows: The internal performance condition is based on the generation of ◗ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. Organic Free Cash Flow* (OFCF) over a three-year period share during the period in question is less than 90% of the encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 performance of the basket of securities over the same period; plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan, fiscal years ◗ the number of shares ultimately granted: 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan and fiscal years 2016 to 2018 for the 2016 plan. Accordingly: (*) ❚ is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least ◗ no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance equal to 90% of the basket, condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow* over the reference period is less than €750 million for the 2012 and 2013 plans, €850 million for the 2014 plan, €1,750 million for the 2015 plan and €2,400 million for the 2016 plan; ◗ 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic Free Cash Flow* is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 and 2013 plans, €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan, €2 billion for the 2015 plan and €2.7 billion for the 2016 plan. (*) Organic free cash flow, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures and Note 22, Cash flows. 192 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions C) Free share plans is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted Following the grant performed in 2012, the Combined where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 gave the Board of A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares Directors an 18-month authorization to grant shares to certain granted in France. Group employees, on one or several occasions subject only to a condition of presence. This authorization was partially used and the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries were set by the Board of Directors Meeting of October 8, 2014. The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: 2014 France Plan Date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 23, 2013 Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 1,595,495 shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions (1) Total number of shares granted 104,379 Date of the Board of Directors’ decision October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the 4 Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date (Democratic plan) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions 96,120 Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted during the year Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 18,594 Number of shares vested during the year 77,526 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Weighted average number of shares 67,429 Share price at the grant date (in euros) €52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% Fair value in euros (per share) €43.91 (1) i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by D) Redeemable share subscription or purchase enabling all employees of French companies with at least three warrants (BSAAR) months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting and corporate officers of the Group (at a price of €3.22 per period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each warrant). The exercise period commenced the date of listing of the share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market on July 23, 2013 salary (four categories), the lowest paid employees receiving more and terminates on the seventh anniversary of the issue date. shares than the highest paid employees. Between July 23, 2009 and the date the warrants were admitted The Board of Director decisions were preceded each time by the to trading on Euronext Paris, they could not be exercised or signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of payment of transferred except under the conditions specified in the issue the profit-sharing bonus. agreement. The issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference number no. 09-140. At the end of the vesting period, nearly 77,500 shares vested to 15,200 beneficiaries at the beginning of October 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 193 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Between the date of admission of the BSAAR warrants to trading F) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – on the Euronext Paris market and July 23, 2016, the expiry date of ESOP 2014 the BSAAR warrants, 2,990,760 BSAAR warrants were exercised The Group set up an employee share ownership plan resulting in delivery of the same number of shares (ESOP 2014) in the second half of 2014. On December 18, 2014, (344,392 BSAAR warrants were exercised in 2016). The remaining the Group issued 5,000,000 new shares reserved for employees 8,240 BSARR warrants were delisted from the Euronext Paris with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of market. €229 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee This program expired at the end of July 2016. share ownership plan in 2014 was €1.1 million, attributable to the Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in E) International Employee Share Ownership Plan – countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund ESOP 2012 (fonds commun de placement entreprise, FCPE) was not possible or relevant. The Group set up an employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) in the second half of 2012. On September 27, 2012, the Group issued 6,000,000 new shares reserved for employees Impact of incentive instruments and employee share with a par value of €8, representing a share capital increase of ownership plans €153 million net of issue costs. The total cost of this employee The following table breaks down by type of incentive and share ownership plan in 2012 was €0.8 million, attributable to the employee share ownership instrument, the expense recognized in Stock Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in “Other operating income and expense” (including payroll taxes countries where the set-up of an Employee Savings Mutual Fund and employer contributions) and the residual amount to be (fonds commun de placement entreprise, FCPE) was not possible amortized in future periods. or relevant. 2015 2016 Residual Residual amount to be amount to be amortized in Expense of amortized in Expense of future in millions of euros Note the period future periods the period periods Performance share plans 40 99 55 153 Other 2 1 3 8 TOTAL 7 42 100 58 161 G) Employee incentive instruments IGATE The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: 2015 Plan Vesting period One, two or three years for the market condition and three years for the internal condition Number of units at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions 114,073 Number of units subject to performance and presence conditions granted during the year Number of units forfeited or cancelled during the year 13,118 Number of units vested during the year 15,400 Number of units at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of units previously granted subject to performance and presence conditions 85,555 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% Fair value in euros (per unit) €56.30 194 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements On July 1, 2015, in the context of the IGATE acquisition, Treasury shares and management of share capital and Capgemini exchanged IGATE Performance Share Awards (PSA) market risks held by beneficiaries for Capgemini Performance Units (PUs): The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment ◗ the number of PUs granted was calculated by multiplying the purposes and does not have any interests in listed companies. number of IGATE PSAs outstanding by the following ratio: At December 31, 2016, treasury shares were deducted from consolidated equity in the amount of €247 million. These consist US$ 48 of (i) 2,879,357 shares purchased under the share buyback (unit purchase price of IGATE shares paid by Capgemini) program and (ii) 270,910 shares in respect of the implementation €78.37 x 1.0824 of the liquidity agreement (the associated liquidity line is €9 million) (closing price of the Cap (€/US$ and the contractual holding system for key employees of Gemini S.A. exchange rate American activities. on April 24, 2015) on April 24, 2015)) In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group is not therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the ◗ this calculation is equivalent to adjusting the number of PSAs by value of treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the the exchange parity of the IGATE and Cap Gemini S.A. shares in share price do not impact the Consolidated Income Statement. US$ on April 24, 2015; The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to maintain ◗ the vesting of PUs is subject to the attainment of internal and a strong capital base in view of supporting the continued market performance conditions and the presence of the development of its business activities and delivering a return to beneficiary in the Group at the vesting date: shareholders, while adopting a prudent approach to debt as evidenced by the use of the debt-to-equity ratio as a key 4 ❚ the internal performance condition consists of a cumulative performance indicator (see Note 29, Off-balance sheet organic free cash flow (OFCF)* objective for the period 2015 commitments). At December 31, 2016, and following the to 2017, as presented in the audited, published Statements acquisition of IGATE, the Group had net debt* of €1,413 million of Cash Flows for fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017, with the (compared with €1,767 million at December 31, 2015). In order to maximum number of units vesting for an aggregate amount best manage the structure of its capital, the Group can issue new of €2 billion, (*) shares, buy back its own shares, adjust the dividend paid to ❚ the market performance condition is based on the ability of shareholders or enter into derivative instruments on its own the Cap Gemini share to outperform a reference basket shares. comprising the CAC 40 index and the following companies in equal weighting: Accenture, CSC, Atos, Tieti, CGI Group, It is recalled that in October 2013, the Group sold a call option on Infosys, Sopra, and Cognizant; Cap Gemini S.A. shares to a bank counterparty. Following the early redemption of the ORNANE bonds outstanding at ◗ the vesting schedule is as follows: November 21, 2016 (see Note 21 – Net debt / Net cash and cash ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2016, subject to presence and market equivalents), Cap Gemini S.A. exercised in full the call option on its performance conditions, own shares purchased on October 18, 2013. The call option sold ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2017, subject to presence and market by the Company was also exercised in full. Cap Gemini S.A. performance conditions, recognized an amount of €14 million in equity at December 31, 2016 in respect of the unwinding of these transactions. ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2018, subject to presence and market performance conditions, Currency risk and translation gains and losses on the ❚ 25% of PUs on July 1, 2019, subject to presence and internal accounts of subsidiaries with a functional currency other performance conditions; than the euro ◗ in addition, PUs vesting in the first three years are subject to a Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency final adjustment clause tied to the change in the Cap Gemini accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, the consolidated financial S.A. share price between the vesting dates and July 1, 2019. statements are particularly impacted by fluctuations in the The internal condition was only satisfied 54% at the first vesting US dollar and the pound sterling against the euro, generating a date, resulting in the vesting of 15,400 PUs and the cancellation of positive impact on translation reserves, mainly due to the 13,118 PUs for this first tranche. appreciation of the US dollar partially offset by the depreciation of the pound sterling against the euro in 2016. The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used for the preparation of the financial statements are presented in Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group Structure. (*) The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (organic free cash flow and net debt) are defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures, and broken down in Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents and Note 22, Cash flows., Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 195 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 13 Goodwill and intangible assets Goodwill When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair Goodwill is equal to the excess of the acquisition price (plus, value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the where applicable, non-controlling interests) over the net amount negative goodwill is recognized immediately in the Income recognized in respect of identifiable assets acquired and Statement in “Other operating income and expense”. liabilities assumed. Where an acquisition confers control with Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of less than Statement in “Other operating income and expense” in the year 100%), the Group elects either to recognize goodwill on the full incurred. amount of revalued net assets, including the share attributable to non-controlling interests (full goodwill method) or on the Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least share in revalued net assets effectively acquired only (partial annually, or more frequently when events or changes in goodwill method). This choice is made on an individual circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. transaction basis. Customer relationships Goodwill balances are allocated to the different cash-generating On certain business combinations, where the nature of the units (as defined in Note 15, Cash-generating units and asset customer portfolio held by the acquired entity and the nature of impairment tests) based on the value in use contributed to each the business performed should enable the acquired entity to unit. continue commercial relations with its customers as a result of When a business combination with non-controlling interests efforts to build customer loyalty, customer relationships are provides for the grant of a put option to these non-controlling valued in intangible assets and amortized over the estimated interests, an operating liability is recognized in the Consolidated term of contracts held in portfolio at the acquisition date. Statement of Financial Position in the amount of the estimated Licenses and software exercise price of the put option granted to non-controlling Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted interests, through a reduction in reserves. Changes in this put ownership basis, as well as software and solutions developed option resulting from any changes in estimates or the unwinding internally and which have a positive, lasting and quantifiable of the discount are also recognized through reserves. Any effect on future results, are capitalized and amortized over three additional acquisitions of non-controlling interests are to five years. considered a transaction with shareholders and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured and no additional The capitalized costs of software and solutions developed goodwill is recognized. internally are costs that relate directly to their production, i.e. the salary costs of the staff that developed the relevant software. 196 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Other Customer Licenses and intangible in millions of euros Goodwill relationships software assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2015 3,835 213 236 270 4,554 Translation adjustments 221 18 (2) 2 239 Acquisitions / Increase 37 37 Internal developments 33 33 Disposals / Decrease (18) (1) (19) Business combinations (1) 3,092 576 27 111 3,806 Other movements 2 (1) 1 At December 31, 2015 7,148 807 282 414 8,651 Translation adjustments 112 28 2 (4) 138 Acquisitions / Increase 24 24 Internal developments 47 47 Disposals / Decrease (1) (14) (15) 4 Business combinations 19 1 20 Other movements 2 2 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 7,279 835 296 457 8,867 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT (2) At January 1, 2015 51 164 190 207 612 Translation adjustments 2 5 (2) 5 Charges and provisions 40 43 26 20 129 Reversals (18) (1) (19) Business combinations (1) 19 3 22 Other movements (1) (1) At December 31, 2015 93 212 214 229 748 Translation adjustments 10 11 4 (3) 22 Charges and provisions 67 29 27 123 Reversals (2) (13) (15) AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 103 288 234 253 878 NET At December 31, 2015 7,055 595 68 185 7,903 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 7,176 547 62 204 7,989 (1) In 2015, the Business combinations line concerns the acquisition of IGATE (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure), (2) Goodwill is subject to impairment only. Intangible assets with a value of €12 million were purchased under finance lease in the United Kingdom in 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 197 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 14 Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) Property, plant and equipment Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each period end. The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to disposal Position and corresponds to the historical cost of these items, gains and losses corresponding to the difference between the less accumulated depreciation and any impairment. No items of selling price and the net carrying amount of the relevant asset. property, plant and equipment have been revalued. Buildings owned by the Group are measured based on the components Leases approach. Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic operating leases, and give rise to lease payments expensed as benefits associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or incurred over the lease term. bringing assets into compliance) is capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. and rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classified as a finance lease and is recognized as an asset at the lower of the Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of future estimated useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated minimum lease payments, with the related obligation recorded based on acquisition cost less any residual value. in liabilities within borrowings. The asset is depreciated over the Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the period during which it is expected to be used by the Group and following estimated useful lives: the obligation is amortized over the lease term. Deferred tax is recognized as appropriate. Buildings 20 to 40 years Fixtures and fittings 10 years Computer equipment 3 to 5 years Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years Vehicles 5 years Other equipment 5 years 198 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Land, buildings and fixtures and Computer in millions of euros fittings equipment Other PP&E Total GROSS At January 1, 2015 616 635 213 1,464 Translation adjustments 7 12 6 25 Acquisitions / Increase 44 108 21 173 Disposals / Decrease (22) (70) (11) (103) Business combinations (1) 283 56 37 376 Other movements (1) (8) 1 (8) At December 31, 2015 927 733 267 1,927 Translation adjustments (14) (10) 1 (23) Acquisitions / Increase 54 111 21 186 Disposals / Decrease (24) (94) (15) (133) Business combinations 3 6 6 15 Other movements 2 (1) 1 4 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 946 748 279 1,973 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2015 349 451 149 949 Translation adjustments 6 8 4 18 Charges and provisions 53 100 22 175 Reversals (20) (52) (10) (82) Business combinations (1) 49 40 19 108 Other movements (5) 1 (4) At December 31, 2015 437 542 185 1,164 Translation adjustments (14) (10) 1 (23) Charges and provisions 53 101 22 176 Reversals (21) (72) (14) (107) Business combinations 1 4 3 8 Other movements 1 1 (1) 1 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 457 566 196 1,219 NET At December 31, 2015 490 191 82 763 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 489 182 83 754 (1) In 2015, the Business combinations line concerns the acquisition of IGATE (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure). Property, plant and equipment purchased under finance lease Net (in millions of euros) 2015 2016 At January 1 104 113 Translation adjustments 3 (5) Acquisitions / Increase 45 48 Charges and provisions (41) (46) Business combinations 1 Other movements 1 (2) AT DECEMBER 31 113 107 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 199 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 15 Cash-generating units and asset impairment tests Cash-generating units ◗ fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length The cash-generating units identified by the Group represent transaction and is determined with reference to the price in a geographic areas. binding agreement or the market price in recent and comparable transactions; Asset impairment tests ◗ value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a be derived from these cash-generating units. definite useful life are tested for impairment when there is an indication at the period end that their recoverable amount may The value in use of each cash-generating unit is measured be less than their carrying amount. Goodwill and assets with an using the discounted future cash flow method, based on the indefinite useful life are tested for impairment at least once a various assumptions in the three-year strategic plan year. extrapolated over a period of five years, including growth and profitability rates considered reasonable. Discount rates (based The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable on the weighted average cost of capital) and long-term growth amount of each asset or group of assets generating cash flows rates for the period beyond five years are based in the majority that are separate from the cash flows generated by other of cases on the average of a representative sample of assets or groups of assets (cash-generating units or CGU). projections by financial analysts who use these indicators to The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value value the Group. When the recoverable amount of a less costs to sell of the cash-generating unit and its value in cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the use: impairment loss is deducted from goodwill to the extent possible and charged under “Other operating income and expenses”. Goodwill per cash-generating unit The allocation of goodwill to cash-generating units breaks down as follows, noting that the goodwill arising on the IGATE acquisition of €3,092 million was allocated to the different Group cash-generating units at December 31, 2015 benefitting from this acquisition. The changes in groupings performed for segment reporting purposes did not impact the cash-generating units presented by the Group (see Note 4, Operating segments). December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 Net carrying Net carrying in millions of euros Gross value Impairment amount Gross value Impairment amount North America 2,114 (8) 2,106 2,193 (8) 2,185 France 1,450 (1) 1,449 1,469 (1) 1,468 United Kingdom and Ireland 1,062 1,062 1,014 1,014 Benelux 992 (12) 980 1,003 (12) 991 Southern Europe 129 129 132 132 Nordic countries 295 295 297 297 Germany and Central Europe 407 (32) 375 420 (32) 388 Asia-Pacific 560 560 581 581 Latin America 139 (40) 99 170 (50) 120 GOODWILL 7,148 (93) 7,055 7,279 (103) 7,176 200 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements This goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2016 in for the United Kingdom (8.7% in 2015) and 8.4% for the rest of line with the Group valuation procedure for such assets. the Group (8.5% in 2015). In 2016, the Group used estimates produced by 11 financial No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2016 as analysts, most of whom were included in the 2015 group of a result of these impairment tests. financial analysts selected for the calculation of long-term growth Furthermore, an analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a rates and discount rates. Long-term growth and discount rates combined change in the following key assumptions: used for Brazil and India have been calculated separately, taking account of the specific characteristics of these countries. ◗ +/-2 points in the revenue growth rate for the first five years; (*) Value in use is measured using the discounted future cash flow ◗ +/-1 point in the operating margin rate* for the first five years; method and based on the following main assumptions: ◗ +/-0.5 points in the discount rate; ◗ number of years over which cash flows are estimated: five years, ◗ +/-0.5 points in the long-term growth rate. based on data taken from the three-year strategic plan process, did not identify any recoverable amounts below the carrying with extrapolation of this data for the remaining period; amount for any cash-generating units, with the exception of the ◗ long-term growth rate used to extrapolate to perpetuity final year Latin America cash-generating unit, where the difference between estimated cash flows: 7.0% for Brazil (8% in 2015), 4% for India the recoverable amount resulting from this test and the net (3.8% in 2015) and 2.4% for the rest of the Group (stable on carrying amount is considered immaterial. This cash-generating 2015); unit remains sensitive to the environment and economic climate in ◗ discount rate: 8.4% for North America (9.0% in 2015), 14.2% for Brazil. Brazil (14.7% in 2015), 14.9% for India (13.4% in 2015), 7.9% 4 Note 16 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes are: Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the recognized tax ◗ recorded to take account of temporary differences between asset can be utilized. The carrying amount of deferred tax the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and their assets is reviewed at each period end. This amount is reduced tax basis; to the extent that it is no longer probable that additional taxable ◗ recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, profit will be available against which to offset all or part of the in income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in deferred tax assets to be utilized. Conversely, the carrying equity in the period, depending on the underlying to which amount of deferred tax assets will be increased when it they relate; becomes probable that future taxable profit will be available in ◗ measured taking account of known changes in tax rates (and the long-term against which to offset tax losses not yet tax regulations) enacted or substantively enacted at the recognized. The probability of recovering deferred tax assets is year-end. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred primarily assessed based on a 10-year plan, taking account of taxes previously recognized in the Income Statement, in the probability of realization of future taxable profits. income and expense recognized in equity or directly in equity The main deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only are recognized in the Income Statement, in income and if, the subsidiaries have a legally enforceable right to offset expense recognized in equity or directly in equity, respectively, current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when the in the period in which these changes become effective. deferred taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 201 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Recognized deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets and movements therein break down as follows: Provisions Temporary for pensions differences and other Other Tax loss on postdeductible Total carryamortizable employment temporary deferred in millions of euros Note forwards goodwill benefits differences tax assets At January 1, 2015 562 90 315 98 1,065 Business combinations 13 4 (66) (49) Translation adjustments 28 (2) 7 (9) 24 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 440 (48) (13) 43 422 Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (1) 7 11 17 Other movements, including offset with deferred tax liabilities (98) (24) 55 (68) At December 31, 2015 944 40 296 132 1,412 Business combinations 2 2 Translation adjustments 20 9 (17) (1) 11 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 (46) 120 (15) (24) 35 Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity (27) 22 12 7 Other movements 1 (5) 10 6 AU DECEMBER 31, 2016 892 169 281 131 1,473 Recognized tax loss carry-forwards total €895 million at At December 31, 2016, the cumulative amount of US tax losses December 31, 2016 and primarily concern the United States in the carried forward totaled €2,695 million (US$2,840 million). amount of €638 million (US$672 million) and France in the amount Following the use and recognition in 2016 of net deferred tax of €237 million. assets on other timing differences of US$138 million (€125 million) and US$21 million (€19 million), respectively, the balance was US deferred tax assets and tax loss remeasured resulting in the recognition of a net deferred tax asset carry-forwards of US$695 million (€659 million) at December 31, 2016, The acquisition of Ernst & Young’s North American consulting unchanged on December 31, 2015, including tax loss business in 2000 gave rise to the amortization for tax purposes, carryforwards of US$672 million (€638 million) representing a tax over a period of 15 years, of the difference between the base of US$1,736 million (€1,647 million). acquisition price of the business and the tax base of the assets Unrecognized deferred tax assets therefore represent a tax base and liabilities acquired. Since 2000 and up to May 2015, the of US$1,104 million (€1,048 million). annual amortization charge has been deducted each year from US tax profits. Annual tax losses can be carried forward for a period of 20 years. 202 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Unrecognized deferred tax assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2015 2016 Deferred tax on tax loss carry-forwards 729 660 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 14 38 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 743 698 Expiry dates of tax loss carry-forwards (taxable base) 2015 2016 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Between 1 and 5 years 115 2 51 1 Between 6 and 10 years 1,460 31 1,388 32 Between 11 and 15 years 1,238 27 1,071 25 Beyond 15 years (definite expiry date) 289 6 257 6 Carried forward indefinitely 1,572 34 1,529 36 4 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (taxable base) 4,674 100 4,296 100 o/w recognized tax losses 2,570 55 2,433 57 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities and movements therein break down as follows: Taxdeductible Other taxable Total goodwill Customer temporary deferred tax in millions of euros Note amortization relationships differences liabilities At January 1, 2015 59 21 78 158 Business combinations 78 56 134 Translation adjustments 4 (9) (5) Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 1 (12) 4 (7) Other movements, including offset with deferred tax assets (7) (52) (59) At December 31, 2015 64 71 86 221 Business combinations Translation adjustments 2 2 4 Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 10 1 (8) 5 (2) Deferred tax recorded in income and expense recognized in equity 1 1 Other movements (7) 10 3 AU DECEMBER 31, 2016 67 58 102 227 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 203 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 17 Financial instruments Financial instruments consist of: ◗ the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest rate recalculated at the measurement date based on current ◗ financial assets, including other non-current assets, accounts market parameters. receivable, other current assets, cash management assets and cash and cash equivalents; Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been ◗ financial liabilities, including longand short-term borrowings transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control and bank overdrafts, accounts payable, and other current over the instruments. payables and non-current liabilities; ◗ derivative instruments. b) Derivative instruments a) Recognition of financial instruments Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange purchase and sale contracts (in the form of tunnels, Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially where applicable), interest rate swaps and call options on own recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position shares. at their initial fair value. The subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities Other derivative instruments is based on either fair value or amortized costs depending on Other derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair value. their classification in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Except as described below in the case of instruments Position. designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, estimated based on market rates or data The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which provided by bank counterparties, are recognized in the Income an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between Statement at the period end. knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. When operating or financial cash flow hedges are eligible for Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net hedge accounting, the fair value of the hedging instruments are of transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective recognized firstly in “Income and expense recognized in equity” interest rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments and and subsequently taken to operating profit when the hedged repayments of principal and redemption premiums where item itself impacts the Income Statement. applicable). Accrued interest (income and expense) is not recorded on the basis of the financial instrument’s nominal c) Fair value measurement interest rate, but on the basis of its effective interest rate. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are subject to Fair value measurement methods for financial and non-financial impairment tests as soon as there are indicators of a loss in assets and liabilities as defined above are classified according value. Any loss in value is recognized in the Income Statement. to the following three fair value levels: Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on ◗ Level 1: fair value measured based on quoted prices subsequent dates in accordance with the methods described (unadjusted) observed in active markets for identical assets or below. These methods draw on the following interest rate liabilities; definitions: ◗ Level 2: fair value measured using inputs other than quoted prices in active markets, that are observable either directly (i.e. ◗ the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); interest rate on borrowings; ◗ Level 3: fair value of assets or liabilities measured using inputs ◗ the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly that are not based on observable market data (unobservable discounts the estimated cash flows through the expected inputs). term of the instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability at As far as possible, the Group applies Level 1 measurement initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes into account methods. all fees paid or received, transaction costs, and, where applicable, premiums to be paid and received; 204 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Financial instrument classification and fair value hierarchy The following table presents the net carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities and the fair value of financial instruments broken down according to the three classification levels defined above (except for financial instruments where the net carrying amount represents a reasonable approximation of fair value). Net carrying amount Fair value Amortized December 31, 2016 (in millions of euros) Notes Fair value cost Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Financial assets Shares in non-consolidated companies and in associates 18 4 4 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 18 119 Other non-current assets 18 131 Asset derivative instruments non-current and current 18 -20 269 269 Accounts and notes receivables 19 3,074 Other current rassets 20 478 4 Cash management assets 21 157 157 Cash and cash equivalents 21 1,879 1,879 Financial liabilities Bonds 21 3,260 Obligations under finance leases 21 100 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 21 43 Other non-current and current liabilities 26 278 Liability derivative instruments non-current and current 26 89 89 Accounts and notes payable 27 2,818 Bank overdrafts 21 9 9 Note 18 Other non-current assets (1) At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2016 Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments 96 119 Derivative instruments 23 228 120 Non-current tax receivables 88 83 Other 45 52 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 22 457 374 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2015 amounts to conform to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on net income nor on net cash flows. Long-term deposits, receivables and other investments consist option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on mainly of aides à la construction (building aid program) loans and October 18, 2013, valued at €162 million. This option was security deposits and guarantees relating to leases. exercised in 2016 on the early redemption of the ORNANE 2013 bonds (see Note 21 – Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents). Derivative instruments consist of the fair value of derivative instruments contracted as part of the centralized management of At December 31, 2016, non-current tax receivables include currency risk in the amount of €120 million (current portion of research tax credit receivables and competitiveness and €145 million, see Note 20, Other current assets”). At employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount of December 31, 2015, derivative instruments also included the call €56 million (€58 million at December 31, 2015). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 205 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 19 Accounts and notes receivable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2016 Accounts receivable 1,924 1,996 Provisions for doubtful accounts (15) (27) Accrued income 1,037 1,012 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 22 2,946 2,981 Capitalized costs on projects 22 109 93 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 3,055 3,074 Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days revenue: At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2016 Accounts and notes receivable, excluding capitalized costs on projects 22 2,946 2,981 Advances from customers and billed in advance 22 (739) (737) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE 2,207 2,244 In number of days’ annual revenue (1) 64 64 (1) This ratio is adjusted to take account of the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. In 2016, receivables totaling €66 million were assigned with transfer of credit risk as defined by IAS 39 to a financial institution (€43 million in 2015) and were therefore derecognized in the Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016. Aged analysis of accounts receivable The low bad debt ratio reflects the fact that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the services provided. At end-2016, past due balances totaled €341 million, representing 17.3% of accounts and notes receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts. The breakdown is as follows: >30 days and in millions of euros <30 days <90 days >90 days Net accounts receivable 206 88 47 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions for doubtful accounts 10.4% 4.5% 2.4% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from clients and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help limit credit which are individually analyzed and monitored. risk. The economic environment could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable Credit risk from these clients. However, the Group does not consider that any of its clients, business sectors or geographic areas present a The Group’s 5 largest clients contribute around 11% of Group significant credit risk that could materially impact the financial revenues (stable on 2015). The top 10 clients collectively account position of the Group as a whole. for 16% of Group revenues. The solvency of these major clients 206 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 20 Other current receivables (1) At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2016 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 167 216 Prepaid expenses 205 209 Derivative instruments 23 114 149 Other 57 53 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 22 543 627 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2015 amounts to conform to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on net income nor on net cash flows. At December 31, 2016, Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax include research tax credit receivables and competitiveness and employment tax credit receivables in France in the amount of €88 million (€77 million at December 31, 2015), after recognition of research tax credit income and competitiveness and employment tax credit in France deducted from operating expenses of €54 million (€56 million in 2015). Note 21 Net debt / net cash and cash equivalents 4 Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated Net cash and cash equivalents or net debt comprise cash and Statement of Cash Flows consist of short-term investments and cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management cash at bank less bank overdrafts. assets (assets presented separately in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due to their characteristics), less shortand long-term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact of hedging instruments when these relate to borrowings and own shares. in millions of euros 2015 2016 Short-term investments 1,107 1,449 Cash at bank 843 430 Bank overdrafts (2) (9) Cash and cash equivalents 1,948 1,870 Cash management assets 116 157 Bonds (3,107) (3,236) Obligations under finance leases (54) (51) Long-term borrowings (3,161) (3,287) Bonds (526) (24) Obligations under finance leases (43) (49) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net (81) (43) Short-term borrowings (650) (116) Borrowings (3,811) (3,403) Derivative instruments (1) (20) (37) NET DEBT (1,767) (1,413) (1) At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2016 including the fair value of the 5-year EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps set-up in June 2015 in respect of the IGATE acquisition financing. At December 31, 2015, this heading also included the fair value of the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, and of the call option on own shares purchased by Cap Gemini S.A. on October 18, 2013. These options were exercised in 2016 on the early redemption of the ORNANE 2013 bonds (see Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 207 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Short-term investments The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches are callable by Cap Gemini At December 31, 2016, short-term investments mainly consist of S.A., subject to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus UCITS, certificates of deposit and term bank deposits, paying and particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. interest at standard market rates. These three bond issues are also subject to standard early redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. Cash management assets The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in Cash management assets consist of capitalization contracts with the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under insurance companies which may be cancelled by Cap Gemini S.A. at reference number no. 15-318. any time without penalty, as well as marketable securities held by certain IGATE group companies in India which do not meet all the c) “ORNANE 2013” Bond issue monetary UCITS classification criteria defined by ESMA (European On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini S.A. launched an offering of Securities and Markets Authority) for money market mutual funds, bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares particularly with regards to the average maturity of the portfolio. These (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numéraire et/ou en funds may, however, be redeemed at any time without penalty. Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE), maturing on January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoyed all rights from October 25, Borrowings 2013. The total nominal amount of the issue was €400 million, A) Bonds comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal value of €67.13 each, representing an issue premium of 42.5% compared with the a) 2016 Bond issue Company benchmark share price during the relevant period. On November 3, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. placed a €500 million bond issue comprising 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 On October 18, 2013, the Company purchased a call option on its each and with a settlement/delivery date of November 9, 2016. own shares aimed at neutralizing the potential dilution related to the ORNANE 2013 bond issue. In addition, and in order to The bonds mature on November 9, 2021 and pay an annual optimize the cost of the Group’s financial resources, the Company coupon of 0.50% (issue price 99.769%). The bond issue is sold a call option also on its own shares but with a higher strike callable before this date by Cap Gemini S.A., subject to certain price. Together, these two transactions synthetically enhanced the conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly effective dilution threshold of the ORNANEs by approximately 5%. concerning the minimum redemption price. The bonds did not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds). The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. During the period from October 25, 2013 to December 31, 2016 (inclusive), bondholders could only exercise their share conversion The terms and conditions of the bond issue were set out in the rights in the limited circumstances listed in the prospectus. prospectus approved by the AMF on November 7, 2016 under reference number no. 16-518. From January 1, 2017 (inclusive), bondholders could exercise their share conversion rights at any time up to the eighteenth trading day (exclusive) preceding January 1, 2019. b) July 1, 2015 Bond issue On June 24, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a “triple tranche” On the exercise by bondholders of their share conversion rights, bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with a Cap Gemini S.A. could present, at its initiative, either: (i) a cash settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: amount up to the nominal value of the bonds and new and/or existing shares thereafter, where applicable; or (ii) only new and/or ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2018): existing shares. The nominal amount of this tranche is €500 million, comprising The bonds were redeemable at par on January 1, 2019 if share 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds conversion rights has not been exercised by bondholders. mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of 3 month Euribor +85 bp, revised quarterly (issue price 100%); The bond issue was also subject to standard early redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2020): Given the settlement terms of the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, an The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,250 million, comprising embedded conversion option was recognized in “Other 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds non-current liabilities”, with fair value movements taken to profit or mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon of 1.75% loss. (issue price 99.853%); ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2023): In parallel and given its terms and conditions, the call option on own shares purchased on October 18, 2013 was recognized in The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,000 million, comprising assets. Fair value movements were taken to profit and loss and 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds offset those on the embedded conversion option. mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon of 2.50% (issue price 99.857%). 208 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the The total nominal amount of the issue was €500 million, prospectus approved by the AMF on October 18, 2013 under comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. reference number no. 13-557. The bonds bore interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s On October 5, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. announced its decision to credit rating. redeem all of the ORNANE bonds outstanding on November 21, 2016 at par and based on a conversion ratio of 1.00 Cap Gemini The bonds were redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. They share per ORNANE bond. could be called before this date by the Company, subject to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly In this context, holders of 5,934,131 ORNANE bonds exercised concerning the minimum redemption price. Bondholders could their share allotment rights resulting in the presentation of request the early redemption of all or part of their bonds in the €398 million and 640,184 existing shares. On November 21, event of a change in control of the Company, provided this 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed all outstanding ORNANE change in control was accompanied by a downgrading of the bonds, i.e. 24,456 bonds for a total of €2 million. Company’s financial rating. The conversion option embedded in the ORNANE bonds and the Early repayment could also be requested by any bondholder, call option on own shares recognized in “Other non-current subject to the occurrence of certain events and particularly failure liabilities” and “Other non-current assets”, respectively, of similar to pay sums due in respect of the bond issue or to comply with amount, were released without any net impact on the Income other obligations set out in the documentation (beyond any Statement. “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a In this context, Cap Gemini S.A. exercised in full the call option on minimum threshold), liquidation or dissolution. its own shares purchased on October 18, 2013. The call option An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating did sold by the Company was also exercised in full. Cap Gemini S.A. 4 not constitute an early repayment event. received an amount of €14 million on the exercise of these two calls. Furthermore, Cap Gemini S.A. undertook that the bonds would rank pari passu with all other marketable bonds issued by the d) 2011 Bond issue Company. On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a bond issue The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoyed all rights prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under from November 29, 2011. reference number no. 11-546. The 2011 bond issue was redeemed in full on November 29, 2016. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 209 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Impact of bonds on the financial statements 2016 2011 Bond “ORNANE 2013” 2015 Bond issue 2016 Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) issue bonds July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 issue Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Debt component at amortized cost, including accrued interest 500 1,256 1,007 497 Effective interest rate 5.5% 2.7% 1.0% 1.9% 2.6% 0.6% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 25 30 4 23 26 Nominal interest rate 5.3% 0.0% 0.8% 1.8% 2.5% 0.5% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 24 3 22 25 2015 2011 Bond “ORNANE 2013” 2015 Bond issue At December 31 (in millions of euros) issue bonds July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Equity component n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Option component in respect of the embedded conversion option n/a 162 n/a n/a n/a Debt component at amortized cost, including accrued interest 501 370 500 1,255 1,007 Effective interest rate 5.5% 2.7% 1.0% 1.9% 2.6% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 27 10 2 12 13 Nominal interest rate 5.3% 0.0% 0.8% 1.8% 2.5% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 26 2 11 13 Fair value of bonds 2016 2015 Bond issue 2011 Bond “ORNANE 2013” 2016 Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) issue bonds July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 issue Fair value 505 1,320 1,116 502 Market rate 0.1% 0.4% 0.9% 0.4% 2015 2015 Bond issue 2011 Bond “ORNANE 2013” At December 31 (in millions of euros) issue bonds July 2018 July 2020 July 2023 Fair value 525 391 506 1,293 1,053 Market rate 0.2% 0.8% 0.4% 1.2% 1.9% B) Obligations under finance leases Earliest date Latest expiry Effective December in millions of euros of leases date interest rate 31, 2016 Obligations under finance leases Computer equipment and other fixed assets 2010 2021 4.0% 100 o/w long-term obligations 51 o/w short-term obligations 49 210 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements C) Breakdown of borrowings by currency At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016 Other Other in millions of euros Euro currencies Total Euro currencies Total 2011 Bond issue 501 501 “ORNANE 2013” bonds 370 370 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 500 500 500 500 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 1,255 1,255 1,256 1,256 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 1,007 1,007 1,007 1,007 2016 Bond issue 497 497 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 81 81 43 43 Obligations under finance leases 52 45 97 65 35 100 Bank overdrafts 2 2 3 6 9 BORROWINGS 3,687 126 3,813 3,328 84 3,412 Obligations under finance leases are mainly denominated in pound sterling in the amount of €20 million (€25 million at December 31, 2015) and in US dollars in the amount of €11 million (€15 million at December 31, 2015). 4 D) Effective Interest Rate (EIR) The initial margin on this credit facility was 0.45% (excluding the In 2016, the effective interest rate on the Group’s average fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of the outstanding borrowings was 3.0% (2.6% in 2015). At facility drawn). This margin may be adjusted upwards or December 31, 2016, 85% of the Group’s borrowings are at fixed downwards according to the credit rating of Cap Gemini S.A. The rates (86% in 2015) and the remainder is at floating rates. facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% of the margin. The margin currently applicable is 0.45% and the E) Syndicated credit facility negotiated by fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1575%. Cap Gemini S.A. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating On January 30, 2014, the Group signed with a syndicate of would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The 18 banks a €750 million multi-currency credit facility, maturing on other main terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular July 30, 2019. In the event of exercise (subject to the approval of with respect to certain financial ratios, are detailed in Note 29, the banks) of two one-year extension options, exercisable at the Off-balance sheet commitments. end of the first and second years, respectively, the maturity of the This credit facility had not been drawn at December 31, 2016. new facility will be extended by a maximum of two additional years. Following the exercise of the second one-year extension option, the maturity of this credit facility was extended to July 27, 2021. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 211 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Net debt by maturity at redemption value contractual nominal interest rates and assuming the bonds would The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted be redeemed in full at maturity. The contractual cash flows value of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating associated with “Obligations under finance leases” represent to the 2015 and 2016 bond issues were estimated based on contractual repayments of the liability. Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than 1 to 2 to Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years At December 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 1,870 1,870 1,870 Cash management assets 2017 157 157 157 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 2018 (500) (505) (3) (502) 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 2020 (1,256) (1,338) (22) (22) (1,294) 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 2023 (1,008) (1,175) (25) (25) (75) (1,050) 2016 Bond issue 2021 (497) (513) (3) (3) (507) Obligations under finance leases 2017 to 2020 (100) (105) (53) (34) (18) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings, net 2017 to 2020 (42) (105) (52) (18) (35) Borrowings (3,403) (3,741) (158) (604) (1,929) (1,050) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (37) NET DEBT (1,413) (1,714) 1,869 (604) (1,929) (1,050) At December 31, 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 2016 1,948 1,948 1,948 Cash management assets 2016 116 116 116 2011 Bond issue 2016 (501) (526) (526) “ORNANE 2013” bonds 2019 (370) (400) (400) 2015 Bond issue – July 2018 2018 (500) (511) (4) (4) (503) 2015 Bond issue – July 2020 2020 (1,255) (1,360) (22) (22) (1,316) 2015 Bond issue – July 2023 2023 (1,007) (1,200) (25) (25) (75) (1,075) Obligations under finance leases 2016 to 2020 (97) (103) (47) (33) (23) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities and other borrowings 2016 to 2020 (81) (158) (91) (17) (50) Borrowings (3,811) (4,258) (715) (101) (2,367) (1,075) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (20) NET DEBT (1,767) (2,194) 1,349 (101) (2,367) (1,075) ◗ actively managing the due dates of financial liabilities in order to Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents and liquidity limit the concentration of borrowings’ maturities; risk ◗ using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to reduce The financial liabilities whose repayment could expose the Group its reliance on certain categories of lenders. to liquidity risk are mainly the bond issues performed in 2015 and the bond issue performed in 2016. Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents and credit risk To manage the liquidity risk that may result from financial liabilities Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or becoming due and payable, at the contractual due date or early, counterparty risk mainly consist of financial investments: in the Group has implemented a conservative financing policy mainly accordance with Group policy, cash balances are not invested in based on: equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities ◗ prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of any (certificates of deposit), (ii) term deposits, (iii) capitalization clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings; contracts or (iv) short-term money market mutual funds, subject to minimum credit rating and diversification rules. ◗ maintaining a high level of available funds at all times; 212 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements At December 31, 2016, short-term investments totaled within three months or immediately available, issued by highly €1,449 million and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual funds rated companies or financial institutions (minimum rating of A2/P2 meeting the criteria defined by ESMA (European Securities and or equivalent). Consequently, these short-term investments do not Markets Authority) for classification in the “monetary category”; expose the Group to any material credit risk. and (ii) negotiable debt securities and term deposits maturing Note 22 Cash flows The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the resulting from the translation of cash flows relating to foreign year-on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing currency assets and liabilities at the year-end exchange rate are and financing activities. shown in “Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses At December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents totaled Net cash from operating activities €1,870 million (see Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash In 2016, net cash from operating activities totaled €1,319 million equivalents), down €78 million on December 31, 2015 (compared with €1,004 million in 2015) and resulted from: (€1,948 million). Excluding the impact of exchange rate 4 fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents of negative €31 million, ◗ cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income this decrease is €47 million. Cash flow impacts are shown in the tax in the amount of €1,449 million; Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. ◗ payment of current income taxes in the amount of €167 million; ◗ a decrease in working capital requirements, generating a positive cash impact of €37 million. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 213 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: Statement of Cash Working capital requirement components Neutralization of items with Flows (Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) no cash impact items Reclassifications (2) Non and working Impact Net Foreign changes December December Net capital of WCR profit exchange in Group in millions of euros Notes 31, 2015 31, 2016 impact items (1) items impact impact structure Amount Accounts and notes receivable, excl. capitalized costs on projects 19 2,946 2,981 (35) (18) (53) (5) (7) (65) Capitalized costs on projects 19 109 93 16 16 (3) 13 Advances from customers and billed in advance 19 (739) (737) (2) (2) 22 20 Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (21) (18) (39) 14 (7) (32) Accounts and notes payable (accounts payable) 27 (1,015) (1,105) 90 8 98 20 10 128 Changes in accounts and notes payable 90 8 98 20 10 128 Other non-current assets 18 457 374 83 (91) (8) (16) (24) Other current receivables 20 543 627 (84) 30 (54) (2) (9) 15 (50) Accounts and notes payable (excluding accounts payable) 27 (1,709) (1,713) 4 1 5 7 4 16 Other non-current & current liabilities 26 (458) (367) (91) 127 36 (1) (34) (2) (1) Change in other receivables/payables (88) 67 (21) (3) (36) 1 (59) CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL 38 (3) (2) 4 37 (1) Non-working capital items comprise cash flows relating to investing and financing activities, payment of the income tax expense and non-cash items, (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities Net cash from financing activities The main components of net cash used in investing activities of Net cash outflows as a result of financing activities totaled €251 million (compared with €3,586 million in 2015) reflect: €1,115 million (compared with cash inflows of €2,364 million in 2015) and mainly comprised: ◗ cash outflows of €117 million relating to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment, net of disposals, primarily due to ◗ the redemption of the 2011 bond issue in the amount of purchases of computer hardware for client projects or the partial €500 million; renewal of IT installations and the renovation, extension and ◗ the early redemption of ORNANE 2013 bonds outstanding at refurbishment of office space; November 21, 2016 in the amount of €400 million; ◗ cash outflows of €59 million relating to acquisitions of intangible ◗ cash outflows of €340 million for the buyback of own shares assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software for customer mainly under the share buyback program and in respect of the projects or for internal use and internally generated intangible implementation of the liquidity agreement; assets (see Note 13, Goodwill and intangible assets). ◗ payment of the 2015 dividend of €229 million; ◗ cash outflows of €72 million in respect of interest payments net of interest received; ◗ cash outflows of €56 million to repay obligations under finance leases, compensated by: ❚ cash inflows of €497 million following the 2016 bond issue. 214 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Organic free cash flow Organic free cash flow calculated based on items in the Statement of Cash Flows is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost. At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2015 2016 Cash flows from operations 1,004 1,319 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (198) (197) Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 19 21 Acquisitions of property, plant, equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) (179) (176) Interest paid (38) (115) Interest received 28 43 Net interest cost (10) (72) ORGANIC FREE CASH FLOW 815 1,071 Note 23 Currency, interest rate and counterparty risk management 4 Currency risk management b) Currency risk and hedging financial transactions A) Exposure to currency risk and currency risk The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in management policy respect of: ◗ inter-company financing transactions, mainly within the parent a) Currency risk and hedging operating transactions company, these flows generally being hedged (in particular using The growing use of offshore production centers located in India, forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts); Poland and Latin America, exposes the Group to currency risk ◗ fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose with respect to some of its production costs. functional currency is not the euro. The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and managing these currency risks, due in the majority to internal flows c) Sensitivity of revenues and the operating margin* to with India. The definition of the hedging policy and the fluctuations in the main currencies (*) management of operational currency risk is centralized at parent A 10% fluctuation in the US dollar-euro exchange rate would company level. Currency risk is managed primarily based on trigger a corresponding 2.7% change in revenues and a 3.2% periodic reporting by subsidiaries of their exposure to currency risk change in the operating margin* amount. Similarly, a 10% over the coming 1 to 3 years. On this basis, the parent company fluctuation in the pound sterling-euro exchange rate would trigger acting as an internal bank, grants internal currency guarantees to a corresponding 1.6% change in revenues and a 1.9% change in subsidiaries and enters into currency hedges with its bank the operating margin* amount. counterparties, primarily through forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts. B) Hedging derivatives These hedging transactions are generally recorded in accordance Amounts hedged at December 31, 2016 using forward purchase with cash flow hedge accounting rules. and sale foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the parent company with respect to the centralized management of currency risk on operating transactions and inter-company financing transactions. (*) Operating margin, an alternative performance measure monitored by the Group, is defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 215 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements At December 31, 2016, the euro-equivalent value of forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: >6 months and in millions of euros <6 months <12 months >12 months Total Operating transactions 1,344 1,027 1,793 4,164 o/w ■ fair value hedge 388 388 ■ cash flow hedge 956 1,027 1,793 3,776 Financial transactions 258 47 949 1,254 o/w ■ fair value hedge 258 47 305 ■ cash flow hedge for the interest rate component and fair value hedge for the exchange rate component 949 949 TOTAL 1,602 1,074 2,742 5,418 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions mainly Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions concern comprise forward purchase and sale foreign exchange contracts Cap Gemini S.A. in the amount of €1,254 million at December 31, maturing between 2017 and 2020 with an aggregate 2016. They mainly comprise hedged inter-company loans for euro-equivalent value at closing exchange rates of €4,164 million €1,241 million (€1,356 million at December 31, 2015), including (€3,072 million at December 31, 2015). The hedges were chiefly €949 million in respect of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross-currency taken out in respect of transactions in Indian rupee swaps (see Note 2, Consolidation principles and Group structure). (INR182,000 million), US dollars (USD1,084 million) and Polish The residual balance primarily corresponds to loans denominated zloty (PLN1,124 million). in US dollars and Swedish krona. The maturities of the hedges range from 1 to 37 months and the The Group’s overall exposure to currency risk on assets/liabilities main counterparty is Cap Gemini S.A. (for a euro-equivalent value primarily concerns the Group’s internal financing activity. of €4,129 million). December 31, 2016 Swedish Other in millions of euros US dollar krona Indian rupee currencies Total Assets 245 8 247 500 Liabilities (1,098) (130) (151) (226) (1,605) Net exposure in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (1,105) Hedging derivatives 946 NET EXPOSURE (159) December 31, 2015 Swedish Other in millions of euros US dollar krona Indian rupee currencies Total Assets 377 8 1 228 614 Liabilities (1,062) (135) (96) (183) (1,476) Net exposure in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (862) Hedging derivatives 766 NET EXPOSURE (96) 216 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements C) Fair value of hedging derivatives Hedging derivatives are recorded in the following accounts: (1) At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2016 Other non-current assets 18 228 107 Other current assets 20 114 149 Other non-current and current liabilities 26 (217) (89) Fair value of hedging derivatives, net 125 180 Relating to: ■ operating transactions 145 217 ■ financial transactions (20) (37) (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2015 amounts to conform to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on net income nor on net cash flows. The main hedging derivatives comprise mainly: current liabilities” in the amount of €13 million and in “Other current liabilities” in the amount of €35 million; ◗ the fair value of derivative instruments contracted as part of the centralized management of currency risk recorded in “Other ◗ EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps recorded in “Other non-current assets” in the amount of €120 million, in “Other non-current liabilities” valued at €35 million at December 31, current assets” in the amount of €145 million, in “Other non 2016. 4 The change in the period in derivative instruments hedging operating and financing transactions recorded in income and expense recognized in equity breaks down as follows: in millions of euros 2016 Hedging derivatives recorded in income and expense recognized in equity at January 1 124 Amounts reclassified to profit in respect of transactions performed (12) Fair value of derivative instruments hedging future transactions 91 HEDGING DERIVATIVES RECORDED IN INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY AT DECEMBER 31 203 Interest rate risk management Based on average levels of floating-rate short-term investments and cash management assets, a 100-basis point rise in interest A) Interest rate risk management policy rates would have had a positive impact of around €5 million on the The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in Group’s net finance costs in 2016. Conversely, a 100-basis point light of its cash position: at December 31, 2016, the Group had fall in interest rates would have had an estimated €5 million €2,036 million in cash and cash equivalents, with short-term negative impact on the Group’s net finance costs. investments mainly at floating rates (or failing this, at fixed rates for Counterparty risk management periods of less than or equal to three months), and €3,412 million In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and in gross indebtedness principally at fixed rates (85%) (see interest rate risks as described above, the Group also enters into Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents). The high hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. proportion of fixed-rate borrowings is due to the weight of bond Accordingly, counterparty risk can be deemed not material. At issues in gross indebtedness. December 31, 2016, the Group’s main counterparties for managing currency and interest rate risk are Barclays, BNP B) Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis Paribas, CA CIB, Citibank, Commerzbank, HSBC, ING, JP As 85% of Group borrowings were at fixed rates in 2016, any Morgan, Morgan Stanley, Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland, increase or decrease in interest rates would have had a negligible Santander, and Société Générale. impact on the Group’s net finance costs. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 217 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined contribution plans Obligations under these plans are determined by independent Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid by actuaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this employees and Group companies to the organizations method, each period of service gives rise to an additional unit of responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations benefit entitlement and each of these units is valued separately are limited to the payment of such contributions which are in order to obtain the amount of the Group’s final obligation. expensed as incurred. The Group’s obligation under these The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market plans is recorded in “Accounts and notes payable”. Defined yields on high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term contribution plans are operated in most European countries consistent with the currency and term of the post-employment (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and benefit obligation. Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in the United States and in the Asia-Pacific area. For funded plans, only the estimated funding deficit is covered by a provision. Defined benefit pension plans Current and past service costs corresponding to an increase Defined benefit pension plans consist of either: in the obligation are recorded within “Operating expenses” of ◗ unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the Group the period. and the related obligation is covered by a provision Gains or losses on the curtailment, settlement or transfer of corresponding to the present value of future benefit defined benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other payments. Estimates are based on regularly reviewed internal operating income” or “Other operating expenses.” and external assumptions. These unfunded plans correspond mainly to retirement termination payments and healthcare The impact of discounting defined benefit obligations as well as assistance plans; the expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other financial expense” or “Other financial income”. ◗ funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by external funds. Group contributions to these external funds Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes are made in accordance with the specific regulations in force in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. in each country. differences between projected actuarial assumptions and actual data) on the amount of the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. They are recognized in full in “Income and expense recognized directly in equity” in the year in which they arise (with the related tax effect). Breakdown of provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits comprise obligations under funded defined benefit plans (particularly in the United Kingdom and Canada) and obligations primarily relating to retirement termination payments (particularly in France, Germany, Sweden and India). Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefits by main countries Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 United Kingdom 3,330 3,633 (2,633) (2,787) 697 846 Canada 624 674 (448) (484) 176 190 France 237 237 (16) (22) 221 215 Germany 88 101 (47) (57) 41 44 Sweden 34 34 (9) (9) 25 25 India 39 45 (21) (27) 18 18 Other 146 145 (10) (109) 38 36 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 4,498 4,869 (3,282) (3,495) 1,216 1,374 218 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Movements in provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits during the last two fiscal years were as follows Net provision in the Consolidated Statement Notes Obligation Plan assets of Financial Position in millions of euros 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 4,432 4,498 (3,138) (3,282) 1,294 1,216 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 204 209 (120) (113) 84 96 Service cost 7 71 59 71 59 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers (32) (32) Interest cost 9 165 150 (120) (113) 45 37 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (177) 772 83 (496) (94) 276 Change in actuarial gains and losses (177) 772 (177) 772 Impact of changes in financial assumptions (101) 858 (101) 858 4 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (11) (11) Experience adjustments (76) (75) (76) (75) Return on plan assets (1) 83 (496) 83 (496) Other 39 (610) (107) 396 (68) (214) Contributions paid by employees 7 7 (7) (7) Benefits paid to employees (141) (152) 130 124 (11) (28) Contributions paid (99) (89) (99) (89) Translation adjustments 170 (469) (130) 369 40 (100) Business combinations 3 (1) 2 Other movements 4 (1) 3 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 4,498 4,869 (3,282) (3,495) 1,216 1,374 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. Analysis of the change in provisions for pensions ◗ 7,690 former and current employees not accruing pensionable and other post-employment benefits service (7,889 at December 31, 2015); ◗ 2,868 retirees (2,491 at December 31, 2015). A) United Kingdom The plans are subject to the supervision of the UK Pension In the United Kingdom, post-employment benefits primarily Regulator; the funding schedules for these plans are determined consist of defined contribution pension plans with some by an independent actuary as part of actuarial valuations usually employees accruing pensionable service within a defined benefit carried out every three years. Capgemini UK Plc., the employer, pension plan. In addition there are former and current employees gives firm commitments to the trustees regarding the funding of accruing deferred benefits in defined benefit pension plans. The any deficits identified, over an agreed period. plans are administered within trusts which are legally separate from the employer and are governed by a trustee Board The responsibility to fund these plans lies with the employer. The comprising of independent trustees and representatives of the defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to the increase in employer. liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy of members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more The defined benefit plans provide pensions and lump sums to generally, a downturn in financial markets. members on retirement and to their dependents on death. Members who leave service before retirement are entitled to a The average maturity of pension plans in the United Kingdom is deferred pension. The main plan is closed to the accrual of 22 years. pensionable service benefit for all current employees since In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain March 31, 2015. client contracts in full or in part could require Capgemini UK Plc. to Employees covered by defined benefit pension plans break down bring forward the funding of any deficits in respect of the as follows: employees concerned. ◗ 700 current employees accruing pensionable service (964 at December 31, 2015); Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 219 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Obligation Plan assets Financial Position in millions of euros 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 3,252 3,330 (2,480) (2,633) 772 697 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 105 121 (95) (88) 10 33 Service cost 15 10 15 10 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers (35) (35) Interest cost 125 111 (95) (88) 30 23 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (156) 765 84 (481) (72) 284 Change in actuarial gains and losses (156) 765 (156) 765 Impact of changes in financial assumptions (89) 830 (89) 830 Experience adjustments (67) (65) (67) (65) Return on plan assets (1) 84 (481) 84 (481) Other 129 (583) (142) 415 (13) (168) Contributions paid by employees 1 1 (1) (1) Benefits paid to employees (73) (72) 73 72 Contributions paid (62) (58) (62) (58) Translation adjustments 201 (512) (152) 402 49 (110) PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT (2) OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 3,330 3,633 (2,633) (2,787) 697 846 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate, (2) The year-on-year increase in the present value of the obligation is mainly due to the impact of a decrease in the benchmark discount rate (3.8% to 2.6%-2.8%). In 2015, the curtailment following a plan change represents income of €35 million due to the decrease in the present value of the benefit obligation for the main Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan after an agreement was reached with certain members regarding a reduction in their defined benefits. a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016 Discount rate 3.8 2.6-2.8 Salary inflation rate 2.4-3.2 2.3-3.1 Inflation rate 3.2 3.1 At the 2016 year end, the Group moved to a calculation method for the discount rate and inflation, based on a full yield curve valuation method, compared to a single discount rate method used at the 2015 year end. This change in method led to a decrease in the present value of the pension obligation of approximately €200 million at December 31, 2016. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in the United Kingdom. b) Plan assets in millions of euros 2015 2016 Shares 1,421 54% 1,377 49% Bonds and hedging assets 1,168 44% 1,336 48% Other 44 2% 74 3% TOTAL 2,633 100% 2,787 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. Bonds and hedging assets consist of bonds invested in liquid markets. A portion of these investments seeks to hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists of UK government bonds (GILT), owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. 220 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2016 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (367) 427 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 282 (270) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (60) 56 d) Contributions Future contributions Contributions to defined benefit pension funds in the United Kingdom in respect of 2017 are estimated at €60 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits over the period defined with the trustees as part of the regular actuarial valuations. B) Canada The plans are subject to regular actuarial valuations performed at In Canada, defined post-employment benefits consist of defined least every three years. In accordance with local regulations, the benefit pension plans and other pension and similar plans. The non-renewal of certain client contracts in full or in part could plan assets are held in trust separately from the employer’s require the Canadian entities to bring forward the funding of any 4 assets. Nonetheless, the responsibility to fund the plans lies with deficits in respect of the employees concerned. the employer. The plans expose the Group to the increase in In Canada, employees covered by defined benefit pension plans liabilities that could result from changes in the life expectancy of break down as follows: members, fluctuations in interest and inflation rates and, more ◗ 1,000 current employees accruing pensionable service (782 at generally, a downturn in financial markets. December 31, 2015); The average maturity of pension plans in Canada is 20 years. ◗ 80 former and current employees not accruing pensionable service (79 at December 31, 2015); ◗ 303 retirees (275 at December 31, 2015). Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Obligation Plan assets Financial Position in millions of euros 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT JANUARY 1 647 624 (470) (448) 177 176 Expense for the period recognized in the Income Statement 65 50 (19) (19) 46 31 Service cost 23 25 23 25 Curtailments, settlements and plan transfers 15 15 Interest cost 27 25 (19) (19) 8 6 Impact on income and expense recognized in equity (9) (6) (4) (9) (13) (15) Change in actuarial gains and losses (9) (6) (9) (6) Impact of changes in financial assumptions (10) 14 (10) 14 Impact of changes in demographic assumptions (14) (14) Experience adjustments 1 (6) 1 (6) Return on plan assets (1) (4) (9) (4) (9) Other (79) 6 45 (8) (34) (2) Contributions paid by employees 4 4 (4) (4) Benefits paid to employees (36) (45) 35 43 (1) (2) Contributions paid (19) (14) (19) (14) Translation adjustments (47) 42 33 (30) (14) 12 Other movements 5 (3) 2 PRESENT VALUE OF THE BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT DECEMBER 31 624 674 (448) (484) 176 190 (1) After deduction of financial income on plan assets recognized in the Income Statement and calculated using the discount rate. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 221 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements a) Main actuarial assumptions Discount rate, salary inflation rate and inflation rate in % At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016 Discount rate 4.0 3.9 Salary inflation rate 2.8 2.8 Inflation rate 2.0 2.0 In 2016, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. Mortality tables used are those commonly used in Canada. b) Plan assets in millions of euros 2015 2016 Shares 268 60% 280 58% Bonds and hedging assets 170 38% 199 41% Other 10 2% 5 1% TOTAL 448 100% 484 100% Shares correspond to investments in equities or diversified growth investments, the majority of which in developed markets. Bonds primarily comprise Canadian government bonds. A portion of these investments seeks to hedge interest rate risk on the plan liabilities; this matching portfolio consists of Canadian government bonds, owned directly or borrowed via sale and repurchase agreements. c) Sensitivity analysis Impact on the obligation at December 31, 2016 in millions of euros Increase Decrease Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate (57) 65 Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 44 (40) Increase/decrease of 50 basis points in the mortality rate (2) 2 d) Future contributions Contributions to the Canadian defined benefit pension funds in respect of 2017 are estimated at €18 million, including the funding of pension plan deficits defined as part of the regular actuarial valuations. 222 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 25 Current and non-current provisions A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the Financial Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be made of the has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted when the past event; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources impact of the time value of money is material. Movements in current and non-current provisions break down as follows: in millions of euros 2015 2016 At January 1 72 118 Charge 64 46 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (12) (14) Reversals (surplus provisions) (18) (16) Other 12 (4) AT DECEMBER 31 118 130 4 At December 31, 2016, current provisions (€104 million) and non-current provisions (€26 million) mainly concern risks relating to projects and contracts amounting to €110 million (€99 million at December 31, 2015) and risks relating to tax and labor disputes amounting to €20 million (€19 million at December 31, 2015). Note 26 Other current and non-current liabilities (1) At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2015 2016 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 32 28 Derivative instruments 23 217 89 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 116 147 Non-current tax liabilities 18 16 Other 75 87 OTHER CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 22 458 367 (1) Certain reclassifications have been made to 2015 amounts to conform to current year presentation. These reclassifications had no impact on net income nor on net cash flows. Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for €135 million of put options granted to Caixa Participacões and EMC in 2012 and 2013 on their investments in CPM Braxis and earn-outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions. Derivative instruments primarily consist of EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swaps valued at €35 million at December 31, 2016 (€20 million at December 31, 2015). At December 31, 2015, derivative instruments also included the conversion option embedded in the “ORNANE 2013” bonds, valued at €162 million. This option was exercised in 2016 on the early redemption of the ORNANE 2013 bonds (see Note 21 – Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents). Note 27 Accounts and notes payable At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2015 2016 Accounts payable 1,015 1,105 Accrued taxes other than income tax 390 392 Personnel costs 1,303 1,311 Other 16 10 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 22 2,724 2,818 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 223 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 28 Number of employees Average number of employees by geographic area 2015 2016 Employees % Employees % North America 12,627 8 16,846 9 France 23,558 15 23,690 13 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,759 5 9,075 5 Benelux 8,385 5 8,200 4 Southern Europe 7,414 5 7,713 4 Nordic countries 4,053 2 4,041 2 Germany and Central Europe 10,817 7 11,897 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 85,495 53 103,944 56 Not allocated 160 187 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 161,268 100 185,593 100 Number of employees at December 31 by geographic area 2015 2016 Employees % Employees % North America 16,034 9 16,895 9 France 23,832 13 24,226 12 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,656 5 9,025 5 Benelux 8,307 5 8,037 4 Southern Europe 7,434 4 8,074 4 Nordic countries 4,007 2 4,067 2 Germany and Central Europe 11,233 6 12,464 7 Asia-Pacific and Latin America 100,977 56 110,011 57 Not allocated 159 278 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 180,639 100 193,077 100 Note 29 Off-balance sheet commitments Off-balance sheet commitments relating to In addition, certain clients enjoy: Group operating activities ◗ limited financial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling €1,601 million at December 31, 2016 (stable vs December 31, A) Commitments given on client contracts 2015); The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees ◗ bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €197 million at for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts December 31, 2016 (€172 million at December 31, 2015). signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Johnson & Johnson Services, Inc., the Department of Work and Pensions, EMC, Monsanto, Becton Dickinson & Company, Carnival Corporation and Michelin. 224 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements B) Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Commitments given on non-cancellable leases break down by maturity as follows: Vehicles and other Computer non-cancellable in millions of euros equipment Offices leases Total Y+1 6 198 55 259 Y+2 4 158 39 201 Y+3 3 101 23 127 Y+4 2 62 7 71 Y+5 1 48 49 Y+6 and beyond 68 68 AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 16 635 124 775 At December 31, 2015 19 671 137 827 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in 2016 totaled €362 million (€350 million in 2015). C) Other commitments given B) Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini S.A. 4 Other commitments given total €37 million at December 31, 2016 and not drawn to date (€29 million at December 31, 2015) and mainly comprise firm Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following financial purchase commitments relating to goods or services in the United ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility disclosed Kingdom and France. in Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents: ◗ the consolidated net debt* to consolidated equity ratio must be D) Other commitments received less than one at all times; (*) Other commitments received total €130 million at December 31, ◗ the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated net 2016 (€112 million at December 31, 2015) and primarily comprise: finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin*) ◗ commitments received on client contracts: in the context of a must be equal to or greater than three at December 31 and contract signed in 2010, the Group received a limited financial June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). guarantee of €50 million from the client; At December 31, 2015 and 2016, the Group complied with these ◗ commitments received following the purchase of shares held by financial ratios. certain minority shareholders of CPM Braxis for an amount of The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting €63 million. Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. These covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include Off-balance sheet commitments relating to restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset Group financing sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to A) Bonds maintain pari passu status. Cap Gemini S.A. has committed to standard obligations in respect of the 2015 bond issues and the 2016 bond issue detailed in C) Borrowings secured by assets Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents, and Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the particularly to maintain pari passu status with all other marketable Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, bonds that may be issued by the Company. 2016, these related to finance leases for an amount of €100 million and other borrowings in the amount of €7 million. (*) The alternative performance measures monitored by the Group (operating margin and net debt) are defined in Note 3, Alternative performance measures, and brokendown in Note 21, Net debt / Net cash and cash equivalents. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 225 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Contingent liabilities statements in so far as Capgemini can justify its positions and During 2016 and in previous fiscal years, certain Group considers the likelihood of winning the disputes to be high. This is companies underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax particularly the case, in France, for research tax credits for the reassessments. A number of proposed adjustments have been period 2008 to 2013, in respect of which the tax authorities have challenged and litigation and pre-litigation proceedings were in rejected the portion concerning private clients in certain progress at the period end. In general, no provisions have been companies registered for the research tax credit. set aside for these disputes in the consolidated financial Note 30 Related-party transactions Associates Moreover, it is worth noting that Caixa Participacões, a minority Associates are equity-accounted companies over which the shareholder, is also one of the main clients of CPM Braxis, Group exercises significant influence. At December 31, 2016, accounting for approximately 14% of its revenues. O2C Pro LLC is the only company equity-accounted by the Group Finally, MM Consulting, whose Chairman and Chief Executive since its acquisition in 2011. Transactions with this equity Officer is Yann Delabrière (a director of Cap Gemini S.A.), signed a associate in 2016 were performed at arm’s length and were of one-year agreement with Capgemini Consulting to provide this immaterial volume. entity with assistance in the Digital Manufacturing market, by contributing its knowledge of the automobile sector. Fees of Other related-parties €87,000 were invoiced to the consulting entity for work performed in 2016 under the terms of the agreement which entered into In 2016, no material transactions were carried out with: effect in October 2016. ◗ shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A.; Group management compensation ◗ members of management, including directors; The table below provides a breakdown of the 2015 and 2016 ◗ entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key compensation of members of management bodies, management personnel, or over which he/she has significant encompassing the Group operating management structure at influence or holds significant voting rights. each year-end, comprising 25 members in 2016 (24 members in 2015) and directors (compensation, fees and attendance fees). in thousands of euros 2015 2016 Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes (1) 23,185 24,166 o/w attendance fees to salaried directors 65 80 (2) (3) o/w attendance fees to non-salaried directors 779 719 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes 6,328 4,573 Post-employment benefits (4) 1,184 1,695 Share-based payment (5) 6,035 9,781 (1) Including gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharing, attendance fees and benefits in kind, (2) Note that Paul Hermelin has waived receipt of his attendance fees since 2011 (as did Serge Kampf from 2011 until his death), (3) 15 directors in 2016 and 12 directors in 2015, (4) Primarily the annualized expense in respect of retirement termination payments pursuant to contract and/or a collective bargaining agreement, (5) Deferred recognition of the annual expense relating to the grant of performance shares. Note 31 Subsequent events At the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will recommend a dividend payout to Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders of €1.55 per share in respect of 2016. A dividend of €1.35 per share was paid in respect of fiscal year 2015. 226 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 32 List of the main consolidated companies by country Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of what is generally known as “the Capgemini Group” comprising 134 companies. The main consolidated companies at December 31, 2016 are listed below. Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2016 % interest Method (1) ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Belgium S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini Business Services Brasil Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Consultoria de Gestao Gemini Ltda. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis S.A. 78.61% FC CPM Braxis Tecnologia, Ltda. 78.61% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC 4 Capgemini Financial Services Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Gestion Capgemini Québec Inc. 100.00% FC IGATE Technologies (Canada), Inc. 100.00% FC Inergi LP 100.00% FC New Horizon System Solutions LP 100.00% FC Société en Commandite Capgemini Québec 100.00% FC CHILE Capgemini Business Services Chile Ltda. 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Kun Shan) Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Computer Systems (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 99.77% FC ITBconsult Shanghai Ltd. 100.00% FC Praxis Beijing Technology Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC ITBconsult Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC COLOMBIA Capgemini Colombia S.A.S. 100.00% FC CZECH REPUBLIC Capgemini Czech Republic s.r.o. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Sogeti Danmark A/S 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC FRANCE Backélite S.A.S. 100.00% FC Cap Gemini S.A. Parent company Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Cloud ERP Solutions S.A.S. 100.00% FC (1) FC = Full Consolidation, EM = Equity Method. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 227 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2016 % interest Method (1) Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Open Cascade S.A.S. 100.00% FC Prosodie S.A.S. 100.00% FC SCI Paris Étoile 100.00% FC Silgem S.A.S. 50.00% FC Sogeti Corporate Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services Gmbh 100.00% FC IT & Business Services GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC HUNGARY Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft. 100.00% FC INDIA AXA Technologies Services India Pvt Ltd. 99.77% FC Capgemini Technology Services India Limited 99.77% FC IGATE Infrastructure Management Services Limited 99.77% FC INDONESIA Patni Computer Systems Indonesia 99.77% FC IRELAND Capgemini Sogeti Ireland Ltd. 100.00% FC ITALY Capgemini BS S.r.l. 100.00% FC Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC JAPAN Capgemini Japan K.K. 100.00% FC LUXEMBOURG Capgemini Reinsurance International S.A. 100.00% FC IGATE Technologies Luxembourg S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC MALAYSIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc SA 100.00% FC NETHERLANDS Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Dunit B.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC IBX Norge AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Norge AS 100.00% FC (1) FC = Full Consolidation, EM = Equity Method. 228 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Consolidation Country List of the main companies consolidated at December 31, 2016 % interest Method (1) PHILIPPINES Capgemini Philippines Corp. 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp. z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica S.A. 100.00% FC ROMANIA Capgemini Services Romania s.r.l. 100.00% FC RUSSIA Datavision NN 100.00% FC SAUDI ARABIA Capgemini Saudi Ltd. 100.00% FC SINGAPORE Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Singapore Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Singapore Pte. Ltd. 99.77% FC SLOVAKIA Capgemini Slovensko s.r.o. 100.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica 100.00% FC 4 Sogeti España S.L. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB 100.00% FC Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC IBX Group AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige Mitt AB 100.00% FC SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC UNITED ARAB Capgemini Middle East FZ LLC 100.00% FC EMIRATES Thesys Technologies LLC 49.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini Financial Services UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini UK plc 100.00% FC CGS Holdings Ltd. 100.00% FC F212 UK Ltd. 100.00% FC IGATE Computer Systems (UK) Limited 100.00% FC IGATE Information Services (UK) Limited 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Ltd. 100.00% FC UNITED STATES Capgemini America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services USA LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini North America, Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC CHCS Services, Inc. 100.00% FC O2C Pro, LLC 49.00% EM Sogeti USA LLC 100.00% FC VIETNAM Capgemini Vietnam Co., Ltd. 100.00% FC (1) FC = Full Consolidation, EM = Equity Method. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 229 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements Note 33 Audit fees Statutory audit fees for fiscal year 2016 breakdown as follows: KPMG PwC in millions of euros (excluding VAT) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Certification of the accounts 3.3 4.0 3.1 2.8 ■ Cap Gemini S.A. 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.6 ■ Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 2.8 3.5 2.6 2.2 Other services (1) 1.8 3.2 1.5 1.9 TOTAL 5.1 7.2 4.6 4.7 (1) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our customers pursuant to the standard ISA 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 230 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.2 Consolidated financial statements 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the consolidated financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the consolidated financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2016, on: ◗ the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A.; ◗ the justification of our assessments; ◗ the specific verification required by law. 4 These consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. I. Opinion on the consolidated financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2016 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. II. Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: ◗ Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements sets out the methods used to account for revenues and costs related to long-term contracts. As part of our assessments, we ensured that the above-mentioned accounting rules and principles adopted by your Group were properly applied and verified that the information provided in the note above was appropriate. We also obtained assurance that the estimates used were reasonable; ◗ goodwill of €7,176 million is recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The approach adopted by the Group as well as the accounting principles and methods applied to determine the value in use of these assets are described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall; ◗ deferred tax assets amounting to €1,473 million are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements describes the methods used to calculate the value of these assets. As part of our assessments, we verified the overall consistency of the information and assumptions used to perform these calculations. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III. Specific verification As required by law, we have also verified in accordance with professional standards applicable in France the information presented in the Group’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 24, 2017 Paris La Défense, February 24, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 231 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4.3.1 Income statement The Company reported operating income for the year ended ◗ expenses of €330 million, mainly comprising foreign exchange December 31, 2016 of €304 million (including €264 million in losses on the pooling of currency risk at Group level royalties received from subsidiaries) compared with €312 million (€202 million), as well as interest on bond issues and a currency last year (including €258 million in royalties). swap (€124 million). Operating profit is €162 million, compared with €175 million in This €170 million decrease in net finance income year-on-year 2015. was mainly due to the decrease in net reversals of provisions for equity interests. Net finance income totaled €867 million (compared with €1,037 million in 2015) and reflects the difference between: The net non-recurring expense of €71 million compared with €25 million in 2015, is mainly attributable to the loss recognized on ◗ income of €1,197 million, mainly comprising reversals of the transfer of shares on the exercise of BSAAR warrants provisions for equity interests (€646 million), particularly in the (€14 million) and the exercise of ORNANE bonds (€56 million). Netherlands, Asia-Pacific and Italy, foreign exchange gains on the pooling of currency risk at Group level (€243 million), the After an income tax expense of €8 million (compared with reversal of the provision on a derivative in own shares €30 million in 2015), mainly reflecting the income tax expense of (€114 million), dividends received from subsidiaries (€69 million), the tax consolidation group, the Company reported a net profit of income from loans granted to subsidiaries (€55 million) and €950 million. income from derivatives in own shares unwound during the year (€50 million); 4.3.2 Balance sheet Net investments rose from €15,060 million last year to Borrowings totaled €5,214 million at December 31, 2016, up €15,719 million at December 31, 2016. This €659 million increase €602 million compared with December 31, 2015. This increase is mainly attributable to: was mainly due to: ◗ net reversals of provisions for equity interests of €646 million; ◗ the €500 million bond issue performed on November 9, 2016; ◗ a €56 million increase in other long-term investments ◗ the €283 million increase in outstanding inter-company loans; corresponding to the net impact of treasury share transactions ◗ the €721 million increase in bank overdrafts on the accounts during the year. included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash pooling Shareholders’ equity is €11,709 million, up €671 million on last international), for which the Company acts as the centralizing year. This increase essentially reflects the difference between: agent, offset in full by an opposite position of the same amount in the cash and cash equivalents of the Company; ◗ net profit for 2016 (€950 million); ◗ the redemption of the 2011 bond issue in the amount of ◗ the June 1, 2016 dividend payment of €1.35 per share on the €500 million; 169,444,022 shares making up the Company’s share capital at May 30, 2016 (after neutralization of the 2,737,478 treasury ◗ the redemption of the ORNANE bonds redeemable in cash shares held by the Company), representing a total payment of and/or in new and/or existing shares in the amount of €229 million; €400 million. ◗ the share capital reduction by cancellation of 617,235 Cap In addition to the above, the following information is required by law: Gemini S.A. shares purchased under the share buyback External accounts payable of Cap Gemini S.A. total €235 thousand, program authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of €198 thousand of which are not yet due. Group accounts payable May 18, 2016 in the amount of €50 thousand. total €18.7 million, none of which are due. 232 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements 4.3.3 Appropriation of earnings During its meeting of February 15, 2017, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the following appropriation of net profit for the year: Net profit for the year €950,195,967.31 Allocation to the legal reserve €0.00 i.e. a balance of €950,195,967.31 Retained earnings of previous years €2,377,424,061.37 i.e. Distributable earnings at December 31, 2016 of €3,327,620,028.68 This amount will be allocated to: (1) ■ payment of a dividend of €1.55 per share €261,229,107.40 ■ retained earnings for the balance €3,066,390,921.28 Giving a total of: €3,327,620,028.68 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2016, i.e. 168,534,908 shares, and could therefore change (and the same may be for the total amount of retained earnings) if this number varies between January 1, 2017 and the ex-dividend date. This dividend of €1.55 for each shares bearing dividend rights on payment date of Wednesday, May 24, 2017. If, at the time of 4 January 1, 2017, will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate payment of the dividend, the number of treasury shares held by referred to in Article 158.3.2°of the French Tax Code (Code the Company has evolved compared to that held on December Général des Impôts). Taking account of the recommendations of 31, 2016, the fraction of the dividend relating to this variation will certain investors, and so as to avoid or at least not encourage either increase or reduce retained earnings. Pursuant to security lending/borrowing transactions around the date of the Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled that the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors proposes an following amounts were paid over the past three fiscal years: ex-dividend date of Monday, May 22, 2017 and a dividend Total amount distributed (1) Distributed income (2) Dividend per share (in euros) (in euros) (in euros) Fiscal year 2015 231,221,780.55 228,749,429.70 1.35 Fiscal year 2014 195,149,725.20 198,381,067.20 1.20 Fiscal year 2013 176,273,919.80 174,095,386.30 1.10 (1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year. (2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights as a result of a change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or the cancellation of existing shares between January 1st and the ex-dividend date. These amounts were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts) for each fiscal year. 4.3.4 Share capital and ownership structure At December 31, 2016, the share capital amounted to result of a disposal, followed by an acquisition and then another €1,372,514,120 (compared with €1,377,452,000 at December 31, disposal of Cap Gemini shares on the market and holds 4.85% 2015) following the cancellation of 617,235 shares by decision of of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on behalf of the Board of Directors on July 26, 2016. such funds. Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code ◗ The Swedish company, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB, (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders disclosed that it had raised and then reduced its interest above that, based on notifications received, Société Générale(1) is the and below the threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital only shareholders holding more than 5% of the Company’s share and voting rights on May 31 and June 7, 2016, respectively, as capital and voting rights at the year-end: a result of an acquisition followed by a disposal of Cap Gemini shares on the market and holds 0.01% of the Company’s share ◗ The US company, BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of clients capital and voting rights on behalf of funds. and managed funds, disclosed that it had reduced, raised and then reduced its interest below, above and then below the Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting 0.19% of the Company’s share capital. rights on December 14, 28 and 29, 2016, respectively, as a (1) It follows the repeal of the so-called trading exception which exempted providers of investment services from including in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments considered to have an economic effect similar to the ownership of shares, following the enactment into French law of the revised transparency directive 2013/50/EU by Order no.2015-576 of December 3, 2015 (e.g. forward purchase with physical settlement). Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 233 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4.1 Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015 and 2016 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 Depreciation, amortization (in thousands of euros) Net Gross and provisions Net Assets Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 4,004 39,729 (34,803) 4,927 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 13,748,506 17,583,656 (3,109,527) 14,474,129 Receivable from controlled entities (1) 1,241,389 1,119,169 1,119,169 (1) Other financial fixed assets 70,402 126,111 126,111 Non-current assets 15,064,525 18,868,889 (3,144,329) 15,724,559 Accounts and notes receivable (1) 11 71 (71) Other receivables (1) 111,716 126,344 126,344 Receivable from related and associated companies (1) 82,021 197,420 197,420 Marketable securities 556,727 1,072,122 (2,917) 1,069,205 Cash and cash equivalents 691,086 1,349,284 1,349,284 Current assets 1,441,560 2,745,241 (2,988) 2,742,253 Prepaid expenses (1) 28,372 3,598 3,598 Deferred charges 17,746 12,233 12,233 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 143 573 573 Other assets 46,261 16,404 16,404 TOTAL ASSETS 16,552,346 21,630,533 (3,147,317) 18,483,216 (1) of which due within one year 271,314 570,124 570,052 234 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements (in thousands of euros) 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 Shareholders’ equity and liabilities Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,377,452 1,372,514 Additional paid-in capital 6,340,387 6,295,195 Legal reserve 137,708 137,745 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 1,449,264 2,377,424 Profit for the year 1,156,947 950,196 Tax-driven provisions 15,948 15,948 Shareholders’ equity 11,037,278 11,708,595 4 Provisions for contingencies and losses 113,659 573 Convertible bonds (2) 400,000 Bond issues 3,250,000 3,250,000 Bank loans and borrowings (2) 658,596 1,377,376 Payable to controlled entities (2) 303,670 586,598 (2) Borrowings 4,612,267 5,213,974 Accounts and notes payable (2) 3,309 4,218 (2) Tax and social security liabilities 3,283 2,692 Payable to related and associated companies (2) 745,834 1,547,642 Other payables (2) 940 1,261 Prepaid income 35,567 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 208 4,261 Other liabilities 789,142 1,560,074 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,552,346 18,483,216 (2) of which due within one year 2,073,414 3,230,514 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 235 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016 (in thousands of euros) 2015 2016 Royalties 258,400 264,234 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 11,555 2,447 Other income 41,724 37,275 Total operating income 311,679 303,956 Other purchases and external charges 72,344 59,404 Taxes, duties and other levies 9,566 10,401 Depreciation and amortization 4,216 8,754 Charges to provisions 8,330 24,991 Other expenses 42,120 38,044 Total operating expenses 136,575 141,593 Operating profit 175,103 162,363 Investment income (1) 54,965 68,926 (1) Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets 38,590 55,278 Other interest income (1) 15,131 70,597 Reversals of provisions 1,472,213 759,312 Foreign exchange gains 272,180 242,603 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 1,065 402 Total financial income 1,854,144 1,197,117 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 496,659 3,490 (2) Interest and similar expenses 78,320 124,184 Foreign exchange losses 242,378 202,461 Total financial expenses 817,357 330,135 Net finance income (expense) 1,036,787 866,982 Recurring profit before tax 1,211,890 1,029,346 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 3,405 2,761 Total non-recurring income 3,405 2,761 Non-recurring expenses on operations 26,723 69,937 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 773 3,539 Exceptional depreciation, amortization and provisions 1,320 Total non-recurring expenses 28,816 73,476 Net non-recurring income (expense) (25,411) (70,715) Income tax expense (29,532) (8,434) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 1,156,947 950,196 (1) of which income concerning related companies 95,496 125,627 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 9,109 17,225 236 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements I Accounting policies received in advance on certificates of deposit and commercial The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, paper is recognized in accrued income or prepaid income, 2016 are prepared and presented in accordance with Regulation respectively. No. 2014-03 issued by the French Accounting Standards Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also Authority (Autorité des Normes Comptables, ANC). They are also included in marketable securities. prepared in accordance with the principles of prudence and accruals, and assuming that the Company is able to continue as a Foreign currency transactions going concern. Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents Items in the financial statements are generally measured using the denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the historical cost method. year-end exchange rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences resulting from the translation of foreign currency receivables and The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: payables at these rates are included in the balance sheet under “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/losses”. A provision for foreign Intangible assets exchange losses is set aside to cover any unrealized losses. Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use Receivables and payables which has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a results, are capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of provision for impairment set aside when their net realizable value three years. At the year-end, the value of computer software and 4 falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables are user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. recognized excluding VAT. Financial fixed assets Financial instruments The gross value of equity interests and other long-term Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their instruments presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for organized markets or over-the-counter. Gains and losses on impairment is set aside when the value in use falls below the financial instruments used in hedging transactions are recognized acquisition cost. The value in use is calculated based on either the to match the gains and losses arising on the hedged items. The present value of discounted future cash flows adjusted for net fair value of financial instruments, which is not recognized in the debt, the Company’s share in net assets, or in certain cases, with accounts of the Company in accordance with French accounting reference to the market value of comparable transactions. principles, is estimated based on market prices or pricing data provided by banks. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Cap Gemini S.A. as part of the liquidity Forward financial instruments, and options on own shares, are agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within long-term initially recognized in the balance sheet at acquisition cost and investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. subsequently remeasured to fair value. Where there is indication of Realizable value is the average market price for Cap Gemini S.A. impairment, a provision for financial risk is set aside in accordance shares in December. Other treasury shares held for other with the principle of prudence. objectives of the share buyback program are recorded in listed shares. Tax consolidation The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the Marketable securities Group have elected to file consolidated tax returns pursuant to Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the lower Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings of cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of listed realized by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by securities is based on the average share price in December. The consolidated entities are treated as a gain for the Company in the realizable value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset period in which they arise. value. At the year-end, accrued interest receivable or interest Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 237 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements II Notes to the Cap Gemini S.A. Balance Sheet and Income Statement 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value (in thousands of euros) (January 1) Increase Decrease (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 38,013 1,716 39,729 Sub-total 38,013 1,716 39,729 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 17,503,686 79,970 17,583,656 Receivable from controlled entities 1,241,389 64,908 (187,128) 1,119,169 Other financial fixed assets 70,402 438,414 (382,705) 126,111 Sub-total 18,815,477 583,291 (569,833) 18,828,935 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 18,853,715 585,007 (569,833) 18,868,889 Equity interests Other financial fixed assets Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. This account comprises treasury shares held under the liquidity The main change during the year reflects share capital increases agreement. This agreement relates to the share buyback program in the Asia-Pacific region of €51,004 thousand and in Europe of approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, €28,966 thousand. 2016. Accordingly, a total of 2,686,396 shares were acquired and 2,621,396 shares were sold between January 1, 2016 and Receivable from controlled entities December 31, 2016. At December 31, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. Amounts receivable from controlled entities mainly consist of loans held 150,000 treasury shares (85,000 at December 31, 2015), granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in North America valued at €11,147 thousand. (€983,831 thousand), Latin America (€54,255 thousand), Europe In 2016, the Company continued to purchase treasury shares in (€46,578 thousand) and the Asia-Pacific region the amount of 4,128,337 shares (€336,047 thousand, including (€33,147 thousand). transaction fees). During the year, 468,276 shares were presented The main changes in this heading reflect: to beneficiaries of performance shares and free shares, 344,392 shares were presented to holders of BSAAR warrants on ◗ loans granted to subsidiaries in Latin America of exercise, 640,184 shares were presented to bondholders on the €24,969 thousand, Europe of €23,058 thousand and the early redemption of the ORNANE bonds and finally Asia-Pacific region of €14,759 thousand; 617,235 shares were cancelled. ◗ the repayment of loans granted to subsidiaries in the US At December 31, 2016, other financial fixed assets also include (€139,363 thousand), Europe (€34,915 thousand) and the 1,417,645 shares in the course of cancellation. Asia-Pacific region (€12,202 thousand). 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization and amortization and provisions provisions (in thousands of euros) (January 1) Charge Reversal (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 34,010 793 34,803 Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 3,755,180 (645,653) 3,109,527 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 3,789,189 793 (645,653) 3,144,329 Provision reversals of €645,653 thousand concern Dutch, Asia-Pacific, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swiss subsidiaries. 238 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2016: (in thousands of euros) Net asset value Nominal value Carrying amount Listed securities Investment funds (FCP & SICAV) 715,438 715,438 715,438 Treasury shares 112,831 115,748 112,831 Unlisted securities Term deposits 148,350 148,350 148,350 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 92,586 92,586 92,586 TOTAL 1,069,205 1,072,122 1,069,205 Other marketable securities comprise three capitalization fund contracts subscribed in July 2010, August 2010 and November 2014 with leading insurance companies in Europe for €80,000 thousand. The residual balance represents capitalized interest at December 31, 2016. 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end 4 More than one (in thousands of euros) Gross amount One year or less year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 1,119,169 176,647 942,522 Other financial fixed assets 126,111 125,911 200 Current assets Accounts and notes receivable 71 71 Income tax receivable 123,485 66,410 57,075 VAT receivable 2,859 2,859 Receivable from related companies 197,420 197,420 Prepaid expenses 3,598 805 2,793 TOTAL 1,572,713 570,124 1,002,589 Prepaid expenses mainly comprise prepaid interest on the 2015 and 2016 bond issues. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 239 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amortization & Amount at (in thousands of euros) January 1 Increase decrease December 31 Loan issuance fees 17,746 2,447 (7,961) 12,233 TOTAL 17,746 2,447 (7,961) 12,233 Loan issuance fees include fees on the syndicated credit facility, as well as fees on the three 2015 bond issues and on the 2016 bond issue (€2,260 thousand). They are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the debt. In 2014, Cap Gemini S.A. refinanced its multi-currency credit facility with a group of 18 banks for an amount of €750 million. In July 2016, a one-year extension request was accepted by all banks, extending the maturity of this credit facility to July 27, 2021. 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Additional (in thousands of euros) Number of shares Share capital paid-in capital At December 31, 2015 (par value of €8) 172,181,500 1,377,452 6,340,387 Share capital reduction by cancellation of shares (617,235) (4,938) (45,192) AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 (PAR VALUE OF €8) 171,564,265 1,372,514 6,295,195 During the year, the Board of Directors, using the delegation of 8. Performance share plans authority granted for a period of 26 months by the The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 24, 2012, May 23, 11th extraordinary resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ 2013, May 6, 2015 and then May 18, 2016, authorized the Board Meeting, unanimously decided to reduce the share capital by of Directors to grant shares to a certain number of Group €4,938 thousand by cancelling 617,235 Cap Gemini S.A. shares employees, on one or several occasions and within a maximum purchased for cancellation under the share buyback program period of 18 months, subject to performance and/or presence authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, conditions. On December 12, 2012, February 20, 2013, July 30, 2016. The difference between the purchase cost of these 2014, July 29, 2015, February 17, 2016 and July 26, 2016, the 617,235 shares and their par value of €45,192 thousand was Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list deduced from additional paid-in capital. of beneficiaries of these six plans. 7. Share subscription plans The Group no longer grants share subscription options since the plan authorized in 2005. The last grant under this plan was performed in June 2008. 240 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements The main features of these plans are set out in the tables below: 2012 International Plan 2013 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 2,426,555 shares 2,426,555 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1.50% 1.50% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,003,500 1,209,100 Date of Board of Directors’ decision December 12, 2012 February 20, 2013 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first At the end of the first and second calendar years following and second years following the the grant date grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from 2 years and 1 week as from the the grant date (France) or grant date (France) or 4 years 4 years and ½ month as from and 1 week as from the grant the grant date (other date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 4 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date 4 ■ Volatility 25.80% 38.70% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.35% -0.98% 0.59% -1.28% ■ Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Year Year Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 14.35 -28.67 16.18 -32.14 Of which corporate officers 16.18 18.12 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 521,500 713,500 o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 22,000 49,600 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (presence only) (2) (2) 499,500 663,900 Diluted weighted average number of shares 510,500 688,700 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 33.15 36.53 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 241 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 2014 International Plan 2015 International Plan Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,590,639 shares 1,721,759 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% (1) (1) Total number of shares granted 1,290,500 1,068,550 Date of Board of Directors’ decision July 30, 2014 July 29, 2015 Performance assessment dates Three years for the internal Three years for the two performance condition and two years performance conditions for the external performance condition Vesting period 2 years and 7 months as from 2 years as from the grant date the grant date (France) or 4 years (France) or 4 years as from the grant as from the grant date (other date (other countries) countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 4 years 3 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility 26.33% 24.54% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% -0.81% 0.10% -0.55% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% 1.60% Other conditions ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 26.46 -48.26 61.73 -82.18 Of which corporate officers 29.32 56.66 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) 1,232,500 1,064,650 o/w to corporate officers (1) (1) 50,000 40,000 Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year o/w to corporate officers Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 65,500 21,700 Number of shares vested during the year (3) 390,750 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, respect of shares previously subject to conditions (presence only) granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) (2) (4) 776,250 1,042,950 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,036,937 1,053,800 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 53.35 87.60 242 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 2016 International Plans Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1,721,815 shares 1,721,815 shares % of share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision 1% 1% (5) (1) Total number of shares granted 180,500 1,663,500 Date of Board of Directors’ decision February 17, 2016 July 26, 2016 Performance assessment dates Three years for the Presence condition only two performance conditions Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date (France) 3 years and 1 week as from the or 4 years as from the grant date grant date (France) or 4 years as (other countries) from the grant date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years 2 years (France only) Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Volatility n/a 26.35% ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.15% -0.03% 0.2% -0.17% ■ Expected dividend rate 1.60% 1.60% Other conditions 4 ■ Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) ■ Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Monte Carlo for performance shares Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares with external (market) conditions Range of fair values (in euros) ■ Free shares (per share and in euros) n/a n/a ■ Performance shares (per share and in euros) 55.45 -57.59 54.02 -77.1 Of which corporate officers 52.68 Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) o/w to corporate officers Change during the period Number of shares subject to performance and/or presence conditions granted during the year 180,500 1,663,500 o/w to corporate officers (1) 42,000 Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 6,600 10,900 Number of shares vested during the year Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under the plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to conditions (performance and presence) (6) (7) 173,900 1,652,600 Diluted weighted average number of shares 155,050 689,492 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 71.61 83.78 (1) Grant subject to performance conditions only. (2) In respect of the “foreign” plan only. (3) Balance on the “French” plan granted in August 2016 subject to performance and presence conditions at this date. (4) Of which 354,750 shares in respect of the French plan and 688,200 shares in respect of the foreign plan. (5) Grant subject to presence conditions only for beneficiaries employed by IGATE, acquired on July 1, 2015. (6) Of which 7,500 shares in respect of the French plan and 166,400 shares in respect of the foreign plan. (7) Of which 453,350 shares in respect of the French plan and 1,199,250 shares in respect of the foreign plan. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 243 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements a) Shares vested under the 2014 plan basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in Based on an assessment of the performance conditions of the the second case. 2014 plan for shares granted to beneficiaries tax-resident in Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. France, 100% of the initial allocation vested to those beneficiaries share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only still present in the Group at the vesting date at the beginning of 60% of the initial allocation will be granted in respect of the August 2016. external performance condition (i.e. 30% of the initial allocation). With regards to the external performance condition, due to the The terms of the external performance condition were tightened good performance of the share over the calculation period, the for the 2016 plan and accordingly: relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share compared to ◗ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini that of the basket of comparable companies exceeded 110%, the share during the period in question is less than the performance threshold above which 100% of the initial allocation vests in of the basket of securities over the same period; respect of the external performance condition. ◗ the number of shares ultimately granted: With regards to the internal performance condition, cumulative organic free cash flow generation for fiscal years 2013 to 2015 ❚ is equal to 50% of the number of shares initially allocated if exceeded the €1.1 billion threshold, enabling the vesting of the the performance of the Cap Gemini share is at least equal to maximum number of shares in respect of the internal performance 100% of the basket, condition. ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if As both conditions exceeded the maximum vesting thresholds, the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is 100% of shares initially allocated vested to beneficiaries higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, tax-resident in France still present in the Group at the vesting ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the date, subject however to a lock-in period of four years in initial allocation, based on a pre-defined schedule, where the accordance with plan rules. performance of the Cap Gemini share is between 100% and 110% of the basket. A total of 390,750 shares vested under the 2014 plan, representing 94.3% of the maximum possible amount. The The benchmark basket comprises the following securities, with performance conditions are assessed at the same dates and each security equally weighted: under the same conditions for non-French beneficiaries, however ◗ 2012 and 2013 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / Steria / the shares vest at the end of a four-year period, subject to their CGI Group/ Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant; presence in the Group at this date. Vested shares are not, however subject to a lock-in period. ◗ 2014, 2015 and 2016 Plans: Accenture / CSC / Atos / Tieto / CAC 40 index / CGI Group/ Infosys / Sopra / Cognizant. b) Performance conditions of the 2012, 2013 2014, 2015 The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions and 2016 plans is adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, Carlo model, together with a discount for non-transferability for the 2009 regarding the inclusion of an internal and external shares granted in France. performance condition when granting performance shares, the Internal performance condition Board of Directors decided as from the 2010 plan to add an The internal performance condition is based on the generation of internal condition to the external condition initially planned. Organic Free Cash Flow (OFCF) over a three-year period The following internal and external performance conditions apply: encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014 for the 2012 and 2013 The external performance condition accounts for 50% of the grant plans, fiscal years 2013 to 2015 for the 2014 plan, fiscal years calculation as does the internal performance condition. 2015 to 2017 for the 2015 plan and fiscal years 2016 to 2018 for the 2016 plan. Accordingly: External performance condition ◗ no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance The external performance condition is applied in an identical condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow manner across the 2012 to 2015 plans and in line with the over the reference period is less than €750 million for the 2012 conditions applied to the first two plans, as follows: and 2013 plans, €850 million for the 2014 plan, €1,750 million ◗ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. for the 2015 plan and €2,400 million for the 2016 plan; share during the period in question is less than 90% of the ◗ 100% of the initial internal allocation will be granted if Organic performance of the basket of securities over the same period; Free Cash Flow is equal to or exceeds €1 billion for the 2012 ◗ the number of shares ultimately granted: and 2013 plans, €1.1 billion for the 2014 plan, €2 billion for the 2015 plan and €2.7 billion for the 2016 plan. ❚ is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions equal to 90% of the basket, is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. ❚ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to granted in France. 100% of the basket, ❚ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if 9. Free share plan the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is Following the free share grant in 2012, the Combined higher than or equal to 110% of the basket, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 gave the Board of ❚ varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and Directors an 18-month authorization to grant shares to certain between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a Group employees, on one or several occasions subject only to a pre-defined schedule, where the performance of the condition of presence. This authorization was partially used and Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries were set by the Board of Directors Meeting of October 8, 2014. 244 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: 2014 France Plan Date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 23, 2013 Maximum number of shares that may be granted 1% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 1,595,495 shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions (1) Total number of shares granted 104,379 Date of the Board of Directors’ decision October 8, 2014 Grant condition assessment date Presence condition only (employee presence within the Group at the vesting date) Vesting period 2 years as from the grant date Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date 2 years Number of shares at December 31, 2015 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions 96,120 Number of shares subject to presence conditions granted during the year Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 18,594 4 Number of shares vested during the year 77,526 Number of shares at December 31, 2016 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to presence conditions Share price at the grant date (in euros) 52.69 Main market conditions at the grant date ■ Risk-free interest rate 0.34% ■ Expected dividend rate 2.31% Fair value in euros (per share) €43.91 (1) i.e. 6.5% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). These transactions aim to develop employee share ownership by The Board of Director decisions were preceded each time by the enabling all employees of French companies with at least three signature of a company-wide agreement, in respect of payment of months seniority at the grant date to receive shares and thereby the profit-sharing bonus. become Cap Gemini S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting At the end of the vesting period, nearly 77,500 shares vested to period. More than 20,000 employees were concerned by each 15,200 beneficiaries at the beginning of October 2016. share grant, with a differentiated share allocation based on annual salary (four categories), the lowest paid employees receiving more shares than the highest paid employees. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 245 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 10. Change in shareholders’ equity At At December 31, Appropiation of Other December 31, (in thousands of euros) 2015 profit for 2015 movements 2016 Share capital 1,377,452 (4,938) 1,372,514 Additional paid-in capital 6,340,387 (45,192) 6,295,195 Legal reserve 137,708 37 137,745 Other reserves 559,573 559,573 Retained earnings 1,449,264 928,160 2,377,424 Dividends paid 228,749 (228,749) Profit for the year 1,156,947 (1,156,947) 950,196 950,196 Tax-driven provisions 15,948 15,948 TOTAL 11,037,278 671,317 11,708,595 The appropriation of the net profit for 2015 led to the distribution ◗ the share capital reduction by cancellation of 617,235 Cap on June 1, 2016 of a dividend of €1.35 on each of the Gemini S.A. shares purchased under the share buyback 169,444,022 shares ranking for dividends on May 30, 2016 for a program authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of total of €228,749 thousand. The amount not paid out on the May 18, 2016 in the amount of €4,938 thousand; 2,737,478 shares held by the Company on June 1, 2016 of ◗ a decrease in additional paid-in capital of €45,192 thousand €3,696 thousand was appropriated to retained earnings. pursuant to the aforementioned transaction; Other movements mainly concern: ◗ 2016 net profit for the year of €950,196 thousand. 11. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversal (in thousands of euros) At January 1 Charge (utilized) At December 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ relating to foreign exchange losses 143 573 143 573 ■ on derivative instruments 113,516 113,516 TOTAL 113,659 573 113,659 573 In 2016, the €113,516 thousand reversal of provisions on derivative instruments concerns a reversal of the provision for financial risks on a call option on own shares settled during the year. 12. Bond issues and Convertible bonds (in thousands of euros) December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 2011 Bond issue 500,000 ORNANE 2013 400,000 2015-2018 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 2015-2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 1,250,000 2015-2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 2016-2021 Bond issue 500,000 TOTAL 3,650,000 3,250,000 246 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements A) Bond issued on November 29, 2011 (2011 bond issue) ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2018): On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond The nominal amount of this tranche is €500 million, comprising issue maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds rights from November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). mature on July 2, 2018 and pay a floating coupon of 3 month The total nominal amount of the issue was €500 million, Euribor + 85 pb, revised quarterly (issue price 100%). comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2020): The bonds bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,250 million, comprising to 6.50% in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s 12,500 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds credit rating. mature on July 1, 2020 and pay an annual coupon of 1.75% The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the (issue price 99.853%). prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under ◗ 2015 Bond issue (July 2023): reference number n° 11-546. The nominal amount of this tranche is €1,000 million, comprising This bond issue was redeemed in full on November 29, 2016. 10,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 each. The bonds mature on July 1, 2023 and pay an annual coupon of 2.50% B) “ORNANE 2013” bonds issued on October 25, 2013 (issue price 99.857%). (ORNANE 2013) The July 2020 and July 2023 tranches are callable by Cap Gemini On October 18, 2013, Cap Gemini launched a bond issue S.A., subject to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing shares and particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. (Obligations à option de Remboursement en Numéraire et/ou en Actions Nouvelles et/ou Existantes, ORNANE) and maturing on These three bond issues are also subject to standard early 4 January 1, 2019. Bondholders enjoy all rights from October 25, redemption, early repayment and pari passu clauses. 2013. The total nominal amount of the issue was The terms and conditions of these three tranches were set out in €400,000 thousand, comprising 5,958,587 bonds with a nominal the prospectus approved by the AMF on June 29, 2015 under value of €67.13 each, representing an issue premium of 42.5% reference number n° 15-318. compared with the Company benchmark share price at the launch date. The bonds do not bear any interest (zero coupon bonds) D) Bonds issued on November 9, 2016 and will be redeemed at par on January 1, 2019. On November 3, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. placed a €500 million The Bonds may be redeemed early at the initiative of the bond issue comprising 5,000 bonds with a unit value of €100,000 Company subject to certain terms and conditions. each and with a settlement/delivery date of November 9, 2016 (2016 bond issue). In the event of exercise of their share allotment rights, bondholders will receive a cash amount and potentially an amount The bonds mature on November 9, 2021 and pay an annual payable in new and/or existing Cap Gemini S.A. shares. The coupon of 0.50% (issue price 99.769%). The bond issue is Company also has the possibility to present solely new and/or callable before this date by Cap Gemini S.A., subject to certain existing shares. conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly concerning the minimum redemption price. The purpose of the issue was to partially finance the repurchase by the Company of the outstanding OCEANE bonds convertible The bond issue is also subject to standard early redemption, early and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares, maturing on repayment and pari passu clauses. January 1, 2014. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on November 7, 2016 under prospectus approved by the AMF on November 18, 2013 under reference number n° 16-518. reference number n° 13-557. On October 5, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. announced its decision to 13. Bank loans and borrowings redeem early all of the ORNANE bonds outstanding on Bank loans and borrowings total €1,377,376 thousand and November 21, 2016 at par (€67.13). comprise (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign currency bank accounts used in connection with the Group’s worldwide In the context of this early redemption at the initiative of the cash pooling arrangements in the amount of Company, holders of 5,934,131 ORNANE bonds exercised their €1,335,860 thousand, offset in the amount of share allotment rights resulting in the presentation of €1,333,777 thousand by opposite balances presented in cash €398,358 thousand and 640,184 existing shares. On and cash equivalents of the Company, (ii) bank overdrafts in the November 21, 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed all outstanding amount of €167 thousand and (iii) accrued interest not yet due on ORNANE bonds, i.e. 24,456 bonds for a total of €1,642 thousand. bond issues and the EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swap of €41,349 thousand. C) Bonds issued on July 1, 2015 On June 24, 2015, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a “triple tranche” bond issue for a total nominal amount of €2,750 million and with a settlement/delivery date of July 1, 2015: Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 247 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements Syndicated credit facility secured by Cap Gemini S.A. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini’s credit rating would On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. multi-currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, Cap Gemini has agreed to comply with the following financial maturing on January 13, 2016. ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility: This facility was refinanced on July 30, 2014 with a group of ◗ the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be 18 banks by a new multi-currency credit facility for an increased less than one at all times; amount of €750 million, maturing on July 30, 2019. In the event of ◗ the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated net exercise (subject to the approval of the banks) of two one-year finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) extension options, exercisable at the end of the first and second must be equal to or greater than three at December 31 and years, respectively, the maturity of the new facility will be extended June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). by a maximum of two additional years. The credit facility agreement also includes covenants restricting The initial margin on the new credit facility was 0.45% (excluding Cap Gemini S.A.’s ability to carry out certain operations. These the fee on drawn amounts which varies according to the portion of covenants also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include the facility drawn), compared with the margin of 0.75% applied restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset previously at the same credit-rating level. This margin may be sales, mergers and similar transactions. Cap Gemini S.A. also adjusted upwards or downwards according to the credit rating of committed to standard obligations, including an agreement to Cap Gemini. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn maintain pari passu status. amounts equal to 35% of the margin. At December 31, 2016, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. The margin applicable is now 0.45% and the fee on undrawn amounts is 0.1575%. 14. Maturity of payables at the year end More than (in thousands of euros) Gross amount One year or less one year Bond issues ■ 2015-2018 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 ■ 2015-2020 Bond issue 1,250,000 1,250,000 ■ 2015-2023 Bond issue 1,000,000 1,000,000 ■ 2016-2021 Bond issue 500,000 500,000 Sub-total 3,250,000 3,250,000 Bank loans and borrowings ■ Bank overdrafts 167 167 ■ Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 1,335,860 1,335,860 ■ Accrued interest 41,349 41,349 Sub-total 1,377,376 1,377,376 Group loans and borrowings ■ Loans 339,164 214,533 124,631 ■ Group investments 247,434 247,434 ■ Other payables 1,547,642 1,383,001 164,642 Sub-total 2,134,239 1,844,967 289,273 Accounts and notes payable 4,218 4,218 Tax and social security liabilities 2,692 2,692 Other payables 1,261 1,261 TOTAL 6,769,786 3,230,515 3,539,273 Other Group payables mainly consist of subsidiary current account balances under the Group’s worldwide cash pooling arrangement of €1,333,777 thousand and subsidiary current accounts for tax consolidation purposes of €195,210 thousand. 248 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 15. Accrued income and charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: (in thousands of euros) Amount Borrowings ■ Accrued interest 41,349 Other liabilities ■ Accounts and notes payable 3,983 ■ Tax and social security liabilities 776 TOTAL 46,108 Accrued interest payable mainly comprises interest on bond issues of €24,487 thousand and interest payable in US dollars on the EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swap of €16,654 thousand. Accrued income reported in the balance sheet break down as follows: (in thousands of euros) Amount Cash and cash equivalents 4 ■ Accrued interest receivable 7,991 TOTAL 7,991 Accrued interest receivable mainly comprises interest receivable in euros on the EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swap of €7,824 thousand. 16. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables Reported in Provision for foreign (in thousands of euros) Reported in assets liabilities exchange losses On other receivables/payables 573 4,261 573 TOTAL 573 4,261 573 17. Net finance income (expense) (in thousands of euros) Amount Provisions relating to financial items Charge (3,490) Reversal 759,312 Sub-total 755,822 Dividends received 68,926 Sub-total 68,926 Other financial income and expense Net income from short-term investments 1,639 Other investment income (capitalization contracts) 1,533 Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 57,645 Net foreign exchange gains (losses) 40,142 Income from equity derivatives 49,689 Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (17,225) Interest on bond issues (75,107) Interest on the cross currency swap (16,196) Other 114 Sub-total 42,234 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 866,982 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 249 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements Provision reversals of €759,312 thousand comprise reversals of provisions for impairment of equity interests, notably in respect of European subsidiaries in the amount of €474,273 thousand and Asia-Pacific subsidiaries in the amount of €171,380 thousand and a reversal of the provision for financial risks on a call option on own shares settled during the year in the amount of €113,516 thousand. The dividends of €68,926 thousand correspond to dividends received during the period by the Company from its subsidiaries. 18. Net non-recurring income (expense) (in thousands of euros) Amount Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement (779) Sub-total (779) Loss on the delivery of treasury shares (69,839) Other (97) Sub-total (69,936) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (70,715) 19. Income tax expense In France, Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of a French tax consolidation group comprising 19 companies. In 2016, Cap Gemini S.A. recognized an income tax expense in respect of the tax consolidation of €9,002 thousand. In the absence of tax consolidation, Cap Gemini S.A. would have recognized a theoretical income tax expense of €30,810 thousand. Tax losses carried forward by Cap Gemini S.A. amounted to €649,681 thousand at December 31, 2016. Breakdown of the income tax expense 2016 Net profit before Income tax (in thousands of euros) tax expense ■ Recurring profit before tax 1,029,346 (331,888) ■ Net non-recurring income (expense) (70,715) 22,800 ■ Accounting profit for the year before tax 958,630 (309,088) ■ Tax differences (766,519) 247,146 ■ Offset of tax losses carried forward (96,556) 31,132 ■ Tax consolidation of subsidiaries 22,375 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (8,434) Impact of tax-driven valuations (in thousands of euros) Amount Profit for the year 950,196 Income tax expense (net) 8,434 Profit for the year before tax 958,630 Change in tax-driven provisions: ■ Accelerated depreciation Other tax-driven valuations PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX-DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 958,630 250 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements Change in deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax on temporary differences (in thousands of euros) Prior year amount Current year amount Non-deductible provisions Organic sales tax 97 43 Provisions for contingencies and losses Provision for foreign exchange losses 143 573 Net asset value differences on UCITS 1 0 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 208 4,261 Unrealized foreign exchange losses (143) (573) Remeasurement differences on receivables and payables and fair value measurement of derivatives 228,164 96,742 Amortization of the derivative on own shares 8,330 0 TOTAL 236,800 101,047 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 81,530 34,790 Deferred tax assets 4 Tax losses carried forward 746,237 649,681 Tax rate for temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 256,929 223,685 III Other information 20. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given in favor of subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2016 break down as follows: (in thousands of euros) Amount ■ Financial items 108,281 ■ Operating items 1,269,571 ■ Tax items 15,060 TOTAL 1,392,912 Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries (including maximum coverage) are regularly reviewed and adjusted in respect of financial items provide them with access to local to reflect changes in revenues, business activities and risk profiles. cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs on Cap Gemini S.A. granted a financial guarantee in connection with these credit lines at December 31, 2016 amounted to the agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France Telecom to €18,686 thousand. transfer the management of part of the latter’s telecommunications network for a term of eight years, renewed on b) Other commitments January 1, 2012 for a term of six years. The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts c) Financial instruments signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric Industries, Euroclear, the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Currency hedges/Derivative instruments Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Johnson & Johnson At December 31, 2016, the values of external currency derivative Services, Inc., the Department of Work and Pensions, EMC, instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency Monsanto, Becton Dickinson & Company, Carnival Corporation denominated internal financing arrangements, primarily break and Michelin. down as follows: Cap Gemini S.A., together with all of its subsidiaries and any ◗ a euro/Swedish krona swap with a positive value of entities which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are €2,901 thousand for a nominal amount of SEK1,205 insured for the financial implications of any civil or professional (€126 million); liability claims that may be filed against them as a result of their ◗ a euro/Australian dollar swap with a positive value of activities. The insurance is part of a worldwide program €270 thousand for a nominal amount of AUD13 million comprising a number of policies taken out with leading insurance (€9 million); companies. The terms and conditions of this insurance program Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 251 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements ◗ a euro/Singapore dollar swap with a positive value of €57 thousand and mainly concerned the pound sterling, Swedish €53 thousand for a nominal amount of SGD18 million krona, Australian dollar and US dollar. (€12 million); At December 31, 2016, external currency derivative instruments ◗ three euro/US dollar swaps with a net negative value of entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group €4,680 thousand for a nominal amount of USD105 million level, had a net positive value of €217,655 thousand. (€100 million); At December 31, 2016, off-balance sheet commitments given to ◗ a euro/pound sterling swap with a negative value of subsidiaries on internal currency derivative instruments entered €277 thousand for a nominal amount of GBP9 million into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had a (€11 million); negative value of €1,295 thousand. ◗ a euro/Swiss franc swap with a negative value of €250 thousand At December 31, 2016 off-balance sheet commitments given to for a nominal amount of CHF21 million (€19 million); banks in respect of a EUR/USD fix-to-fix cross currency swap had ◗ a euro/Mexican pesos swap with a negative value of €66 thousand a negative value of €34,911 thousand. This commitment given is for a nominal amount of MXN98 million (€4 million). fully offset by a commitment received from the North American subsidiary in respect of a currency swap back-to-back contract At December 31, 2016, external currency derivatives hedging with a positive value of €34,911 thousand. brand royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a positive value of 21. Related companies (in thousands of euros) Total Related companies Balance sheet items ■ Equity interests 17,583,656 17,583,656 ■ Receivable from controlled entities 1,119,169 1,119,169 ■ Payable to controlled entities 586,598 586,598 ■ Related and associated companies receivable 197,420 197,420 payable 1,547,642 1,547,642 Income Statement items ■ Investment income 68,926 68,926 ■ Income on Group loans 55,278 55,278 ■ Other interest and similar income 70,597 1,423 ■ Interest and similar expenses 124,184 17,225 22. Consolidating company 24. Remuneration of members of the Board of Cap Gemini S.A. is the consolidating company for the Capgemini Directors Group. Attendance fees paid to directors in 2016 totaled €755,500 (or €491,183 after deduction of withholding tax for beneficiaries not 23. Subsequent events tax resident in France and the 21% flat-rate income tax advance At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors payment and social security contributions for beneficiaries tax will recommend a dividend payment of €1.55 per share in respect resident in France). of 2016. 25. Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors (in thousands of euros) KPMG PwC Certification of the accounts 500 480 Non-audit services 117 522 TOTAL 617 1,002 252 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4.4 Statutory auditor’s report on the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2016 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether modified or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the specific verification of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to shareholders.This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. Statutory auditor’s report on the financial statements ◗ In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General, we hereby report to you, for the year ended 31 December 2016, on: ◗ the audit of the accompanying financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A ◗ the justification of our assessments; ◗ the specific verifications and information required by law. 4 These financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. I Opinion on the financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sample techniques or other methodes of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2016 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. II Justification of our assessments In accordance with the requirements of article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: The net value of equity interests as reported in the balance sheet amounts to € 14,474 million at 31 December 2016. The accounting rules and methods used to determine the value in use of these investments are described in Note I to the financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the financial statements, taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III Specific verifications and information We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors, and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information.Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (code de commerce) relating to remunerations and benefits received by the directors and any other commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the identity of shareholders and holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 24, 2017 Paris La Défense, February 24, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 253 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.4 2016 Financial statements 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on related party agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on related party agreements and commitments issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., we hereby report to you on related party agreements and commitments. It is our responsibility to report to shareholders, based on the information provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of agreements and commitments that have been disclosed to us or that we may have identified as part of our engagement, without commenting on their relevance or substance or identifying any undisclosed agreements or commitments. Under the provisions of Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), it is the responsibility of the shareholders to determine whether the agreements and commitments are appropriate and should be approved. Where applicable it is also our responsibility to provide shareholders with the information required by Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code in relation to the implementation during the year of agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the information given to us is consistent with the underlying documents. Agreements and commitments to be submitted for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting Agreements and commitments authorized during the year We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized during the year to be submitted for the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments already approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting Agreements and commitments approved in prior years but not implemented during the year Pursuant to Article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we have been informed that the following agreements and commitments, previously approved by Shareholders’ Meetings in prior years, have remained in force during the year. ◗ Supplementary collective pension scheme for Paul Hermelin (CEO) Type: A supplementary collective defined benefit pension scheme set up by the Company in favor of certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the development of the Capgemini Group. Paul Hermelin has been registered as a beneficiary of this plan since the April 10, 2007 Shareholders' Meeting. Purpose and terms and conditions: On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the creation of a collective defined benefit pension scheme in favor of certain senior executives of the Group, enabling them to obtain, upon their retirement, a supplementary pension that may not exceed 40% of their reference earnings. The beneficiary’s total cumulative pension benefits may not exceed 50% of the reference earnings which are capped at 60 times the annual ceiling for social security contributions. The July 29, 2015 Board of Directors' Meeting decided to freeze Paul Hermelin's rights under this supplementary scheme, effective from October 31, 2015, without consideration, hence a change in the Company’s favor. On December 7, 2016, the Board of Directors took due note that this agreement had been submitted to it to be reexamined. Paul Hermelin did not receive any remuneration under this agreement in 2016. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 24, 2017 Paris La Défense, February 24, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner 254 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5.1 Five-year financial summary (in thousand of euros) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 I-SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1,294,163 1,282,543 1,308,744 1,377,452 1,372,514 Number of common shares outstanding 161,770,362 160,317,818 163,592,949 172,181,500 171,564,265 Maximum number of future shares to be created: ■ through exercise of equity warrants 5,242,822 5,910,064 6,412,285 3,980,902 4,809,100 ■ through conversion of convertible bonds 16,911,765 5,961,483 5,958,587 5,958,587 II-OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 230,370 241,145 248,316 311,679 303,956 4 Operating revenue and financial revenue 763,415 700,839 1,480,875 2,165,823 1,501,074 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 189,839 38,404 284,241 224,791 236,553 Income tax 21,562 (11,344) 33,555 29,532 8,434 Net income / (losses) 247,759 164,839 1,161,201 1,156,947 950,196 Distributed income 159,199 176,274 195,150 231,222 261,229* III-EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Earnings after taxes, but before amortization and provisions 1.04 0.31 1.53 1.13 1.33 Net earnings 1.53 1.03 7.10 6.72 5.54 Dividend per share 1.00 1.03 1.20 1.35 1.55 IV-Employee data Average number of employee during the year Cap Gemini S.A. does not have any employees Total payroll Total benefits (*) Subject to approval by the shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2016, i.e. 168,534,908 shares, and could therefore change (and the same may be for the total amount of retained earnings) if this number varies between January 1, 2017 and the ex-dividend date. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 255 4 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 4.5 Other financial and accounting information 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments Other Book value of share shares Loans & Guaran holders’ Number of advances tees 2016 (in millions of euros) Capital equity(1) % interest shares owned Gross Net granted given Revenue Dividends Subsidiaries Capgemini North America Inc 1 2,643 100.00% 982,000 9,132 7,186 984 6 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 620 1 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 9 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 12 25 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 801 Capgemini AB (Suède) 3 277 100.00% 25,861 387 387 8 21 26 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 314 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 1,262 27 Capgemini Business services BV 16 (9) 100.00% 35,289 38 38 Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 4 95.59% 3 629 629 5 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 4 100.00% 64,999 60 46 3 18 Capgemini Suisse AG 24 100.00% 500 73 61 19 79 64 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o 4 34 100.00% 129,160 25 25 205 11 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 1 100.00% 1 2 2 10 capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 2 99.00% 21,255 8 8 2 8 Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 794 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 9 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 8 99.99% 329,996 3 3 41 2 Sogeti S.A.S. 261 415 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 26 100.00% 3,575,000 543 307 10 17 275 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 42 (14) 85.73% 363,217 319 181 5 229 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 8 5 100.00% 1,698,842 44 29 30 Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 2 7 99.80% 12,900,034 1 1 27 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 2 1.16% 126,369 16 Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. 151 (23) 100.00% 217,083,711 270 270 12 31 4 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd 141 (115) 100.00% 1,575,512 182 182 9 213 Capgemini Technology Services India Limited 8 1,241 11.99% 7,090,662 25 25 1,584 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 15 100.00% 8,000,000 164 23 15 401 S.C.I. Paris Étoile 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 3 2 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L 3 (1) 99.90% 1,004,628 52 52 4 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 3 (1) 100.00% 210,000 3 3 19 Capgemini Latin America 468 (375) 100.00% 46,824,750 477 94 47 4 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 8 Other French compagnies nm nm nm nm nm nm nm nm Investments As of December 31, 2016, investments held by Cap Gemini SA. are not material nm:not material (1) Including net income for the year 256 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 258 5.3 Current ownership structure 266 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements Shareholders’ agreements 267 and delegations of authority) 258 5.1.2 Financial authorizations 259 5.4 Share buyback program 268 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding 261 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 268 5.1.4 Employee shareholders 261 5.4.2 Description of the share buy-back program to be 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting on all securities granting access to the Company’s May 10, 2017 268 share capital 262 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market 263 Cap Gemini share ownership structure at the end of December 2016 (based on a shareholder survey) 263 2017 Provisional financial calendar 263 Dividend payment policy 265 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 257 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements and delegations of authority) Amount of capital At December 31, 2016, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,372,514,120, divided into 171,564,265 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. Changes in the Company’s share capital over the past five years Additional paid-in Share capital capital Number of shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 161,770,362 1,294,162,896 5,818,093,835 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 285,000 2,280,000 (6,240) ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes ■ Shares issued following the conversion of OCEANE 2009 bonds 1,188,167 9,505,336 30,892,342 Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,925,711) (23,405,688) (76,702,738) AT DECEMBER 31, 2013 160,317,818 1,282,542,544 5,772,277,199 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued reserved for employees 5,000,000 40,000,000 190,000,000 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (864,294) ■ Shares issued after the vesting of performance shares 530,539 4,244,312 (4,244,312) Allocation to legal reserve (1,458,070) Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (2,255,408) (18,043,264) (103,919,200) AT DECEMBER 31, 2014 163,592,949 1,308,743,592 5,851,791,323 Share capital increase: ■ Shares issued by private placement 6,700,000 53,600,000 452,250,000 ■ Shares issued after the vesting of free shares 6 48 0 ■ Shares issued following the exercise of BSAAR warrants 1,888,545 15,108,360 49,102,170 ■ Issue costs for shares, net of taxes (5,922,837) Allocation to legal reserve (6,833,742) AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 172,181,500 1,377,452,000 6,340,386,914 Capital reduction: ■ Cancellation of treasury shares (617,235) (4,937,880) (45,191,920) AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 171,564,265 1,372,514,120 6,295,194,994 258 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.2 Financial authorizations Authorizations granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors to increase share capital The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Authorization Maximum date and amount(1) (2) resolution Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number Expiry date Used during 2016 a) Purchase by the Company of its own 10% of share 05/18/2016/10th 11/18/2017 4,128,337 shares were purchased under the shares under a share buyback capital share buyback program (excluding the program Liquidity contract) at an average price of €81.18 As part of the Liquidity contract: a) 2,686,396 shares purchased at an average market price of €81.12 b) 2,621,396 shares sold at an average market price of €81.33 c) The balance on 12/31/2016 is 150,000 shares and about €9 million. b) Cancellation of treasury shares 10% of share 05/18/2016/11th 07/18/2018 617,235 shares with a value of capital €50,129,800.47 were cancelled by decision per 12-month of the Board of Directors on 07/26/2016. period 5 c) Share capital increase by capitalizing €1.5 billion 05/18/2016/12th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 additional paid-in capital, reserves, (par value) profit or other eligible amounts d) Share capital increase by issuing €550 million 05/18/2016/13th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €7.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with retention of PSR e) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/14th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €2.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by public offering f) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/15th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €2.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by private placement g) Setting the issue price of shares in €137 million 05/18/2016/16th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 the context of a share capital (par value) increase with cancellation of PSR €2.5 billion (issue amount) 10% of share capital “Greenshoe” option (d) to (g) 05/18/2016/17th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €550 million and a maximum issue amount of €7.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; including a maximum par value amount of €137 million and a maximum issue amount of €2.5 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to j) and k) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. Abbreviations: PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 259 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital Authorization Maximum date and amount(1) (2) resolution Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number Expiry date Used during 2016 h) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/18th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital in €2.5 billion consideration for contributions in kind (issue amount) 10% of share capital i) Share capital increase by issuing €125 million 05/07/2014/29th 07/07/2016 This authorization was not used in 2016 ordinary shares and/or securities (par value) granting access to the share capital, €1.25 billion or granting a right to allocation of 10% of share debt instruments, in consideration for capital shares tendered to a public exchange offer made by the Company j) Share capital increase by issuing €48 million 05/18/2016/19th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) (2) access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for members of Group savings plans k) Share capital increase by issuing €48 million 05/18/2016/20th 11/18/2017 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) (2) access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries l) Grant of performance shares 1% of share 05/18/2016/21st 11/18/2017 1,663,500 performance shares (€13.3 million capital par value) were granted to 1,175 beneficiaries by decision of the Board of Directors on 07/26/2016 (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €550 million and a maximum issue amount of €7.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; including a maximum par value amount of €137 million and a maximum issue amount of €2.5 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to j) and k) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. Delegations to be presented at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 Authorization date and resolution Duration Purpose of the authorization Maximum amount number Expiry Date Purchase by the Company of its own shares under a share buyback 10% of share 18 months program capital 05/10/2017/11th (up to 11/10/2018) 18 months Grant of performance shares 1% of share capital 05/10/2017/16th (up to 11/10/2018) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for €48 million 18 months members of Group savings plans (par value) (1) 05/10/2017/17th (up to 11/10/2018) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for €24 million 18 months employees of certain non-French subsidiaries (par value) (1) 05/10/2017/18th (up to 11/10/2018) (1) The total share capital increases decided pursuant the 18th resolution are included in the general limit of the 17th resolution. Abbreviations: PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights 260 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital Use of authorizations during 2016 Pursuant to the powers conferred on it by the Extraordinary Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the eleventh resolution, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the tenth resolution, the the Board of Directors in its meeting of July 26, 2016 cancelled Board of Directors purchased 4,128,337 shares under the share 617,235 shares with a value of €50,129,800.47. buyback program (excluding the Liquidity contract) at an average In addition and pursuant to the authorization granted by the price of €81.18. As part of the Liquidity contract 2,686,396 shares Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the were purchased at an average price of €81.12 and twenty-first resolution, the Board of Directors decided on July 26, 2,621,396 shares were sold at an average market price of €81.33. 2016 the issue of 1,663,500 performance shares to The balance of the Liquidity contract on December 31, 2016 is 1,175 beneficiaries (managers and employees of French and 150,000 shares and about €9 million. foreign subsidiaries, members of the Executive Committee including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer). 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding The bonds redeemable in cash and/or in new and/or existing Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants issued in 2009 having shares (ORNANE) issued in October 2013 having been paid by matured in July 2016, no other share equivalent was outstanding anticipation during the last quarter of 2016 and the Redeemable as at December 31, 2016. 5.1.4 Employee shareholders Share subscription or purchase plans The external performance condition is based on the comparative Cap Gemini no longer grants stock options. The last stock option performance of the Cap Gemini share against average plan expired in June 2013. performance over a minimum of three years (in line with the period covered by the internal performance condition). Performance shares grant Accordingly, the total number of shares that will vest to 5 beneficiaries at the end of the vesting period will be equal: Performance shares grant in 2016 ◗ a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement of authorized the Board of Directors in its twenty first resolution to the chosen internal performance target: published and audited grant performance shares to employees and corporate officers of organic free cash flow for the three years from 2016 to 2018 the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, during compared with a minimum objective of €2,400 million; the a period of 18 months commencing May 18, 2016. The number of maximum number of shares will vest for organic free cash flow shares granted (existing and to be issued) was not to exceed 1% generation of more than €2,700 million; and of the share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision ◗ a number of shares equal to half the number indicated in the to grant such shares (this maximum number of shares being grant notification multiplied by the percentage achievement of referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a maximum of 10% of the chosen external performance target: performance of the Cap “N”, these performance shares may be granted to the executive Gemini share compared with the average performance corporate officer of the Company, it being specified that the measured over an identical three year period of a basket of portion of shares that must be held by him until the end of his term securities and indexes containing (i) shares of 8 listed companies of office is set by the Board of Directors. By exception, and for an operating in the same sector as the Group in a minimum of five amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may be granted to countries in which the Group is firmly established employees of the Company and its French and non-French (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and subsidiaries, excluding members of the General Management Cognizant) and (ii) the CAC 40 index. No shares vest in respect Team (the “Executive Committee”), without performance of the external performance condition if the relative performance conditions. of the Cap Gemini share is less than 100% of the average Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ meeting of performance of the basket. July 26, 2016 decided the issue of 1,663,500 performance shares The vesting period was set by the Board of Directors at three to 1,154 managers and employees of the Group, 20 members of years for beneficiaries tax-resident in France and four years for the Executive Committee (excluding Mr. Paul Hermelin) and beneficiaries non-tax-resident in France. In addition, a two years Mr. Paul Hermelin. minimum holding period for vested shares following the vesting As for the 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 grant plans, the internal period was set for beneficiaries tax-resident in France. performance condition is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over a Furthermore, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is required three-year period, reflecting the Board of Directors’ desire to to hold the shares vested until the end of his term of office in the prioritize long-term goals in the context of these grants. amount of 50% of shares vested if the number of shares held by him at the grant date, valued at the grant price, is equal to less than two years’ theoretical salary, and in the amount of 33% otherwise. In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, performance share grants will be undertaken at the same calendar periods from now on and will be decided by either the Board of Directors’ meeting held at the end of July or at the following meeting generally held at the beginning of October. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 261 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital Share grants without performance conditions in 2016 Accenture, Atos, CSC, CGI Group, Cognizant, Infosys, Sopra The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 6, 2015 Steria, and Tieto with the CAC 40 index in addition. For this grant, authorized the Board of Directors in its ninth resolution to grant no shares vest in respect of the external performance condition if performance shares to employees and corporate officers of the the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 90% Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, during a of the average performance of the basket over a two-year period, period of 18 months commencing May 6, 2015. The number of while 30% of shares vest if this performance is equal to that of the shares granted (existing and to be issued) was not to exceed 1% basket and 50% of shares vest if this performance is 110% or of the share capital at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision more of that of the basket. to grant such shares (this maximum number of shares being The internal and external performance conditions for this plan referred to hereafter by the letter “N”). Up to a maximum of 10% of were satisfied in full, enabling the vesting to beneficiaries “N”, these performance shares may be granted to the executive tax-resident in France of 390,750 shares in August 2016. corporate officer of the Company, it being specified that the portion of shares that must be held by him until the end of his term Vesting of restricted shares in 2016 of office is set by the Board of Directors. By exception, and for an Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may be granted to Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 in the tenth resolution, the employees of the Company and its French and non-French Board of Directors granted (i) 104,379 shares subject to presence subsidiaries, excluding members of the General Management conditions only on October 8, 2014. Team (the “Executive Committee”), without performance conditions. These restricted shares were granted subject to a vesting period of two years and therefore 77,526 shares have been definitely Pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors’ meeting of granted to more than 15,200 employees in October 2016. February 17, 2016 decided the issue of 180,500 restricted shares to 164 managers and employees of IGATE bought in July 1, 2015 and which were therefore not included in the scope of the July 26, International employee shareholding system 2016 grant due to the lack of time to ensure an appropriate The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of May 26, 2011 and selection. Neither the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, nor May 7, 2014 authorized the Board of Directors to issue a the Group Executive Committee members were beneficiaries of maximum of 6 million shares by way of a share capital increase this grant. reserved for employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries who are members of Vesting of performance shares in 2016 the Capgemini Group Company Savings Plan. Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Extraordinary The international employee shareholding transaction performed in Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 in the tenth resolution, the 2012 was subscribed in the amount of 6 million shares directly Board of Directors granted (i) 1,290,500 shares subject to and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by performance and presence conditions on July 30, 2014. Group employees from 19 countries. These performance shares were granted subject to a vesting The international employee shareholding transaction performed in period of two years for beneficiaries tax-resident in France and 2014 was subscribed in the amount of 5 million shares directly four years for beneficiaries not tax resident in France. The grant and indirectly via an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (FCPE) by therefore vested for French tax residents on July 30, 2016. Group employees from 20 countries. This performance shares grant is subject to internal and external It is recalled that subscribers to the first employee share performance conditions. These conditions are detailed in the ownership plan “ESOP 2009” (which expired on December 16, resolution presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 2014) had the option of recovering their investment (and in authorizing the Board of Directors to grant performance shares. numerous cases reinvesting in the 2014 plan) or leaving their The internal performance condition for this share grant concerned investment in the Group Savings Plan (France only). organic free cash flow generated over the three year period, 2013, Overall and pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102 of the 2014 and 2015. French Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you that The external performance condition was assessed based on the employees and corporate officers of the Company (and related performance of the Cap Gemini share compared with a basket of companies) together held 5.3% of the Company’s share capital at comparable companies in our business sector in at least five December 31, 2016. different countries. These companies were as follows for 5.1.5 Potential dilution resulting from the exercise of all securities granting access to the Company’s share capital As of December 31, 2016, the potential dilution in respect of performance and free share grants plans was 2.7%. 262 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market At December 31, 2016, the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A. 617,235 shares in July 2016. Cap Gemini shares are in particular comprised 171,564,265 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). included in the CAC 40 and the Euronext 100 indexes and the Cap Gemini shares are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market Dow Jones STOXX and Dow Jones Euro STOXX. Between (compartment A) and are eligible for the SRD deferred settlement January 1 and December 31, 2016, Cap Gemini saw its share system of the Paris Stock Exchange. The decrease in the number price going down 6.37% to end the year at €80.15. of shares between 2015 and 2016 is due to the cancellation of Cap Gemini share ownership structure at the end of December 2016 (based on a shareholder survey) 8.9% Individual 1.8% shareholders Treasury shares 5.5% Board members and Group employees 83.8% 63.8% 5 Institutional International investors 20% French 2017 Provisional financial calendar This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes only 2017 First quarter revenues: April 26, 2017 and may be subject to subsequent amendments. 2017 First half results: July 27, 2017 2017 Third quarter revenues: October 25, 2017 2017 Annual results: February 15, 2018 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 263 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market Stock market capitalization From January 2015 to February 2017 In billions of euros 16 14 12 Source : Bloomberg 10 15 15 -1 5 15 15 15 16 16 16 16 16 16 17 yma yer beryhma julyer beryua r rch ma y jul mb ua r ma ymb ua r jan no jan rc no jan septe ve m septe ve m Share performance From December 31, 2014 to February 28, 2017 In euros 94 90 86 82 78 74 70 66 62 58 Source : Bloomberg 54 50 14 15 15 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 16 16 16 17 1/ 8/ 0/ 0/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 9/ 0/ 0/ 1/ 1/ 1/ 8/ /3 /2 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /2 /3 /3 /3 /3 /3 /2 12 02 04 06 08 10 12 02 04 06 08 10 12 02 CAP GEMINI: + 36% CAC 40: + 14% Europe STOXX 600: + 8% Number of trades per month on NYSE EURONEXT PARIS From January 2015 to February 2017 In millions of shares 25 20 15 10 5 Source : Bloomberg 0 5 5 15 15 5 5 6 6 16 16 16 6 17 -1 -1 yy-1 -1 -1 -1 yy-1 ua rch be mb ua rch bermb yry ma jul r er ry ma jul er ua r jan ma pte jan ma pte jan m nove m nove se se 264 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.2 Cap Gemini and the stock market Share price and trading volume The following table presents an analysis of trading in the Company’s shares on NYSE Euronext Paris over the last 24 months: Trading volume Share price (in euros) Number of shares Number of Average Value Month trading days High Average Low total (daily) (millions of euros) March 15 22 78.260 74.912 71.960 15,621,830 710,083 1,167.4 April 15 22 85.770 79.065 75.580 16,616,307 830,815 1,322.6 May 15 21 85.000 80.809 76.230 16,353,988 817,699 1,320.4 June 15 22 83.410 79.274 75.830 20,316,438 923,474 1,605.0 July 15 23 90.800 85.660 79.020 17,255,940 750,258 1,478.1 August 15 21 88.500 83.539 73.380 15,985,302 761,205 1,324.3 September 15 22 81.660 78.791 76.370 13,371,313 607,787 1,055.7 October 15 22 83.370 79.199 73.560 16,485,782 749,354 1,299.4 November 15 21 88.000 82.749 79.750 12,429,827 591,897 1,031.7 December 15 23 88.870 85.486 83.020 11,428,916 519,496 981.4 January 16 21 85.390 81.757 77.620 13,343,731 667,187 1,089.3 February 16 20 85.160 75.783 67.700 18,420,888 921,044 1,379.6 March 16 24 84.700 78.780 74.850 15,807,511 718,523 1,246.7 April 16 21 83.630 80.780 77.960 12,768,662 608,032 1,032.2 May 16 22 86.060 82.199 78.680 10,500,146 477,279 862.7 5 June 16 22 89.010 83.939 73.450 17,625,297 801,150 1,459.9 July 16 21 86.730 79.364 72.380 13,842,367 659,160 1,102.5 August 16 23 89.400 85.754 82.950 8,218,761 357,337 705.0 September 16 22 89.520 87.192 84.190 10,081,839 458,265 878.1 October 16 21 89.800 82.469 75.000 19,325,817 920,277 1,574.2 November 16 22 77.560 74.623 71.100 19,053,091 866,050 1,417.5 December 16 22 80.810 77.437 71.450 14,368,098 684,195 1,104.4 January 17 18 81.740 79.102 74.050 10,602,767 589,043 836,9 February 17 20 83.380 79.133 75.71 12,080,322 604,016 959.6 Source: Euronext Dividend payment policy The Group has a historic dividend distribution policy that ensures issued on December 31st. In case exceptional items have been a balance between the investments required for its development recognized, in particular non-cash items, net income (Group and the distribution of profits to shareholders. The payout ratio is share), may be restated for these items before applying the payout approximately 35%. The ratio is defined as: dividend per share / ratio. net profit (Group share) per share based on the number of shares Dividends paid by Cap Gemini Dividend distribution Number of shares Dividend per share Year ended December 31 In € million In % of net income 2012 € 162 39% 161,700,362 € 1.00 2013 € 176 44% 160,317,818 € 1.10 2014 € 196 40% 163,592,949 € 1.20 2015 € 232 34% 172,181,500 € 1.35 2016 € 266 36% 171,564,265 € 1.55* (*) Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 265 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.3 Current ownership structure 5.3 Current ownership structure At December 31, 2016, the share capital amounted to ◗ Caisse des dépôts disclosed that it had reduced its interest €1,372,514,120 (compared with €1,377,452,000 at December below the threshold of 1% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share capital 31, 2015) following the cancellation of 617,235 shares decided by and voting rights on February 22, 2016. the Board of Directors of July 26, 2016. ◗ Citigroup Inc. disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest The ownership structure at December 31, 2016 is presented above and below the threshold of 1% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share below. No shares carry double voting rights. At December 31, capital and voting rights on April 28, 2016 and on May 16, 2016. 2016, Cap Gemini held 2 879 357 of its own shares. ◗ Crédit Suisse disclosed that it had raised and reduced its At December 31, 2016, there were 16,851 registered interest above and below the threshold of 1% of Cap Gemini shareholders. S.A.'s share capital and voting rights on February 12, 2016 and on March 4, 2016. Pursuant to Article L.233-13 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders ◗ DNCA Investments disclosed that it had raised its interest above that, based on notifications received, the shareholder held more the threshold of 1% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share capital and than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights at the voting rights on April 26, 2016 and, successively raised, reduced year-end was Société Générale(1). and raised its interest above, below and above the threshold of 2%, on November 14, 2016, November 22, 2016 and The Company has been notified of legal thresholds crossings from December 13, 2016. the following companies: ◗ GIC Private Ltd disclosed that it had raised its interest above the The US company BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of clients and thresholds of 1%, 2% and 3% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share managed funds, disclosed that it had reduced, raised and then capital and voting rights, successively on March 18, 2016, reduced its interest above and below the threshold of 5% of the March 31, 2016, and November 18, 2016 and reduced its Company’s share capital and voting rights on December 14 and interest below the threshold of 3%, on December 28, 2016. 28 and 29, 2016 as a result of a disposal and an acquisition ◗ Norges Bank disclosed that it had successively reduced, raised, followed by a disposal of Cap Gemini shares on the market and holds 4.85% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights on reduced and raised its interest below, above, below and above behalf of such funds. the threshold of 2% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share capital and voting rights, on June 1, 2016, June 28, 2016, August 9, 2016 The Swedish company Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and September 2, 2016. disclosed that it had raised and then reduced its interest above ◗ Société Générale reported various threshold crossings during and below the threshold of 5% of the Company’s share capital 2016, the ultimate disclosure being that it had reduced its and voting rights on May 31 and June 7, 2016 respectively as a interest below the threshold of 6% of Cap Gemini S.A.'s share result of an acquisition followed by a disposal of Cap Gemini capital and voting rights, on December 16, 2016. shares on the market and holds on behalf of funds 0.01% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights. ◗ UBS Asset Management disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest above and below the threshold of 1% of Cap The Company received the following notifications pursuant to the Gemini S.A.'s share capital and voting rights, on February 9, provisions of its bylaws: 2016 and on February 10, 2016. ◗ BNP Paribas Investment Partners disclosed that it had reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of Capgemini S.A.'s share capital and voting rights on February 15, 2016. Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 0.19% of the Company’s share capital. (1) It follows the repeal of the so-called trading exception which exempted providers of investment services from including in their threshold crossing disclosures certain agreements or financial instruments considered to have an economic effect similar to the ownership of shares, following the enactment into French law of the revised transparency directive 2013/50/EU by Order no.2015-576 of December 3, 2015 (e.g. forward purchase with physical settlement). 266 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.3 Current ownership structure Changes in the ownership structure over the past three years At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2015 At December 31, 2016 Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting Number of % share % voting shares capital rights shares capital rights shares capital rights Serge Kampf (a) 4,250,000 2.6 2.6 3,670,000 2.1 2.1 Paul Hermelin 147,048 0.1 0.1 247,048 0.1 0.1 297,048 0.2 0.2 Public (b) (bearer + registered) 148,108,652 90.5 90.5 157,785,099 91.7 91.7 159,178,049 92.8 92.8 Employee shareholders 10,119,071 6.2 6.2 9,573,246 5.6 5.6 9,059,811 5.3 5.3 Treasury shares 968,178 0.6 0.6 906,107 0.5 0.5 3,029,357 1.8 1.8 Own shares TOTAL 163,592,949 100 100 172,181,500 100 100 171,564,265 100 100 (a) Serge Kampf passed away on March 15, 2016 and his outstanding participation is no longer recognized as Corporate officer (b) Including share capital held by managers The Company does not hold any “own shares”. Based on a shareholder identification carried out at December 15, 2016, the Company has identified 1,130 bearer shareholders holding more than 500 shares. No shares carry double voting rights. Each share carries entitlement to one vote irrespective of whether the share is held in registered or bearer form. Shareholders’ agreements 5 There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 267 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4 Share buyback program 5.4.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 renewed the ◗ transfer of 468,276 shares to employees under the free share authorization granted to the Company to buy back its shares. This grant plan; authorization was used in 2016 in connection with the liquidity ◗ transfer of 344,392 shares to holders of redeemable share contract (entered into with Oddo Corporate Finance until subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) who exercised their September 30, 2016, and with Kepler Cheuvreux from October 3, Cap Gemini S.A. share allotment rights in 2016; 2016 onwards) and more generally as part of the continued purchase by the Company of its own shares. ◗ transfer of 640,184 shares to holders of ORNANE who exercised their conversion rights; The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the Cap Gemini S.A. share and to allow regular quotations. In 2016, a total ◗ cancellation of 617,235 shares. of 2,686,396 shares were purchased on behalf of Cap Gemini Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax S.A., at an average price of €81.12 per share, representing 1.57% totaled €902,862 in 2016. of the share capital at December 31, 2016. During the same At December 31, 2016, excluding the liquidity contract period, 2,621,396 Cap Gemini S.A. shares were sold at an the 2,879,357 treasury shares representing 1.68% of the average price of €81.33 per share, representing 1.53% of the Company’s share capital were allocated as follows: share capital at December 31, 2016. At year-end, the liquidity account balance comprised 150,000 treasury shares (0.09% of ◗ 1,461,712 shares for grant or sale to employees and/or the share capital) and approximately €9 million. corporate officers; and In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares in ◗ 1,417,645 shares to the objective of cancellation. 2016. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held Finally, it is noted that during 2016 533,699 treasury shares 2,879,357 of its own shares at December 31, 2016, following the previously allocated for grant to holders of securities granting various transactions described below: access to the Company’s share capital on the exercise of the ◗ purchase of 4,128,337 shares representing 2.41% of the share rights attached to these securities were reallocated to the capital as at December 31, 2016, at an average price of €81.18 objective of cancellation. per share; 5.4.2 Description of the share buy-back program to be authorized by the Shareholders’ Meeting on May 10, 2017 Pursuant to articles 241-1 et seq. of the Autorité des marchés Breakdown by objective of held shares financiers (AMF – the French financial market authority) general The 1,100,552 own shares held as at February 24, 2017 are regulations, the purpose of this program description is to describe allocated as follows: the objectives and the terms of the share buy-back program subject to the authorization of the Shareholders’ Meeting on ◗ 138,340 shares to the objective of managing the secondary May 10, 2017. market or maintaining the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share by way of a liquidity contract signed with Kepler Cheuvreux on October 3, 2016; Legal framework – Date of the General Meeting of shareholders called to authorize the share ◗ 962,212 shares to the objective of the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate officers. buy-back program This share buy-back program is taking place within the legal Objectives of the share buy-back program and framework of articles L.225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, and within the scope of the European Regulation allocation of shares purchased No. 2273/2003 of December 22, 2003 taken by way of Cap Gemini's intention is to make use of the possibility to acquire application of the 2003/6/CE directive of January 28, 2003, its own shares, with the following objectives: referred to as “Market Abuse” directive or any other European ◗ the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate regulation that may be substituted for it. officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by law), in The May 10, 2017 Shareholders’ Meeting will be offered to particular with a view to the allocation of free shares pursuant to authorize the implementation of this share buy-back program. the provisions of Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, the allocation or sale of shares to employees Pursuant to the provisions of article 241-2 II of the AMF general under the French statutory profit-sharing scheme or the regulations, any change in the information contained in this implementation of any company or group savings plan (or similar program description listed in §3, 4 and 5 of section I of plan) on the terms provided by law, in particular article 241-2 will be, as soon as practicable, made available to the Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du general public, in accordance with the provisions of article 221-3 travail), and generally, honoring all obligations relating to share of the AMF general regulations, notably by making it available on option programs or other share allocations to employees or the Company’s website: www.capgemini.com corporate officers of the Company or a related company; or 268 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 5.4 Share buyback program ◗ the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to own shares as at February 24, 2017, representing 0.65% of its securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, share capital as at February 24, 2017 the maximum number of conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other shares which may be purchased amounts to 15,814,406 shares, means; or representing 9.35% of the share capital as at February 24, 2017, ◗ the cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased; or unless the Company sells or cancels own shares currently held. ◗ the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) in ◗ Maximum purchase price: €130 per share (or the equivalent at connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or asset-for-share the same date in any other currency). It should be noted that (i) exchanges; or this price will be adjusted in the event of a change in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing ◗ the management of the secondary market or maintenance of the reserves, a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse stock liquidity of the Cap Gemini share by an investment services split, a distribution of reserves or any other assets, a share provider under a liquidity contract that complies with the ethical capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting share code recognized by the Autorité des marchés financiers (AMF capital and (ii) the total amount of purchases may not exceed the French financial markets authority). €2,190 million. This program is also intended to enable the implementation of any market practice that may be permitted by the AMF and more Implementation and duration of the share generally the carrying out of any transaction that complies with buy-back program prevailing regulations. ◗ Implementation of the program: Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed at any time other than during the Proportion of share capital, number of shares period of a public offer for the Company’s shares, subject to the and purchase price limits authorized by prevailing laws and regulations, on one or ◗ Maximum percentage of the share capital and maximum number more occasions and by any means, and particularly on regulated of shares of Cap Gemini that may be purchased: Purchases of markets, via a multilateral trading facility or systematic the Company’s own shares may be made such that, at the date internalizer or over the counter, including by block purchases or of each purchase, the total number of shares acquired by the sales, by public offer for cash or shares or using options or other Company since the beginning of the buyback program (including forward financial instruments traded on regulated markets, via a the shares subject to the current purchase) does not exceed multilateral trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the 5 10% of the shares comprising the Company’s share capital at counter, either directly or through an investment services that date (1) (including transactions impacting the share capital provider, or in any other manner (with no limit on the portion of and performed after the May 10, 2017 Shareholders’ Meeting), it the share buyback program carried out by each of these being stipulated that (i) the number of shares purchased with a means). view to their retention or presentation in a merger, demerger or ◗ Share buy-back program duration and schedule: asset-for-share exchange transaction may not exceed 5% of the eighteen months as from the date of adoption of the eleventh Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are resolution by the May 10, 2017 Combined Shareholders’ repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set out in the AMF Meeting, i.e., up to November 10, 2018. Pursuant to general regulations, the number of shares taken into account in article 225-209 of the French Code of Commerce, the aggregate calculating the above 10% limit will be the number of shares number of shares which may be cancelled in any given period of purchased minus the number of shares resold during the twenty-four months shall not exceed 10% of the Company’s authorization period. For illustrative purposes, as at February share capital (adjusted for any transactions performed after the 24, 2017, considering that the Company holds 1,100,552 of its May 10, 2017, Combined Shareholders’ Meeting). (1) i.e., for illustrative purposes, on the basis of the total number of shares issued and outstanding as at February 24, 2017, 16,914,958 shares. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 269 5 CAP GEMINI AND ITS SHAREHOLDERS 270 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Report 6 of the Board of Directors and draft resolutions to be presented at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports 309 Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 272 6.5 Report of the Conversion Auditor 6.2 Resolutions presented at the on the conversion of Cap Gemini Extraordinary into a European company Shareholders’ Meeting 290 (Societas Europaea, SE) 312 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval 306 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 271 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting This report presents the proposed resolutions submitted to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting by the Board of Directors. It consists of this introduction, the overview statements preceding the resolutions and a summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval. The objective of this report is to draw your attention to the important points in the draft resolutions, in accordance with prevailing laws and regulations and with best corporate governance practice recommended for companies listed in Paris. It does not purport to be comprehensive and does not replace a careful reading of the draft resolutions prior to voting. Shareholders are also invited to refer to the guidelines on the “Draft resolutions presented to shareholders of listed companies for vote”, produced by the French business association, MEDEF, in conjunction with ANSA and AFEP and available in French on its website www.medef.com for further information on the issues surrounding draft resolutions and the related legal framework application to French companies. An overview of the financial position, activities and results of the Company and its Group during the last fiscal year and other information required by prevailing law and regulations are also presented in the management report on fiscal year 2016 included in this Registration Document (available on www.capgemini.com), to which you are invited to refer. 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 1ST AND 2ND RESOLUTIONS APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW In these two resolutions, we ask you to approve the Company financial statements and the consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini for the year ended December 31, 2016 as follows: ◗ the Company financial statements of Cap Gemini showing a net profit of €950,195,967.31; ◗ the consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini showing net profit for the Group of €921 million. FIRST RESOLUTION Approval of the 2016 Company financial statements ◗ the Statutory Auditors’ report on their audit of the Company, The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum approves the Company financial statements for the year ended and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after December 31, 2016, showing net profit for the year of having read: €950,195,967.31, as presented, and the transactions recorded therein and summarized in these reports. ◗ the management report of the Board of Directors; ◗ the Chairman’s report established pursuant to Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code; and SECOND RESOLUTION Approval of the 2016 consolidated financial statements ◗ the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after approves the consolidated financial statements for the year ended having read: December 31, 2016, showing net profit for the Group of €921 million, as presented, and the transactions recorded therein ◗ the Group management report of the Board of Directors and summarized in these reports. for 2016; and 272 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 3RD RESOLUTION REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS OVERVIEW In this resolution, we ask you to take due note that no new As a reminder, the Board of Directors decided on July 29, 2015 related-party agreement or commitment, which had not to freeze the rights of Mr. Paul Hermelin pursuant to the previously been approved by the shareholders, has been supplementary pension plan, with effect as of October 31, 2015. authorized during the year ended December 31, 2016. This was a favorable development for the Company with regard to the commitment it made to Mr. Hermelin. This plan was closed As indicated in the Statutory Auditors’ special report, the to potential new beneficiaries with effect on the same date. registration of Mr. Hermelin as beneficiary of a supplementary pension scheme, which was previously approved by During 2016, Mr. Paul Hermelin did not receive any shareholders at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, compensation pursuant to this agreement. 2007, is the only agreement authorized in previous years with Pursuant to Article L.225-40-1 of the French Commercial Code, the continuing effect during 2016. Board of Directors performed an annual review of this agreement. THIRD RESOLUTION Regulated agreements and commitments – Special report agreements governed by Article L.225-38 et seq. of the French of the Statutory Auditors Commercial Code, approves the said special report and takes due note that no new related-party agreement or commitment, which The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum had not previously been approved by the shareholders, has been and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after authorized during the year ended December 31, 2016. having read the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated 6 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 273 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 4TH RESOLUTION APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS AND DIVIDEND OVERVIEW The fourth resolution relates to the appropriation of earnings for Residual distributable profits for the year, i.e. the year ending 2016 and the setting of dividend. €3,066,390,921.28, shall be added to retained earnings. It is proposed that the dividend be set at €1.55 per share for a For individuals beneficiaries who are French tax residents, this total of €261,229,107.40 based on the number of shares ranking dividend will be fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in for dividends at December 31, 2016. Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). In line with the Group’s historic dividend distribution policy that ensures a balance between the investments required for its Taking account of the recommendations of certain investors, and long-term development and the redistribution of profits to so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions shareholders, the corresponding payout ratio is 35.9% of the net around the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of profit (Group share) adjusted for non-recurring non-cash tax Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of May 22, 2017 and a income. dividend payment date starting from May 24, 2017. FOURTH RESOLUTION Appropriation of earnings and setting of dividend the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate the net profit for the year ended December 31, 2016 as follows: The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, approves ■ net profit for the year €950,195,967.31 ■ no funding of the legal reserve as already fully funded i.e. a balance of: €950,195,967.31 ■ retained earnings of previous years: €2,377,424,061.37 i.e. distributable earnings: €3,327,620,028.68 ■ allocated to: (1) payment of a dividend of €1.55 per share: €261,229,107.40 retained earnings for the balance: €3,066,390,921.28 giving a total of: €3,327,620,028.68 (1) The total amount of the distribution is calculated based on the number of shares ranking for dividends at December 31, 2016, i.e. 168,534,908 shares, and could therefore change (and the same may be for the total amount of retained earnings) if this number varies between January 1, 2017 and the ex-dividend date. It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1.55 for each of the If, at the time of payment of the dividend, the number of treasury shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2017, will be fully shares held by the Company has evolved compared to that held eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the on December 31, 2016, the fraction of the dividend relating to this French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). variation will either increase or reduce retained earnings. The ex-dividend date will be May 22, 2017 and the dividend will Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, it is recalled be payable from May 24, 2017. that the following amounts were paid over the past three fiscal years: Total Distributed Dividend amount (1) income (2) per share (in euros) (in euros) (in euros) Fiscal year 2015 231,221,780.55 228,749,429.70 1.35 Fiscal year 2014 195,149,725.20 198,381,067.20 1.20 Fiscal year 2013 176,273,919.80 174,095,386.30 1.10 (1) Theoretical values calculated based on the number of shares bearing dividend rights on December 31 each year. (2) Amounts effectively paid after adjusting the number of shares bearing dividend rights as a result of a change in the number of treasury shares, the issuance of new shares and/or the cancellation of existing shares between January 1 and the ex-dividend date. These amounts were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2° of the French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts) for each fiscal year. 274 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 5TH RESOLUTION APPROVAL OF THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION POLICY OVERVIEW Shareholders are now asked to approve the compensation well as observed practice in leading French and foreign Group policy applicable to corporate executive officers pursuant to the competitors in the IT services and consulting sector. new provisions of Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial Compensation publication practice varies significantly between Code, introduced by the so-called Sapin II law on transparency, the countries and legal structures of competitors, in particular in the fight against corruption and the modernization of the the case of partnerships. CAC 40 companies are therefore the economy. most relevant benchmark and the most transparent, but additional analyses take account of the international and The principles and criteria for determining, allocating and competitive aspects of the sector in which the Company awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total operates. compensation and all types of benefit in kind granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and constituting the The Compensation Committee took due note of the compensation policy applicable to such officer for 2017, were observations issued to Cap Gemini in July 2014 by the High approved by the Board of Directors on February 15, 2017 upon Committee for Corporate Governance (Haut Comité de recommendation from the Compensation Committee. They are Gouvernement d’Entreprise, HCGE) and of its 2015 and 2016 detailed in the Board of Directors’ report presented in activity reports, as well as of the AMF 2015 and 2016 reports on Section 2.4.1 of the 2016 Registration Document. corporate governance and executive management compensation in listed companies. These observations were For ease of reading, this report is set out in full below. taken into account and integrated into the items detailed below. No observations were made in 2015 and 2016. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer When performing comparisons with French companies of compensation policy comparable size and ambition, the Compensation Committee The description of the compensation policy set out below ensures that Cap Gemini’s practices are in line with the best corresponds to the report of the Board of Directors to practices of CAC 40 companies in terms of both the clarity and shareholders established pursuant to the provisions of consistency of methods applied. As in previous years, the Group Article L.225-37-2 of the Code de Commerce related to the participated in 2016 in comparative studies of the main French principles and criteria of the Executive Officers compensation. It companies carried out by specialist firms. These comparisons remains subject to shareholders’ approval at the Combined show that Mr. Paul Hermelin’s global compensation is close to Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. the median compensation for CAC 40 companies, and is of an adequate level compared with comparable sector compensation 6 General principles in France and abroad. The Group also ensures that the The procedures for setting the compensation of the Chairman respective proportions of fixed and variable components and and Chief Executive Officer comply with the recommendations of share grants valued in accordance with IFRS are balanced, in the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in November 2016. line with market practices and linked to Company’s Compensation components and structure were determined in performance and aligned to Group strategy. The fixed accordance with the recommendations of this Code, whether component is determined in accordance with a major philosophy fixed or variable compensation, the grant of equity instruments or specific to the Group, which aligns the compensation structure supplementary pension benefits. of the Chief Executive Officer with that of key operating managers. One of the historical rules of the Group is that the In addition to complying with “market” rules and in line with past remuneration of executive management comprises a fixed Group practice, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does component equal to 60% of the target theoretical compensation not have an employment agreement, is not entitled to and a variable component equal to 40% of this amount subject termination benefits, is not covered by a non-compete clause to the attainment of pre-defined collective and individual and receives no benefits in kind. In addition, he has waived his objectives. right to receive attendance fees since fiscal year 2009. The Compensation Committee also monitors the main practices These principles are regularly reviewed and discussed by the of its international competitors. Compensation practices in North Compensation Committee which submits a report on its work America and India are structurally and culturally different from and its resulting proposals to the Board of Directors for approval. those applied in European companies. Observing their practices The Compensation Committee refers in particular to comparative nonetheless provides relevant information on the nature of the studies to ensure the transparency, consistency and market and compensation levels. In American companies such competiveness of both the compensation level and structure as CSC, Accenture and IBM, total compensation includes a and calculation methods with market practice. The Committee’s substantial proportion of long-term share-based compensation. recommendations take account of executive management compensation levels and components in CAC 40 companies as Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 275 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Procedures for setting fixed and variable compensation ❚ cash generation through the Group Free Organic Cash Flow The procedures for setting Mr. Paul Hermelin’s compensation in for 20%, respect of fiscal year Y are adopted by the Board of Directors’ ❚ shareholders return through net profit for another 20% as Meeting in Y held to approve the financial statements of fiscal this is the driver to assess the dividend level; year Y-1. As indicated above, this compensation comprises – as ◗ the individual performance objectives underlying V2 does that of all key executive managers of the Group – fixed compensation. The strategic and operating objectives for 2016 compensation paid in 12 monthly installments equal to 60% of felt into four main categories, “Succesfull IGATE integration”, the total theoretical amount if objectives are achieved and “New Strategic Development”, “Strategic agenda around variable compensation equal to 40% of this total theoretical Industrialization and account centric culture” and “HR amount, closely correlated to the Company’s performance. transformation”. The Board of Directors ensured the objectives The Board of Directors therefore approves at the beginning of were based on directly measurable items so that overall 75% the year for the year in progress: of the total variable compensation was based on quantitative data and, that objectives are clearly tied to the ◗ the theoretical fixed and variable compensation components. roll out of the Group’s strategy priorities approved by the The theoretical variable component is in turn split into two Board of Directors as conditions to deliver the long term parts: V1 tied to Group performance indicators and strategic plan. consolidated results and V2 based on the attainment of individual objectives, with 50% minimum based on quantified The V1 component varies in line with a formula applied for many objectives, set by the Board of Directors. Each of these decades within the Group, that accelerates actual performance components can vary between 0% and a ceiling equal to upwards and downwards such that: 200% of the theoretical amount. Therefore, as a result of this ◗ the V1 component is nil if the weighted performance of system, fixed plus variable compensation may vary between financial indicators is less than or equal to 75%; 60% and 140% of annual theoretical/target compensation. The variable component and the total compensation are ◗ the V1 component can reach twice the theoretical amount if therefore both capped and the variable component may the weighted performance is greater than or equal to 125%; not represent more than 133% of fixed compensation as varying on a straight-line basis between these two limits. indicated in the summary table below; The level of attainment of objectives and the amount of the ◗ the fixed component is not reviewed annually, but after several variable compensation components are decided pursuant to the years in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Mr. Paul recommendation of the Compensation Committee, by the Board Hermelin’s fixed compensation was increased in 2008 and was of Directors’ Meeting in Y+1 held to approve the financial only reviewed in 2013 (+10%) following an extension of his statements of fiscal year Y. The Committee meets on several responsibilities and to reflect the strong growth and occasions before the Board of Directors’ Meeting to appraise the international expansion of the Group and has remained percentage attainment by Mr. Paul Hermelin of his objectives. An unchanged since; executive session of the Board was held in December 2016 and another one in February 2017 to assess such performance ◗ the internal performance indicators included in the calculation before the Board of Directors which decides the level of of the V1 component and the weighting applied to each attainment by Mr. Hermelin of his objectives. indicator. The level of attainment of these indicators is determined based on a comparison of actual audited and The variable compensation used to be paid end of March, after budgeted Group consolidated results. The indicators adopted the Board of Directors’ Meeting that approves the financial in line with the key indicators presented regularly to the market statements for fiscal year Y, underlying the calculation of the and are tied to: various variable compensation components and that decided the percentage attainment of individual objectives set. Going ❚ growth through Group Revenue for 30%, forward, the variable compensation of the Chairman and Chief ❚ operating profitability through Group Operating margin for Executive Officer will be paid following approval by the 30%, Shareholders Meeting of the compensation elements for fiscal year Y. Summary table of the theoretical structure of fixed and variable compensation Theoretical compensation structure, base 100 Target Min Max Gross fixed compensation 60 60 60 Annual variable compensation V1 20 0 40 Annual variable compensation V2 20 0 40 Multi-year variable compensation 0 0 0 THEORETICAL TOTAL IF OBJECTIVES ARE ATTAINED 100 60 140 % variable / fixed 67% 0% 133% 276 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Cap Gemini share-based incentive policy procedures retain performance shares only applies to one third of shares The Group stopped granting stock options in 2009 and now vested. As this threshold had been attained at the time of the grants performance shares in accordance with the following July 2014 grant and similarly as of the July 2015 and 2016 principles: grants, the obligation to hold shares that vest as a result of these grants was set at one-third of vested shares vested; ◗ performance shares are granted subject to the same conditions of presence and performance as applicable to other ◗ given the significant number of shares held by Mr. Paul Group beneficiaries and all shares are subject to Hermelin, he has not been required to buy a set number of performance conditions. Mr. Paul Hermelin received shares on the delivery of the vested shares; performance shares in 2009, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and ◗ share hedging transactions are prohibited before the end of the 2016 but was not granted any shares in 2010 or 2011; mandatory holding period. This prohibition is included in the ◗ the performance conditions are ambitious, as demonstrated by grant plan rules and applies to all beneficiaries. It applies since the first two share grants in 2009 and 2010, where the vesting the first performance share grant plan in 2009; rates were only 50% and 68.5%, respectively, of the number of ◗ in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF shares initially granted; Code, performance share grants will be performed from now ◗ the performance conditions are set in the resolution submitted on at the same calendar periods and will be decided by either for shareholders’ approval and include, internal and external the Board of Directors’ Meeting at the end of July or the performance conditions in accordance with the AMF following meeting. This was the case in 2015 and 2016 as the recommendation, and are calculated over a three year period; grant was made in July in both cases; ◗ the number of shares granted to executive corporate officers ◗ however a special grant was made in February 2016 targeting pursuant to the resolutions presented to shareholder vote is former IGATE employees as at the time of the 2015 grant limited (maximum of 10% of shares available for grant set in the made in July 2015, IGATE had just been bought not leaving last resolution voted on May 18, 2016 and maximum of 5% for enough time to ensure a proper selection of the beneficiaries. an Executive Director alone). The performance shares granted Therefore and after having informed the HCGE of our intention, to Mr. Paul Hermelin in 2014 and 2015 represented 3.14% and a special grant has been made in February 2016 for this 2.32% respectively of the total amount authorized by the specific and limited population. Neither the Chief Executive Combined Shareholders Meeting for the corresponding periods Officer nor the Group Executive Committee members were and 3.58% and 3.2% of the total amount granted to all concerned by this grant. beneficiaries within these resolutions. These percentages were 2.44% and 2.52% respectively for 2016. Since 2009 and over Other items eight performance share grants, the average percentages are The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: 2.19% and 2.99% respectively; ◗ has waived his right to receive director’s fees since 2009; ◗ the IFRS value of shares granted targets not to exceed around ◗ is not entitled to termination benefits; 6 100% of the theoretical yearly cash compensation for a given year, and over the last three years this value has ranged from ◗ is not covered by a non-compete clause; 60% to 93% of the theoretical cash compensation; ◗ does not benefit from a multi-year variable or deferred ◗ Mr. Paul Hermelin is required to hold all vested performance compensation mechanism; shares received under the 2009, 2012 and 2013 plans until the ◗ does not benefit from one off awards; later of: ◗ does not have fringe benefits. ❚ the end of the mandatory two-year holding period (2009 The terms of the supplementary pension which rights were plan), extended to four years (2012 and 2013 plan), and frozen in 2015 following the closing of the plan are described in ❚ the expiry of his term as corporate officer. section 2.4.2 thereafter, being specified that when implemented ◗ Since then and in accordance with the recommendation of the the plan was fully aligned with AFEP-MEDEF Code AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors decided that recommendations. vested performance shares representing at least 50% of A one off award, if any would only be applicable in case of an shares must be retained, where the amount of shares held external hiring of an Executive Officer with the need to buy out represents less than twice the theoretical annual salary (fixed awards that would be lost following this hiring decision. In such and variable). Once this threshold is reached, the obligation to case, the award would be proportionate to the lost amounts. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 277 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Fixed and variable compensation of the Chairman and The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2017 V2 variable Chief Executive Officer for 2017 compensation have been assigned an individual specific weight. Following the principles just described, the Board decided, They relate to the operational transformation of the Group in pursuant to the recommendation of the Compensation 2017 in line with its strategic plan and associated indicators, in Committee, to leave Mr. Paul Hermelin’s theoretical particular around: compensation unchanged for 2017 at €2,420,000 (since 2013). i) the Digital and Cloud strategic road map, 40% weighting This implies that the fixed part of Mr. Hermelin, will remain at (out of which 15% quantifiable); €1,452,000 for 2017. The Board also set the procedure for ii) the HR and delivery strategy around diversity, talent calculating the variable component of Mr. Hermelin’s management and mobility, 30% weighting (out of which 15% compensation for fiscal year 2017, defining the performance quantifiable); and indicators underlying the V1 calculation, as well as the personal strategic objectives adopted for the V2 component. iii) the growth of the North American market, 30% weighting (out of which 20% quantifiable). Accordingly, the operating indicators adopted for 2017 V1 compensation will remain as follows: The Compensation Committee has formalized these objectives in such a way as they can be clearly assessed on objective ◗ revenue growth: 30% weighting; grounds at the end of 2017 with a weight of 50% based on ◗ operating margin rate: 30% weighting; quantified objectives and the Board shared the same imperative ◗ pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; when finalizing the objectives. Therefore 75% of the variable part will be subject to a quantitative evaluation in 2017. ◗ free cash flow: 20% weighting. Payment of the variable compensation of the Chairman and The level of attainment of these indicators will be determined as Chief Executive Officer for fiscal year 2017 remains subject to in past years, based on a comparison of actual audited and approval by the shareholders at the Shareholders’ Meeting to be budgeted Group consolidated results and will be subject to the held in 2018. accelerated formula (upward or downward). FIFTH RESOLUTION Approval of the principles and criteria for determining, Article L.225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, approves the allocating and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional principles and criteria for determining, allocating and granting the components of total compensation and all types of benefit fixed, variable and exceptional components of total compensation in kind granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and all types of benefit in kind granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer by virtue of his office as detailed in the said The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with report. quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the report prepared in accordance with PRESENTATION OF THE 6TH RESOLUTION VOTE ON THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION DUE OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF FISCAL YEAR 2016 TO MR PAUL HERMELIN, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OVERVIEW Pursuant to the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in summarizes the 2016 compensation components of Mr. Paul November 2016 with which Cap Gemini complies, the Hermelin, subject to shareholder mandatory vote pursuant to the compensation of each executive corporate officer due or “say on pay” policy. awarded in respect of fiscal year 2016 must be presented to the This table is also set out in 2.4.2 of the 2016 Registration Shareholders’ Meeting for a mandatory vote. The following table Document of Cap Gemini. 278 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Compensation components due or awarded in respect of 2016 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and subject to shareholder mandatory vote Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation Fixed €1,452,000 The gross fixed compensation of €1,452,000 for fiscal year 2016 was approved by the Board of compensation (paid in 2016) Directors on February 17, 2016 at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. It represents 60% of the total theoretical compensation if objectives are attained and is reviewed at long intervals in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. This amount is unchanged on 2013 when it was increased by 10% to reflect the change in Mr. Paul Hermelin’s role who became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the extension of his responsibilities and the evolution and internationalization of the Group since 2008, when his compensation was last modified. The annualized increase in his theoretical compensation since 2008 and therefore in his fixed compensation is 1.2% per annum. This theoretical compensation falls within the average for CAC 40 executives. Annual €1,075,855 During the Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 15, 2017, the Board, based on the audited and variable (paid in 2017) approved accounts and at the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, assessed the amount compensation of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s variable compensation for fiscal year 2016, of a target amount if objectives are attained of €968,000, i.e. 40% of his total theoretical compensation and comprising two equal components, V1 and V2, that may vary between 0% and 200% of the theoretical amount. V1 component: this component is calculated in accordance with quantifiable criteria and the following respective weightings, all relating to the financial results as compared to an ambition decided by the Board: 1) % attainment of the revenue: 30% weighting; 2) % attainment of the operating margin rate: 30% weighting; 3) % attainment of pre-tax net profit: 20% weighting; 4) 2016 Free Cash Flow: 20% weighting. These objectives were assessed with respect to the objectives set by the Board of Directors’ Meeting of February 17, 2016. Attainment rates for these four objectives were 98.39%, 94.98%, 95.07% and 120.22% respectively, which taking account of the relative weighting of each objective, gives a weighted 6 attainment rate of 101.07%. The Group’s historical calculation formula accelerates actual performance upwards and downwards such that: ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is less than or equal to 75% (was 70% last year), the V1 component will be nil; ■ if the weighted performance of the above four financial indicators is greater than or equal to 125% (was 130% last year), the V1 component will be capped and equal to twice its theoretical amount. Accordingly, with this formula, a one point variance in the weighted attainment rate increases or decreases the variable component by 4%. Therefore, application of the formula to the weighted attainment rate of 100.1% in 2016 results in the multiplication of the theoretical variable component by 104.28%, giving an amount of 968,000/2*104.28= €504,735. V2 component: The evaluation and the associated proposal have been prepared on the basis of the work done by the Compensation Committee which reviewed the various qualitative objectives grouped into four categories: “Success of IGATE integration” for 30%, “new strategic development” for 20%, “Strategic agenda around industrialization and account centricity culture” for 25% and “HR transformation” for 25%. For the first category (Success of IGATE integration-30%), the Board set three indicators each with the same weight, including two quantitative measures around i) ensuring the retention of the IGATE VP talent base and ii) ensuring the retention of the IGATE top 20 client base, through a net revenue increase in 2016 vs. 2015. For these two quantitative measures the achievements were on i) exceeded and on ii) an increase superior to Group growth. For the third indicator, the Board made a qualitative evaluation of the integration impact on the strengthening of our Indian and US operations and of our client centric culture and highlighted in particular, a reinforced account centricity culture and Capgemini brand. In regard to the achieved quantified indicators and to the qualitative evaluation, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been achieved at 140%. For the second category (Next strategic development-20%), the Board based its recommendations on two qualitative objectives i) the identification of appropriate acquisition targets and ii) the Cloud and Digital development strategy. Given these achievements, the Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 90%. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 279 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation For the third category (Industrialization and account centricity-25%), the Board took into consideration three quantitative indicators each with a 5% weight i) the revenue growth of Cloud and Digital offerings, ii) a corresponding ambitious contribution margin trend and iii) the growth of Group & countries strategic accounts to be higher than the Group revenue growth. For these three indicators the achievements have been considered respectively i) exceeded with a growth of Cloud and Digital offerings higher than 20%, ii) not reached and iii) exceeded. In addition, the Board considered from a qualitative standpoint accounting for 10% overall, that covers i) the successful European transformation plan, ii) the launch of a reinforced Digital organization driving high growth in this domain and iii) the drive toward a global mindset through the Power of One initiatives and set the qualitative part at 100%. The Board considered that the objectives set for this category have been realized at 133% for the quantitative objectives and at 100% for the qualitative ones for an overall total of 120%. For the fourth category (HR transformation-25%), the Board considered as well two set of quantitative measures counting for 15% around i) the hiring and development of Senior Executives with a refreshment of the VP population including external hires and ii) an acceleration of mobility within the Group in 2016. For these indicators the achievements have been respectively i) achieved for the refreshment ratio and exceeded with a number of recruited VPs from Cloud & Digital domains aligned to our growth in these sectors and ii) an increase of the mobility with 26% more moves than targeted within the VP population. In addition, the Board evaluated from a qualitative standpoint accounting for 10% overall, the HR strategy implemented to accelerate cross unit mobility and succession plans looking at i) the deployment across all units of the Strategic Talent Reviews aimed at covering successions plans, improving gender diversity and boosting mobility, ii) the study made with a top notch company to evaluate a set of Group top executives and iii) the deployment of a revamped leadership model. The Board considered that the HR transformation objectives have been reached at 112%. The Board approved a rounded weighted performance of 118% as per the table below: Target Proposal Objective type Computed Qualitative Computed Qualitative IGATE integration 20% 10% 30.1% 12% New strategic development 20% 18% Strategic agenda 15% 10% 20% 10% HR transformation 15% 10% 18.2% 10% Total 50% 50% 68.3% 50% Target 100% Proposed 118% leading to a V2 calculation of €571,120. Accordingly, a variable compensation of €1,075,855 was approved by the Board for 2016, i.e. 74.1% of his fixed compensation for the same year and 111.1% of the theoretical variable compensation. Total fixed and variable compensation for 2016 is therefore €2,527,855 i.e. 104.5% of the theoretical compensation and may be summarized as follows: 2016 Variable compensation calculation for Mr. Paul Hermelin V1: quantitative part based on budgeted financial targets % of Indicators Weight achievement Weighted Total Revenue 30% 98.4% 29.5% Operational Margin % 30% 95.0% 28.5% Net results before tax 20% 95.1% 19.0% Organic Free cash Flow 20% 120.2% 24.0% Total weighted R/B before flex 101.1% Total weighted after 75/125 flex (4*weighted R/B-3) 104.3% Variable V1 on target 484,000 Computed V1 504,735 280 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Amount or accounting value subject to vote Presentation V2: qualitative part based on 2016 objectives Categories Weight Weighted total Succesful IGATE integration 30% Next strategic development 20% 118.0% Account centricity and Industrialisation 25% HR strategy 25% Variable V2 on target 484,000 Computed V2 571,120 TOTAL 2016 VARIABLE COMPENSATION 1,075,855 As a % of the total variable on target 111.1% As a % of fixed compensation 74.1% The variable compensation due in respect of a given year is calculated based on the audited accounts approved by the Board at the beginning of Y+1 and is paid after the submission of the compensation policy to the shareholders. Deferred N/A There is no deferred variable compensation. variable compensation Multi-year N/A There is no multi-year variable compensation mechanism. variable compensation Exceptional N/A No exceptional compensation was paid. compensation Stock Performance 42,000 shares granted subject to performance and presence conditions. options, shares The vesting of performance shares is contingent on the realization of both an external performance performance €2,212,650 condition and an internal performance condition. The internal performance condition accounts for 50% 6 shares or any (accounting of the grant and is based on Organic Free Cash Flow over the three-year period from 2016 to 2018. other form value on The minimum amount necessary for shares to vest is €2.4 billion. Above this threshold, shares vest of long-term grant date) progressively on a straight-line basis, with the maximum grant requiring Organic Free Cash Flow of compensation €2.7 billion or more. The external performance conditions accounts for 50% of the grant and is based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share over three years against the average performance of a basket of 8 comparable companies in the same business sector and from at least 5 countries (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). Accordingly, no shares vest if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than 100% of the performance of the basket of comparable companies, while 100% of shares vest only if this relative performance is at 110% or above. If performance is similar to that of the market only 50% of the initial grant vests. The external condition has been strengthened as the effective vesting of shares starts from a minimum achievement of 100% of the basket of comparable companies, while it historically started at 90%. The number of shares that may vest to the executive corporate officer may not exceed 0.001% of the share capital. Authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. Ninth resolution Grant authorized by the Board of Directors on July 26, 2016 Stock No stock options or other items were granted. options = N/A Other items = N/A Attendance Voluntary The Board of Directors took due note of Mr. Paul Hermelin’s decision to waive his right to collect fees waiver attendance fees as a director of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2016 (as both Mr. Serge Kampf and he have done for the last seven years). Valuation €0 No benefits in kind. of benefits in kind Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 281 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting SIXTH RESOLUTION Vote on the components of compensation due or awarded Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as presented in in respect of fiscal year 2016 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, Section 2.4.2 of the 2016 Registration Document, in the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer paragraph entitled “Components of compensation due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2016 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, subject to shareholder and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, issues a mandatory vote”. favorable opinion on the components of compensation due or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2016 to Mr. Paul Hermelin, 282 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 7TH, 8TH, 9TH AND 10TH RESOLUTIONS APPOINTMENT OF A DIRECTOR – RENEWAL OF THE TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS OVERVIEW The Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A., meeting on March 8, four years, that is Ms. Anne Bouverot and Messrs. Daniel 2017, decided to strengthen its composition by proposing the Bernard and Pierre Pringuet. appointment of Mr. Patrick Pouyanné as a member of the Board Assuming approval of these resolutions by the Combined of Directors while proposing the renewal of the terms of office of Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors would have all directors whose offices expire at end of the Combined 16 directors, with 62% of independent directors (1) and 43% of Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 for a period of female directors (2). Appointment of a new director – Mr. Patrick Pouyanné In order to improve the staggered renewal of the terms of office Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL, Mr. Pouyanné of directors, particularly in anticipation of the numerous offices will bring to the Board his expertise in macroeconomic and that will expire in 2018, the Board wished to strengthen its geopolitical issues and his experience in managing a leading composition immediately by proposing to the Combined international energy group, a sector where new technologies play Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 the appointment of an essential role. The Board has indicated that Mr. Pouyanné Mr. Patrick Pouyanné as a member of the Board of Directors for may be considered independent pursuant to the criteria of the a period of four years. AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers. PATRICK POUYANNÉ BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of École Polytechnique and a Chief Engineer of France’s Corps des Mines engineering school, Mr. Patrick Pouyanné held various administrative positions in the Ministry of Industry and other cabinet positions (technical advisor to the Prime Minister in the fields of the Environment and Industry – Édouard Balladur – from 1993 to 1995, Cabinet Director for the Minister for Information and Aerospace Technologies – François Fillon – from 1995 to 1996) between 1989 and 1996. In January 1997, he joined TOTAL’s Exploration & Production division, first as Chief Administrative Officer in Angola, before becoming Group representative in Qatar and President of the Exploration and Date of birth: Production subsidiary in that country in 1999. In August 2002, he was appointed President, Finance, Economy and IT June 24, 1963 6 for Exploration & Production. In January 2006, he became President, Strategy, Growth and Research in Exploration & Nationality: Production and was appointed a member of the Group’s Management Committee in May 2006. In March 2011, Mr. French Pouyanné was appointed Vice-President, Chemicals, and Vice-President, Petrochemicals. In January 2012, he Business address: became President, Refining & Chemicals and a member of the Group’s Executive Committee. TOTAL S.A. 2, Place Jean Millier On October 22, 2014, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL and President of the Group’s Executive 92400 Courbevoie Committee. On May 29, 2015, he was appointed by the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting as director of TOTAL S.A. for First appointment: a 3-year term. At its meeting on December 16, 2015, the Board of Directors of TOTAL appointed him as Chairman of 2017 the Board of Directors as of December 19, 2015 for the remainder of his term of office as director. Mr. Patrick Pouyanné therefore is now Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL. Expiry of term of office: Mr Pouyanné will bring to the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini his expertise in macroeconomic and geopolitical 2021 issues and his experience in managing a leading international energy group, a sector where new technologies play an (Ordinary essential role. Shareholders’ Principal office: Meeting held to approve the 2020 Mr. Patrick Pouyanné has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TOTAL S.A. since December 2015. He has financial statements) been a Director of TOTAL S.A. since May 2015, he is also Chairman of the Strategic Committee. Number of shares OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 held at March 6, 2017: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: 1,000 ◗ TOTAL S.A.* (since December 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Offices held in TOTAL group: Chairman and Director of: ◗ Total Raffinage-Chimie (until 2014) ◗ Total Petrochemicals & Refining S.A./NV (until 2014) (*) Listed company. (1) Directors representing employees and employee shareholders are not taken into account in the calculation of this percentage in accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. (2) The two directors representing employees are not taken into account in the calculation of this percentage in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-27 of the French Code of Commerce. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 283 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Renewal of the terms of office of directors The Board of Directors proposes to shareholders the renewal of the terms of office of all directors whose offices expire at end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 for a period of four years, that is Ms. Anne Bouverot and Messrs. Daniel Bernard and Pierre Pringuet. Mr. Daniel Bernard Mr. Daniel Bernard has been a director of Cap Gemini since held top positions, together with reputed expertise in corporate 2005 and Lead Independent Director since 2014. He is also governance, gained through major corporate governance Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee and a member responsibilities in leading listed companies in France and the of the Strategy & Investment Committee. As the former United Kingdom. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of international groups and Mr. Daniel Bernard also contributes to the Board’s strategic the current Chairman of the investment company, Provestis, he discussions, thanks notably to his considerable experience in the brings to the Board of Directors considerable experience in the retail sector and its digital transformation. management of leading international companies where he has DANIEL BERNARD Lead Independent Director Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Daniel Bernard is a graduate of HEC business school. He started his career in the retail sector, where he was Chief Executive Officer of Socam Miniprix (from 1971 to 1975) and then Director of the La Ruche Picarde Group Mammouth and Delta hypermarkets. He was Chief Executive Officer of Groupe Métro France (from 1981 to 1989), followed by member of the Management Board of Métro International AG (from 1989 to 1992). He became Date of birth: Chairman of the Executive Board of Carrefour in 1992 and was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in February 18, 1946 1998. Mr. Daniel Bernard was also an Independent Director of Alcatel Lucent (from 1997 to 2014) and of Nationality: Saint-Gobain (from 2000 to 2006). He was a member of the Saint-Gobain Appointments Committee and chaired French the Alcatel-Lucent Corporate Governance and Appointments Committee. Business address: Provestis In 2006, Mr. Daniel Bernard joined the Board of Directors of Kingfisher Plc as Vice-Chairman and has been 14, rue de Marignan Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2009. He also chairs the Appointments Committee. Mr. Daniel Bernard is 75008 Paris also President of Provestis, his own investment company, and Senior Advisor of Towerbrook Capital Partners, L.P. First appointment: Mr. Daniel Bernard holds the ranks of Officer of the National Order of Merit and Knight of the Legion of Honor. 2005 Mr. Daniel Bernard has been a director of Cap Gemini S.A. since May 12, 2005 and Lead Independent Director Expiry of term of since March 7, 2014. He was also appointed Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee on the same date. office: He has been a member of the Strategy & Investment Committee since July 26, 2006. 2017 He brings to the Board of Directors considerable experience in the management of leading international companies (Ordinary Shareholders’ where he has held top positions, together with reputed expertise in corporate governance, gained through major Meeting held to corporate governance responsibilities in leading listed companies in France and the United Kingdom. Mr. Daniel approve the 2016 Bernard also contributes to the Board’s strategic discussion, thanks notably to his considerable experience in the financial statements) retail sector and its digital transformation. Number of shares Principal office: held at Dec. 31, 2016: Mr. Daniel Bernard has been President of Provestis since 2006. 1,000 OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Senior Advisor of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since May 2005) ◗ TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P. (U.K.) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: (since October 2010) ◗ KINGFISHER PLC* (U.K.) (since June 2009) Honorary Chairman of: President of: ◗ LA FONDATION HEC (since 2014) ◗ PROVESTIS SAS (since June 2006) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: Chairman of: ◗ MAF RETAIL GROUP (DUBAI) (until December 2015) ◗ LA FONDATION HEC (until March 2014) Director of: ◗ ALCATEL LUCENT * (until May 2014) (*) Listed company. 284 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Ms. Anne Bouverot Ms. Anne Bouverot has been a director of Cap Gemini since leading positions in international organizations. The duties she 2013. An Independent Director, she is also a member of the has performed allow her to make a key contribution to Strategy & Investment Committee. Anne Bouverot has been Capgemini Group strategic discussions given the impact of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Safran Identity & mobile connections on technology uses. Security SAS (formerly Morpho SAS) since August 1, 2015. She She also brings specific Digital expertise to the Board of has spent the majority of her professional career in the Telecoms Directors in the areas of security and identity in digital and sector, a key information technology sector, where she has held connected environments. ANNE BOUVEROT Independent Director Member of the Strategy & Investment Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE A graduate of École Normale Supérieure and of Télécom Paris, Ms. Anne Bouverot also holds a PhD in computer science (1991). She started her career as IT project manager with Telmex in Mexico, before joining Global One in the USA in 1996. In 2002, she was appointed Vice-President at Equant’s IT services unit. In 2004, she became Chief of Staff for the Date of birth: Chief Executive Officer of Orange in the United Kingdom, followed by Executive Vice-President, Mobile Services, for March 21, 1966 France Télécom Orange. In November 2006, Ms. Anne Bouverot became Executive Vice-President, International Nationality: Business Development, at France Telecom. From 2011 to July 2015, she was Chief Executive Officer of GSMA, the French international association of mobile network operators. In August 2015, she was appointed Chairman and Chief Business address: Executive Officer of Safran Identity & Security (formerly Morpho), a world leader in security and identity solutions Safran Identity and (biometrics and digital identity). Security Ms. Anne Bouverot joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on October 8, 2013 and was appointed a 11, boulevard member of the Strategy & Investment Committee on the same date. Gallieni Ms. Anne Bouverot has spent the majority of her professional career in the Telecoms sector, a key information 92445 Issy-les-Moulineaux technology sector, where she has held leading positions in international organizations. The duties she has Cedex performed allow her to make a key contribution to Capgemini group strategic discussions given the impact of First appointment: mobile connections on technology uses. She also brings specific Digital expertise to the Board of Directors in the 2013 areas of security and identity in Digital and connected environments. Finally, as a director of Edenred and previously Expiry of term of of Groupama, Ms. Anne Bouverot already has considerable experience as an Independent Director of Euronext 6 office: listed companies. 2017 Principal office: (Ordinary Ms. Anne Bouverot has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Safran Identity & Security SAS (formerly Shareholders’ Meeting held to Morpho SAS) since August 1, 2015. approve the 2016 OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 financial statements) Number of shares Director of: Chairman of: held at ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since October 2013) ◗ MORPHO USA, INC. (U.S.A.) (since 2015) Dec. 31, 2016: ◗ EDENRED* (since June 2010) Chairman of the Board of Directors of: 1,000 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ MORPHO DETECTION INTERNATIONAL, LLC (U.S.A.) ◗ Safran Identity and Security SAS (formerly MORPHO (since 2015) S.A.S.) (since August 2015) Member of the Supervisory Board of: Other offices held in Safran Identity ◗ MORPHO CARDS GMBH (GERMANY) (since 2015) and Security Group: Director of: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ MORPHO DETECTION, LLC (U.S.A.) (since 2015) ◗ MORPHO TRAK, LLC (USA) (since 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Director of: Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ GROUPAMA S.A.* (until 2013) ◗ GSMA SV (SWITZERLAND) (until July 2015) Offices held in GSMA (International association Director of: of mobile network operators): ◗ GSMA LTD (U.S.A.) (until July 2015) Member of the Board of Directors as Permanent Representative of France Telecom Orange S.A.: ◗ GSMA (until July 2015) (*) Listed company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 285 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Mr. Pierre Pringuet Mr. Pierre Pringuet has been a director of Cap Gemini since 2009. an international group, as well as his strategy and development An Independent Director, he is also Chairman of the Compensation experience, particularly in international external growth transactions. Committee and a member of the Ethics & Governance Committee. President of the Association Française des Entreprises Privées Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard since (AFEP) (French Association of Private Enterprises) since June 29, August 29, 2012, Mr. Pierre Pringuet brings to the Board extensive 2012 and a director of various listed companies, Mr. Pringuet also experience in the consumer goods sector, as a senior executive of contributes to the Board his expertise in corporate governance and executive compensation. PIERRE PRINGUET Independent Director Chairman of the Compensation Committee Member of the Ethics & Governance Committee BIOGRAPHY – PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE Mr. Pierre Pringuet is a graduate of École Polytechnique and École des Mines. He started his career in the French civil service, where he was appointed as an advisor to government minister Michel Rocard (1981–1985), before being given responsibility for the Farming and Food Processing Industries at the Ministry of Agriculture. He joined Pernod Ricard in 1987 as Development Director, playing an active role in the Group’s international development and Date of birth: holding the positions of Managing Director of Société pour l’Exportation de Grandes Marques (1987–1996) and then January 31, 1950 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard Europe (1997–2000). In 2000, he joined Patrick Ricard at the Nationality: headquarters as one of Pernod Ricard’s two joint CEOs. He was appointed a director of Pernod Ricard in 2004 and French led the successful acquisition of Allied Domecq in 2005 and its subsequent integration. In December of the same Business address: year, he became the Group’s Deputy Chief Executive Officer & Chief Operating Officer. In 2008, Mr. Pierre Pringuet Pernod Ricard carried out the acquisition of Vin&Sprit (V&S) and its brand Absolut Vodka, which completed Pernod Ricard’s 12, place des États-Unis international development. Following the withdrawal of Mr. Patrick Ricard from his operational duties, Mr. Pierre 75783 Paris Pringuet was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Pernod Ricard on November 5, 2008. He performed his duties as Cedex 16 CEO until February 11, 2015, the date of expiry of his term of office pursuant to the Company’s bylaws. He is First appointment: Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard since August 29, 2012 and plays an active role, together 2009 with the Appointments, Governance and CSR Committee, in the management of all corporate governance issues. Expiry of term of He is also a member of the Pernod Ricard Strategy Committee and Compensation Committee. office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet is President of the Association Française des Entreprises Privées (AFEP) (French Association of 2017 Private Enterprises) since June 29, 2012. In addition, he is Vice-Chairman of the Vallourec Supervisory Board and (Ordinary Lead Independent Director since February 23, 2015. He is also Chairman of the Vallourec Appointments, Shareholders’ Compensation and Governance Committee. Mr. Pierre Pringuet was appointed to the Board of Directors of ILIAD Meeting held to SA on July 25, 2007 and is a member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee. approve the 2016 financial statements) Mr. Pierre Pringuet holds the ranks of Knight of the Legion of Honor, Knight of the National Order of Merit and Number of shares Officer of the Order of Agricultural Merit. held at Mr. Pierre Pringuet joined the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. on April 30, 2009. He is Chairman of the Dec. 31, 2016: Compensation Committee since May 7, 2014 and was appointed a member of the Ethics & Governance 1,700 Committee on the same date. Mr. Pierre Pringuet brings to the Board extensive experience in the consumer goods sector, as a senior executive of an international group. He shares with the Board his expertise in corporate governance issues and executive compensation, as well as his strategy and development experience, particularly in international external growth transactions. Principal office: Mr. Pierre Pringuet has been Vice-Chairman of Pernod Ricard since August 2012. OFFICES HELD IN 2016 OR CURRENT OFFICES AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Director of: Chairman of: ◗ CAP GEMINI S.A.* (since April 2009) ◗ AFEP (French Association of Private Enterprises) (since ◗ ILIAD S.A.* (since July 2007) June 2012) ◗ AVRIL GESTION S.A.S. (GROUPE AVRIL) (since ◗ Amicale du Corps des Mines (ACM) (since 2015) December 2014) ◗ Fondation ParisTech (since January 2016) Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ◗ Scotch Whisky Association (since December 2014) ◗ PERNOD RICARD* (since August 2012) Vice-Chairman and Lead Independent Director of: ◗ VALLOUREC* (since February 2015) OTHER OFFICES HELD DURING THE LAST FIVE YEARS (OFFICES EXPIRED) Chief Executive Officer of: ◗ PERNOD RICARD *(until February 2015) Chairman of: ◗ AgroParisTech (until December 2016) (*) Listed company. 286 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Changes to the organization of the Board The Board of Directors decided to appoint, with effect from the following the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, An Independent Director, Mr. Pringuet has been a director of the Mr. Daniel Bernard as Vice-Chairman, Mr. Pierre Pringuet as Company since 2009. He is also a member of the Ethics & Lead Independent Director and Ms. Laurence Dors as Chairman Governance Committee and Chairman of the Compensation of the Compensation Committee, subject to the confirmation of Committee. He will vacate the Chair of the Compensation the corresponding renewals by the Combined Shareholders’ Committee but will remain a member. Meeting. These decisions further reinforce the good corporate governance of the Group while taking into account the latest Ms. Laurence Dors, Chairman of the Compensation revision of the AFEP-MEDEF Code issued in November 2016. Committee Ms. Laurence Dors will be appointed as the Chairman of the Mr. Pierre Pringuet, Lead Independent Director and Compensation Committee. An Independent Director, Ms. Dors Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee has been a director of the Company since 2010. She is currently Mr. Daniel Bernard, Lead Independent Director since 2014 and, a member of the Audit & Risk Committee and the Ethics & as such, Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee Governance Committee. pursuant to the Board of Directors’ Charter, decided to resign his Mr. Daniel Bernard, Vice-Chairman of the Board of position as Lead Independent Director and accordingly Chairman Directors of the Ethics & Governance Committee in anticipation of the upcoming Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. The Board of Directors considers that given Mr. Daniel Bernard’s significant contribution to the smooth functioning of the Board Currently an Independent Director, Mr. Bernard will exceed the since his appointment as director and then Lead Independent threshold of 12 years as a director of the Company at the end of Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee in the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and as such will no longer 2014, his personality, his commitment to the development of the be considered independent from this date pursuant to the Group and ensuring compliance with its values, as well as his criteria of the AFEP-MEDEF Code to which the Company refers. expertise, that it would be in the Company’s interests to appoint As the Company’s Charter and the revised AFEP-MEDEF Code him Vice-Chairman of the Board, should the Combined issued in November 2016 state that the Lead Independent Shareholders’ Meeting renew his term of office as director. The Director must be an independent director, it was Mr. Bernard’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will work closely with the wish that the Company could comply with these provisions from Vice-Chairman to prepare future developments in the Group’s the end of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017. governance. The Board warmly thanks Mr. Daniel Bernard for his work since These appointments would be effective from the end of the 2014, and will appoint Mr. Pierre Pringuet as Lead Independent Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017, subject to Director and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee the appointment and renewal decisions voted. 6 SEVENTH RESOLUTION Appointment of Mr. Patrick Pouyanné as a director Mr. Patrick Pouyanné as a director for a period of four years. This term of office will expire at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and ending December 31, 2020. majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, appoints EIGHTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Mr. Daniel four-year period the term of office as director of Mr. Daniel Bernard Bernard, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the year ending December 31, 2020. majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a NINTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Ms. Anne Bouverot Bouverot, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the year ending December 31, 2020. majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four-year period the term of office as director of Ms. Anne Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 287 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting TENTH RESOLUTION Renewal of the term of office as director of Mr. Pierre Pringuet Pringuet, which expires at the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire at the close of the Ordinary At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and the year ending December 31, 2020. majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four-year period the term of office as director of Mr. Pierre PRESENTATION OF THE 11TH RESOLUTION SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM OVERVIEW We ask you to authorize the Board of Directors to buy back Trading fees (excluding VAT) and the financial transaction tax shares of the Company for the objectives and in accordance totalled €902,862 in 2016. with the conditions presented in the draft resolution. At December 31, 2016, excluding the liquidity contract, Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary the 2,879,357 treasury shares representing 1.68% of the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 renewed the Company’s share capital were allocated as follows: authorization granted to the Company to buy back its shares. ◗ 1,461,712 shares for grant or sale to employees and/or This authorization was used in 2016 in connection with the corporate officers; and liquidity contract (entered into with Oddo Corporate Finance until September 30, 2016, and with Kepler Cheuvreux from ◗ 1,417,645 shares to the objective of cancellation. October 3, 2016 onwards) and more generally as part of the Finally, it is noted that during the year-ended 2016, continued purchase by the Company of its own shares. 533,699 treasury shares previously allocated for grant to holders The liquidity contract seeks to improve the liquidity of the Cap of securities granting access to the Company’s share capital on Gemini S.A. share and to allow regular quotations. In 2016, a the exercise of the rights attached to these securities were total of 2,686,396 shares were purchased on behalf of Cap reallocated to the objective of cancellation. Gemini S.A., at an average price of €81.12 per share, Shareholders are reminded that as part of the active representing 1.57% of the share capital at December 31, 2016. management of the share capital, the Board of Directors had During the same period, 2,621,396 Cap Gemini S.A. shares decided on December 7, 2016 to increase by €500 million the were sold at an average price of €81.33 per share, representing Company’s multi-year share buyback program, previously 1.53% of the share capital at December 31, 2016. At the approved in February 2016 and initially for €600 million. The year-end, the liquidity account balance comprised terms of this buy-back program fall within the scope of the 150,000 treasury shares (0.09% of the share capital) and authorization granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, approximately €9 million. 2016 or of any subsequent authorization, such as the one In addition, the Company continued to purchase its own shares submitted for approval in the 11th resolution. in 2016. Excluding the liquidity contract, the Company held The new authorization submitted to your approval in the 2,879,357 of its own shares at December 31, 2016, following 11th resolution provides for the buy back by the Company of its the various transactions described below: own shares up to the statutory limit of 10% of the number of ◗ purchase of 4,128,337 shares representing 2.41% of the share shares comprising the share capital at the date of such capital at December 31, 2016, at an average price of €81.18 purchases, and that the maximum number of treasury shares per share; held after such purchases may not exceed 10% of the amount of the Company’s share capital at any time. The maximum ◗ transfer of 468,276 shares to employees under the free share purchase price will be set at €130 per share. The acquisition, grant plan; disposal and transfer transactions described above may be ◗ transfer of 344,392 shares to holders of redeemable share carried out by any means in accordance with prevailing laws and subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) who exercised regulations – including through the use of derivative instruments their Cap Gemini S.A. share allotment rights in 2016; or by means of a block purchase or transfer of shares – and be ◗ transfer of 640,184 shares to holders of ORNANE who carried out at any time, except during public offers for the exercised their conversion rights; Company’s shares. This authorization is granted for a limited period of 18 months. ◗ cancellation of 617,235 shares. 288 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ELEVENTH RESOLUTION Authorization of a share buyback program general regulations, the number of shares taken into account in calculating the above 10% limit will be the number of shares The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum purchased minus the number of shares resold during the and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after authorization period. having read the Board of Directors’ report, authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent Acquisitions, sales and transfers of shares may be performed at authorized by law and in accordance with Articles L.225-209 et any time other than during the period of a public offer for the seq. of the French Commercial Code, to purchase or arrange the Company’s shares, subject to the limits authorized by prevailing purchase of the Company’s shares, particularly with a view to: laws and regulations, on one or more occasions and by any means, and particularly on regulated markets, via a multilateral ◗ the allocation or sale of shares to employees and/or corporate trading facility or systematic internalizer or over the counter, officers (on the terms and by the methods provided by law), in including by block purchases or sales, by public offer for cash or particular with a view to the allocation of free shares pursuant to shares or using options or other forward financial instruments the provisions of Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French traded on regulated markets, via a multilateral trading facility or Commercial Code, the allocation or sale of shares to employees systematic internalizer or over the counter, either directly or under the French statutory profit-sharing scheme or the through an investment services provider, or in any other manner implementation of any company or group savings plan (or similar (with no limit on the portion of the share buyback program carried plan) on the terms provided by law, in particular out by each of these means). Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du travail), and generally, honoring all obligations relating to share The maximum purchase price of shares purchased pursuant to option programs or other share allocations to employees or this resolution will be €130 per share (or the equivalent at the corporate officers of the Company or a related company; or same date in any other currency). The Shareholders’ Meeting ◗ the delivery of shares on the exercise of rights attached to delegates to the Board of Directors powers to adjust the securities granting access to the share capital by redemption, aforementioned maximum purchase price in the event of a change conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant or any other in the par value of the share, a share capital increase by means; or capitalizing reserves, a free share allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution of reserves or any other assets, a ◗ the cancellation of some or all of the shares purchased; or share capital redemption, or any other transaction impacting share ◗ the delivery of shares (in exchange, as payment, or otherwise) in capital, to take account of the impact of such transactions on the connection with acquisitions, mergers, demergers or value of the shares. asset-for-share exchanges; or The total amount allocated to the share buyback program ◗ the management of the secondary market or maintenance of the authorized above may not exceed €2,190 million. liquidity of the Cap Gemini share by an investment services The Shareholders’ Meeting confers full powers on the Board of 6 provider under a liquidity contract that complies with the ethical Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent code recognized by the French Financial Markets Authority authorized by law, to decide and implement this authorization and (Autorité des marchés financiers, AMF). if necessary to specify the conditions and determine the terms This program is also intended to enable the implementation of any thereof, to implement the share buyback program, and in market practice that may be permitted by the AMF and more particular to place stock market orders, allocate or reallocate generally the carrying out of any transaction that complies with purchased shares to desired objectives subject to applicable legal prevailing regulations. In such cases, the Company will inform its and regulatory conditions, set any terms and conditions that may shareholders by means of a press release. be necessary to preserve the rights of holders of securities or Purchases of the Company’s own shares may be made such that, other rights granting access to the share capital in accordance at the date of each purchase, the total number of shares acquired with legal and regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any by the Company since the beginning of the buyback program contractual terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is (including the shares subject to the current purchase) does not necessary, to make declarations to the French Financial Markets exceed 10% of the shares comprising the Company’s share Authority or any other competent authority, to accomplish all other capital at that date (including transactions impacting the share formalities and generally do all that is necessary. capital and performed after this Shareholders’ Meeting), it being This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months as stipulated that (i) the number of shares purchased with a view to from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting. their retention or presentation in a merger, demerger or It supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, asset-for-share exchange transaction may not exceed 5% of the the authorization granted by the 10th resolution adopted by the Company’s share capital; and (ii) where the shares are Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. repurchased to improve liquidity on the terms set out in the AMF Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 289 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 12TH, 13TH AND 14TH RESOLUTIONS CONVERSION OF THE CORPORATE FORM OF THE COMPANY THROUGH THE EUROPEAN COMPANY STATUTE (SE) – CORPORATE NAME OVERVIEW Your Board of Directors proposes to convert the legal form of the Lack of repercussions of the conversion Company to a European company (Societas Europaea, SE). Furthermore, it is noted that: ◗ the Company would remain governed primarily by French legal Objective of the conversion provisions applicable to limited liability companies with a Board The aim of this change is to better reflect the international and of Directors (sociétés anonymes à Conseil d’administration), European outlook of the Capgemini Group (hereinafter the where such provisions are compatible with those applicable to “Group”) in its legal form. SEs; This new legal form would better reflect the reality of the Group, which ◗ Cap Gemini’s registered office and head office would remain in is both firmly international, with a presence in over 40 countries, and Paris; deeply rooted in Europe. Founded in 1967 in Grenoble, France, the ◗ the governance, business activities, organization, tax regime Company expanded internationally from the outset, with the Group and shareholder structure of the Group would remain present in 21 European countries by 1975. The Capgemini Group is a unchanged; global leader in consulting and IT services; it is a leading multi-cultural group, with over 120 nationalities represented worldwide. ◗ the Cap Gemini shares would remain listed on the Paris stock market without any change; With this SE conversion plan, the Company would adopt a legal form common to all European Union countries, where the Group ◗ the conversion of the Company would lead to a change in legal generates over 60% of its revenues (including the United form without reducing the current financial or policy rights of Kingdom and Ireland) and has around one-third of its headcount shareholders; the conversion will not require any action by at December 31, 2016. This legal form, which is being them, subject to the approval of the conversion to an European increasingly adopted by European companies and companies company by the Shareholders’ General Meeting; listed on the Paris stock market, is consistent with the economic ◗ the individual and collective rights of Group employees would reality of the Group and its market. not be modified; in particular, employment contacts and collective employee agreements would not be changed; Legal framework for the conversion ◗ the conversion would not result in the winding-up of the The conversion is governed by (i) the provisions of Council Company or the creation of a new legal person; it would not Regulation (EC) no. 2157/2001 of October 8, 2001 on the result in any change to the corporate purpose, the registered Statute for a European company (hereinafter the “SE office or the share capital of the Company, whose corporate Regulation”) (and particularly Articles 2§4 and 37 on the name would be followed by the words société européenne formation of an SE by conversion of an existing company); (ii) (European company) or the initials “SE”; Articles L.225-245-1 and R.229-20 to R.229-22 of the French ◗ directors and the principle and substitute Statutory Auditors in Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) and (iii) the provisions of office at the time of the conversion of the Company to an SE Council Directive no. 2001/86/EC of October 8, 2001 would continue in office until the end of their respective terms; supplementing the Statute for a European company with regard ◗ all authorizations and delegations of authority and power to the involvement of employees (hereinafter the “SE Directive”) conferred on the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini as a limited and prevailing French legislative and regulatory provisions liability company by Shareholders’ Meetings would be applicable to SEs as well as those applicable to limited liability transferred ipso facto to the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini companies (sociétés anonymes) compatible with the SE in its new legal form as an SE. Regulation and with specific provisions applicable to SEs. Pursuant to the provisions of the SE Regulation, a limited liability Amendment of the bylaws company incorporated under the laws of a Member State and with its registered office and head office located in the European The current bylaws of the Company would be adapted to include Union, can convert to an SE: and comply with the provisions of the SE Regulation. Amendments primarily concern the functioning, roles and ◗ if it has subscribed capital of at least €120,000; and responsibilities of the Board of Directors (Articles 12 and 13) and ◗ if for at least two years it has had a subsidiary governed by the the convening of Shareholders’ Meetings and the counting of laws of another Member State. votes on resolutions (Article 19). The draft bylaws of the Company in its new legal form as an SE are appended to this These conditions are satisfied as Cap Gemini, a limited liability report and to the draft terms of conversion of Cap Gemini to a company incorporated under French law and with its registered European company of December 7, 2016. office and head office located in France, (i) has a share capital of €1,353,196,640 and (ii) has had for more than two years several subsidiaries located in European Union countries, such as Capgemini UK plc in the United Kingdom, Capgemini Nederland B.V. in the Netherlands, Capgemini Deutschland GmbH in Germany, Capgemini España S.L. in Spain and Capgemini Italia S.p.A. in Italy. 290 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Preconditions to conversion involvement of Company employees in the SE and those set The draft terms of conversion prepared by your Board of out in Article L.2353-28 of the same code will apply in relation Directors were filed with the Office of the Clerk of the Paris to employee participation on the Board of Directors. Commercial Court, within whose jurisdiction the Company is The registration of the Company as an SE, which will officially registered, and a notice was published in a legal gazette of record its conversion, can only take place following completion mandatory announcements and the Bulletin des Annonces of the employee involvement procedure. Légales Obligatoires (BALO) on December 14, 2016. For more detailed information, please refer to the draft terms of The conversion of Cap Gemini SA to an SE is subject to the conversion of Cap Gemini to a European company of approval of the Shareholders’ General Meeting. December 7, 2016, available on the Company’s website (www.capgemini.com). In addition, you will hear the report of the It has been subject to consultation of the holders of outstanding conversion auditor, Mr. Dedouit, appointed by the Presiding bonds. Judge of the Paris Commercial Court. In addition, conversion requires the completion of the procedure Your Board confirms that it considers the conversion of the concerning employee involvement, as set out in Articles L.2351-1 et Company to an SE to be in the interests of the Company and the seq. of the French Labor Code (Code du travail). Accordingly, and Group for the reasons provided and invites you to adopt the in accordance with the provisions of the SE Directive, a Special following resolutions presented for your approval. Negotiating Body (SNB) was formed, comprising representatives of employees of the Company and its European subsidiaries and The 12th resolution aims at modifying the Company’s corporate entities, and charged with negotiating the involvement of employees name. The conversion is the opportunity to propose to align the of the Company and its European subsidiaries and entities in the corporate name of the Company with the name of the Group. future SE. Negotiations will take place during a maximum period of The name of the Company would therefore become “Capgemini” six months, renewable once, and could lead to: instead of “Cap Gemini”. ◗ the signature of a special purpose agreement on the The 13th resolution aims at approval of the conversion of the involvement of employees in the SE; corporate form of the Company through adoption of the ◗ failure to reach an agreement, in which case the subsidiary European company statute and the draft terms of conversion, provisions set out in the SE Directive and Articles L.2353-1 et while the 14th resolution proposes to adopt amended bylaws seq. of the French Labor Code will apply to organize the suitable with the new European company statute. TWELFTH RESOLUTION Change in the Company’s corporate name Former wording of Article 2 of the bylaws: 6 The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum “The Company’s name is “CAP GEMINI”. and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, New wording of Article 2 of the bylaws: having read the Board of Directors’ report, decides to change, with immediate effect, the corporate name of the Company to “The Company’s name is ‟Capgemini””. ‟Capgemini” and thereby amend Article 2 of the bylaws accordingly: THIRTEENTH RESOLUTION Approval of the conversion of the corporate form of the (Président du Tribunal de commerce de Paris) on December 14, Company through adoption of the European company 2016 in the context of the conversion; statute and the draft terms of conversion After having duly noted that: The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum ◗ the Company meets the conditions required by the provisions of and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, Council Regulation EC no. 2157/2001 of October 8, 2001 on having examined: the statute for a European company, and in particular those ◗ the report of the Board of Directors; specified in Articles 2§4 and 37 of the said Regulation, as well as of Article L.225-245-1 of the French Commercial Code relating ◗ the draft terms of the Company’s conversion into a European to the conversion of French société anonyme into an European company prepared by the Board of Directors, dated company; December 7, 2016 and filed with the clerk of the Paris Commercial Court (greffe du Tribunal de commerce de Paris) on ◗ the conversion into a European company shall not result in either December 9, 2016, which explain and substantiate the legal and the winding-up of the Company or in the creation of a new legal business aspects of the Company’s conversion into a European entity; company and which indicate its consequences for the ◗ following the conversion, the Company’s corporate name shall shareholders, the employees and the creditors of the Company be followed by the words société européenne or the initials “SE”; (the “Draft Terms of Conversion”); ◗ the Company’s term, its corporate purpose and registered office ◗ the report of Mr. Jean-Jacques Dedouit, the auditor appointed shall not undergo any change; by order of the President of the Paris Commercial Court Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 291 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ◗ the Company’s share capital shall remain of the same amount have been approved by the General Meetings of the holders of and of the same number of shares with a par value of Cap Gemini’s bonds convened upon second notice on eight euros each; these shall remain listed on the regulated February 22, 2017 in respect of the following bonds: market of Euronext in Paris; ISIN FR0012821924, floating rate, due July 2018; ◗ the length of the current fiscal year will not undergo any change ISIN FR0012821932 1,750% due July 2020; as a result of the adoption of the European company form and ISIN FR0013218138 0,5% due November 2021; the financial statements of this fiscal year will be prepared, ISIN FR0012821940 2,5% due July 2023; presented and audited according to the conditions defined by Having duly noted, in accordance with Article 12§2 of the the Company’s bylaws under its new legal form and the aforementioned Regulation, that the Company shall not be provisions of the French Commercial Code relating to the registered as a European company unless the procedure relating European company; to employee involvement, as provided for in Articles L.2351-1 et ◗ all authorizations and delegations of authority and of powers that seq. of the French Labor Code, has been completed; have been granted to the Board of Directors of the Company Decides the conversion of the Company’s legal form into a under its current form as a société anonyme by any European company (Societas Europaea) with a Board of Directors Shareholders General Meeting of the Company and in force on and approves the Draft Terms of the Conversion; the date of the Company’s registration as a European company, Takes note that this conversion of the Company into a European shall ipso facto apply to the Board of Directors of the Company company shall take effect upon the Company’s registration as a under its new legal form as a European company; European company with the Paris Commercial and Companies ◗ each of the Company’s Directors and Statutory Auditors shall Registry (Registre du commerce et des sociétés de Paris), which continue to serve the Company for the remaining duration of shall take place once negotiations relating to employee their terms of office under the same conditions as those applying involvement have been completed; before the Company’s registration in the form of a European company; Grants full powers to the Board of Directors to take all decisions and to carry out all formalities required for the registration of the ◗ in application of Articles L.228-65 and L.225-244 of the French Company as a European company and generally do whatever is Commercial Code, the conversion of the Company’s legal form necessary in order to acknowledge the definitive completion of the into a European company and Draft Terms of the Conversion conversion of the Company as a European company. FOURTEENTH RESOLUTION Amendment of the bylaws – European company specified that the bylaws include the amendments proposed in the twelfth resolution and shall therefore be adapted on this specific The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum item in the event of rejection of the above-mentioned resolution. and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, having examined the report of the Board of Directors as well as These bylaws shall become effective as from the definitive the draft bylaws of the Company under its corporate form of completion of the conversion of the Company into a European European company, adopts, subject to the approval of the company resulting from its registration. thirteenth resolution, article by article and as a whole, the text of A copy of the bylaws of Capgemini SE is appended to the minutes the bylaws which will govern the Company as from the definitive of this General Meeting. completion of its conversion into a European company, it being 292 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 15TH RESOLUTION AMENDMENT OF THE BYLAWS – DISCLOSURE THRESHOLDS OVERVIEW Article 10 of the Company’s bylaws currently requires However, the reporting period currently set in the Company’s shareholders to inform the Company when they cross, through bylaws (15 calendar days) would appear too long to allow the an increase or a decrease, a disclosure threshold of 1% (or a bylaw provisions to play their intended role from the Company’s multiple thereof) of the Company’s capital or voting rights, up to point of view. A period of four trading days, equivalent to the one third of the Company’s capital. period applicable to the crossing of legal thresholds, would appear more appropriate, in addition to being the most common Your Board is aware that the current bylaw provisions require market practice. close monitoring by shareholders of their investments and that the implementation of these provisions can prove challenging, Accordingly, the fifteenth resolution proposes to amend particularly with respect to the acquisition of stakes of less than Article 10 of the bylaws as follows: 5% of the capital, while being accompanied by the potential ◗ Withdrawal of the obligation to inform the Company of stripping of voting rights in the event of compliance failure. the crossing of thresholds below 5%; all acquisitions of Nevertheless, as the Company’s share ownership is highly stakes of between 1% and 5% (exclusive) will therefore be free fragmented, with no reference shareholder and an extremely of any disclosure requirements; limited number of shareholders holding 5% or more of the share ◗ Starting from 5% of the share capital or voting rights, capital or voting rights, your Board of Directors considers it shareholders shall inform the Company when they cross, important for the Company to have detailed information on through an increase or a decrease, a threshold representing changes in share ownership. 1% of the Company’s capital or voting rights (or a multiple The existence of thresholds per the bylaws in addition to those thereof), within a period of four trading days, up to the imposed by law provides this visibility for fractions of share threshold triggering a public offer (currently 30% of the share capital held between each legal threshold. capital or voting rights). FIFTEENTH RESOLUTION Amendment of the Company’s bylaws – Disclosure period of two years from the date on which the failure to disclose thresholds is rectified. Said request and the decision of the General 6 Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and Meeting.” majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ report, resolves to modify the New wording of Article 10 of the bylaws: provisions applicable to disclosure thresholds and thereby amend “Article 10 Disclosure thresholds Article 10 of the bylaws accordingly: Where an individual or corporate shareholder crosses the Former wording of Article 10 of the bylaws: disclosure threshold of 5% of the Company’s capital or voting “Article 10 Disclosure thresholds rights, the said shareholder must inform the Company of their total number of shares or voting rights held upon the crossing, through Where an individual or corporate shareholder crosses the an increase or a decrease, of each threshold of 1% fraction of disclosure threshold of 1% of the Company’s capital or voting capital or voting rights from this lower threshold of 5% to the rights, the said shareholder must inform the Company of their total threshold triggering a public offer in accordance with prevailing number of shares or voting rights held upon the crossing of each regulations. threshold of 1%, up to one third of the Company’s capital or voting rights. Said disclosure must be made within fifteen days of Disclosure thresholds are assessed taking into account shares the date when the shares causing the threshold to be crossed are and voting rights deemed equivalent by Law to shares and voting recorded in the shareholder’s account, by registered letter with rights held by shareholders subject to disclosure obligations. return receipt requested. Said disclosure must be made by registered letter with return This duty of disclosure applies in the same way when a threshold receipt requested, within four trading days of the crossing, is crossed by virtue of a reduction in the shareholder’s interest in through an increase or a decrease, of each threshold as defined the Company’s capital or voting rights. and assessed above. Disclosure thresholds are assessed taking into account shares In the event of failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the and voting rights deemed equivalent by law to shares and voting request of one or several shareholders with combined holdings rights held by shareholders subject to disclosure obligations. representing at least 5% of the Company’s capital or voting rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting rights. Said In the case of failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the sanction shall apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of request of one or several shareholders with combined holdings two years from the date on which the failure to disclose is representing at least 1% of the Company’s capital or voting rights, rectified. This request and the decision of the Shareholders’ the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting rights. Said Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the Meeting.” sanction shall apply for all General Shareholders’ Meetings for a Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 293 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF THE 16TH RESOLUTION ALLOCATION OF SHARES TO EMPLOYEES OVERVIEW Desirous to continue its motivation policy and involving December 31, 2019, excluding Group payments to make up the employees and managers in the development of the Group, the shortfall on its defined benefit pension funds. Board of Directors is seeking a new authorization to grant As in 2016, the minimum vesting period for shares would be set additional performance shares, existing or to be issued, subject at three years, thereby responding favorably to the request by to internal and external performance conditions, during the next investors. In addition, if a retention period for shares definitively 18 months, (with, in the case of shares to be issued, the waiver allocated was fixed by your Board, it should not be less than by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor one year. of the beneficiaries of the grants) up to a maximum of 1% of the share capital. The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of shares that may be granted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and The detailed performance conditions are presented in the draft the Deputy Chief Executive Officers, if any, it being specified that sixteenth resolution presented to you for vote. in this case, the Board of Directors will, in accordance with In summary: applicable laws, decide the portion of shares that must be held by each individual until the end of his/her term of office. The external performance condition is assessed based on the comparative performance of the Cap Gemini share compared The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors to grant up with a basket containing at least eight comparable companies in to 15% of the maximum number of shares to Group employees, our business sector from at least five different countries other than members of the general management team (the (Accenture/CSC/Atos/Tieto/Sopra Steria/CGI Group/Infosys and Executive Committee), without performance conditions. Cognizant) and the CAC 40 index (new since 2014). In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF No shares vest in respect of the external performance condition Code, performance share grants are now undertaken at the same if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is less than calendar periods and will be decided by either the Board of 100% of the average performance of the basket over a Directors’ Meeting held at the end of July or the following meeting. three-year period, while 25% of shares vest if this performance is Recap of the use of authorizations previously granted by equal to that of the basket and the maximum 50% of shares vest Shareholders’ Meetings: if this performance is 110% or more of that of the basket. The use by the Board of Directors of previous resolutions for the The internal performance condition is measured by the amount grant of performance shares is presented in the Group of audited and published organic free cash flow for the Management report (“Performance share grants” paragraph, three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2017 to Section 5.1.4, of the 2016 Registration Document). SIXTEENTH RESOLUTION Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of and non-French subsidiaries; in the case of a share capital eighteen months, to grant performance shares, existing or increase by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, to be issued, to employees and corporate officers of the profits or other amounts and allocating free shares during the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, up to period of validity of this delegation, the above ceiling will be a maximum of 1% of the Company’s share capital (with, in adjusted based on the ratio between the number of shares the case of shares to be issued, the waiver by shareholders issued and outstanding before and after the transaction; of their preemptive subscription rights in favor of the 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these beneficiaries of the grants) performance shares may also be allocated, in accordance In accordance with Articles L.225-197-1 et seq. of the French with applicable laws, to the Chairman and Chief Executive Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers of the accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Company, it being specified that in this case, the Board of Shareholders’ Meetings, having read the Board of Directors’ Directors will, in accordance with applicable laws, decide the report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: portion of shares that must be held by each individual until the end of his/her term of office; 1. authorizes the Board of Directors, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law – subject to the 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the achievement of the performance conditions defined in end of a vesting period (the “Vesting Period”) of at least three paragraph 4 of this resolution and for a total number of shares years, it being stipulated that the Board of Directors may not exceeding 1% of the share capital at the date of the introduce, where applicable, a lock-in period following the decision (this maximum number of shares being referred to vesting of the shares the duration of which may vary hereafter by the letter “N”) – to allocate shares of the depending on the country of tax residence of the beneficiary; Company (existing or to be issued), to employees of the in those countries where a lock-in period is applied it will be of Company and employees and corporate officers of its French a minimum period of one year. 294 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal years is periods and may be freely sold in the event of the death or at least €3,200 million and will vary on a straight-line basis incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 between 15% and half of the Initial Allocation for a or 3 disability in France, as defined in Article L.341-4 of the cumulative organic free cash flow between these two limits; French Social Security Code (Code de la Sécurité Sociale); it being understood that organic free cash flow is defined as 4. resolves, subject to the powers conferred on the Board of cash flow from operations less acquisitions (net of Directors by law and this resolution, that the exact number of disposals) of intangible assets and property, plant and shares vesting to beneficiaries at the end of the Vesting equipment, adjusted for flows relating to the net interest Period, compared with the total number of shares (“Initial cost (as presented in the consolidated statement of cash Allocation”) indicated in the allocation notice sent to flows); beneficiaries will be equal to: 5. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding i. for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, 15% of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen Company and its French (within the meaning, particularly, of external performance target, it being specified that: Article L.225-197-6, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial Code) and non-French subsidiaries, excluding members of the ◗ the performance target to be met in order for the shares to general management team (the Executive Committee) without vest will be the performance of the Cap Gemini share performance conditions; measured over a minimum three-year period compared to the average performance, measured over the same period, 6. takes due note that this authorization involves the waiver by of a basket containing at least five shares of listed shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of companies operating in the same sector as the Group in a beneficiaries of performance shares if the allocation concerns minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly shares to be issued; established (France, the United States, etc.), 7. takes due note that the Board of Directors has, pursuant to ◗ this relative performance will be measured by comparing the law, the power to amend the performance conditions set the stock market performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. out in paragraph 4 above by way of a duly reasoned decision share with the average share price performance of the made after this decision and before the share allocations; basket over the same period, such that: 8. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this ❚ the number of shares that will ultimately vest: authorization (with the power of sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law), and in particular to: ◗ will be equal to 50% of the Initial Allocation of shares if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is at ❚ set the share allocation date, least equal to 110% of the basket, ❚ draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the number of ◗ will vary between 25% and 50% of the Initial Allocation if shares allocated to each beneficiary, the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is ❚ set the share allocation terms and conditions, including with between 100% and 110% of the average performance respect to performance conditions, 6 of the basket, with an additional 2.5% of shares vesting ❚ determine whether the shares allocated for nil consideration for each percentage point between these limits, are existing shares or shares to be issued and, where ◗ will be equal to 25% of the Initial Allocation of shares if applicable, amend this choice before the vesting of shares, the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is ❚ decide, in the event that transactions are carried out before equal to 100% of the basket; the shares vest that affect the Company’s equity, whether to ❚ no shares will vest in respect of shares subject to this adjust the number of the shares allocated in order to protect external performance condition, if, over the calculation the rights of the beneficiaries and, if so, define the terms and reference period, the performance of the Cap Gemini conditions of such adjustment, share is less than 100% of the average performance of ❚ perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, the basket of securities measured over the same period; the necessary share capital increases by capitalization of ii. for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, reserves or additional paid-in capital of the Company when multiplied by the percentage achievement of the chosen the shares ultimately vest, set the dates from which shares internal performance target, it being specified that: bear dividend rights, deduct from available reserves or ◗ the performance target to be met in order for the shares to additional paid-in capital of the Company the amounts vest will be the amount of audited and published organic necessary to increase the legal reserve to 10% of the new free cash flow for the three-year cumulative period from share capital amount following these share capital increases January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2019, excluding Group and amend the bylaws accordingly, payments to make up the shortfall on its defined benefit ❚ carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do whatever is pension funds, necessary; ◗ no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial 9. resolves that this authorization is granted for a period of Allocation subject to this internal performance condition, if eighteen months as from the date of this Shareholders’ the cumulative organic free cash flow for the three fiscal Meeting and supersedes from this date, in the amount of any years is less than €2,900 million, unused portion, the delegation granted by the 21st resolution ◗ the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal to adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016. the full amount of this half of the Initial Allocation if the Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 295 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting PRESENTATION OF 17TH AND 18TH RESOLUTIONS EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLANS OVERVIEW As part of the employee incentive policy and in order to align The 17th resolution is intended to allow the Board to carry out employee interests with those of shareholders and also stabilize capital increases of a maximum nominal amount of €48 million the Company’s share capital, the Board of Directors wishes to reserved for members of employee savings plans of the Company or continue making the Company’s share capital accessible to a of the Group. This resolution requires the cancellation of preferential large number of employees, in particular through employee stock subscription rights. The term provided for in this delegation is ownership plans (“ESOP”). eighteen months. The maximum discount authorized compared to the Reference Price (as defined in the resolution) would be 20% (or The next employee stock ownership plan should be 30% in the case of a lock-up period in excess of 10 years). implemented after the expiry in September 2017 of the ESOP 2012 and most likely by December 31, 2017. The 18th resolution is intended to allow development of employee share ownership outside France, due to legal or tax difficulties that The validity period of the delegations currently in force, and in could make it difficult to implement such plans directly or through a particular of the delegation granted by the 20th resolution mutual fund in some countries. This delegation may only be used adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016, does in the event of the use of the delegation granted pursuant to the not offer sufficient flexibility to envisage implementation of a new 17th resolution, with a sub-ceiling of €24 million counting towards employee savings plan in line with this calendar. the overall €48 million ceiling set forth in the 17th resolution. As for For this reason, it is proposed to present this year to the the 17th resolution, this resolution also provides for the cancellation Shareholders’ Meeting the renewal of the two resolutions of the preferential subscription right and the term provided for in delegating to the Board of Directors its authority to issue shares this authorization is eighteen months. The maximum authorized or securities granting access to the share capital reserved for discount would be 20%. employees of the Company in order to implement a new ESOP Shareholders are reminded that the Board of Directors did not tranche. make use of the delegations granted by the 19th and A common overall ceiling of €48 million (corresponding to 20th resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 6 million shares representing approximately 3.5% of the share May 18, 2016. These delegations had been sought solely in capital as at December 31, 2016) is proposed for these anticipation of the launch of the next employee stock ownership two delegations. plan, in particular in order to obtain the necessary prior approval of the Autorité des marchés financiers based on a valid delegation from the Shareholders’ Meeting. SEVENTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a period Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 of eighteen months, to issue, with cancellation of or L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or at securities granting access to the Company’s share capital, fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, immediately or in the future, to members of Capgemini redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, to Group employee savings plans up to a maximum par value the share capital of the Company, reserved for members of amount of €48 million and at a price set in accordance with one or more employee savings plans (or any other plan for the provisions of the French Labor Code whose members a share capital increase may be reserved on equivalent terms under Articles L.3332-1 et seq. of the French The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum Labor Code or any analogous law or regulation) implemented and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, within a company or a group of French or non-French having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory companies within the scope of the consolidated or combined Auditors’ special report and in accordance with financial statements of the Company pursuant to Articles L.225-129-1, L.225-129-6, L.225-138-1 and L.228-91 et Article L.3344-1 of the French Labor Code, it being further seq. of the French Commercial Code and Articles L.3332-18 to stipulated that this resolution may be used to implement L.3332-24 of the French Labor Code: leveraged schemes; 1. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of 2. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, the powers increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this necessary to increase the share capital, on one or more delegation: occasions, in France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription ❚ the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future rights, in euros or in any other currency or currency unit share capital increases that may be carried out under this established by reference to more than one currency, with or delegation is set at €48 million or the equivalent in any other without a share premium, whether for valuable consideration currency or currency unit established by reference to more or without consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company than one currency, (excluding preference shares), or (ii) securities governed by 296 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ added to this ceiling will be the par value amount of any ❚ draw up in accordance with the law a list of companies from shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and which the beneficiaries indicated above may subscribe for regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual shares or securities granting access to the share capital thus terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, issued and who, where applicable, may receive free allocations the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting of shares or securities granting access to the share capital, access to the share capital, ❚ decide that subscriptions may be made directly by ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing beneficiaries belonging to a company or group savings plan additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts (or similar plan), or via dedicated employee savings mutual and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this funds (FCPE) or other vehicles or entities permitted under delegation, the above ceiling will be adjusted based on the applicable laws and regulations, ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding ❚ for issues of debt instruments, set all the terms and before and after the transaction; conditions of these securities (particularly their term, which 3. resolves that the issue price of the new shares or securities may or may not be fixed, whether they are subordinated and granting access to the share capital will be determined in their remuneration) and amend, during the life of these accordance with the terms set out in Articles L.3332-18 et securities, the above terms and conditions, in compliance seq. of the French Labor Code and will be at least equal to with applicable formalities, 80% of the Reference Price (as defined below) or 70% of the ❚ set the terms, where applicable, for the exercise of rights Reference Price where the lock-up period stipulated by the (rights to conversion, exchange or redemption as the case plan in application of Articles L.3332-25 and L.3332-26 of the may be) attached to shares or securities granting access to French Labor Code is ten years or more; for the purposes of shares to be issued, and in particular set the date, which may this paragraph the Reference Price refers to an average listed be retroactive, from which the new shares will rank for price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris regulated dividend, and all other terms and conditions for the market over the 20 trading days preceding the decision completion of the share capital increase, setting the subscription opening date for members of a company or group employee savings plan (or similar plan); ❚ set the amounts of issues to be made under this authorization and in particular determine the issue prices, dates, time limits, 4. authorizes the Board of Directors to allocate, without terms and conditions of subscription, payment, delivery and consideration, to the beneficiaries indicated above, in addition date of ranking for dividend of the securities (which may be to shares or securities granting access to the share capital retroactive), rules for pro-rating in the event of subscribed for cash, shares or securities granting access to over-subscription and any other terms and conditions of the the share capital to be issued or already issued in full or partial issues, subject to prevailing legal and regulatory limits, substitution of the discount in the Reference Price and/or as an employer’s contribution, it being stipulated that the benefit ❚ determine and make all adjustments to take account of the resulting from this allocation may not exceed the applicable impact of transactions in the share capital or equity of the legal or regulatory limits; Company, in particular in the event of a change in the par 6 value of the share, a share capital increase by capitalizing 5. resolves to waive in favor of the aforementioned beneficiaries reserves, profits or additional paid-in capital, a free share the pre-emptive subscription rights of shareholders to the allocation, a stock split or reverse stock split, a distribution of shares and securities granting access to the share capital dividends, reserves, additional paid-in capital or any other issued pursuant to this delegation, said shareholders also assets, a share capital redemption, or any other transaction waiving, in the event of the free allocation to such beneficiaries impacting share capital or equity (including in the case of a of shares or securities granting access to the share capital, public offer for the Company’s shares and/or a change in any rights to such shares or securities granting access to the control) and set all other terms enabling the preservation, share capital, including the portion of reserves, profits, or where applicable, of the rights of holders of securities or additional paid-in capital capitalized as a result of the free other rights granting access to the share capital (including by allocation of securities on the basis of this resolution; means of cash adjustments), 6. authorizes the Board of Directors, under the terms specified in ❚ in the event of the free allocation of shares or securities this delegation, to sell shares as permitted under granting access to the share capital, determine the nature Article L.3332-24 of the French Labor Code to members of a and number of shares or securities granting access to the company or Group employee savings plan (or similar plan), it share capital to be issued, as well as their terms and being stipulated that the aggregate par value amount of conditions and the number to be granted to each beneficiary, shares sold at a discount to members of one or more of the and determine the dates, time limits, and terms and employee savings plans covered by this resolution will count conditions of allocation of such shares or securities granting towards the ceilings mentioned in paragraph 2 of this access to the share capital subject to prevailing legal and resolution; regulatory limits, and in particular choose to either wholly or 7. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have full powers to partially substitute the allocation of such shares or securities implement this delegation, with the power of sub-delegation to granting access to the share capital for the discount in the the extent authorized by law, within the aforementioned limits Reference Price specified above or offset the equivalent value and terms, and in particular: of such shares or securities against the total amount of the ❚ decide the issue of shares and/or securities granting access employer’s contribution or a combination of both options, to the share capital, immediately or in the future, ❚ duly record the completion of share capital increases in the amount of shares actually subscribed, Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 297 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting ❚ where applicable, offset share issue costs against the related and financial administration of securities issued by virtue of premiums and deduct from these issue premiums the this delegation and for the exercise of the rights attached amounts necessary to bring the legal reserve to one-tenth of thereto or required as a result of the share capital increases, the new share capital after the share capital increases, ❚ decide to postpone performance of the share capital ❚ enter into all agreements and accomplish directly or indirectly increase; via an agent all transactions and formalities, including 8. grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months; formalities required following the share capital increases and the corresponding amendments to the bylaws, 9. resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted by the ❚ generally, enter into all agreements, in particular to ensure 19th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of completion of the proposed issues, take all measures and May 18, 2016. decisions and accomplish all formalities for the issue, listing EIGHTEENTH RESOLUTION Delegation of powers to the Board of Directors, for a period redemption, presentation of a warrant or any other means, to of eighteen months, to issue with cancellation of the share capital of the Company, reserved for one of the pre-emptive subscription rights, ordinary shares and/or following categories of beneficiary: (i) non-French Employees, securities granting access to the share capital, immediately (ii) employee shareholding UCITS or other vehicles, with or or in the future, in favor of employees of certain non-French without a legal personality, invested in shares of the Company, subsidiaries at terms and conditions comparable to those where the holders of units or shares are non-French offered pursuant to the preceding resolution Employees, and/or (iii) any bank or entity controlled by a bank within the meaning of Article L.233-3 of the French The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum Commercial Code that has set-up at the Company’s request and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, a structured offer for non-French employees presenting an having read the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory economic profile comparable to that of an employee Auditors’ special report and in accordance with shareholder scheme set-up pursuant to a share capital Articles L.225-129-1, L.225-138 and L.228-91 et seq. of the increase performed under the preceding resolution presented French Commercial Code: to this Shareholders’ Meeting; 1. takes due note that in certain countries legal and/or tax 3. resolves to set the following limits on authorized share capital context can make it inadvisable or difficult to implement increases in the event of use by the Board of Directors of this employee shareholding schemes directly or through a mutual delegation: fund (the active, early retired and retired employees and corporate officers referred to in Articles L.3332-1 and ❚ the maximum par value amount of immediate and/or future L.3332-2 of the French Labor Code of Capgemini Group share capital increases that may be carried out under this companies whose registered offices are located in one of delegation is set at €24 million or the equivalent in any other these countries are referred to below as “non-French currency or currency unit established by reference to more Employees”; the “Capgemini Group” comprises the Company than one currency, it being stipulated that this amount will and the French and non-French companies related to the count towards the ceiling set in paragraph 2 of the Company within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the 17th resolution of this Shareholders’ Meeting (subject to its French Commercial Code and Article L.3344-1 et seq. of the approval) or, as the case may be, towards any ceiling, French Labor Code) and that the implementation in favor of stipulated by a resolution of the same kind that may certain non-French Employees of alternative schemes to those supersede said resolution during the period of validity of this performed pursuant to the 17th resolution submitted to this delegation, Shareholders’ Meeting; ❚ added to those ceilings will be the par value amount of any 2. delegates to the Board of Directors, with the power of shares to be issued to preserve, in accordance with legal and sub-delegation to the extent authorized by law, its powers to regulatory provisions and, where applicable, any contractual increase the share capital, on one or more occasions, in terms stipulating other cases where adjustment is necessary, France or abroad, in the proportions and at the times it sees the rights of holders of securities or other rights granting fit, with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, in access to the share capital, euros or in any other currency or currency unit established by ❚ in the case of a share capital increase by capitalizing reference to more than one currency, with or without a share additional paid-in capital, reserves, profits or other amounts premium, whether for valuable consideration or without and allocating free shares during the period of validity of this consideration, by issuing (i) shares of the Company (excluding delegation, the above ceilings will be adjusted based on the preference shares), or (ii) securities governed by ratio between the number of shares issued and outstanding Articles L.228-92 paragraph 1, L.228-93 paragraphs 1 and 3 before and after the transaction; or L.228-94 paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code 4. resolves to cancel pre-emptive subscription rights to the granting access, immediately or in the future, at any time or at shares that may be issued pursuant to this delegation, in favor fixed dates, by subscription, conversion, exchange, of the aforementioned beneficiary categories; 298 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 5. resolves that this delegation of powers may only be used in authorized by law, as those conferred on the Board of the event of the use of the delegation granted pursuant to the Directors by paragraph 7 of the 17th resolution (including the 17th resolution and solely in order to achieve the objective set power to postpone performance of the share capital increase) out in this resolution; and the power to draw up the list of beneficiaries of the 6. resolves that the issue price of new shares or securities cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights within the granting access to the share capital to be issued pursuant to above defined category, and the number of shares and this delegation will be set by the Board of Directors based on securities granting access to the share capital to be the listed price of the Company’s share on the Euronext Paris subscribed by each beneficiary; regulated market; this price will be at least equal to an average 8. grants this delegation for a period of eighteen months as from listed price of the Company’s share over the 20 trading days the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting; preceding the decision setting the subscription opening date 9. resolves that this delegation supersedes from this date, in the for a share capital increase performed pursuant to the amount of any unused portion, the delegation granted by the 17th resolution, less a 20% discount; 20th resolution adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of 7. resolves that the Board of Directors shall have the same May 18, 2016. powers, with the power of sub-delegation to the extent PRESENTATION OF THE 19TH RESOLUTION POWERS TO CARRY OUT FORMALITIES OVERVIEW We also recommend that you confer powers to carry out the formalities required under law. NINETEENTH RESOLUTION Powers to carry out formalities The Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this meeting to execute all filing, publication and other formalities required under French law. 6 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 299 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting DRAFT BYLAWS UPDATED AS AT MAY 10, 2017 (IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE 14TH RESOLUTION SUBMITTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING) ARTICLE 1 LEGAL FORM In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may decide to: The Company, initially incorporated as a French limited liability ◗ create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital of company (société anonyme), was converted to a European other companies and manage their business in exchange for a Company (Société Européenne, Societas Europaea) pursuant to a fee. Management services include the provision of technical, decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, marketing, legal and financial assistance, promotion of a 2017. It is governed by applicable European Union law and common image, organization of financial structures, assistance French law provisions (hereinafter referred to collectively as the in negotiations to help these companies to win new contracts, “Law”), and these bylaws. training, research and development support, etc.; ◗ invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash ARTICLE 2 CORPORATE NAME advances, and give any and all guarantees or collateral on behalf The Company’s corporate name is “Capgemini”. of subsidiaries and affiliates; In all deeds and documents issued by the Company, the ◗ obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and manufacturing corporate name shall always be preceded or followed by the processes and sell, contribute or license any such patents and words société européenne or the initials “SE”, the amount of the processes. share capital and the place and registration number with the Trade In broader terms, the Company’s corporate purpose is to carry and Companies Register. out any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the ARTICLE 3 CORPORATE PURPOSE above purposes or any similar or associated purpose or which are likely to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of said purposes. The Company’s corporate purpose is to assist companies in France and abroad to manage and develop their businesses by providing them with the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, ARTICLE 4 REGISTERED OFFICE its know-how in the area of business process engineering and The Company’s registered office is at 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of information Paris, France. technologies. The registered office may be transferred to another location in To fulfill this corporate purpose, the Company carries out on Paris or a neighboring county (département)(1) pursuant to an behalf of customers, either directly or through its subsidiaries or ordinary decision of the Board of Directors, subject to ratification affiliates, one or other of the following activities, on an individual or of this decision by the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting and to integrated basis: any other location in France or in another Member State of the 1. Management consulting European Union pursuant to a decision of an Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, subject to the provisions of the Law. Working closely with customers, the Company assists in transforming companies by helping them to redefine or ARTICLE 5 TERM redirect their strategy, change their product and service lines, re-engineer their structures and business processes, restore The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from the staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the date of its registration. It may be wound up in advance or its term Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest extended by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. information technologies wherever appropriate. 2. Information systems development ARTICLE 6 SHARE CAPITAL The Company designs and installs information systems. Its The share capital is set at one billion three hundred services include the development of customized software, the fifty-three million one hundred ninety-six thousand six hundred installation of market or internally-developed software forty (1,353,196,640) euros, divided into one hundred applications, the integration of systems incorporating sixty-nine million one hundred forty-nine thousand five hundred hardware, communication systems, customized software, eighty (169,149,580) fully paid-up shares with a par value of eight software packages and other components. The Company (8) euros each. also supports customers’ IT projects by providing consulting, project management, training and assistance services. ARTICLE 7 FORM OF SHARES – SHAREHOLDER 3. Outsourcing IDENTIFICATION The Company manages all or part of its customers’ IT Fully-paid up shares are issued as registered shares but may be resources on their behalf. Where requested by customers, the held in either registered or bearer form, at shareholders’ Company may perform all or part of this service using its own discretion, subject to compliance with the Law. hardware, telecommunications systems and other equipment. Shares are recorded in shareholders’ accounts in accordance with The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered the terms and conditions provided by the Law. to its customers’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in Shares are freely transferable. partnership with customers within a structure conducting all or some of these activities. (1) France is divided into a number of territorial areas for administrative purposes known as départements. 300 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable holders This duty of disclosure applies in the same way when a threshold of bearer shares. is crossed by virtue of a reduction in the shareholder’s interest in the Company’s capital or voting rights. Therefore as provided by prevailing legal and regulatory provisions, the Company may request from the organization Disclosure thresholds are assessed taking into account shares appointed by Law, the name, address, nationality and year of birth and voting rights deemed equivalent by Law to shares and voting for an individual or the name, address and date of registration for rights held by shareholders subject to disclosure obligations. a company, of any holders of shares and securities convertible, In the case of failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the exchangeable, redeemable or otherwise exercisable for shares request of one or several shareholders with combined holdings carrying voting rights at Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company representing at least 1% of the Company’s capital or voting rights, may also obtain details of the number of shares held by each the undisclosed shares will be stripped of voting rights. Said shareholder and any applicable restrictions on said shares. sanction shall apply for all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of two years from the date on which the failure to disclose is ARTICLE 8 RIGHTS ATTACHED TO SHARES rectified. Said request and the decision of the Shareholders’ Each share carries the right to a fraction of earnings, and any Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the Meeting. liquidation surplus, based on the number and par value of outstanding shares. Each share carries entitlement to one vote, ARTICLE 11 BOARD OF DIRECTORS including fully paid-up shares held in registered form for at least 1) The Company shall have a Board of Directors comprised of a two years by the same shareholder and registered shares granted minimum of three and a maximum of eighteen members and, for nil consideration to a shareholder in respect of shares held in where appropriate, one or more members representing registered form for more than two years pursuant to a share employees and/or employee shareholders appointed in capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits and/or accordance with the Law or these bylaws. Members of the additional paid-in capital. Board of Directors must be individuals. In order to ensure that the same net amount is paid on each 2) Each director must hold at least one thousand (1,000) share, without distinction, and to allow the shares to be quoted on Company shares throughout their term of office. This the same line, the Company shall pay any proportional taxes obligation does not apply to directors representing employees levied on certain shares but not on others, in connection with the or employee shareholders appointed in accordance with the dissolution of the Company or a reduction in capital, except in Law or these bylaws. cases where this is prohibited by law. Proportional taxes will not be paid by the Company, however, if they are levied equally on all 3) The length of the terms of office of the directors shall be shares in the same class, in the event that several classes of four years. Directors, other than directors representing shares carrying different rights are issued and outstanding. employees or employee shareholders appointed in accordance with the Law or these bylaws, shall be appointed In all cases where it is necessary to hold several shares in order to or reappointed on a rolling basis to ensure the staggered exercise a right, shareholders who do not own the required renewal of terms of office in as equal fractions as possible. 6 number of shares shall be personally responsible for either Exceptionally, and solely for the purposes of this rolling acquiring the necessary additional shares or transferring their renewal, the Shareholders’ Meeting may appoint one or more shares to another holder. directors for a term of one, two or three years. The terms of office of directors shall expire at the close of the ARTICLE 9 PAYING UP OF SHARES Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the accounts for the The Board of Directors shall set the applicable conditions for the year preceding the expiry of their term, subject to specific cash payment of shares issued by way of a capital increase. provisions provided for by Law or these Bylaws applicable to Subscribers and shareholders shall be informed of calls for capital directors representing employees or employee shareholders. at least fifteen days before the applicable payment date, by way of Any director appointed as a replacement for another director a notice published in a legal gazette in the place where the shall only exercise his/her functions for the remaining period of Company has its registered office. his/her predecessor’s term of office. Annual interest shall be payable on any late payment of amounts 4) All outgoing members of the Board may be re-elected. due on shares which have not been paid-up. This interest shall be However, at the close of each Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting applied automatically without any requirement for additional held to approve the Company accounts, no more than one formalities, at the legal rate plus five points, and shall accrue on a third (rounded up to the nearest whole number as necessary) daily basis from the applicable due date of payment. The of directors in office may be aged over seventy-five. application of such interest shall not affect any personal action 5) Director representing employee shareholders. which the Company may take against the defaulting shareholder 5.1 At fiscal year-end, whenever the percentage of share or the enforcement measures provided by Law. capital held – within the context of the provisions of Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code – by the ARTICLE 10 DISCLOSURE THRESHOLDS employees of the Company and companies related to it Where an individual or corporate shareholder crosses the within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of this code, disclosure threshold of 1% of the Company’s capital or voting represents more than 3% of the share capital of the rights, the said shareholder must inform the Company of their total Company, a director representing the employee number of shares or voting rights held upon the crossing of each shareholders is elected by the Ordinary Shareholders’ threshold of 1%, up to one third of the Company’s capital or Meeting from among the two candidates proposed by voting rights. Said disclosure must be made within fifteen days of employee shareholders as discussed in the the date when the shares causing the threshold to be crossed are aforementioned Article L.225-102, in accordance with the recorded in the shareholder’s account, by registered letter with terms and conditions of both the regulations in force and return receipt requested. these bylaws. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 301 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 5.2 The two candidates nominated for election as an employee The Rules must be sent at least two months (i) prior to the shareholder director are appointed under the following effective date of the meeting of the Supervisory Boards of conditions: the FCPEs within the context of the procedure provided for a) When the shares held by the employees referred to in in section 5.2, paragraph a), and (ii) prior to the beginning Article L.225-102 of the French Commercial Code are of the voting period provided for in section 5.2, held in a fonds commun de placement d’entreprise paragraph b). (French collective employee shareholding vehicle, or 5.4 The director representing the employee shareholders is “FCPE”), all of the Supervisory Boards of these FCPEs elected by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting from are convened for the specific purpose of jointly among the two candidates nominated in accordance with nominating a candidate for election. the provisions of Article 11, section 5.2, paragraphs a) At the meeting of these aforementioned Supervisory and b) of the bylaws, respectively, under the conditions Boards, each member of these Supervisory Boards applicable to the nomination of any director. The Board of can cast one vote in favor of the nomination of a given Directors presents the two candidates at the Shareholders’ candidate for election to the position of director Meeting by way of two separate resolutions and indicates representing employee shareholders. This candidate is its support, as the case may be, for the resolution nominated based on the majority of the votes cast pertaining to the candidate it prefers. Of the candidates either by the members of the Supervisory Boards described above, the one who receives the highest present or represented at the meeting, or by number of the votes of shareholders present or correspondence. represented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting will be elected as director representing employee shareholders. b) When the shares are held directly by the employees referred to in Article L.225-102 of the French 5.5 This director is not taken into account in determining the Commercial Code, these employees nominate a maximum number of directors provided for under candidate. The nomination of the candidate will be Article L.225-17 of the French Commercial Code. made by the employee shareholders via an electronic 5.6 Pursuant to the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 3) of voting procedure. the bylaws, the term of office of the director representing Under this electronic voting procedure, each employee employee shareholders is set at four years and expires in shareholder will be entitled to a number of votes equal accordance with the terms of these provisions. However, to the number of shares he or she directly holds. The his or her term of office will end ipso jure and the director candidate is nominated based on the majority of the representing the employee shareholders is considered as votes cast by the electorate of employee shareholders. having resigned automatically in the event that he or she no longer holds the status of employee of the Company (or c) In the event that the full amount of the shares held by of a company or economic interest group related to it the employees referred to in Article L.225-102 of the within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the French French Commercial Code are held under the Commercial Code). The renewal of the term of office of the conditions discussed in this section 5.2, paragraph a), director representing employee shareholders is carried out the two candidates referred to in Article 5.1 would be under the conditions provided for in this paragraph 5) of nominated by the Supervisory Boards of the FCPEs in Article 11 of the bylaws. accordance with the terms and conditions described in this section 5.2, paragraph a). The provisions of Article 11, paragraph 2) of the bylaws, pertaining to the number of shares that each director must Reciprocally, the provisions of this section 5.2, hold for the duration of his or her term of office, do not paragraph b), will be applicable to the nomination of apply to this employee shareholder director. However, the the two candidates referred to in Article 5.1 in the director representing employee shareholders must hold, event that the full amount of the shares held by the either individually, or via a Fonds Commun de Placement employees referred to in Article L.225-102 of the d’Entreprise governed by Article L.214-40 of the French French Commercial Code is held under the conditions Monetary and Financial Code, at least one share of the described in this section 5.2, paragraph b). Company, or a number of shares of the FCPE equivalent 5.3 Prior to the nomination of the two candidates for the to at least one share of the Company. Failing this, such position of employee shareholder director, the Chairman of director is considered as having resigned automatically as the Board of Directors, who can elect to sub-delegate this of the date upon which he or she no longer holds a share task, sets the Rules for the Nomination of Candidates of the Company or a number of shares of the FCPE (hereinafter referred to as the “Rules”), which indicate the representing at least one share of the Company. schedule and the organization of the nomination 5.7 In the event that the position of director representing procedures provided for under section 5.2, paragraphs a) employee shareholders becomes vacant for any reason and b). whatsoever, the nomination of the candidates to replace The Rules will be sent to the members of the Supervisory the previous director will be carried out under the Boards of the FCPEs, within the context of the nomination conditions provided for in this Article 11, paragraph 5) of procedure provided for above under section 5.2, the bylaws, at the latest prior to the next Ordinary paragraph a), and sent to the employee shareholders, Shareholders’ Meeting held or, in the event such meeting within the context of the nomination procedure provided is held less than four months after the position became for above under section 5.2, paragraph b), by any means vacant, prior to the following Ordinary Shareholders’ that the Chairman of the Board of Directors deems Meeting. This director will be elected by the Ordinary adequate and appropriate, including, as an example and Shareholders’ Meeting for a new four-year period. not a requirement, by postings and/or by individual postal mail and/or electronically. 302 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Until the date upon which a replacement for the position of 3) The quorum and majority conditions set out in the Law shall director representing employee shareholders is elected, apply to Board meetings, except for the decision concerning the Board of Directors can convene and deliberate validly. the two possible methods for the Company’s General 5.8 The provisions of this Article 11, paragraph 5) will no longer Management, in which case special conditions shall apply (see apply if, at fiscal year-end, the percentage of the share Article 15). Where voting is tied, the Chairman of the Company capital held by the employees of the Company and shall have the casting vote. companies related to it within the meaning of the aforementioned Article L.225-180, within the context set ARTICLE 13 ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES forth by the provisions of aforementioned Article L.225-102, OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS represents less than 3% of the share capital, it being 1) The Board of Directors shall determine overall strategies for specified that the term of office of any Director appointed the Company’s business and oversee their implementation. pursuant to this Article 11, paragraph 5), will end when the Subject to the powers expressly granted to the Shareholders’ term of office reaches its intended expiration date. Meeting and in accordance with the corporate purpose, the 6) Directors representing employees Board of Directors shall deal with any questions relating to the proper operation of the Company and deliberate on issues 6.1 The Board of Directors comprises a director representing relating thereto in Board meetings. employees appointed by the union body which obtained the most votes at the first round of the elections referred to 2) In general, the Board of Directors shall make any and all in Articles L.2122-1 and L.2122-4 of the French Labor decisions and exercise any and all powers that fall within its Code, organized by the Company and direct or indirect remit pursuant to the Law, Shareholders’ Meeting delegations subsidiaries whose registered office is located in France. and these bylaws. 6.2 The Board of Directors comprises a second director In particular, and without limit, the prior approval of the Board representing employees appointed by the European Group of Directors is required for: Council (known as the International Works Council in ❚ guarantees and collateral given by the Company under the Capgemini Group). conditions set out in Article L.225-35, paragraph 4, of the 6.3 Pursuant to Article 11. 3), the term of office of any director French Commercial Code; appointed pursuant to Article 11, paragraphs 6.1 or 6.2 is ❚ regulated agreements under the conditions set out in four years, expiring at the close of the Ordinary Article 20 of these bylaws; Shareholders ‘Meeting held to approve the accounts for the ❚ any decisions of a strategic nature or which could have a year preceding the expiry of his or her term. It is renewable. material impact on the financial position of the Company or 6.4 The term of office of directors representing employees may its subsidiaries, in accordance with the provisions of the be terminated at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting Charter of the Board of Directors referred to in Article 16 held to approve the accounts for a year during which the below. application conditions of Article L.225-27-1I of the French 6 3) The Board of Directors shall perform or obtain performance of Commercial Code cease to be met, or should this article any checks and controls which it may think fit. be repealed. 4) Each director receives all necessary information for the 6.5 Should the office of a director representing employees performance of their duties and may request the become vacant for whatever reason, the replacement communication of any document they consider useful. appointed by the union body which obtained the most Directors have a duty, even after they have ceased to hold votes at the first round of the elections or the European office, not to disclose any information which they hold Group Council will take office for the remaining period of concerning the Company, the disclosure of which might be the term of office of his/her predecessor. The Board of prejudicial to the Company’s interests, except where such Directors may validly meet and deliberate until the date of disclosure is required or permitted by Law or is in the public this replacement. interest. ARTICLE 12 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ MEETINGS 5) The Board of Directors may grant permanent or temporary missions to any one or more of its members or any other 1) Meetings of the Board of Directors are convened by its person or entity it may think fit. The Board may for example Chairman, as often as required in the Company’s interests decide to create committees to research issues proposed by and at least every three months. Directors may be called to the Board or its Chairman. The Board of Directors shall decide Board meetings by any method including orally. Said meetings upon the composition and roles and responsibilities of any may be held either at the registered office or at any other committees operating under its supervision. location stated in the notice of meeting. 2) The Charter of the Board of Directors may provide that directors ARTICLE 14 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF who participate in Board of Directors’ meetings via DIRECTORS videoconference or telecommunications facilities making it possible, under the conditions provided for by the regulations, for 1) The Board of Directors shall choose one of its members, them to be identified and guaranteeing their effective necessarily an individual, to be Chairman, who shall be participation, shall be deemed to be present for purposes of appointed for a term of office not exceeding his/her term of calculating the quorum and majority. However, this provision shall office as a director but may be re-appointed. For holding the not apply to meetings of the Board of Directors where the agenda position of Chairman, the age limit is set at: relates to the appointment, the compensation or the removal from ❚ seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position office of the Président (“Chairman”) or the Directeur Général of Chief Executive Officer (P.D.G.); (“Chief Executive Officer”), the basis of the Company’s General ❚ seventy-nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold Management, the closing of the annual financial statements the position of Chief Executive Officer. (Company and consolidated), or the drafting of the reports and the resolutions submitted to the Shareholders’ Meetings. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 303 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting In both cases, his/her term of office shall expire at the end of In dealings with third parties, the Deputy Chief Executive the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following his/her Officer shall have the same powers as the Chairman and Chief birthday. Executive Officer or the Chief Executive Officer. 2) The Chairman of the Board of Directors chairs the meetings of the Board of Directors and sets the agenda. He/she shall ARTICLE 16 BOARD OF DIRECTORS – CHARTER organize and manage the work carried out by the Board and The Board of Directors shall draft a Charter setting out the terms report to Shareholders’ Meetings thereon. He/she shall also and conditions according to which the Board of Directors, the oversee the Company’s management bodies and ensure that Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer perform their roles and the directors are in a position to carry out their functions. responsibilities, in accordance with the law, applicable regulations 3) When the Chairman of the Board of Directors is also and these bylaws. This Charter shall also set down operating responsible for the Company’s General Management, he/she regulations for the committees created by the Board of Directors shall be subject to all laws and regulations applicable to the and explain how the different roles and responsibilities are Chief Executive Officer. allocated between all of these persons and bodies. 4) Where considered useful, the Board of Directors may also appoint a Vice-Chairman from among its natural person ARTICLE 17 NON-VOTING DIRECTORS (CENSEURS) members and determine the duration of his/her duties, within Where recommended by the Board of Directors, the Ordinary the limit of the duration of the term of office as director. Shareholders’ Meeting may elect a maximum of six non-voting The sole role of the Vice-Chairman shall be to chair meetings directors. It is not compulsory for non-voting directors to be of the Board of Directors and Shareholders’ Meetings in the shareholders. absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The length of the terms of office of the non-voting directors shall be two years, expiring at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ ARTICLE 15 GENERAL MANAGEMENT Meeting held to approve the accounts for the year preceding the 1) The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the General expiry of their term. Management of the Company. This position may either be If any vacancies arise due to the death of a non-voting director or held by the Chairman in which case he/she shall hold the title where a non-voting director stands down from his/her position, of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or by another person the Board of Directors may make temporary appointments. Any appointed by the Board of Directors. such appointments by the Board of Directors are subject to 2) The Board of Directors shall choose one of the two possible ratification by the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. methods for the Company’s General Management. A majority The non-voting directors shall attend Board of Directors’ Meetings of two-thirds of the directors is required for this decision and and may be consulted by the Board as it thinks fit. They shall not the issue must be included in the agenda of the applicable however be directly involved in the management of the Company. Board Meeting. They shall take part in deliberations in a consultancy capacity but 3) If the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are their absence shall have no effect on the validity thereof. dissociated, the latter who is not mandatorily a director The Board of Directors may remunerate non-voting directors out shall be appointed for a term set freely by the Board of of the attendance fees granted by the General Shareholders’ Directors. However, if the Chief Executive Officer is also a Meeting. director, his/her term of office shall not exceed that of his/her term of office as director. ARTICLE 18 STATUTORY AUDITORS In both cases, the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office shall The Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting shall appoint one or more expire at the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following his Statutory Auditors and, as necessary, one or more substitute 70th birthday. auditors, in accordance with the conditions set down by law in 4) The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, or the Chief relation to their terms of office and engagement. Executive Officer, as applicable, shall have the broadest powers to act in the name of the Company in all ARTICLE 19 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS circumstances. These powers shall be exercised subject to the limits of the corporate purpose and subject to the powers Shareholders’ Meetings are convened under the conditions expressly granted by Law to the Shareholders’ Meeting or the provided by Law. Meetings are held at the Company’s Board of Directors. He/she shall represent the Company in its headquarters or any other location in the same département, or dealings with third parties. neighboring département, detailed in the notice of meeting. 5) At the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief Executive Shares carry voting rights based on the proportion of capital Officer or the Chief Executive Officer, as appropriate, the represented. All shares have the same par value and they Board of Directors may appoint, from among its members or therefore all carry one vote per share. elsewhere, one or more private individuals tasked with The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by assisting the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or the an entry in the name of the shareholder (or of the intermediary Chief Executive Officer, with the title of Deputy Chief Executive acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) in the Officer. Company’s share register or in the register of bearer shares held The number of Deputy Chief Executive Officers may not by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such entries must be exceed five. recorded within the time period set by Law and any related notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in the The scope and term of powers entrusted to the Deputy Chief notice of meeting. Executive Officers shall be determined by the Board of Directors, in agreement with the Chairman and Chief In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall Executive Officer or the Chief Executive Officer. provide a participation certificate. 304 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, ARTICLE 21 COMPANY ACCOUNTS by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on and conditions set by applicable regulations. December 31. Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish to The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to participate in a Meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may not decide the appropriation of distributable income, as defined by the alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a Law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to Meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by appropriate all or part of distributable earnings to revenue proxy or remotely. reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to distribute all To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be or part of the amount to shareholders. received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of The Shareholders’ Meeting shall also decide the terms and the Meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides when convening conditions of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders the meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or remotely may may be offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the participate in voting using any telecommunication or related dividends will be paid in the form of new shares credited tele-transmission means, including the internet, in accordance as fully paid, issued in compliance with the provisions of the with the conditions set out in applicable regulations at the time of applicable laws and regulations. The above provisions also apply use. Where an electronic form is submitted, the shareholder’s to the distribution of interim dividends, subject to compliance with signature may take the form of a secure signature or a reliable the Law. identification procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action and potentially consisting of a user identification and In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a password. Where applicable, this decision of the Board of dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with Directors shall be communicated in the notice of meeting the Law. published in BALO (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). ARTICLE 22 DISSOLUTION AND LIQUIDATION Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also If the Company is wound up, one or more liquidators shall be voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the appointed by an Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. The liquidator shall represent the Company. He shall have the If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the meeting, broadest powers to realize the Company’s assets, including by shareholders may participate and vote at the meeting using any way of amicable agreement or settlement. The liquidator shall be telecommunication or tele-transmission means enabling their authorized to pay creditors and to allocate any outstanding identification, including the internet, in accordance with the amounts. conditions set out in applicable regulations at the time of use. The Shareholders’ Meeting may authorize the liquidator to Where applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall be continue the Company’s current business or to enter into new communicated in the notice of meeting published in BALO (French business for the purposes of the liquidation. 6 Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). The net assets remaining after repayment of the par value of the The Shareholders’ Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the shares shall be allocated among the shareholders pro rata to their Board of Directors or, in his/her absence, by the Vice-Chairman. respective interests in the capital. In the absence of the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, the Shareholders’ Meeting shall elect a Chairman. ARTICLE 23 DISPUTE RESOLUTION Shareholders’ Meetings deliberate under the conditions provided Any disputes concerning the Company’s affairs that may arise by Law, it being noted that in calculating the majority, votes cast during the life of the Company or upon liquidation, either between shall not include votes attaching to shares in respect of which the the Company and its shareholders or between the shareholders shareholder has not taken part in the vote or has abstained or has themselves, shall be referred to the competent court at the returned a blank or spoilt ballot paper. location of the Company’s registered office. Minutes of the Shareholders’ Meeting are prepared and copies are certified and delivered in accordance with the Law. ARTICLE 20 REGULATED AGREEMENTS Pursuant to Article L.229-7, paragraph 6, of the French Commercial Code, the provisions of Articles L.225-38 to L.225-42 of the French Commercial Code are applicable to agreements entered into by the Company. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 305 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval Authorizations granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors to increase share capital The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Authorization Maximum date and amount(1) (2) resolution Expiry Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number date Used during 2016 th a) Purchase by the Company of its own 10% of share 05/18/2016/10 11/18/2017 4,128,337 shares were purchased under the shares under a share buyback capital share buyback program (excluding the program Liquidity contract) at an average price of €81.18 As part of the Liquidity contract: a) 2,686,396 shares purchased at an average market price of €81.12 b) 2,621,396 shares sold at an average market price of €81.33 c) The balance on 12/31/2016 is 150,000 shares and about €9 million. b) Cancellation of treasury shares 10% of share 05/18/2016/11th 07/18/2018 617,235 shares with a value of capital €50,129,800.47 were cancelled by decision per 12-month of the Board of Directors on 07/26/2016. period c) Share capital increase by capitalizing €1.5 billion 05/18/2016/12th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 additional paid-in capital, reserves, (par value) profit or other eligible amounts d) Share capital increase by issuing €550 million 05/18/2016/13th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €7.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with retention of PSR e) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/14th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €2.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by public offering f) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/15th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital, or €2.5 billion granting a right to allocation of debt (issue amount) instruments, with cancellation of PSR, by private placement g) Setting the issue price of shares in €137 million 05/18/2016/16th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 the context of a share capital (par value) increase with cancellation of PSR €2.5 billion (issue amount) 10% of share capital “Greenshoe” option (d) to (g) 05/18/2016/17th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €550 million and a maximum issue amount of €7.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; including a maximum par value amount of €137 million and a maximum issue amount of €2.5 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to j) and k) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. Abbreviations: PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights 306 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval Authorization Maximum date and amount(1) (2) resolution Expiry Purpose of the authorization (in euros) number date Used during 2016 h) Share capital increase by issuing €137 million 05/18/2016/18th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) access to the share capital in €2.5 billion consideration for contributions in kind (issue amount) 10% of share capital i) Share capital increase by issuing €125 million 05/07/2014/29th 07/07/2016 This authorization was not used in 2016 ordinary shares and/or securities (par value) granting access to the share capital, €1.25 billion or granting a right to allocation of 10% of share debt instruments, in consideration for capital shares tendered to a public exchange offer made by the Company j) Share capital increase by issuing €48 million 05/18/2016/19th 07/18/2018 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) (2) access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for members of Group savings plans k) Share capital increase by issuing €48 million 05/18/2016/20th 11/18/2017 This authorization was not used in 2016 shares and/or securities granting (par value) (2) access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for employees of certain non-French subsidiaries l) Grant of performance shares 1% of share 05/18/2016/21st 11/18/2017 1,663,500 performance shares (€13.3 million capital par value) were granted to 1,175 beneficiaries by decision of the Board of Directors on 07/26/2016 6 (1) Recap of overall limits: a maximum par value amount of €550 million and a maximum issue amount of €7.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights; including a maximum par value amount of €137 million and a maximum issue amount of €2.5 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights; issues performed pursuant to j), k) and l) above are not included in these general limits. (2) Total share capital increases decided pursuant to j) and k) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. Delegations to be presented at the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 10, 2017 Authorization date and resolution Duration Purpose of the authorization Maximum amount number Expiry Date Purchase by the Company of its own shares under a share buyback 10% of share 18 months program capital 05/10/2017/11th (up to 11/10/2018) 18 months Grant of performance shares 1% of share capital 05/10/2017/16th (up to 11/10/2018) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for €48 million 18 months members of Group savings plans (par value) (1) 05/10/2017/17th (up to 11/10/2018) Share capital increase by issuing shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital with cancellation of PSR, reserved for €24 million 18 months employees of certain non-French subsidiaries (par value) (1) 05/10/2017/18th (up to 11/10/2018) (1) The total share capital increases decided pursuant the 18th resolution are included in the general limit of the 17th resolution. Abbreviations: PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 307 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.3 Summary table of financial authorizations currently in force or submitted for approval Use of authorizations during 2016 Pursuant to the powers conferred on it by the Extraordinary Pursuant to the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the eleventh resolution, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the tenth resolution, the the Board of Directors in its meeting of July 26, 2016 cancelled Board of Directors purchased 4,128,337 shares under the share 617,235 shares with a value of €50,129,800.47. buyback program (excluding the Liquidity contract) at an average In addition and pursuant to the authorization granted by the price of €81.18. As part of the Liquidity contract 2,686,396 shares Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 18, 2016 in the were purchased at an average price of €81.12 and twenty-first resolution, the Board of Directors decided on July 26, 2,621,396 shares were sold at an average market price of €81.33. 2016 the issue of 1,663,500 performance shares to The balance of the Liquidity contract on December 31, 2016 is 1,175 beneficiaries (managers and employees of French and 150,000 shares and about €9 million. foreign subsidiaries, members of the Executive Committee including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer). 308 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports Statutory Auditors’ report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers Combined General Meeting of May 10, 2017 – Sixteenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposed authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, which is submitted to you for your approval. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to grant free existing shares or shares to be issued. It is the Board of Directors' responsibility to prepare a report on the proposed transaction. It is our responsibility to provide you with our observations, if any, in respect of the information provided to you on the proposed transaction. The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing shares or shares to be issued to employees and corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the achievement of performance targets and limited to a maximum number of shares not exceeding 1% of the share capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. will be limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying in particular that the proposed terms and conditions described in the Board of Directors' report comply with the applicable legal provisions. 6 We have no matters to report on the information provided in the Board of Directors' report, with respect to the proposed authorization to grant free shares. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 16, 2017 Paris La Défense, March 16, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 309 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports Statutory Auditors’ report on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the company's share capital reserved for members of Capgemini Group employee savings plan Combined General Meeting of May 10, 2017 – Seventeenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A. and in accordance with Articles L.228-92 and L.225-135 et seq of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company’s capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for members of a Capgemini Group employee savings plan, subject to a maximum nominal amount of €48 million, which is submitted to you for your approval. This share capital increase is submitted to you for approval pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-129-6 of the French Commercial Code and Articles L.3332-18 et seq. of the French Labor Code (Code de travail). On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and that you waive your pre emptive subscription rights to the ordinary shares and securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors' responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R.225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors' report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed issue, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors' report. Since the final terms and conditions of the issue have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R.225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 16, 2017 Paris La Défense, March 16, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner 310 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.4 Statutory auditors’ reports Statutory Auditors' report on the issue of ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the company's share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for employees of certain non-french subsidiaries Combined General Meeting of May 10, 2017 – Eighteenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in accordance with Articles L.228-92 and L.225-135 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the proposal to issue ordinary shares and/or securities giving access to the Company's share capital, with cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights, reserved for employees of certain non-French Capgemini Group subsidiaries, which is submitted to you for approval. The maximum nominal amount of the capital increase that may result from this issue is €24 million, it being specified that this amount will be deducted from the limit of €48 million provided for in the seventeenth resolution. On the basis of its report, the Board of Directors proposes that you grant it the authority, for an 18-month period, to set the terms and conditions of this transaction and that you waive your pre-emptive subscription rights to subscribe to the securities to be issued. It is the Board of Directors' responsibility to prepare a report in accordance with Articles R.225-113 et seq. of the French Commercial Code. It is our responsibility to express an opinion on the fairness of the information taken from the financial statements, on the proposed cancelation of pre-emptive subscription rights and on certain other information relating to this issue, presented in this report. We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying the information disclosed in the Board of Directors' report pertaining to the transaction and the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued, it being specified that this authority may only be used in the context of the authorization granted in the seventeenth resolution. Subject to a subsequent examination of the terms and conditions of the proposed issue, we have no matters to report as regards the methods used to set the issue price of the securities to be issued given in the Board of Directors' report. 6 Since the final terms and conditions of the issue have not been set, we do not express an opinion in this respect or, consequently, on the proposed cancelation of shareholders’ pre emptive subscription rights. In accordance with Article R.225-116 of the French Commercial Code, we will prepare an additional report when the Board of Directors uses this delegation. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 16, 2017 Paris La Défense, March 16, 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Françoise Garnier Richard Béjot Frédéric Quélin Partner Partner Partner Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 311 6 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND DRAFT RESOLUTIONS TO BE PRESENTED AT THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING OF MAY 10, 2017 6.5 Report of the Conversion Auditor on the conversion of Cap Gemini into a European company (Societas Europaea, SE) 6.5 Report of the Conversion Auditor on the conversion of Cap Gemini into a European company (Societas Europaea, SE) This is a free translation into English of the Conversion Auditor's report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In accordance with my appointment as conversion auditor by Order of the Presiding Judge of the Paris Commercial Court dated December 14, 2016 with respect to the conversion of Cap Gemini (the Company) into a European company (Societas Europaea, SE), I have prepared the report required by Article 37 of Council Regulation (EC) no. 2157/2001 of October 8, 2001 on the statute for a European company and Article L.225-245-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). This conversion was approved by your Board of Directors on December 7, 2016. I have prepared this report in order to certify the amount of the Company’s net assets with respect to its capital plus those reserves which must not be distributed under the law or the bylaws. I performed the procedures that I deemed necessary in accordance with professional standards applicable in France to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the net assets of the Company are at least equivalent to its capital plus those reserves which must not be distributed under the law or the bylaws. This verification notably consisted in assessing the potential impact on the accounting value of items included in determining the net asset amount, of events between the date of the last annual accounts and the date of my report. Based on this work, as at the date of my report, I certify that the Company has net assets at least equivalent to its capital plus those reserves which must not be distributed under the law or the bylaws. Paris, January 20, 2017 The Conversion Auditor Jean-Jacques DEDOUIT 312 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Additional Information 7 7.1 Legal information 314 7.2 Group Management structure 318 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office 314 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law 314 7.3 Historical Financial Information 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 314 for 2014 and 2015 319 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) 314 7.1.5 Incorporation details 315 7.4 Persons responsible 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents 315 for the information 320 7.1.7 Fiscal year 315 7.4.1 Person responsible for financial information 320 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income 315 7.4.2 Persons responsible for the audit 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings 315 of the financial statements 320 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds 316 7.4.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document 321 7.1.11 Shareholder identification 316 7.1.12 Voting rights 316 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights 316 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares 316 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control 316 7.1.16 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 316 7.1.17 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies 317 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 313 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office Corporate name: Cap Gemini Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris Tel.: (+33)0 1 47 54 50 00 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law Current status the Group would remain unchanged. The Company’s shares The Company is a société anonyme (joint stock company) would continue to be listed on the Paris stock exchange without governed by the French Companies Act of July 24, 1966 (Law any change. The conversion of the Company would lead to a no. 66–537) and Decree no. 67–236 of March 23, 1967. change in its legal form without reducing the current rights of the shareholders. Future evolution This conversion would only affect the Group’s parent company, Cap Gemini S.A. The individual and collective rights of Group The Board of Directors of Cap Gemini S.A., further to its meeting employees, employed by subsidiaries of the Company, would not on December 7, 2016, proposes to change the legal form of the be affected. In particular, employment contracts and collective Company to a “European Company” (Societas Europaea, SE) to employee agreements would not be modified. This change in legal reflect the international and European dimension of the Group. form requires the creation of a Special Negotiating Body, The proposed conversion into a European company would enter composed of representatives of employees of the various Member into effect after approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held States of the European Economic Area, whose task is to negotiate on May 10, 2017. the status of the future European Works Council. The Company would retain its registered office and corporate In order to align its corporate name with that of the Group, the headquarters in Paris. The governance, business activities, Company’s name would change from “Cap Gemini” to organizational structure, tax regime and shareholding structure of “Capgemini” at the time of this conversion. 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange of The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from Cap Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, Cap the date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Gemini, grouping together all investments representing the Registry. It may be wound up in advance or have its term operating activities of the Group was incorporated on extended by decision of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. September 17, 1984. This company was registered with the Companies & Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France and Information systems development abroad in managing and developing their businesses by providing The Company designs and installs information systems. Its them with the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, its services include the development of customized software, the knowhow in the area of business process engineering and installation of software applications available on the market or re-engineering, and its expertise in the area of information developed internally, the integration of systems incorporating technologies. hardware, communication systems, customized software, To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of software packages and other components. The Company also clients, either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates (1), one supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, project or more of the following activities on a stand-alone or integrated management, training and assistance services. basis: Outsourcing Management consulting The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources on Working closely with clients, the Company provides change their behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company may management assistance to companies by helping them to perform all or part of this service using its own hardware, redefine or redirect their strategy, change their product and telecommunications systems and other equipment. service lines, re-engineer their structures and business processes, restore staff motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the Company uses all the possibilities offered by the latest information technologies whenever appropriate. (1) Including Local Professional Services under the Sogeti tradename and representing the Group’s fourth business. 314 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to ◗ invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash its clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on with clients within a structure conducting all or some of these behalf of subsidiaries and affiliates; activities. ◗ obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and manufacturing In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may processes and sell, contribute or license any such patents and decide to: processes. ◗ create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital of In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying out other companies and manage their business in exchange for a any and all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or fee. Management services include the provision of technical, financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the marketing, legal and financial assistance, promotion of a above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is likely consistent image, organization of financial structures, assistance to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes. in negotiations to help these companies win new contracts, training, research and development support, etc.; 7.1.5 Incorporation details The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number 330 703 844. Its APE business identifier is 7010Z. 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the financial statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the Management Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through May 23, 2000) to the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Auditors’ reports are available for consultation at the Company’s head office at 11, rue de Tilsitt 75017 Paris. 7.1.7 Fiscal year The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to offered a stock dividend alternative, in which case the related decide on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined by dividends will be paid in the form of new shares credited as fully French company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting paid, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The may decide to appropriate all or part of distributable income to above provisions also apply to the distribution of interim dividends, revenue reserves, special reserves or retained earnings, or to subject to compliance with French company law. distribute all or part of the amount to shareholders. 7 In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be French company law. 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings The right to participate at Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be the registration of shares in the name of the shareholder (or of the received by the Company at least three days prior to the date of intermediary acting on his/her behalf if domiciled outside France) the meeting. If the Board of Directors so decides when convening in the Company’s share register or in the register of bearer shares the meeting, shareholders voting by proxy or remotely may held by the applicable authorized intermediary. Such registration participate in voting using any telecommunication or must be recorded at 12:00 A.M. (Paris time) on the second teletransmission means enabling their identification, including the working day preceding the Shareholders’ Meeting and any related internet, in accordance with the conditions set out in applicable notices must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in the regulations at the time of use. Where an electronic form is notice of meeting. In the case of bearer shares, the authorized submitted, the shareholder’s signature may take the form of a intermediary must provide a participation certificate. secure signature or a reliable identification procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action and potentially consisting of a user Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, identification and password. Where applicable, this decision of the by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms Board of Directors shall be communicated in the notice of meeting and conditions set by applicable regulations. published in BALO (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish to Announcements). participate in a meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may not Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also alter their method of participation. However, attendance at a voted remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the meeting by a shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. proxy or remotely. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 315 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added the Company’s share capital or voting rights, the undisclosed specific disclosure obligations to the Company’s bylaws. The shares will be stripped of voting rights. This sanction will apply for bylaws now state that shareholders are required to notify the all Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of two years from the date Company if their interest in the Company’s share capital or voting on which the failure to disclose is rectified. This request and the rights is increased to above or reduced to below 1% or any decision of the Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in the multiple thereof. The crossing of the threshold must be notified to minutes of the meeting. the Company within fifteen (15) days of the date when the shares When calculating these “thresholds per the bylaws” the same causing the threshold to be attained or crossed are registered in instances where shares and voting rights held by third parties are the shareholder’s account. In the event of failure to comply with deemed equivalent to shares and voting rights held by the these disclosure rules, at the request of one or several shareholder subject to disclosure requirements are applicable as shareholders with combined holdings representing at least 1% of for thresholds provided by law. 7.1.11 Shareholder identification The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable holders an individual or the name, address and date of registration for a of bearer shares. company, of any holders of shares and securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting rights at The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may also obtain details of a new Article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the how many shares are held by each shareholder and any Company may request from the share transaction clearing applicable restrictions on these shares. organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth for 7.1.12 Voting rights Each share confers entitlement to a portion of the profits and any shareholder and bonus registered shares granted in respect of liquidation surplus, in direct proportion to the number and par registered shares held for at least two years in the event of a share value of outstanding shares. capital increase by capitalization of reserves, profits of additional paid-in capital. Each share carries entitlement to one vote, including fully-paid shares held in registered form for at least two years by the same 7.1.13 Changes in shareholder rights Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French company law alone, as the bylaws do not contain any specific provisions in this respect. 7.1.14 Rights, privileges and restrictions relating to shares In addition to the voting right conferred by law, each share confers No preferential rights are attached to any specific class of shares entitlement to a portion of the profits and any liquidation surplus, or category of shareholder. in direct proportion to the number and par value of outstanding shares. 7.1.15 Provisions of the bylaws or other provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change in control Not applicable. 7.1.16 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid No factors are subject to the provisions of Article L.225-100-3 of the French Commercial Code (factors likely to have an impact in the event of a public offering). 316 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.1 Legal information 7.1.17 Provisions of the bylaws governing administrative and management bodies Appointment of directors and duration of terms Age limit for the Chairman of the Board of office of Directors The Company has a Board of Directors comprised of a minimum The age limit for the exercise of the duties of Chairman of the of three and a maximum of eighteen members, who must be Board of Directors is as follow: individuals. Directors are appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for ◗ seventy (70) years of age when he/she also holds the position of a period of four years. Directors, other than directors representing Chief Executive Officer; and employees or employee shareholders appointed in accordance with the law or these bylaws, shall be appointed or reappointed on ◗ seventy-nine (79) years of age when he/she does not hold the a rolling basis to ensure the staggered renewal of terms of office in position of Chief Executive Officer. as equal fractions as possible. Exceptionally, and solely for the In both cases, the term of office expires at the end of the first purposes of this rolling renewal, the General Shareholders’ Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following the Chairman’s birthday. Meeting may appoint one or more directors for a term of one, two Where the functions of Chairman and those of Chief Executive or three years. Officer are separated, the functions of Chief Executive Officer In addition, a director representing employee shareholders is also expire the day of the first Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting following appointed by Shareholders’ Meeting for a period of four years his/her seventieth birthday. when, at the end of a fiscal year, the percentage of share capital held by employees of the Company and companies related to it Minimum investment of directors in the share within the meaning of Article L.225-180 of the French Commercial Code, represents over 3% of the Company‘s share capital. The capital of the Company director representing employee shareholders is elected by Pursuant to Article 11.2) of the bylaws, each director must hold at Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting from a choice of two candidates least one thousand (1,000) shares in the Company throughout nominated in accordance with the provisions of the law and the their term of office. bylaws. This obligation to hold shares is not applicable to directors As part of the employee’s representation on the Board of representing employee shareholders and to directors representing Directors, pursuant to the provisions of the Rebsamen law of employees. August 17, 2015, the Board of Directors also comprises two directors representing employees, appointed for a four-year term Majority rules within the Board of Directors as follows: Decision are taken in accordance with quorum and majority rules ◗ one director appointed by the union body which obtained the provided by law, except for the decision regarding the two most votes at the first round of the elections referred to in possible methods for the Company’s General Management. Articles L.2122-1 and L.2122-4 of the French Labor Code, Where voting is tied, the Chairman of the Company has the organized by the Company and direct or indirect subsidiaries casting vote. whose registered office is located in France; ◗ a second director representing employees appointed by the General Management European Group Council (known as the International Works The General Management of the Company is assumed by either Council in Capgemini Group). the Chairman of the Board of Directors (who therefore holds the 7 The director representing employee shareholders and the title of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), or by another directors representing employees are not taken into account in individual appointed by the Board of Directors, who holds the title determining the maximum number of directors pursuant to of Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors chooses Article L.225-17 of the French Commercial Code. between these two possible methods for the Company’s General Management, voting with a two-thirds majority of all directors. Age limit for directors On April 4, 2012, at the recommendation of the Chairman at the Pursuant to Article 11.4) of the bylaws, the number of directors over time, Serge Kampf, the Board of Directors decided to regroup the seventy-five (75) years of age at the end of each Shareholders’ functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and appointed Meeting called to approve the Company financial statements, may the Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin, to the position of not exceed one-third (rounded up to the nearest whole number Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (for further details please where appropriate) of the total number of directors in office. refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document). Charter and Board Special Committees Please refer to Chapter 2 of this Registration Document. Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 317 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.2 Group Management structure 7.2 Group Management structure The Group management structure comprises: • a Group Executive Board (GEB) with 7 members: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aiman Ezzat Group Chief Financial Officer Hubert Giraud Director of People Management and Talent Development Patrick Nicolet Director of Group Competitiveness and India operating control Thierry Delaporte Head of Financial Services SBU and Latin America SBU operating control Salil Parekh Head of AppsOne SBU, Sogeti and Cloud Infrastructure Services SBUs and Cloud Foundation Services operating control Olivier Sevillia Head of AppsTwo SBU, Capgemini Consulting and Business Services SBUs and Digital operating control • a Group Executive Committee comprising the GEB and 14 additional members: Jean-Philippe Bol Head of Cloud Infrastructure Services SBU André Cichowlas Director Production/Methods and Support Lanny Cohen Technologies and Intellectual Property Director Pierre-Yves Cros Strategy and Development Director Cyril Garcia Head of Capgemini Consulting SBU and Digital Head of Corporate Social Responsiblity and UK coordination large Christine Hodgson accounts Srikanth Iyengar Global Sales Director Aruna Jayanthi Head of Business Services SBU Srinivas Kandula India Operations Director Jean-Baptiste Massignon General Secretary John Mullen Head of Application Services North America Virginie Régis Marketing and Communication Director Luc-François Salvador Asia-Pacific Executive Chairman Hans Van Waayenburg Head of Sogeti SBU • and Group directors reporting directly to the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Christophe Bonnard In charge of large accounts – France Philippe Christelle Head of Internal Audit and Ethics & Compliance Navin Goel In charge of large accounts – USA Isabelle Roux-Chenu Head of Contract & Commercial Management Michael Schulte In charge of large accounts – Germany 318 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.3 Historical Financial Information for 2014 and 2015 7.3 Historical Financial Information for 2014 and 2015 In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2014: no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, the following information is ❚ the management report, consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in this Registration Document: and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2015: financial statements, set out in the Registration Document filed on April 1, 2015 under no. D.15-0276 (pages 270 to ❚ the management report, consolidated financial statements 271 and 130 to 194, respectively); and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the Registration Document ❚ the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 (pages 302 to 303 and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company and 130 to 195, respectively); financial statements set out in the Registration Document filed on April 1, 2015 under no. D.15-0276 (pages 195 to ❚ the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. 217); and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the Registration Document ❚ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 (pages 196 to agreements and commitments, set out in the Registration 219); Document filed on April 1, 2015 under no. D.15-0276 (page 218). ❚ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the Registration Copies of the Registration Document are available from Cap Document filed on April 6, 2016 under no. D.16-0291 (pages Gemini S.A., 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate 220 to 222). website at http:// investor.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF at www.amf-france.org. 7 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 319 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4.1 Person responsible for financial information AIMAN EZZAT Chief Financial Officer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tel.: (+33)0 1 47 54 50 00 7.4.2 Persons responsible for the audit of the financial statements Principal Statutory Auditors Substitute Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mr. Jean-Christophe GEORGHIOU Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, Comptes de Versailles. Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit, 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex, appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. represented by Ms. Françoise Garnier and Mr. Richard Béjot Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 1996. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ KPMG Audit I.S. SAS Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, 92066 Paris La Défense Cedex, KPMG S.A. Substitute for KPMG S.A., Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 7, 2014. Comptes de Versailles. Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Tour Eqho, 2 avenue Gambetta, CS 6055, 92066 Paris La Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. Défense Cedex, represented by Mr. Frédéric Quélin First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2019 financial statements. 320 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.4 Persons responsible for the information 7.4.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the Registration Document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements for 2016 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the management report listed in chapter 8, section 8.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the Registration Document and examined the information in respect of the financial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualified and does not contain any observations.” Paris, March 17, 2017 Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 7 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 321 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 322 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini Cross-reference table 8 8.1 Information required under 8.3 Cross-reference table Commission Regulation (EC) for the Management Report required no.809/2004 324 under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial 8.2 Annual Financial Report Code 327 cross reference table 326 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 323 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 320 and 321 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2 and 320 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3 4 RISK FACTORS 26 to 35, 136, 195, 206, 215 to 217 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History and development of the Company 6 and 7 Legal information concerning the company 314 to 317 Investments 25 and 196 to 201 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 8 to 13 and 18 to 24 Principal markets 16 to 17 and 178 to 181 The IT services market and competition 16 to 17 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the group and position of the issuer 14 to 15 List of significant subsidiaries 227 to 229 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 14 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 162 to 167 and 232 to 233 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 233, 187 to 195 and 258 to 262 Explanation of the sources and amounts of, and a description of, the issuer’s cash flows 171 and 213 to 215 Borrowing requirements and funding structure and information regarding any restrictions 207 to 213 and 225 on the use of capital resources 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 167 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 167 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR 2, 39 to 82 and 317 to 318 MANAGEMENT 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 78, 83 to 95 and 226 16 BOARD PRACTICES 64 to 78 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 108 to 111, 165 and 224 Employee shareholdings and stock options 93 to 95, 187 to 195, 240 to 245 and 261 to 262 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 263 and 267 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 46 to 47 and 226 N/A : not applicable 324 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.1 Information required under Commission Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 Page 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical financial information 3 and 319 Financial statements 168 to 230 and 234 to 252 Auditing of historical annual financial information 231, 253 and 321 Dividend policy 233, 265 and 315 Legal proceedings and arbitration 32 and 223 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital 233 and 258 to 261 Memorandum and articles of association 314 to 317 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 20 and 165 to 166 23 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND N/A DECLARATIONS OF INTEREST 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 314 to 317 25 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS 256 N/A : not applicable 8 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 325 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross reference table Page 1 Company financial statements 234 to 252 2 Consolidated financial statements 168 to 230 3 Management Report presented by the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini 327 to 328 4 Declaration by the person responsible for the annual financial report 321 5 Statutory auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 253 6 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 231 7 Statutory auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 254 8 Statutory auditors’ fees 230 and 252 9 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance, internal 39 to 78, 83 to 101, 315 and 316 control and risk management 10 Statutory Auditors’ report on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of 102 Directors N/A : not applicable 326 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code Page Situation and activity of the Group in 2015 Comments on the fiscal year Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Companyand the 162 to 167 and 232 to 233 Group Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the management report 226 and 252 Developments and outlook for the future 167 Research and development N/A Company financial statements Balance sheet and Income Statement 234 to 236 Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A Supplier settlement periods 232 Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies whose N/A registered office is located in France Five-year financial summary 255 Subsidiaries and investments 256 Main risk factors Risks related to operations 26 to 28 Legal risks 31 to 32 Equity risk 33 Credit and counterparty risk 33 Liquidity risk 33 Financial and market risk 33 to 34 Risks associated with employee-related liabilities 34 Insurance 35 Governance Organization of group management activities 39 to 41 List of offices and duties exercised in companies by corporate officers during the last fiscal year 48 to 62 Compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers during the last fiscal year 78 and 83 to 95 Commitments given in favor of executive corporate officers 83 to 95 8 Options and performance shares granted to executive corporate officers 83 to 95 2015 compensation of Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 86 to 91 Summary of transactions carried out in 2015 by members of the Board of Directors 63 and other senior managers involving Cap Gemini shares Agreements between an Executive Officer or a major shareholder and a subsidiary 47 and 254 Corporate social responsibility Information on employees and the social impact of Cap Gemini activities 108 to 131 Key environmental and social indicators 132 to 154 N/A : not applicable Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini 327 8 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report required under Articles L. 225-100 and seq. of the French Commercial Code Page Information on the share capital Changes in the ownership of share capital and voting rights during the last three fiscal years 233, 223 and 266 to 267 Ownership structure and changes during the fiscal year 258 Factors affecting a potential takeover bid 316 Employee shareholding 261 to 262 Crossing of legal thresholds reported to the Company 233 and 266 Shareholder agreements concerning the share capital of the Company 267 Buyback by the Company of its own shares 268 to 269 Information on share subscription options granted to executive corporate officers and employees 83 to 91 and 261 to 262 Information on free share grants to executive corporate officers and employees 83 to 91 and 261 to 262 Summary schedule of current delegations of authority to increase the share capital 259 to 261 and use of these delegations during the fiscal year Dividends and other revenue distributed during the last three fiscal years 233, 265 and 315 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, 39 to 78, 83 to 101, 315 and 316 internal Control and risk management. N/A : not applicable 328 Registration Document 2016 — Capgemini
