COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CORRESPONDANCE TABLE BETWEEN MERSEN’S PRACTICES AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Correspondance table between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and Mersen’s reference document at December 31, 2016. PRINCIPLES OF UN GLOBAL 2016 COMPACT Reference Document HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: businesses should The Group’s Code of Ethics restates the collective and individual P35 support and respect the commitment of the Group and its employees. It particularly protection of internationally addresses the Group’s relationships with its employees, proclaimed human rights ; customers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, and surrounding and ecosystem. Principle 2: make sure that The purchasing department set up a supplier audit system, P35 they are not complicit in covering questions related to compliance with the Code of Ethics human rights abuses. and incorporating rules of compliance with the ILO’s fundamental rights of workers. LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: businesses should The Group undertakes to comply with the fundamental principles P19 uphold the freedom of and rights of the ILO (International Labor Organization) in association and the effective compliance with legislation in effect. These laws address recognition of the right to fundamental issues of labor law, including freedom of association, collective bargaining; the right to organize and collective bargaining, the abolition of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of Principle 4: the elimination of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of all forms of forced and employment and occupation. compulsory labor; The Group’s Code of Ethics restates the collective and individual P35 Principle 5: the effective commitment of the Group and its employees. It particularly abolition of child labor; and addresses the Group’s relationships with its employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, and surrounding Principle 6: the elimination of ecosystem. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Gender balance has been clearly identified and stated by Mersen P21 as a priority area for improvement. Constant effort is required to integrate more women in all our business lines, including production. Many initiatives have been introduced in recent years, including hiring, career tracking, communication, awareness raising among managers, remuneration, greater flexibility for parents in professional life, organizational modifications, and workstation improvements to reduce physical constraints to the extent possible, thus enabling female operators to work there. APRIL 2017 1/3 COMMUNICATION SUR LE PROGRES ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: businesses should Regarding environmental practices, Mersen undertakes to: P37 to 43 support a precautionary 1. Comply with the regulations in force, in the form of legal and approach to environmental other requirements covering its products and existing challenges; installations; 2. Catalogue potential risks related to its installations and Principle 8: undertake products, review whether prevention is sufficient to avoid any initiatives to promote greater accidents that may pose a threat to people in the environmental responsibility; neighborhood or the surrounding area (particularly to and customers, the workforce and those living close to production sites); Principle 9: encourage the 3. Visit installations periodically to detect anomalies; development and diffusion of 4. Use incidents and best internal and external practices for a environmentally friendly program of quality and continuous improvement based on technologies. experience-sharing; 5. Minimize consumption of water, energy, raw materials and packaging and encourage recycling and waste-to-energy conversion; 6. Foster progress through continuous improvement by rolling out an ISO 14001 Environmental Management System at the Group’s major plants; 7. Promote eco-design, notably by extending use of EIME, the dedicated software system. In the field, Mersen’s environmental approach translates into a quest to identify best practices and an extremely high level of vigilance. It is intended to help the Group achieve a virtuous circle. The Group pursues a collective and pragmatic approach involving all its employees, who are educated and receive training at every level of responsibility. A significant share of Mersen’s business is related to sustainable development industries, such as renewable energy, energy efficiency, and clean mass transit. The Group strives to offer products with a limited impact on the environment. To this end, it endeavors to acquire the best available technologies, i.e. techniques that satisfy most effectively the sustainable development criteria, when designing its new manufacturing lines and its new products. Research and development teams are trained in eco-design and, most of the time, specifications take into account the objective of reducing environmental impact. APRIL 2017 2/3 COMMUNICATION SUR LE PROGRES ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: businesses The Group’s Code of Ethics restates the collective and individual P35 to 36 should work against commitment of the Group and its employees. It particularly corruption in all its forms, addresses the Group’s relationships with its employees, including extortion and customers, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, and surrounding bribery. ecosystem. The corporate and cross-audits carried out by the Group’s internal audit function provide insight on a regular basis into whether these rules are applied properly. RELATED DOCUMENTS Extract of Mersen’s 2016 Reference document: Chapter 2: Corporate Social responsibility and sustainable development Group Code of Ethics (December 2016 update) APRIL 2017 3/3
