PROGRESS OF UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES OCTOBER 2017 CONTENTS P3 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR P4 CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION P8 HUMAN RIGHTS P11 LABOUR STANDARDS P13 ENVIRONMENT P19 ANTICORRUPTION 2 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR On November 15th 2012, Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services became a member of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and committed to integrating the principles of the UNGC within the business’ strategy and day to day operations. We are pleased to confirm our continued support for the UNGC and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles with respect to human rights, labour, the environment, anti-corruption and the Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our mission and our values will help us achieve our goals to help reconcile economic growth with environmental and social responsibility. This document, our fourth annual Communication on Progress, describes Intercruises efforts to achieve this. Intercruises is making a clear statement of this commitment with stakeholders and the general public using our primary channels of communication. During this year, Intercruises has successfully maintained the certification of the Quality Management System (ISO 9001:2008) for Barcelona Operations and Passenger Service operated in Palma de Mallorca and the Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) for Head Office. Besides, following the principles of continual improvement. We maintained Travelife Partner status achieved last year following Intercruises involvement in the Travelife Sustainability System for Tour Operators & Travel Agencies, which certified twelve Intercruises offices, providing services in 69 destinations, as being committed to sustainability, with consistent and sustainable business practices. As part of our Sustainability Strategy, during this year Intercruises has strengthened its commitment in different areas: Increasing stakeholders awareness in Sustainability A new Policy Developing new certifications Four new offices in the Travelife Program Reducing our Carbon Footprint and compensating our emissions as a Carbon Neutral Company We will continue to work towards furthering our commitment to the UNGC principles and Sustainable Development Goals by reviewing our progress and challenging ourselves to constantly improve. Intercruises is proud to be a member of the UNGC and we look forward to developing our business in line with the UNGC principles. Yours sincerely, Olga Piqueras Managing Director Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services 3 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Intercruises is an experienced global business offering turnaround, shore excursion, hotel contracting and port agency services to the ocean and river cruise industry. Cruise specialist teams handle all vessel, guest and crew needs, before, during and after a ship’s time in port. Services are managed from over 100 local offices by teams operating in over 400 ports worldwide, encompassing over 60 countries spread across Africa, the Americas, Asia, Australia, Indian Ocean, Middle East, Mediterranean and Northern Europe. All Intercruises teams worldwide are supported by the Intercruises Global Platform, a central team comprised of specialist in-house departments, including Health & Safety, Finance, Marketing & Communications, Business Processes, Sustainability and Operations Support. Intercruises supports cruise lines and vessels through strong industry relationships, high quality service standards, global resources and strict corporate goverWnance, including advanced Health & Safety procedures and an ongoing commitment to sustainable practices. Intercruises is an award winning business, having received numerous accolades relating to service quality and innovation, including being the most successful business in the history of the Seatrade Insider Innovative Shorex Award, as a three time Winner and two time Runner Up. Intercruises is an Official Partner of Travelife, an organization dedicated to promoting sustainable practices within the travel and tourism industry, and is also an Active Participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a principle based framework dedicated to the implementation of better business practices, primarily in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Intercruises is part of Destination Services, a Hotelbeds Group (HBG) business unit. Intercruises is one of three businesses that make up the Destination Services business unit, along with Pacific World, an award winning event management company, and Destination Services, a global DMC of local experts crafting worldwide experiences. HBG is a leading provider of services to the global travel trade with key positions in some of the fastest growing segments in the industry, distributing accommodation, transfers & activities in more than 185 countries and active in +120 source markets worldwide. 4 CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION PRODUCT & SERVICES CORE SERVICES TURNAROUNDS SHORE PORT HOTEL EXCURSIONS AGENCY PROGRAMS ANCILLARY SERVICES SHOPPING YACHT DOMESTIC LAND LOGISTICS PROGRAMS AGENCY TRANSFERS PROGRAMS PART OF THE CRUISE INDUSTRY Diamond Executive Partner since 2013 Associate Member for over 10 Exhibitor, Advertiser, Sponsor and and Official Logistics Partner at various years and Official Shorex Supplier Official Logistics Partner on various events since 2014 at various events occasions since 2004 (Formerly Cruise Associate Member Service Member for over Headline Sponsor Down Under) since 2014 10 years and part of the Official since 2011 Member since 2011 Steering Committee 5 PART OF CRUISE INDUSTRY / PRODUCT & SERVICES KEY STATS & COVERAGE +60 +400 +100 +12000 +300 +250m € ANNUAL FULL TIME SALES COUNTRIES PORTS OFFICES CRUISE PORT CALLS EMPLOYEES (last Fiscal Year) AMERICAS MEDITERRANEAN & EUROPE ASIA-PACIFIC INDIA & INDIAN OCEAN 6 KEY STATS & COVERAGE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN LABOUR ANTIRIGHTS STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION The fourth Intercruises Communication on Progress will focus on the achievements in the four areas of the UNGC Principles and their relation with the Sustainable Development Goals defined in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 7 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN PRINCIPLE Business should support and respect the protection of 1 internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE RIGHTS Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2 Intercruises aligns its strategy with UN Sustainable Development Goals, respecting human rights in the communities where we operate and supporting NGOs worldwide. Intercruises has continued its partnership with Save the Children (STC) since 2011. STC invests in childhood worldwide, providing a healthy start, the opportunity to learn and protection from harm. Operating out of 180 countries worldwide, STC is often one of the first aid groups on the ground in disaster situations. Intercruises´ engagement with NGOs in different types of What STC Accomplished in 2016: collaboration, from philanthropy to partnership, gives us the opportunity to invest in global Sustainable Development War outbreak in Syria: STC is working tirelessly to reach Goals using their expertise to create social change in a over 1 million displaced children and adults in southern more effective way. Syria. Ongoing war in Yemen: STC helps children during volatile armed conflicts. Hurricane Matthew Haiti Disaster: STC deploys emergency response team to provide critical aid to survivors. We integrate sustainability into our business strategy and Child refugee crisis: STC Launches Search & Rescue Ship continuously try to minimize our impact to ensure prosperity operations in the Mediterranean for all, utilizing a sectorial network to minimize tourism STC has helped more than 56 million children in 120 impact in communities in which we operate. countries in 2016: Intercruises´ commits to treat people in a way that respects 129 emergencies attended in 60 countries and reached their human rights by operating responsibly and sustainably 6.8 million children. worldwide. 13.8 million included in educational programs. Intercruises is committed to providing human, in-kind and/ or financial support to the local communities in which we 16 million treated for health and nutrition problems. are present, optimizing our social and economic impacts 3.8 million rescued for child protection. with the support of our human team and our network of partners. The aim is to generate prosperity and sustainable 3 million helped for child poverty. development. On behalf of our employees Intercruises has made some financial and in-kind donations during FY 16/17: Mercedes-Benz Corporate Run: The purpose of the Corporate Run Series is to promote running and walking as a means to a fit, healthy lifestyle for people from all walks of corporate life. Every year, Intercruises registers a team of employees and each participant can choose if they would rather walk or run. United Way, a charity Partner, works on education, financial stability and health the building blocks for a good life. 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Toy Donation: Employees from Miami Office did a “Toy 1 Donation” to a church to help make the Christmas holiday season happier for less fortunate children. Banc dels Aliments: Intercruises employees in Barcelona helped this organization by categorizing and packing the donated food, which was then sent to families nationwide. This year Intercruises helped by categorizing and packing 237 pallets of food (approx. 95,000KG). 1 Soñar Despierto Foundation: In the traditional St. Jordi´s day the girls from Intercruises Barcelona received a rose. The proceeds gathered from the flowers went to a charity that supports children and the young people of today. 2 Building fences for Green Education Center in Siem Reap, Cambodia: Improving the educational environment for a local school, to promote a conducive learning environment for children (age group: 6-12 years old) in the local community in Samrong Village. More than 30 Intercruises employees from Asia, Australia and Barcelona joined hands in building the fences for the school and repainting the modest playground. 2 Traditional rice planting in Kam Pem village, Cambodia. More than 30 Intercruises employees from Asia, Australia and Barcelona planted rice supervised by local farmers. In four months, the rice planted is harvested and sold. Additionally everyone donated the traditional farmer outfits and boots to the village. 3 Giving Back @ Sunvillage: The Intercruises team visited the Sunvillage to support an organization that helps the children of convicts develop into independent, responsible adults, through education, healthy diet and social interactions. The team donated items to the children to help them with a project known as “Flower Market” – this market 3 is a green room in which children plant and grow flowers before selling them to help fund trips to visit their parents in prison. 4 We have many excursions/visits where we support social and cultural development, for example: Eco-Feminism in India: Support ancient traditions, the environment and social progress by visiting a 5000 year old village to view traditional methods for growing medicinal plants, rubber tapping, coconut plucking & pottery. Guests will also plant a tree at an eco-feminist village, where 111 trees are planted every time a girl is born, promoting gender equality and sustainability. 4 Community Development in Manila, The Philippines: Help the Gawad Kalinga Pinagsama community rise out of poverty in Manila. Guests will join a local family, hearing their stories of poverty and future hope during a homecooked meal, before visiting the different social enterprises and an NGO that aims to end poverty for 5 million families by 2024, including 2500 Filipino communities. 9 HUMAN RIGHTS CONGRESS & EVENTS INTERNAL CONTROLS Recognising the importance of sector-wide collaboration, Stakeholders’ opinion is regularly measured and suggestions Intercruises improves efficiency with strong working are taken into account. Intercruises Survey 2017, which was relationships with industry stakeholders. During FY 16/17 sent to all Intercruises teams and client contacts to enable us we have participated in different Congress and events: to compare and better understand the difference between the internal and external opinions of our business, including Seatrade is the Cruise Industry’s leading trade event their perception about our Corporate Social Responsibility. organiser, bringing together thousands of representatives from cruise lines, suppliers, travel agents and cruise industry Intercruises, as part of HBG, professes its regards and partner. During FY 16/17 we have attended Seatrade observance of human rights and we endeavour to engage meetings in Shanghai (Asia Pacific), Fort Lauderdale our stakeholders on issues around responsible practices (Global) and Hamburg (Europe). in order to promote justice and equity across our global community chain and protect vulnerable societies. CLIA: Key cruise line contacts and cruise industry stakeholders came together to discuss issues and Likewise, suppliers shall comply with the Suppliers Code developments. We have met in Tenerife (Port & Destination of Conduct. This code of conduct sets out the minimum Forum), London (Executive Partner Conference) and standards expected from suppliers when working on our Hamburg (Summit at Sea). behalf. Suppliers are expected to uphold our principles by adopting accessible, clear policies and procedures to International Cruise Summit: European forum of global respect human rights and child protection. We also have knowledge about the cruise industry, held in Madrid included a sustainability clause in our contracts to assure Cruise Canada New England Symposium. International its commitment. symposium with travel agents, tourism offices, marine Intercruises controls and monitors sustainability issues agencies, government partners, destinations and cruise through various internal and external processes aimed lines representatives, held in Montreal in 2017. at ensuring the validity and reliability of our sustainability 50th MedCruise General Assembly in Gibraltar: The management practices and reporting. Regular controlling Assembly gathered more than 110 cruise industry and monitoring gives us valuable information on the results professionals, including cruise line & port executives, travel of our sustainability work and is therefore an important agents and other stakeholders. element in our continuous efforts to develop our reporting and in building a more sustainable world. Intercruises also interacts with other stakeholders to collaborate for a Sustainable Tourism Model. Lloyds and Molins de Q: ISO 9001 and 14001 certification Sustainable Conference Outlines Common Tourism Model in Barcelona: Cristina Palos and Helena Croce from the HBG & Investors: Environmental, Social and Governance Business Processes Department of the Intercruises Global KPIs Platform recently attended the International Conference on Travelife: We obtained 12 partner certifications Sustainable Tourism, which brought together tourism and sustainability experts from around the world to debate As well as all those actions, with this report we support the contrasting viewpoints during a constructive discussion UNGC. Our daily business is based on the ten principles on strategy for making Barcelona a more sustainable city. of the UNGC. The conference appears on the United Nations agenda in 2017, the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development. Sectorial Sustainability Plan for Barcelona´s Port: Intercruises reports sustainability performance and KPI´s to Barcelona´s Port Authority, which will be consolidated into one sectorial Sustainability Report. Their strategic objectives are based on three main areas: economic, social and environmental sustainability. 10 HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR PRINCIPLE Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 4 STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 6 occupation. 4. Must ensure that employees have the correct visa and working documentation in place and that written contracts for direct and contract workers exist. HBG requires its suppliers to comply with the national, supranational and international legislation and related Our people are often located in underdeveloped regions, procedures, restrictions and sanctions in relation to human and Intercruises promotes opportunities for women and rights and labour law; supporting local communities, men to obtain decent and productive work, in conditions identifying and monitoring bribery and corruption risks, of freedom, equity, security and dignity. That is in line with identifying and monitoring negative environmental impacts; SDOs to achieve equitable and sustainable growth for all. and introducing/maintaining quality assurance and Health & Safety policies in their business. The company is aligned with the labour principles and the national and international regulations. As part of our contract with suppliers, we require that they acknowledge and comply with the Modern Slavery Act, Intercruises acknowledges the right to collective bargaining and at our request, provide any information or reasonable and freedom of association, trade union membership, assistance to enable us to identify their supply chain. We collective labour negotiation and representation of reserve our right to terminate a supplier’s contract in the members by trade unions. The unionization is free. Worker’s event that any instances of Modern Slavery are discovered. representatives can be company employees as part of a union or a group of independent employees. We started to conduct Modern Slavery training to enable staff in key roles to identify and address potential Modern Intercruises participates in and is in compliance with the Slavery risks. sector collective labour condition negation structure that applies in each country, depending on national law for the We adopt a continuous improvement approach to our Travel Agencies sector. performance in this area and will use several performance indicators to judge whether our policies and the steps that Intercruises, as part of HBG, is committed to ethical working we are taking to try and eliminate Modern Slavery within practices and maintaining integrity and transparency in all our business or supply chain have been effective. dealings with employees, clients, business partners and suppliers. Intercruises does not permit child labour, people under 18 are only employed in accordance with national regulations HBG understands that slavery can occur in several forms, and the UN convention on the Rights of the Child, ensuring including forced labour, workplace abuse, domestic that International Labour Organisation conventions are servitude, child labour and human trafficking (“Modern fulfilled and our supplies must follow that measures with Slavery”). We are committed to putting in place effective our contracts and as part of the Supplier Code of Conduct. controls to safeguard against any form of Modern Slavery occurring within our business or supply chain. We pay particular attention to protecting children from sexual exploitation in travel and tourism and to strengthening The HBG Supplier Code of Conduct requires that Suppliers: responsible activities to contribute to the eradication of the 1. Adhere to International Labour Organization by treating commercial sexual exploitation of children and adolescents. workers with respect and ensuring that relevant information Intercruises is committed to the HBG Child Protection on employee rights is easily accessible; Policy, where we state our commitment to condemn the 2. Will not employ anyone against their will, traffic, use exploitation of children, a fundamental abuse of child’s forced, bonded and compulsory or prison labour; human rights. We are committed to maintaining high standards of professional conduct. 3. Must ensure no slavery or human trafficking operates in their business or supply chain; HBG has signed up the Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism 11 LABOUR STANDARDS (The Code www.thecode.org) and will implement an Action Plan accordingly to protect children at local levels. We also include that obligation in our sustainable clause for suppliers. Intercruises, as part of HBG, aims for all employees to enjoy a work environment free from all forms of discrimination or harassment. Thus, the company does not tolerate abuse, bullying or harassment of any type including sexual harassment or any unwelcome conduct based on race, religion, colour, gender, age, national origin, sexual orientation or disability. As a global enterprise, Intercruises aims to have a diverse and international workforce. Different nationalities are already represented in the top management. We are keen to keep encouraging this diversity at other management levels. Employees are evaluated on their individual attributes, skills and capabilities, rather than on stereotypes, prejudice or assumptions. Intercruises as an employer has the primary obligation to make sure the workplace is free from discrimination and harassment, human rights are respected and provide equal opportunities. According to law, the office buildings and other premises of Intercruises provide, where technically and financially viable, access for people with special needs. Due to the labour type, employment of people with special needs is not always feasible. Following the commitment expressed by the management to guarantee the efficiency of the principle of equality of treatment and opportunities between women and men within the company, Intercruises ensures a work-life balance with some measures for the reconciliation between work, private and family life: The company offers schemes for pregnancy, maternity and paternity leave for all employees depending on National laws. The company supports flexible working times or part time employment, for example, to support family obligations as well as to go on leave. It is possible to request additional holidays to the statutory paid leave per annum through salary sacrifice where operationally possible. There are different reporting procedures in place to address any kind of discrimination cases, whether contacting management or using other ways of communication. If any discrimination case arises that cannot be solved with an immediate line management, HBG Compliance Office, Legal Department or Human Resource Department, employees are able to report any concern using the Compliance & Ethics Helpline. This is a completely confidential service for raising concerns about business conduct and ethical matters. 12 LABOUR STANDARDS ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 7 environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 responsibility; and PRINCIPLE Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 9 friendly technologies. Since we have started to work under an Environmental internal blogs; The Interjournal and TheBeat, available to Management System, we have defined more ambitious all Intercruises employees. These are the communications objectives year by year to reduce our environmental published in FY 16/17: footprint. Our collaboration with NGOs gives us the opportunity to reach more regions and projects to protect Global Compact report our Planet. New Policies (Sustainability, Quality and Travel Policy) Intercruises has updated its Corporate Sustainability Policy. Training on Child Protection This update has been made to ensure Intercruises continues to make a positive impact in all destinations in line with the ISO Certifications and Travelife certifications standards set out in our ISO certifications. Be like Bernie Campaign Sustainability objectives and awareness -Awareness paper consumption Get wet for Multiple Sclerosis Volunteer activities and donations (St Jordi, El Gran Recapte, etc.) Season Greeting e-cards The policy establishes the framework for identifying, monitoring and improving aspects of our company’s Go out on 5th June – World Environmental Day environmental and social performance in line with the ISO 14001:2015 certification. In the policy we formulate our Earth Day (Shorex supporting Earth Day Principles) view on sustainability, giving an insight into our targets Sustainable Conference Outlines Common Tourism and the means to reach these targets. The policy reflects Model – 2017 International Year of Sustainable Tourism our commitment to sustainability within our operations and for Development. with our colleagues, suppliers and clients. See Intercruises Development Policy. We have conducted an onsite training celebrated in March 2017 in Barcelona “Being sustainable in the workplace”, As a leading company in the travel industry, HBG related to our sustainability policies, consumptions objectives acknowledge the level of public concern about the welfare and environmental best practices. and protection of animals in captivity and in the wild. We are also aware that animal related issues are becoming more and more sensitive for our clients. In support of the above, HBG have launched a new HBG Animal Welfare Policy. This policy has been created to ensure rewarding experiences to customers are provided whilst at the same time the welfare of the animals and public health and safety are safeguarded. We apply different actions in order to raise awareness on sustainability topics of Intercruises employees worldwide. We encourage our people to save water, energy and paper and to recycle waste using posters. Regular sustainability updates are made by email and on 13 ENVIRONMENT WORKSHOPS We involve stakeholders in internal & external workshops: PASSION Mission, Vision & Proof Points Global Platform Workshop: A two day workshop focused on teams’ projects and efforts and crew satisf to align regions and Platform to Intercruises Mission, Vision ue st a i se g art of ever ythin ction u e gw Cr t the h e d is and Proof Points. a o TO BE THE WORLD’S Asia workshop in Beijing: Focusing on operations best LEADING PROVIDER st practices, Emergency situations, Leadership, Product t OF SHORESIDE tio ent d n, se Development and Operations standards. 5 tte r sco r vice mi wo & PORT SERVICES pe , re co m l e gardl Fully ainab or circ es s ITY North America Shorex workshop in New Orleans: st umsta an d s u o Discussing topics like new product development, tour health INT k et pr hica nsi nces BIL ac l C o ca EG tice of lo LIA & safety, tour trends, creativity and operation processes, IT s Y R RE as well as an opportunity to brainstorm and share best practices, with a North America action plan created for the remainder of 2017. France & Monaco workshop in Marseille: with over 30 5 attendees from the Nice, Marseille, Monaco, Le Havre and Barcelona offices convening in a local hotel to discuss teamwork, communication, New Product Development (NPD), Health & Safety and operations best practices. Annual India & Indian Ocean (INIO) regional workshop in Mauritius: Representatives from South Africa, Sri Lanka, Mauritius and the Intercruises Global Platform discussed how to best “adapt our services and products to match an active and changing cruise market”. 6 Asia Pacific workshop 2017 in Siem Reap, Cambodia: bringing together representatives from Asia, Australia and Barcelona to discuss about the Regional Office updates, 6 Global Platform Site, Emergency Procedure & QUARS, Global Product and future Strategy and Action Plans. 7 DONATIONS & INITIATIVES With the participation and collaboration of Intercruises employees, we made monetary donations and in-kind contribution initiatives: Intercruises has offset Barcelona’s office emissions (280 tones) from last FY 15-16 investing in a project to China to become Carbon Neutral. The project, called CECIC Zhangbei Dayangzhuang Wind Farm Project, will generate renewable electricity using wind power resources. 7 The project is located in Zhangbei County, Hebei Province, China, and consists of the implementation and operation of 66 wind turbines each with a unit capacity of 750 kW. The total capacity of the project is 49.5 MW and the estimated annual electricity supplied to the grid is about 96,530MWh at the full capacity. The generated output will be sold to the North China Power Grid. The emission reductions of the project activity are estimated to be approximately 103,796 tonnes of CO2e per year by avoiding CO2 emissions from electricity generation by fossil fuels power plants. 14 ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE SHORE EXCURSIONS Nature Conservation in Mauritius: Discover an island of beautiful white beaches managed by the Mauritian A sustainable excursion can have a positive impact on the Wildlife Foundation, which is devoted to the conservation natural environment and local communities, offer customers of endemic flora & fauna. Guests will observe rare species unique and memorable holiday experiences and protect in their natural environment – the pink pigeon, colorful day the resources for the future. There are some examples of gecko & giant tortoise, as well as encounter sea-life while sustainable excursions in our portfolio: snorkelling at a protected marine reserve. Animal Rehabilitation in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam: Join the fight against illegal animal trade with Cu Chi Wildlife Rescue Station, which since 2007 has recovered, rehabilitated & returned over 5000 animals to the wild, including many endangered species. Raising public SUSTAINABLE CERTIFICATION awareness of wildlife protection is key and guests will learn about what they can do to protect the biodiversity of Vietnam. Marine Sustainability in Ireland: Understand West Cork marine conservation projects with a local wildlife expert during a coastal ride on a fuel-efficient boat. Guests will learn about and view beautiful sea-life and the stunning natural coastline with ancient Irish castles, which will be given further context as they meet the locals on Cape Clear, a small island of just 120 people. This certificate acknowledges that Destination Services Spain, S.L.U. offset 281 Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide by supporting the CECIC Zhangbei Dayangzhuang Wind Farm Clean Development Mechanism project in China that has generated Gold Standard Certified Emissions Reductions (CER). This helps to combat climate change and sustain our environment for future generations. Lynx Preservation in Cadiz/Huelva, Spain: Learn about Doñana Reserve, a protected natural area near Cadiz that is home to over 300 species of bird. Guests will www.carbonfootprint.com 18 September 2017 John Buckley, Managing Director, Carbon Footprint Ltd. travel 70km in special off road vehicles, viewing various Calculating the carbon footprint ecosystems, birds of prey and mammals, including perhaps offsetting carbon emissions the elusive Lynx, whose preservation program is led by the helping to combat climate change driver-guide, considered a local hero by many. Wildlife Warriors in Australia: Assist wildlife conservation projects at Australia Zoo, which helped make Steve Irwin a national icon and has a mission to protect injured, threatened and endangered wildlife. Guests get an exclusive behind the scenes look at the animals being cared for at Australia’s largest Wildlife Hospital, where will discuss their life-saving work. 15 ENVIRONMENT EMBEDDING SUSTAINBAILITY PRACTICE Whenever possible, feasible and economically viable we choose sustainable office supplies. Some examples of our Intercruises recommended its employees use Ecosia, a web sustainable purchase are: search engine that donates 80% of its income to nonprofit conservationist organizations, with a current focus on tree More than half of the brochures are printed in the office planting. Ecosia will even keep a count of how many and therefore are printed on 100% recycled paper. trees you have directly helped to plant with your internet Business cards are printed on FSC paper, calendars are searches. At the time of finishing to write this report, Ecosia printed using FSC material. has helped plant 12,929,317 trees! Electronic Equipment: Energy Star technology, (in monitors, computers, laptops, printers and multi-function printers), mouse with wire instead of batteries, solar calculators, rechargeable batteries, recyclable or refillable toners if available for the printer and at the destination. We encourage our suppliers to be more sustainable and Cleaning Products: We ask our supplier to substitute environmentally responsible using the Sustainability clause hazardous products those that are more environmentally in our contracts and with our HBG Supplier Code of friendly. Conduct. Vending machines: we have changed our vending food Intercruises controls and monitors its environmental and beverage supplier, the one chosen is committed to performance through various internal and external responsible purchasing buying primarily local, organic and processes aimed at ensuring the accuracy of our data and GMO-free products. validity of our reporting. In order to measure the improvements effectiveness of our During 2017, Intercruises has successfully maintained Environmental Management System, each year we set certification of the ISO 14001:2004 for its Environmental environmental objectives and key performance targets. Management System in the office in Barcelona without any OBJECTIVES FY 2015-2016: non-conformity. 1. Implement measures to reduce paper consumption at a rate of < 5 reams of paper per employee: The decrease in the purchasing of reams of paper compared to previous years is clearly evident and exceeds the goal set for paper consumption. Indicator FY 12-13 FY 13-14 FY 14-15 FY 15-16 Travelife verified our sustainability commitment and Reams of paper 4,2 11 reams/ 9 reams/ 5 reams/ consistent sustainable business practices in a variety consumption person person person reams/ of areas, including Legal Compliance, Environment & per employee person community relations, Transportation, Excursions and Destinations. Intercruises has reached the Travelife Partner 2. Awareness campaign to reach a Paperless office: We full compliance status with 12 offices worldwide, 69 have continued with our poster awareness and with the ports in 9 countries, on June 1st 2016. For 2017 we HBG Communication (Tips to be Eco-friendly) which have have engaged 5 more offices and we have planned to allowed us to reach our objective. certificate them at the end of the year. 3. Follow-up environmental performance with new KPI to get our Carbon Footprint: We have created a new template “Follow-up environmental performance” to get information about waste, consumptions and emissions. We are monitoring our Carbon Footprint using the tool “Sustrax”. Across HBG we are committed to purchasing sustainable products and we have embedded sustainability principles OBJECTIVES FY 2016 – 2017: in the Global Procurement Policy. The inspiration came from Intercruises’ core value to “implement and promote the use For the new FY we have developed new objectives of sustainable ways of working.” according to the new Intercruises Sustainability Strategy for the next years, we want to be aligned with United Nations HBG have included sustainability criteria in order to decrease Sustainable Development Goals. For this reason we have our Carbon Footprint as part of the Corporate Travel Policy. grouped yearly objectives in different priorities that will continue until 2030. 16 ENVIRONMENT Priorities Objectives Progress Increase Define a new policies New Quality and Sustainability Policies published stakeholders Create Sustainability Manual and Guidelines New sustainability documents created pending awareness in Increase sustainability awareness to launch (best practices, shorex standards and Sustainability Sustainability and compliance training sustainability info for operations) Internal awareness communications (new policies and objectives, paperless, etc.) Trainings “Being sustainable in the workplace” and “Child Protection” Sustainable offices 5 new offices with Partner Travelife Certification 5 offices selected and champions appointed and services (Barcelona, Dubrovnik, Piraeus, Bangkok and Achieve ISO 14001: 2015 certification certifications Phucket). Implementation Phase. New system documentation created adapted to ISO 14001:2015 Promote Define Intercruises Sustainability criteria for Shore Shorex Do and Don´ts criteria defined. sustainable Excursions and promote them Implementation phase in APAC region. excursions to Promote excursions for disabled people clients or guests Promote Favour suppliers and contractors that promote Shorex Do and Don´ts criteria defined. Sustainable sustainable development Animal welfare criteria to mark best suppliers within Development in Facilitate training for contractors HBG Suppliers Reduce Carbon Calculate Carbon Footprint Carbon footprint calculation for Travelife offices. Footprint Reduce Carbon Footprint applying best practices Offset Barcelona emissions. Offsetting of our business travel emissions Paperless Awareness Implement measures to reduce paper consumption Green Office poster draft. Reduce energy consumption Purchases monitoring Increase % of clean energy used (renewable) Renewable energy study for Barcelona Office. Reduce waste generation through prevention, Waste reduction week planned for November. reduction, recycling and reuse Increase our recycled paper consumption Decent work for Implement best practices in HHRR Monthly activities planned for DS office all women and Empowering women: Increase women in senior New process to report and investigate incidents men, including management globally CRIM for young people and persons with Reduce inequalities, more contracts for disabilities, and disadvantaged people equal pay for Promote well-being activities work of equal value Reduce incidents (noncompliance Health & Safety Standards Promote corporate Enhance employee engagement through corporate Voluntary activities executed. responsible volunteering campaigns. In kind and monetary donations. actions Maintain or upgrade our monetary and in kind donations 17 ENVIRONMENT Some sustainability actions have been taken this year. Those different actions have resulted in CO2 emissions reduction and other benefits. They can be resumed as below. Save paper and support STC by sending an Intercruises Season’s Greetings E-Card. Instead of printing some Season´s Cards we prefer to do it by e-mail, our Marketing & Communications Department designed different cards to send to our client contacts. An e-learning platform, Intercruises e-Learning Platform (IELP), has been developed to create unlimited online courses reducing our paper consumption. This platform has been used by over 3600 trainees We constantly measure Intercruises environmental performance in the Head Office in order to be able to implement measures reduction. This is the second year that we measured our environmental performance using a new template with new KPIs, “Follow-up environmental performance”, which periodically measures and monitors: Waste: paper, confidential paper, plastic, bottle caps, lamps, E-waste, toner, batteries, large waste, general waste, sanitary bins, glass, writing instruments and CDs. Consumptions: electricity, water, HVACR (air conditioning / heating), printed paper and purchased paper, batteries and toner. Emissions: business travel. We have registered our half term environmental performance and some actions have been set in order to correct some deviations. We also are collecting environmental data from Travelife offices to create a baseline for future reduction targets. Climate change has encouraged us, to measure our Carbon Footprint and to implement actions to reduce it. Within HGB we have been using Sustrax the last two years. We are developing new functionalities in order to compare regions and emissions evolution. Intercruises Barcelona collaborates with SEUR “Tapones para una nueva vida” program Caps for a New Life is a plastic cap recycling initiative that raises funds to help children receive medical treatments not currently covered by the national health system. This year in Barcelona we have collected 80 kg, equivalent to 40.000 plastic caps. With this initiative we donate money for children and additionally we avoided the emission of 120 kilos of CO2, equivalent to the CO2 absorption of 20 trees. 18 ENVIRONMENT ANTIPRINCIPLE Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10 including extortion and bribery. CORRUPTION UN key commitments include substantially As part of the new Code of Conduct, HBG is also launching reducing corruption and illicit financial flows, a new confidential reporting helpline. This web-based developing effective, accountable and helpline is an important part of helping you to confidentially transparent institutions, and strengthening report any concerns you have about noncompliance, to access to information and participation in ask for advice on ethical dilemmas or to seek help if you public decision-making. Intercruises has zero tolerance aren’t comfortable speaking to someone from within the to bribery and corruption and gives particular focus to company. destination markets where perceived levels of corruption are high and with an absence of effective anti-bribery The helpline is completely confidential and there is no legislation. possibility of your details being stored by the website if you have chosen to report information anonymously. Intercruises is committed to ensuring that effective antibribery and anti-corruption procedures operate throughout all of its subsidiaries and to carrying on business fairly, openly and honestly with zero tolerance to bribery and corruption. An Anti-Bribery, Trade Restrictions and Business Ethics clause is included in all contracts with clients and suppliers. Where Intercruises states that it takes zero tolerance approach to breaches of international norms for trade, including bribery and corruption prevention legislation and applicable restrictions on trade, funds flow and terrorism financing. HBG addresses Anti-Bribery and Corruption through its Code of Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct, Policy on Procedures for Prevention of Bribery & Corruption, and the Policy on Business Gifts, Hospitality and Sponsorship. In addition, trainings to employees are performed on an ongoing basis via e-learning and face-to-face meetings. The HBG Risk, Compliance & Internal Audit department, which is made up of a team of experienced colleagues, makes sure the business is operating responsibly and ethically, in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and internal procedures. In 2016 HBG launched its own Code of Conduct as an ethical framework with practical examples to guide our dayto-day business conduct and decision making. An extensive online communication campaign (with Bernie´s creation, a shining example of someone who always does the right thing) was run recently and employees are currently trained on the Code of Conduct in face-to-face training sessions around the world. 19 ANTI-CORRUPTION
