2016 m. VA K A R Ų M EDI EN O S GRUPĖ , UAB REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 CONTENT LEADER‘S STATEMENT 04 WORK ENVIRONMENT 06 Focus on human rights 07 Employees 08 Employee turnover /developments 09 Development of employee competences 11 Engagement of young professionals 12 Employee opinion survey 14 The visit of the international youth exchange programme’s participants 15 Employee health promotion 15 Social portfolio 16 Collective trips 17 Sports festival 18 Trade unions activities 20 PRINCIPLES OF TRANSPARENT BUSINESS 22 Fight against corruption 23 Communication with customers, suppliers and business partners 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 25 Atmosphere 25 Sorting of the waste generated 27 Adding beauty to the surroundings 29 Participation in the ecology improvement projects 30 EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY 31 RESPONSIBLE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES 33 Our choice – timber from the forests managed responsibly 33 Sparing approach to forestry – not solely forest owners’ concern 35 RESPONSIBILITY TO SOCIETY 36 A gift for Klaipėda 37 Springtime forest planting – good deeds are fun to do 38 Birdhouses initiative – children included 40 Support 44 04 05 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 LEADER'S STATEMENT VMG HOLDINGS LIMITED (hereinafter referred to as the Company or VMG HOLDINGS LTD) and VMG group VIKTORAS ADOMAITIS companies under its management (hereinafter referred to as Member of the Supervisory Board the Managed companies) are important players in the global of VMG HOLDINGS LIMITED market. By taking into consideration sustainability issues and and Director General of by making decisions based on them, we are able to contribute UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ to the reduction of social and environmental risks. The efficient use of raw material and energy resources, environment protection, clean and safe working conditions for The energy related vision of VMG Our responsibility to the the employees, respect for human rights, business based on HOLDINGS LIMITED is to become employees of the Company transparency principles, as well as compliance with business a modern, nature-friendly and and Managed companies, the ethics and anti-corruption policy are priorities of the Company. energy-saving group of companies customers and the surrounding that uses efficient production environment contributes to the We strive to meet the customer needs to the maximum extent technologies and provides users improvement of the relationship and to ensure a high quality of our services, therefore we are with variety of high quality with the users and partners, and committed to: products. ensures the durability and stability of the business. Our goal is a ■ Allocate appropriate resources to implement the existing Our goal is to continuously harmony of social responsibility environmental objectives and targets; observe the principles of social and profitable business. responsibility, to contribute to ■ Have all the company’s employees involved in the SIGITAS PAULAUSKAS the implementation of human We are happy to see our constant implementation of environmental protection activities; Chair of the Supervisory Board rights, improvement of working progress towards our long-term of VMG HOLDINGS LIMITED conditions and environmental development strategy. We are still ■ While performing works, use materials that pose less risk to protection. The every year halfway so far but we are glad to the environment; increasing production volume and see the many good things that we range, market needs and positively have already succeeded in! By the ■ Whenever possible, use new and cleaner production valued achievements encourage joint efforts we are continuously technologies; us to seek for further improvement improving our skills and enhancing and to plan a subsequent our experience through the new ■ Use the technologies for our operations that have a development in accordance challenges and the results of new minimum adverse impact on the environment, to pursue the with the principles of UN Global projects implemented. prevention of pollution and continuous improvement in the Compact. environmental situation; ■ Pay continuous attention to the reduction of energy resources required for the manufacture of a production unit; ■ Operate in accordance with the applicable laws, regulations and requirements of other legal acts as well as the decisions of the Board and other management bodies of the group of companies; ■ Comply with the principles concerning pollution prevention and seek continuous improvement in the environmental performance. 06 07 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Focus on human rights UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and the Managed companies support and respect the protection of international human rights in the current area of their influence and do not contribute to/tolerate the abuse of human rights. The compliance with the values and business ethics of the Company helps to ensure the respect for human rights and prevent human rights’ violations. In 2016, no instances of human rights’ violations were established in the Company Managed enterprises. The enterprises seek to provide their with the national labour law. WORK employees with the best possible working conditions both in office and The Company and Managed production areas. The enterprises are enterprises: equipped with dining rooms/canteens ■ do not use and do not tolerate ENVIRONMENT that comply with all the ergonomics any unlawful recruitment of children, and aesthetics requirements; the exploitation in the workplace or forced employees have special clothing and labour; personal protective equipment in line ■ apply the principle of equality of with specifics of their work. The workers labour law subjects irrespective of have utility facilities installed for them their gender, sexual orientation, race, (private locker, dining rooms, showers, nationality, language, origin, citizenship etc.). and social status, religion, marital and family status, age, opinions or UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and views, membership in political parties the Managed enterprises maintain and public organizations, and the and support the United Nations Global factors unrelated to the employee’s Compact principles on the protection professional qualities. of employee rights, as well as comply 08 09 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Employees Professional, highThe human resources management policy of skilled, creative, UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS intelligent and GRUPĖ“ focuses on the knowledgeable development of employee staff is one of the professional skills and formation of responsible Every year, we main factors that organisational culture, determines successful which ensures the creation manage to attract the operation of the of a greater value for customers, partners Employee turnover/ Company and the best professionals in developments and society. In 2016, Managed companies. the Company steadily their field. We focus on The Company aims to focused on the staff welfare issues by creating the retention of qualified maintain the values-based organizational culture that a positive psychological and social environment, fosters employee motivation organising employee The number of SWOOD Export FLLC, where dictated its own terms. In personnel by developing and responsibility, and health maintenance employees in the the investment development order to meet a growing enables the people to programmes, investing in projects were launched in demand for flat-pack kitchen Company increased and perfecting both use the best of their competencies. The Human the occupational safety and improving conditions at by 4.4% compared the middle of the year, also furniture in the European significantly contributed and American market, the material and non-material Resources Department promotes cooperation and work, as well as developing long-term and stable to 2015. This change was caused by the to the increasing number number of the workers of employees. The market increased by 9.7% (compared motivation measures to unity to achieve the best overall result. material and non-material motivation measures. increase in the demand of AB “KLAIPĖDOS to 2015). number of employees MEDIENA” production ensure mutual benefit in the fields of and the relationship of a Employee distribution at VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB administration, technology and Number of employees of VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB and the Managed companies in 2016 long-term partnership and the Managed companies technical service Technical service Managers 5,7% employees 4,3% in the Lithuanian 3500 and Belarusian 3450 Technology Specialists 8,1% employees 81,9% enterprises. 3400 3350 In 2016, the Company focused on its expansion 3300 to the Eastern European 3250 market. The increase in the 3200 production range of FLLC January February April November March May December August October June July September „VMG INDUSTRY“ demanded additional human resources. 10 11 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Employee turnover in VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB and the Managed companies in 2016 -5 33 66 -1 -8 55 9 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 JLL LOGDREV FLLC SWOODS EXPORT FLLC VMG INDUSTRY UAB VMG TECHNICS UAB SAKUONA AB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA UAB VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ” Development of employee competences In 2016, the Company invested EUR 102,000 in In order to expand the management. The above the education and training of the employees. 180 recruitment process within solution offers the employees The number of employees of various specialties participated in training activities. the organization and find out the career expectations a better knowledge of the organisation and provides of the employees, an internal an opportunity to change a employees in the The following training courses intended for various level professionals, as well as the perfection of executive competencies information unit ‘Job Ads and Vacancies’was created in 2016. profession-related direction without leaving the Company increased It contains information about organisation, which results and personality characteristics were organised in 2016: ‘Teams the required professionals/ in training of the competent Assuming Personal Responsibility’, ‘Leaders Assuming Personal vacancies at UAB „VAKARŲ employees having many Responsibility’, ‘Efficient Talks and Conduction of Meetings’, ‘Critical by 4.4% compared MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and years of experience. Thinking and Strategic Planning’, and ‘Problem Solving and Decisionthe enterprises under Making’. Apart from that, all employees were invited to attend a to 2015 creativity workshop with an actor Sakalas Uždavinys and to listen to a presentation on the art of listening and its importance. 12 13 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Engagement of young professionals We continuously collaborate with educational institutions. We went to Klaipėda Ernestas Galvanauskas Vocational Training Centre to introduce to the student the Company in order to attract potential employees to become woodworking specialists. In turn, the students visited AB “KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA” and had a chance to see actually the nature of the work. We hope that 10 people will join a training with the Company in spring of 2017 and will starting a career in one of the Company’s production enterprises after the graduation. As every year, we participated in the student career fairs organised by the Kaunas University of Technology and Vilnius Gediminas Technical University. The fairs continuously focus on cooperation between the business and academic worlds. We received a lot of attention from students, teachers and other companies during the fair. ENGAGEMENT During the career fairs, we provided the information about the Company’s activities to the students of the furniture industry technology, production engineering, mechanical engineering, production management, automation engineering, electronics and other technical field study programmes. Following the career fairs, we enjoy OF YOUNG the attention of the students who are willing to have traineeships at the enterprises. The number of students having a PROFESSIONALS traineeship in 2016: 4 in UAB„VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“; 10 in AB„KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“; 28 in UAB„SAKUONA“; 6 in UAB„VMG TECHNICS“; 48 in FLLC„VMG INDUSTRY“; and 5 in FLLC„SWOODS EXPORT“. 14 15 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Employee The visit of the international youth opinion exchange programme’s participants survey On 13 September This programme is a more comprehensive We were very pleased that implemented by the approach towards AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ 2016, 18-person Department of Youth international issues. had been selected for delegation from Affairs under the Ministry This year, the Japanese this purpose. During the Japan consisting of of Social Security and delegation consisted of tour, we presented to the participants of the Labour together with the representatives of the guests the company’s In 2016, on the Japanese Government. Government of Japan and activities, objectives, ■ working conditions International Youth initiative of HR The programme aims to young people who were and performance. We (air conditioning systems, Exchange Programme promote the better mutual staying in Lithuania for more also received a number Department at UAB understanding between than two weeks. of questions about the ventilation improvement, intended for the „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS the youth of Japan and environmental protection variety of the food provided, development of GRUPĖ“, a survey etc.); other countries, a better During its visit to Klaipėda and the measures to ensure young people visited knowledge of Japan, city, the delegation wished it, as well as about the social was carried out AB „KLAIPĖDOS participation in social life to see the activities of major responsibility policy. on the opinion of ■ leadership skills of and understanding of the Lithuanian businesses with MEDIENA”. employees about supervisors/shift supervisors benefits of international a special emphasis to the professional matters. (the supervisor qualification cooperation, as well as environmental protection. The survey involved and leadership skills EMPLOYEE HEALTH PROMOTION assessment of the development programme was created); organisation and the work environment, ■ non-material motivation as well as employee ‘Spend the summer measures. suggestions. Based on the results of the survey and cycling’ promotion resulted in following improvements to This summer, for the 42 employees of these we awarded all of enhance the internal first time the Employee companies participated in them. Every company climate: Occupational Safety and the campaign from June to recorded the persons Health Service together August. Some of them often who came to work with the HR Department and the others less often on a bike the greatest invited all employees of AB were pedalling to and from number of times and „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“, UAB work, but we also had the such persons were „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ enthusiasts who used this awarded vouchers to and UAB „VMG TECHNICS“ means of transport to go the bike shop. to pay more attention to the to work every day! We were lack of movement and to happy about all participants, take a bicycle trip to work. therefore in September 16 17 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Social portfolio The Company has day-off on September 1 and payed an average wage for formed a fund for social that day. needs, from which various benefits and A variety of traditional festivals allowances are paid. and single celebrations are organized: the summer sports The employees have an festival, Christmas celebrations opportunity to use the sports for employees of the group of and fitness facilities. enterprises and their children, and the summer closing The programmes/lectures festival. concerning health promotion, proper nutrition, healthy Collective trips lifestyle, body composition measurements, blood glucose Collective trips to sports and total cholesterol tests are events and sightseeing tours carried out. around Europe are organised. In October, the employees of We encourage employees FLLC „VMG INDUSTRY“ enjoyed to attend variety of cultural the hockey matches in Minsk events by giving invitations Arena. to the theatre as a birthday present. Annual trip to Europe, which has already become In May 2016, a collective a tradition, was organised agreement was signed at for the employees of UAB FLLC „VMG INDUSTRY“, which „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ provides for additional and the Managed companies. guarantees and benefits to the The purpose of the trip in The team of travellers, employees: spring 2016 was to enjoy the ■ 30-50 percent old European architecture, compensation of summer impressive nature of the as usual, shared the camp cost for children of the employees who have worked Saxon Switzerland, the Elbe River valley and Dresden – joyous spring mood with the company for more than a year; the city of art treasures. The following famous locations ■ A lump sum material were visited: the Bastei bridge, and the traveller’s assistance to families raising 3 or more children and families the Konigstein palace and the Weissenstein castle, the curiosity raising a disabled child; ■ A premium for the training ‘Balcony of Europe’, and the Zwinger palace. The team of of traineeship students; travellers, as usual, shared the ■ The employees who are joyous spring mood and the raising minor children (1 to 4 traveller’s curiosity. grade at school) are granted a 18 19 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Sports festival The annual sports requiring endurance and ingenuity, and the highlight festival of UAB „VAKARŲ of the evening program was MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ that demonstration of the acting involved the employees of abilities of the participants, the Lithuanian and Belarusian which left no one indifferent. companies took part in June. No surprise that after all such The theme of the Sports events strengthen collective Festival 2016 was ‘Pirates’. The spirit, which helps to get the participants, who exchanged team members’ support when their office suits with the sports making important business clothing, did not lack the ‘pirate’ decisions at work. festive mood. Exploding with sports enthusiasm, the teams participated in various events 21 UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Socialinės atsakomybės veiklos ataskaita už 2016 m. Trade union leader's feedback Trade union activities Khodunova Lyudmila The employees of the enterprises managed Mikhailovna, Head of by the Company are granted the right to the primary trade union unite in organisations that defend their organisation of VMG Industry interests. Two trade unions operate at AB FLLC, Chairperson of the Trade „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“: the Žemaitijos Union Committee baldininkų, darbininkų sąjunga (the Union of Samogitian Furniture Manufacturers and Workers) and the Klaipėdos apskrities At the end of 2015, a primary trade union Each production unit has a dining room medienos darbininkų sąjunga (the Union organisation of the Belarusian Trade Union equipped with refrigerators, microwave of Klaipėda County Timber Workers). The of Forestry Workers was set up at the VMG ovens, electric kettles and coolers with drinIndustry Enterprise, which, in 2016, was renaking water. All employees are provided with trade union at Managed company „VMG med the Belarusian Trade Union of Forestry sanitary facilities (locker rooms, sanitary INDUSTRY“ started its activity in 2015. Workers and Nature Management. units, showers, clothing dryers). A health centre operates in the area of the enterprise, When the trade union was formed, 17% of where check-ups of the staff are organised the total number of employees of the comperiodically, which is partly funded by the Not so many pany was among its members, and today, enterprise. Wages are paid on time. already 26% of the total number of Furthermore, following the well-known employees belongs to the trade union. proverb stating that ‘Man shall not live It is common knowledge that a trade union by bread alone’, the administration of the companies can offer is an association of workers that allows them to make influence on the social policy of the enterprise, protect the work-related and enterprise organises sports competitions between the enterprise’s subdivisions (volleyball, football) as well as performances their employees what social rights of citizens. This right is enshrined in Article 41 of the Constitution of the Republic of Belarus. To date, the activities of for the children of employees during the New Year’s holidays, and provides an opportunity to attend the pool free of charge. VMG Industry FLLC trade unions in the Republic of Belarus are extremely relevant, in the light of the quite complex economic situation in the country Employees continuously improve their professional skills (internal and external trainings) at the expense of the enterprise. offers, and this is not and, in particular, in our industry. I can say with confidence that we are lucky, In 2016, the Collective Agreement was signed (a local normative act regulating my personal opinion, as the most favourable conditions for work and recreation of employees were created at our enterprise from the very beginning. the labour and socio-economic relations between the employer and the employees working with the employer), by which the but the opinion of First of all this is related to the maintenance social benefits for the employees of the of healthy and safe working environment enterprise were consolidated and expanded. at each workplace and compliance with Not so many companies can offer their the majority of the the work safety requirements established employees what VMG Industry FLLC offers, by regulatory legal acts. All employees are and this is not my personal opinion, but the provided with special clothing. A canteen opinion of the majority of the employees. has been in operation within the area of I would like to note the high level of employees the enterprise practically from the day of its opening, where employees have a free interaction between the leadership of different levels, all employees as well as the meal once per shift (including night shifts). trade union. 23 UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Socialinės atsakomybės veiklos ataskaita už 2016 m. Fight against corruption UAB “VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ” and enterprises under management support the principle of the fight against any forms of corruption and are strongly against corrupt practices and bribery. These principles are established by the Company’s Business Ethics/Ethics of Work with External Factors. Communication with customers, suppliers and business partners UAB “VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ” and enterprises under PRINCIPLES management value their partnership with customers, suppliers and users. The business ethics require honest actions, as well as a fair and respectful communication OF TRANSPARENT with business partners, customers, suppliers and users, as follows: ■ To not engage in unfair, deceptive and/or misleading practices. BUSINESS ■ To always present thorough and complete information about the products or services provided by the Company and its enterprises. ■ To not offer, promise or give anything to a customer or a supplier in order to gain an unfair advantage in return. 25 UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Socialinės atsakomybės veiklos ataskaita už 2016 m. Environmental protection Today, rational use of energy resources in the industry reflects the company’s approach to the nature, a man, and even to the business itself. When implementing the organisation. The systematic environmental protection execution of the operational requirements, the enterprises and strategic goals helps to of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS ensure the implementation GRUPĖ“ are guided by the of these factors. UAB „VAKARŲ preventive programs designed MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and the to ensure protection of the Managed companies, when environment, take initiatives to investing in the modernization promote greater environmental of technological processes, responsibility, encourage the pay special attention to the development of environmentally resolution of environmental friendly technologies and protection issues and efficiency their application within the improvement. Atmosphere To increase the volume of production while reducing pollution was one of the major tasks of the enterprises of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ in 2016. ENVIRONMENTAL Following the reduced consumption of natural gas and the results of the Company a lower pollution levels of the ambient air at AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“. UAB „SAKUONA“ and PROTECTION enterprises’ emissions analysis, SWOOD Export FLLC, due to the decrease of the pollutant increase in production volumes emissions compared to that in and a greater consumption 2015 is visible. Elimination of of combusted biofuel, show the pollution sources propelled an increase in the annual by natural gas, installation emissions that does not exceed of the recovery systems and the limits under the permissible the ongoing maintenance of annual emission norms. technical equipment ensured 26 27 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Sorting of the waste generated While the consumption at the enterprises environmental protection issue, to which the enterprises under management of UAB „VAKARŲ pays the annually increasing attention. By sorting the recyclables, the acquisition costs of raw materials used in MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is growing, as well as the production is reduced proportionally. the range of products is expanding and production volumes are increasing, the The quantities of the secondary raw materials sorted in greater amounts of waste are generated, a 2016 increased by 6-18% compared to 2015. Such positive significant proportion of which is packaging results were influenced largely by a purposeful work with people and the LEAN system techniques applied. We are waste. happy about the efforts of the staff and their willingness VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ UAB and the Managed companies to contribute to the environmental management and t/m An appropriate sorting of this type of waste is a relevant 800 pollutant emissions into ambient air protection! 700 600 Secondary raw materials sorted out at AB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA 25.000 ↑18,5% 500 400 300 20.000 200 100 15.000 0 2015 m. Tons FLLC VMG INDUSTRY AB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA UAB SAKUONA FLLC SWOODS EXPORT 10.000 2016 m. 2015 m. 2016 m. 5.000 AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ holds a permit for carbon dioxide emissions Overall quantity of gases causing Greenhouse effect into the atmosphere (tons/year) (GHG) at AB KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA (t/year) 0.000 and declares this in the European 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 5000 Union’s Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission registry. The emission 4000 of these pollutants is caused by natural gas consumption. Following 3000 2000 8.000 Secondary raw materials sorted out at UAB SAKUONA ↑12,1% the termination of co-generators activity, the total emissions of 7.000 1000 carbon dioxide CO2 (a gas causing 6.000 the greenhouse effect) decreased 0 Tons 2013 m. 2014 m. 2015 m. 2016 m. by 41.75%. 5.000 2015 m. During the past 4 years, 4.000 2016 m. AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ managed to reduce the quantities of gases causing greenhouse effect (GHG) by 65 times. 3.000 In 2016, when the flow of technological waste – wood dust – at FLLC „VMG INDUSTRY“ was directed for reuse in chipboard 2.000 production, a significant reduction of emissions into the atmosphere was achieved. Previously, the wood dust was used as a fuel for the boiler-house of the company. 1.000 0.000 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 28 29 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Secondary raw materials sorted out at FLLC SWOODS export ↑6,1% Adding 1.200 beauty to the 1.000 surroundings 0.800 Tons 2015 m. 0.600 In order to develop and beautiful landscape. It is a 2016 m. improve the ecological kind of a small contribution 0.400 situation, trees were planted to the nature, which adds in the areas of UAB „VAKARŲ beauty not only to the 0.200 MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, business area but also to the AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ city of Klaipėda. 0.00 and UAB „SAKUONA“ to 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 decorate the surroundings and to create a more The major and the largest quantities of secondary raw compared to that of 2015 was influenced by the furniture materials are generated by FLLC „VMG INDUSTRY“ within production packaging. This also resulted in a smaller furniture production. The decrease in the secondary raw quantities of the packaging material acquisition in 2016 materials volume recycled at FLLC „VMG INDUSTRY“ in 2016 compared to 2015. Secondary raw materials sorted out at FLLC VMG Industry ↑14,5% 18.000 16.000 14.000 12.000 Tons 2015 m. 10.000 8.000 2016 m. 6.000 4.000 2.000 0.000 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 30 31 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Participation Efficient use of energy in the ecology improvement projects Since the efficient use of energy is global warming (Al) bus bars, thus reducing the heat generation and becoming increasingly important issues, a number UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS Special facilities for collection increasing the safety of the of discarded electrical and not only as an economic of improvement equipment operations. The GRUPĖ“ and the electronic equipment are factor but also because of the projects aimed at the larger users of electricity Managed companies have the capacitors installed in the enterprises. direct connection with the economy of energy are contributing to installed, which are resources and their operating in an automatic the preservation of The enterprises abandoned efficient use were mode with a controller the environment by the use of plastic containers for ensuring the reactive water. The aim is to contribute carried out in the participating in the power compensation, thus to the reduction of plastic group of enterprises discarded electrical and reducing the current in waste. UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS of the Company in the line by 20-30 percent. electronic equipment GRUPĖ“ and the Managed 2016. Due to this a lower cable collection and packaging Enterprises were awarded useful warming is achieved and packaging waste prizes and letters of thanks for management projects. the active participation. A number of works were carried As one of the major parts of the power economy resulting in less power losses and ensuring more out in the field of modernization system are junction boxes, AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ stable voltage. Apart from this, the contactors of industrial areas heating had circuit breakers and electric panels replaced. of increased power are used that ensure 24-hour system in order to save energy This enabled the company to increase the reliability operation. resources without worsening of energy supply and to reduce power losses in the A number of works were carried out in the field the working conditions ‘heat generation’ spots. In most places, not just of modernization of industrial areas heating the circuit breakers were system in order to save replaced but also the energy resources without copper (Cu) wires having worsening the working a larger reserve were used conditions. Electric heaters instead of the aluminium 32 33 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 were replaced with waterA very important issue with the LED lamps and the based heating devices, as concerning the economy layout of the rooms was the cost of 1 kWh is 6 times less than that generated by of energy resources is an efficient consumption of changed, which allowed using the lighting of the Our choice – timber from the electric heaters. Moreover, compressed air, therefore, corridors only in the dark the heating substation of compressed air is used time of the day. The power the administrative building by the technological lines consumption decreased by was renovated: the pipes were insulated and an only when necessary. The automatic systems that 70-80 percent. forests managed energy-saving controller was installed. control the compressed air supply were installed. In 2016, following the introduction of the responsibly For instance, the measures listed above, In order to save heat the manufacture of furniture the electricity and heating DISA filter aspiration uses compressed air to costs were reduced 10 to Most of the enterprises implementation of the system with a frequency remove dust and shavings 80 percent and, at the same under UAB „VAKARŲ FSC® (Forest Stewardship converter was installed, from the parts being time, the CO2 emissions as MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Council®) Chain of Custody which, according to the manufactured. The system well. management are related to certificates recognized number of open/closed operation is controlled These measures have also the manufacture of wood by global environmental valves in the aspiration using the controllers and been applied in order products. The development protection organizations. system regulates the nozzles so that the dust to reduce the exposure RESPONSIBLE of these activities is not Currently, all enterprises of engine speed, thus saving and shavings are removed to hazards within the accidental –wood is a local the group engaged in wood electricity for the rotating from the manufactured working environment and, most importantly, products manufacture (AB engine and the heat energy part only when it reaches and the potential risks renewable natural resource. „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ FORESTRY within the workshop by an appropriate location on to the employee health Forests account for more (FSC®-C018158), simply removing less of it the production line. Where and life, as an inadequate than one-third of the total UAB „SAKUONA“ from the workshop. The no parts are present on the lighting, a stroboscopic territory of Lithuania, and (FSC®-C013423), FLLC valves installed within the production line or there are effect, a technical level of their area and the volume „VMG INDUSTRY“ ACTIVITIES aspiration system allow gaps between the parts, the distribution boards and are continuously increasing. (FSC®-C118066), JLL the opportunity to close compressed air supply is other factors directly affect Thus, by responsible use of LogDrev (FSC®-C122721) them when the machine stopped. the work safety. It also this resource and replacing and SWOOS Export FLLC does not operate, and increased the reliability of the fossil raw materials (FSC®-C111274)) have FSC the frequency converter, In parallel with all the the industrial processes with wood, we can reduce chain of custody certificates while maintaining the even other works intended as it allowed reducing the the negative impact on and some of them have pressure within the system, for the economy of likelihood of the downtime the environment as well as already entered the second reduces the speed and, energy resources, the occurrence (the automatic promote the development cycle of the FSC chain of thus, power consumption modernisation of the switches produced in of regions of the country custody certification, as as well. lighting system was carried 1980 may not function and the economic such a certificate is valid for out as well. The metal halide when needed, which may development of the entire five years. The certification In order to enable us to and fluorescent lamps in lead to problems in the country. This is the reason process includes annual assess the work carried out workshops and domestic ‘heart’ of power supply – why we prefer wood when audits carried out by and direct the following premises were replaced substations). selecting raw materials, independent auditors to steps purposefully, AB with LED lamps of the which leads to assuming ensure that the timber „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ twice less power. Thus, the All this led to a reduction obligations and the or wood fibre products installed the power power consumption was in the operation costs. The responsibility towards the come from the forests monitoring system for large reduced and an improved costs of lamp replacement society: to save the forests that are subject to strict users with the possibility of illumination was provided. have been reduced, and the – the asset that is precious environmental protection extension (reserve position) new power and automation for all of us. We are glad that requirements, and where to monitor and control Apart from that, the lighting components installed this is not just empty words, the social needs of the local the smaller electricity system of the four-storey do not require active as our group of companies, population and workers are consumers. office building of the maintenance. since 2009, has started the taken into account and the Company was replaced 34 35 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Sparing approach to forestry – not solely forest owners’ concern When buying a round simply unbearable. In this timber and its products, case, the owners would face difficulties in realizing the we are able to make a wood at a reasonable price and direct impact on the foensuring economically viable rest management pracforest management within tices, and UAB „VAKARŲ their holdings. Understanding the situation, we started a economic aspects of forest operations; destruction of certified timber in our and, in the coming years, MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ close collaboration with private benefits are assessed. high conservation values total raw material supply the rest of the wood regards it as the duty of forest owners back in 2015 by in forestry operations; volume. We are glad that processing enterprises promoting the sustaiproviding them advise and On behalf of the Managed significant conversion of the growth in the FSC under the management of nable use of forest resourother assistance concerning enterprises, UAB „VAKARŲ forests to plantations or certified products’ sales in UAB VAKARŲ MEDIENOS the certification of forests. In MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ has non-forest use; introduction 2016 was the highest in the GRUPĖ are going to follow ces, as the compliance 2016, along with partners, we publicly undertaken to not of genetically modified history of the group and their example. with strict environmenraised the issue regarding the be directly or indirectly organisms in forestry the total sales figures of the tal protection provisions certification of small holdings involved in the following, operations; violation FSC-certified products have and requirements of and the opportunity to supply disregarding the region of any of the ILO Core grown and reached more global standards and the wood to the market at of the origin of wood Conventions as defined than 700,000 m3. competitive prices at the international agreemeetings with representatives products or the quantities in the ILO Declaration on supplied: illegal logging Fundamental Principles and In addition, some of our ments is an integral part of the government authorities. or the trade in illegal Rights at Work. Following enterprises started using in of our daily work. We are glad that our effort was wood or forest products; our commitments, we their production exclusively not in vain and at the end of violation of traditional and are annually increasing the FSC-certified timber One of the ways to ensure a 2016 a final decision on the or wood fiber materials responsible forest management support of the certification pilot human rights in forestry the amounts of the FSC is FSC certification. However, project for the first groups of the roundwood suppliers of the forest owners was taken. The enterprises managed by UAB project in question is open to „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ all interested forest managers, FSC-certified sales, m3 are not solely the owners of regardless of the quantity of large forest holdings and the wood supplied to us, or the 800000 state forest enterprises but size of the forest holdings. We 700000 also small-scale private forest are looking forward to seeing 600000 owners. The latter often find the first results and hope 500000 it difficult or not viable econothat this example will enliven 400000 mically to implement the strict the certification process of 300000 FSC standards concerning small private forest holdings 200000 forest management due to in the country, which has 100000 the small holding-related been stagnate so far. As it is peculiarities. Moreover, the important for all of us that the 0 situation is further complicated majority of the country’s forests 2009 m. 2010 m. 2011m. 2012 m. 2013m. 2014 m. 2015 m. 2016 m. by the fact that some of them are managed in an exemplary do not even have basic and prudent manner, thus knowledge of forestry, ensuring the changing therefore, the certification functions of forests and needs burden for them would be of the society. 36 37 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 RESPONSIBILITY A christmas gift to TO SOCIETY the breakthrough reaching Klaipėda In the anticipation of the winter holidays Klaipėda was inspired by a unique international project of a French artist called ‘I Love Klaipėda’ representing a stylized giant snow globe. The outstanding idea was implemented thanks to the patron of the project – the Klaipėda Industrialists Association (Lith. Klaipėdos pramonininkų asociacija (KPA)), in whose activities the Company, UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, is involved as well. KPA Administration Director Jolanta Braukylienė is happy: ‘This is a gift of Klaipeda industrialists to Klaipėda city – the Lithuanian Capital of Culture 2017. More than 50 companies within the association agreed to contribute to the creation of the miracle of Christmas. I have no doubt that this unique project will strengthen the pride of our city and impart new colours and a special Christmas mood to it’. The companies of the Klaipėda Industrialists Association employ about 11,000 of Klaipėda residents who are daily creating the economic well-being of the city and the country, the companies support a number of cultural, sports and social initiatives in the city. This Christmas project is like a wish and encouragement to the breakthrough Klaipėda. After all, together we are able to achieve more’, says KPA President Viktoras Adomaitis (Director General of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“). UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ is an active member of the Klaipėda Industrialists Association (KPA), managers of the group enterprises actively participate in the work of the KPA Council when making decisions on the issues important for businesses and the city, and are active participants of the social life of Klaipeda city. 38 39 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 The traditional forest planting campaign has already become a symbol of spring to the employees of UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and the Managed companies. Despite the fact that the However, the foresters will have participation was not mandatory, to put a lot of effort and work to the bus carrying us to the Šernai protect the growing pines from the forestry district of the Kretinga SFE damage caused by wild animals had no empty seats. The forest and overgrowing vegetation. We planting campaign had been are told this story of the hardships organised already the seventh year of the forest growing by the forester, in a row, however, this time the who seems to be glad to share his event was special since one as our experience. colleagues from Belarus came to participate in it. SPRINGTIME FOREST PLANTING – GOOD The mood of participants was Once the work is done, everybody excellent and the nature did not is welcomed to sit by the fire and spare the good weather. While drink hot tea with snacks. The time majority of us had participated in simply flies and we have to get the forest planting in the past, we ready to go home. We say goodbye DEEDS ARE FUN TO DO nevertheless listened to the briefing to Kretinga SFE foresters and of the local foresters and, following promise to visit them next spring. it, were full of determination to get to the work. The soil was In order to develop and improve ploughed in advance, so the bags the ecological situation, trees containing pine seedlings were were planted in the areas of UAB promptly emptied and the cutting „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, area was soon lined with the rows AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“ and of seedlings – the sketch of the UAB „SAKUONA“ to decorate the future forest. The idea to visit this surroundings and to enjoy a more piece of land with freshly planted beautiful landscape. It is a kind of seedlings a few years later and to a small contribution to the nature, assess the result with colleagues which adds beauty not just to the crossed the mind of many of us. business area but also to the city of Klaipėda. 41 UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ Socialinės atsakomybės veiklos ataskaita už 2016 m. HOLLOW LOG BIRDHOUSES INITIATIVE – Hollow log birdhouses initiative – children included CHILDREN INCLUDED This year, Sigitas Girdziušas, the Chief Specialist of forestry and wood-origin at UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“, has initiated a development of new spring traditions of the Company – he organised the production of hollow log birdhouses and their installation along with the employees of the Company and its enterprise AB „KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA“, the Samogitia National Park and the selected school and kindergarten. The specialist of the Company had consultations with the experts of Samogitia National Park on the suitability of the hollow log birdhouses. They confirmed that the hollow log birdhouses are probably the most acceptable for birds, as they accept them most naturally. However, you need to know what kinds of birds the hollow log birdhouses are intended to, as each species require specific dimensions. Thus, in cooperation with the wood suppliers, the delivery of materials for production of the hollow log birdhouses to KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA was agreed on. Having acquired a stack of logs, the adequacy of raw materials was assessed – the logs were removed from the stack and, according to their dimensions, assessed for the suitability for building houses to the great tits and small tits, nuthatches, swifts, starlings, owls and other birds. Later, the employees of the wood shavings production department had specially cut them using a petrol saw. The staff of the Supply Service took care of the additional materials required for production of the birdhouses: boards, nails, wire, and tin. All these raw materials were transported to Ketvergiai school and Gintarėlis kindergarten. By the way, one log intended for production of the hollow log birdhouses, due to its large dimensions and considerable weight, was left in the area of KLAIPĖDOS MEDIENA. A house for a common merganser (which is a large bird, the distance between their wingspan reaches 78-94 cm) was made from it. It was very pleasant, that all the people who actively participated in the birdhouses production process were working heartily, driven by the idea, and certainly not regarding it as an unpleasant work imposed on them. Despite the bad weather, the children and teachers of Klaipėda Gintarėlis kindergarten and the representatives of the Company and its enterprises arrived to Plateliai in the morning of March 30th, and they brought something with them as well – the hollow log bird houses produced. 42 43 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 After acquaintance with timber log and intended that the birdhouses may students and employees the natural and cultural for common mergansers. ‘accommodate’ not only of the enterprises of values of the Samogitia To install such a massive birds, but also bats, mice, the Company visited National Park in the birdhouse we needed dormouse, bumblebees, the Plokštinė Cold War Plateliai visitor centre an appropriate large tree and hornets. We also Museum. It is one of the exhibition called the growing near the water, installed a nest for ducks most visited places in ‘Mysteries of Samogitian as mergansers are water near the water when we Plateliai. The Cold War Land’ (“Žemaitijos žemės birds who make nests in reached the Gaudupio Museum of the Samogitia slėpiniai”), we went to the hollows or their substitutes wetland. National Park is installed in Šeirė forest, where we had – hollow log birdhouses. the ballistic missile launch to install the birdhouses Having not found such Upon returning, tasty shaft complex of the that we brought. They a tree nearby, we left snacks were waiting for the former Soviet Union. were made from hollow the installation of the children in the camping small logs with an birdhouse in the hands of site near the Plateliai Lake. opening roof, so that the the employees of the park Slightly tired but full of houses could be cleaned authority. excitement the children afterwards. The hollow log could not stop talking one birdhouses of different When traveling along the over the other. The adults sizes were designed to Šeirė path, the children were happy as well to be nestling of tits, flycatchers, were carefully carrying able to give the little ones and swifts. Ducks were not the houses for birds. While the wonderful moments of forgotten either: they had the adults were installing being with the nature. a special nest designed for the birdhouses in the them. trees using the ladder, The students of Ketvergiai the children discussed Basic School also All participants were what kind of birds may went to the Samogitia surprised by a birdhouse find their home there and National Park at the that three men were hardly listened to various sounds time of the birdhouse able to carry. That was the made by birds. The kids installation campaign. birdhouse made from a were surprised to know During the trip, the 45 VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ, UAB Report on Corporate Social Responsibility 2016 Support SUPPORT UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ and the Managed companies cooperate with non-profit organizations and local communities. The Company’s support for various organizations amounted to EUR 600,000 in 2016. The cultural and sports life of the country was also supported, including the UN Global Compact organization and the UN Resident Coordinator’s Office in Belarus. The Social Responsibility Report is published in the Lithuanian, English and Russian languages on the UAB „VAKARŲ MEDIENOS GRUPĖ“ website http://www.mediena.lt and the United Nations Global Compact website http://wwwunglobacompact.org/
