Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA Communication on Progress (COP) 2017 201 Annual Report COP 2017 Annual Report Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA is proud to reiterate its affiliation and partnership with the United Nation’s Global Compact network since 2009. We support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. corruption. We intend to advance those principles witwithin hin our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of th the e United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. 2 Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF’s goal is to convene all our employees and businesses to adhere the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Based on our commitment we have set codes of conduct in our Employee Handbook and Subcontract Agreements available on online in our portal. Implementation Inside GLF Handbooks and Agreements have been implemented and available online; the top management supervises and monitors the effectiveness ectiveness through the Company. Weekly meetings are carried out at the job sites to prevent/correct actions that may affect the Principles. Outside GLF GLF evaluates Subcontractor’s performance performances based on the criteria specified in the internal procedures. Because ecause of the international exposure of this business, GLF guarantee guarantees prompt communications through hiring resources that are able to manage cross functional/cultural tural teams, including language barriers. Measurement of Outcomes No cases of misconducts or violations have been report reported as of June 2017. 3 Labor Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals It is the policy of GLF to comply with all State and Federal Non-Discrimination Discrimination Laws and/or Affirmative Action & Equal Employment Opportunity Laws to assure that when qualified applicants are employed by GLF they are treated during their employment without regard to race, religion, sex, color, age, disability, disab pregnancy, and/or national origin in regard to: Employment, promotion, demotion, or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rates of pay, benefits, or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, includin including apprenticeship, pre-apprenticeship, apprenticeship, and/or on the job training. Implementation GLF Human Resources [HR] has established and implemented Handbooks and Procedures. GLF HR trains train new employees and efforts are gear geared toward the explanation of the applicable laws. Labor Rights are posted at each Job Site on the Dashboard. External Audits are periodically carried out to verify legal compliances. Measurement of Outcomes ions have been reported as of June 2017. No cases of misconducts or violations Accentuating these efforts, we created a Scholarship at Florida International University in Miami, FL, where deserving and/or minority students can enjoy the benefits of their hard work. Several students were the recipients of this scholarship last year. We also partic participate ipate in partnering agreements with all the Departments of Transportation, Counties & Cities with positive outcomes. 4 Environmental Principles Assessment, Policies, Goals GLF is committed to follow the quality environmental policies, procedures and p practice ractices established by the Government in and outside ItalyItaly.. Because of the nature of the business, assessments are developed during the bidding phase, studying and analyzing Owner’s requirements and regulations. Implementation Every jobsite strictly adhere re to the contractual requirements and external inspections are carried out during the project phase to guarantee the implementation and observance of the required environmental rules. GLF holds the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 Certificat Certificate, e, which complies with the strictest requirements in this field to ensure a safe and positive outcome on all our projects. Measurement of Outcomes No violations have been issued to GLF by the Owners. ******************* 5
