Reporting commitment Grundfos has been reporting to the UN Global compact and its ten principles since 2005. It continuously supports this important universal journey to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, the support extends and includes Caring for Climate and the CEO Water Mandate. This year, we also embarked on our journey with the Sustainable Development Goals. Grundfos has embraced UN Sustainable Development Goal 6 on safe and clean water for a long time in spirit and we have now made that goal our own. Working on the water and energy nexus, Grundfos has been actively pursuing a sustainable water agenda since we began doing business in 1945. Grundfos Sustainability Report 2016 is also the Communication on Progress (COP). You can also find more information on our Sustainability website: www.grundfos.com/sustainability. Sustainability is a journey, not a destination. Enjoy the reading. Pia Yasuko Rask Senior Engagement & Resp. Manager GRUNDFOS Holding A/S Sustainability Report 2016 2 sustainability report 2016 introduction 3 Global HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Contents The progress report is divided into four means of change through which we target sustainability: GERMANY HUNGARY Sustainability is ALPHA3 Pump noted as “Outstanding” at German Plus X Award (read more p. 13) Grundfos Hungary wins three awards: The HR Transformation Challenge for good career development, the Family Friendly our business 10-17 Company Award for good work-life balance, and the Ozone Green Award Water is our passion AUSTRIA 18-25 ALPHA3 Pump wins silver at the Daphne CHINA Environmental Prize Grundfos factory in Sustainability is not a department or a report. To us, Water is the foundation of our business and of our in Austria Suzhou, China, wins it is a mindset, a way to do business. We push the lives. Every day, we bring our expertise on water to Green Factory Award for boundaries of possibility in energy efficiency and our business and to our global commitments. The sustainable design water conservation. This way we reach our goal of world is facing a global water crisis and our commitbringing value to the world, to our clients, to our ment is to be part of the solution. business, and to our employees. Product leader in pump solutions 13 Continuous innovation is the solution 19 Production 14 Grundfos Lifelink: Growing business with a social purpose 21 Environmental footprint 14 Water2Life: A journey across continents 23 TAIWAN MEXICO Grundfos Taiwan wins inaugural Carbon Reduction Partnership for water 24 Grundfos Mexico wins Grundfos’ Action Award and Top Excellence Rank internal Future Now Social Award 2016 for its social projects in helping its local society (read INDONESIA AUSTRALIA more p. 28) Grundfos Indonesia wins Most Valued Grundfos Australia wins our internal Brand award, based on environmental efforts and award, Future Now Environmental Award employee-focused initiatives 2016 for its three streams project (read more p. 16) Grundfos Sustainability Report COVER PHOTO Product application Reduction of water/m3 5,0% from 2015 Social responsibility is our commitment Ethics and integrity are our foundation 2016 of BioBooster in Ulsåk Employees 2,2% 26-31 32-35 municipality, Hemsedal, Norway. The treated with reduced water is bacteria-free work capacity and discharged directly globally Grundfos has a strong tradition of social responsiNearly 75 years ago, our founder Poul Due Jensen 15 to the nearby river. bility with one simple aim: To make a positive differsaid that our aim is to leave a world to the next genSustainability ence. From pursuing a diverse workforce in terms of eration in a better state than we inherited it. From audits gender, age and ethnicity to including people with that vision, he built a company based on integrity, Global highlights 2016 2 reduced work capacity, we strive to go the extra principles, and individual and corporate responsi24,667 DKKm mile. bility. Get to know us 6 Number of employees Net History and development 7 turnover Diversity 28 Code of Conduct 33 17,779 2,230 DKKm Our path to the Sustainable Development Goals 8 People with reduced work capacity 29 Human rights 34 Indicator summary 36 EBIT Employees on long-term sick leave 30 Anti-corruption 35 Indicator definitions 37 Employee satisfaction 30 4 sustainability report 2016 introduction 5 Constantly innovating for sustainability For the third consecutive year, the World Economic Forum’s We see our products and offerings as a way of improving annual risk report highlighting the most significant longenergy efficiency and contributing to global water solutions. term risks worldwide, ranks the water crisis as one of the From demand-driven water distribution systems to flood three high-impact global threats, resulting in harmful efcontrol, solar pump and wastewater solutions, our greatest fects on human health and economic activity. impact is in the millions of products and solutions we deliver to customers. Our high efficiency circulator pumps saved an Grundfos has embraced UN Sustainable Development Goal estimated 5.5 billion kWh last year – or the equivalent of the Working towards a number 6 on safe and clean water for a long time in spirit. annual electricity needs of 3.4 million EU inhabitants. In fact, positive impact lies deep To acknowledge the tremendous importance of water and swapping to an energy efficient pump can save as much as its clear link to our core business, we have made that goal 4% of the world’s electricity. within our existence our own now. and our purpose as At our factories, we managed to turn our safety numbers a business.” Working on the water and energy nexus, Grundfos has been around after a rise in safety incidents. We stayed on track Mads Nipper, Grundfos CEO actively pursuing a sustainable water agenda since we bewith projected emissions and water savings, continued our gan doing business in 1945. We endeavour to create win-win human rights due diligence process, and stepped up sustainsituations in which we do business whilst doing good. ability efforts in the supply chain. With increased competitive pressures in our industry, we Despite this, we know there is room for improvement. Lookwant to be faster and lower our cost base. At the same time, ing forward, we want to improve our data collection, in order we need to make substantial investments in new offerings to better understand our results and target our efforts toand services to our customers to sustainably meet the new wards the best and greatest impact. local and global water challenges. It will take focus and strong leadership to keep pushing the boundaries of busiWe must act but we must also measure. This will be a strong ness on the triple bottom line – financials and environmenpriority in the years to come. Another priority is the explotal and social impact. In 2016, we consequently took the step ration of life cycle thinking that we continue to work with. to anchor sustainability activities directly among the Group Management members. Sustainability is a journey, not a destination. For now, join us on a journey through our 2016 results. (left to right: Morten Elsborg Laursen, Purchase Process Consultant; Suganya Sivasundaram, Facilitator Operations; Michael Rene Bødskov, Category Buyer; Liselotte Pihl Mortensen, Technical Assistant Manufacturing Supplier; Preben Sørensen, Purchase Manager) In the Grundfos definition, sustainability is not a department Katrina Sonne Einhorn Geraldine Tsui Yee Lin Bettina Brynaa Nielsen Gitte Filtenborg Jesper Møller Nielsen Rasoul Dashtbani Mikkelsen or a report. It is all of us. Karen Touborg Klavs Hornum Ernst Lutz László Török Shih Hung Lin Niels Bidstrup Pia Yasuko Rask Mogens Lindhard Stéphane Simonetta Yee Kok Son Peter Krarup Peter Meulegracht Jensen Mikael Geday Guillermo Wehmann Stina Bonde Morten Riis Galuh Wulandari Tayip Lene B. Lauridsen Steen Holm Jensen Søren Nøhr Bak Astrid Nørgaard Friis Wilbert van de Ven Preben Poulsen Henrik M. Christiansen Kim Nøhr Skibsted Mads Nipper Poul Due Jensen 6 sustainability report 2016 introduction 7 History & development 1944 Grundfos is founded by Poul Due Jensen Poul Due Jensen produces his first pump for a local farmer’s water system 1945 1949 Grundfos starts exporting to Norway The first flexible workshop, dedicated to employees with reduced working capabilities is created 1968 1975 Poul Due Jensen establishes the Poul Due Jensen Foundation as the new owner of Grundfos Our founder Poul Due Jensen’s simple belief in innovation and Grundfos presents its first solar pump system 1982 responsibility remains in our DNA as the driving force for all that we do. 1991 Grundfos introduces the world’s first intelligent pump Grundfos joins UN Global Compact to strengthen its commitment to sustainable and responsible business 2002 Get to know us Grundfos truly enters and invests in growing the wastewater 2003 business through a combination of acquisition and its own product development, after having produced wastewater pumps since 1984 Grundfos launches ALPHA PRO, its first A labelled (energy saving) high efficiency circulator pump 2005 The story of Grundfos begins in 1945, with a young visionary wanting to solve a neighbour’s problem. He solved it by building a pump and helping the neighbour get access to clean water. Grundfos introduces a decentralised wastewater treatment 2007 system, enabling industrial manufacturers to treat wastewater on-site Today, we are still doing the same thing, except our the driving force for all that we do. Every day, more neighbours and the problems we help to solve are than 18,000 Grundfos employees in 56 countries go Grundfos establishes Grundfos Lifelink, a new business global. Grundfos has become one of the world’s to work, where they push the boundaries of techunit with the purpose of developing sustainable water systems, primarily for rural areas in developing countries 2009 leading providers of pump solutions, with annual nology to bring water where it is needed and help production of more than 16 million pump units, customers conserve water and save energy. touching millions and millions of people every day A largely new Group Management is established to initiate with our solutions; from providing drinking water Our aim is to be a global leader within advanced 2014 a strategy journey to return Grundfos to profitability for the smallest villages and the highest skyscrappump solutions and a trendsetter in water techers, treating and removing wastewater to bringing nologies. We want to contribute to a more susGrundfos wins the United Nations’ Momentum for heating and cooling. tainable world by developing pioneering technoChange Lighthouse Activity Award in the ICT category for its Lifelink water solution 2015 logies to improve quality of life for people and take Our founder Poul Due Jensen’s simple belief in incare of the planet. Grundfos CEO Mads Nipper joins the Business and Sustainable novation and responsibility remains in our DNA as 2016 Development Commission and takes part in turning the UN’s 17 Global Goals into business opportunities 8 sustainability report 2016 introduction 9 Our Path to the Sustainable The Business and Sustainable Development Commission defines 60 of the biggest market opportunities related to delivering the Global Goals. These include water and sanitation infrastructure, Starting out with SDG 6 as the backbone of our commitment, we mapped the SDGs across our four means of change to define those most material to us, in terms of impact and opportunity: Development Goals municipal water leakage, irrigation and other opportunities directly touching our core as a business. • Sustainability is our business. Our goal is to minimise our environmental footprint through innovative and energy efficient products, solutions and business models. We impact some We want to know how we can help our customers to reach their SDGs more than others, but we indirectly work with all the What they are Why they matter sustainability goals. We want to understand how we can grow SDGs through our customers. our business, while also working with the SDG goals – thereby • Water is our passion. Water is what we do best and we bring Water and sanitation are critical to the survival of people and For the Paris Agreement and the SDGs to be realised, we must doing business, whilst doing good. From efficient and reliable that expertise to our business and global commitments every the planet. Sustainable Development Goal number 6 (SDG 6) all commit, including the private sector. For the private sector to delivery of drinking water to water reuse and flood control, our day. We have identified four key SDGs in this area. addresses issues of drinking water, sanitation, hygiene and global rally and a large-scale impact to materialise, we need to operacurrent and future technologies and solutions can make a real • Social responsibility is our commitment. We set our heart on water resources. It is one of 17 SDGs encompassing a universal call tionalise the SDGs and create replicable business cases. We need difference. This gives us the privilege and obligation to work as an making a positive difference by going the extra mile for our to action to end poverty and hunger and to protect the planet. The to understand where and how we impact the SDGs and at the agent of positive change. employees and the local communities we operate in. We iden17 goals were unanimously adopted by all 193 United Nations same time identify the SDG market opportunities. tified four SDGs of importance to us in this area. member states in September 2015. • Ethics and integrity are our foundation. As a global company Material issues we need a shared set of values and principles for good and We reworked the SDGs into 10 thematic areas of potential maethical business conduct – and our work in this area impacts terial importance to our business. We then asked a range of at least seven of the SDGs. stakeholders to rank the 10 areas. It showed our collective commitment across sustainability issues and in particular to water We now embark on a journey to understand how we can link SDG access, energy efficiency, water management, a safe and inclusive market opportunities to our business strengths. We see the SDGs workforce and human rights. as a business driver that supports our vision to be a value-based, sustainable company. We mapped the SDGs across our four means of change to define those most material to us, in terms of impact and opportunity: sustainability is our water is our business passion social responsibility is our ethics and integrity are our commitment foundation Although clearly an SDG 6 company, the SDGs cannot be separated and we impact all of them in one way or another. We now embark on a journey to understand how we can link SDG market opportunities to our business strengths. A community in Kenya now has access to clean water through AQtap, a Lifelink project. 10 sustainability report 2016 sustainability is our business 11 We can provide innovative water technology that moves Sustainability is water where it needs to be with high energy efficiency. It is an expertise we have refined over decades, and I am absolutely confident our business – energy efficiency that our knowledge can make a difference.” is our strength Mads Nipper, Grundfos CEO Our greatest impact is in the pumps and product solutions we provide to our customers. The right pump is a powerful global presence; a hidden opportunity to support the environment by reducing energy consumption, lowering carbon emissions and saving water. In fact, switching to energy efficient pumps could save 4% of the world’s electricity usage. We conducted an internal calculation of electricity savings for all our high efficiency circulator pumps sold in the EU between 2005 to 2016. The estimate is based on the actual sales figures for the year and assumptions on which previous models the pumps sold had replaced. The result is that our high efficiency circulator pumps saved an estimated 5.5 billion kWh last year – or the equivalent of the annual electricity consumption of 3.4 million EU inhabitants. Our goal is to minimise our environmental footprint through innovative and energy efficient products, solutions and business models. Product application of BioBooster in Ulsåk municipality, Hemsedal, Norway. 12 sustainability report 2016 sustainability is our business 13 in practice in practice “You can rely on the system. The DDD frees us.” Jose Parra, Head of Operations, Essbio-Nuevosur. ALPHA3 fulfils the EU’s energy efficiency Ecology. Michael Skjoldemose, Global requirements with an energy efficiency index of 0.15. Product Manager of Grundfos states, “We are hugely invested in developing and producing high quality and innovative products that are easy to use and have a positive environmental impact. This is what we are being recognised for, and in a core business area of ours at that too, and this means a lot to us.” The Plus X Award was evaluated in seven different categories by an independent panel of judges from 26 industries. Grundfos has previously been dubbed “Best in Class” at the Plus X Award for the SOLOLIFT2, the MAGNA3 and the ALPHA2. How the ALPHA3 contributes to sustainability The pump comes with energy efficient attributes known from its predecessors along with new smart features. The latest features include the option of handling hydraulic balancing in private homes using no more than the pump’s built in Waterworks cuts energy use by 32 percent ALPHA3: Raising the bar within intelligence, a newly developed ALPHA reader and a smartphone. With an energy with real-time pressure adjustments efficiency and innovation efficiency index (EEI) of 0.15, it easily fulfils the EU’s energy efficiency requirements. In November 2015, a new circulation many at the Plus X Award 2016, deemed In extreme cases, leaky pipes waste as by 32%, while losses due to non-revepump, the ALPHA3, hit the market. Three “Outstanding” in the categories Innomuch as 70% of the water. Our Demand nue water declined by 3.3% in the first How the DDD system in months later, it made its mark in Geran vation, High Quality, Functionality and Driven Distribution (DDD) system is an six months. Jose Parra, Head of OperaEssbio-Nuevosur intelligent solution that supports mintions of Essbio-Nuevosur’s network decontributes to sustainability 32% imising non-revenue water (wasted partment, highlights the fact that the water) and pressure on the pipes with implementation of DDD system has led Product leader in pump solutions provement. In 2017, we will implement a global process for monsignificant potential impact on existing to the elimination of breakdowns: “We reduction in energy consumption itoring regulatory requirements for products – not just related to water distribution systems. used to have an average of four yearly after installing the DDD system. To remain a product leader in pump solutions, we must innovate environmental topics, but including all relevant legislation which 3.3% events of this kind. But since the instaland invest. In 2016, we launched more than 30 new products and impacts on our products. Essbio-Nuevosur is a waterworks comlation of the DDD system, the plant has solutions onto the market. At 4.7% of our turnover, we invested pany based in Talca, Chile that distribhad no problems with the pipeline.” He decrease in non-revenue water in more than last year in developing new solutions. Our future amWe have also continued our efforts to reduce the environmenutes drinking water to more than a miluses a computer or smartphone each the first six months. bition is to have our products and product solutions supported by tal impact of our value chain activities by accelerating our efforts lion households and collects, treats and day to make sure everything is operatStable pressure across the network. Eco-Design guidelines and measures, new circular economy within the circular economy. In 2016, we launched several pilot disposes of their wastewater. Through ing smoothly. Minimises risk of breaks in the related initiatives as well as life cycle assessments and continue projects and 7,908 kg of end-of-use circulators were collected the implementation of the DDD system pipeline, lowers maintenance costs. our journey moving from energy to resource efficiency. through our Danish takeback system, a 30% increase compared the company cut energy consumption to 2015. In 2016, we completed a life-cycle assessment for the MAGNA3 pump family. Next year will focus on implementation plans Production “Since the installation of the DDD system, for the full portfolio, and our life-cycle assessment area will be expanded with additional employees and resources in mid 2017. We have an aim of creating a healthy and safe workplace where the plant has had no problems with the pipeline.” no employees are injured. Following a rise in lost time injuries We mapped the current process for monitoring legal requirein 2015, new standards and a new approach to health and safeJose Parra, Head of Operations, Essbio-Nuevosur. ments for our products to identify gaps and possibilities for imty were implemented, focusing on eliminating risks and there14 sustainability report 2016 sustainability is our business 15 2008 through a range of global initiatives, such as rainwater harvesting. Reduction in CO2 emissions, 2008 baseline (%) Returned pumps from partners (kg) in practice We continue to launch initiatives to improve the quality of discharge 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 water. 0% Grundfos Sunderland, Great Britain: 7,908 New culture, new mindset -5% We are also focusing on resource recovery and waste-stream optimisation across our operations sites. Recycling of waste, returnable packag-10% 6,057 In 2016, Grundfos in Sunderland, Great Britain (GBW) celebrated an outstanding and disassembly of end-of-life pumps are among the key initiatives undertaken in 2016. -15% ing health and safety achievement. It has gone four years without any lost time injuries – a major accomplishment at a busy manufacturing plant. Tak-20% ing a far more proactive rather than reactive approach was the solution that We acknowledge that the impact of hazardous and non-hazardous nurtured an interdependent health and safety culture, where all employees waste is most significant in our production companies. Various activ-25% have the same mindset: A safe working environment is an absolute priority. ities were therefore initiated across the companies to ensure that we -30% continuously minimise waste. As a result, hazardous waste was re1,906 2,093 duced from approximately 54,000 kg per million working hours in 2015 1,503 A SAFE WORKING ENVIRONMENT to approximately 50,000 kg in 2016, corresponding to an 8% reduction. IS AN ABSOLUTE PRIORITY. Non-hazardous waste has been reduced from approximately 101,000 kg 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Reduction in energy consumption, 2008 baseline (%) per million working hours in 2015 to approximately 99,000 kg in 2016, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Aside from a Behavioural Safety Programme that includes monthly walks corresponding to a 3% reduction. 0% by preventing injuries. Focus is on safety around each area of the business, the employees feel comfortable in pointing -2% leadership and knowledge sharing. Safety out potential areas of concern because they believe they have a role to play The Grundfos Focus List is compiled from the chemical -4% leadership is demonstrated by managers substances listed in the following chemical directives, and a responsibility for ensuring a safe working environment. A SWAT team -6% taking an active role in identifying risk, for regulations and conventions (Safety at Work Action Team) was established, whose members have a health -8% example in connection with conducting and safety supervision qualification. The team is made up of representatives • REACH (Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006) -10% safety walks. In addition to that, our knowlfrom every department on site and organises safety briefings and produces Candidate List of SVHC´s -12% edge sharing from incidents was improved videos. REACH Annex XIV – Authorisation list -14% in 2016 to alter our behaviour from reacting REACH Annex XVII – Restriction List -16% to accidents, to preventing them. • RoHS (Directive 2011/65/EU) As a result, the number of lost time injuries • RoHS future (Directive (EU) 2015/863) per million working hours in 2016 was 3.27, • IMO (International Maritime Organization/Hong Kong Convention) Reduction in water consumption, 2008 baseline (%) and there were 105 lost time injuries – 34% • China RoHS 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 lower than in 2015. In 2016, 83% of our em0% • ODS (Regulation (EC) No 1005/2009 Ozone Depleting Substances) ployees worked in a company that is OHSAS -5% 18001 certified according to international • GHG (Regulation (EU) No 517/2014 Greenhouse Gases) -10% occupational health and safety manage• Batteries (Directive 2006/66/EC) -15% ment standards. -20% • Packaging (EU Directive 94/62/EU) -25% • POPs (Commission Regulation (EU) No 1342/2014 on Persistent In order to anchor this positive develop-30% Organic Pollutants) ment, 2016 saw a focus on global network-35% ing, to learn and share knowledge. In Ser• PROP65 (California Proposition 65, Safe Drinking Water and Toxic -40% bia, health and safety professionals from Enforcement Act of 1986) more than 30 Grundfos companies came Find the Grundfos Focus List on our website: http://www.grundfos.com/ together to discuss solutions and improveabout-us/group-purchase/focus-list.html Reduction in waste ratio ments. (kg per one million working hours), 2008 baseline (%) In 2016, GBW celebrated four We are continually working to reduce, substitute and eliminate the use 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 years without any lost time injuries. Environmental of hazardous chemicals. The Grundfos Focus List bans or restricts the 0% use of certain chemical substances in our products and production pro-10% footprint cesses and at our facilities. We are in the process of phasing out the -20% When it comes to the environment, we are down 2% from 2015, from 305,657 MWh reducing 50% of our water consumpuse of the Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) from the REACH -30% committed to keeping our CO₂ emissions to 299,533 in 2016, and 92% of our protion by 2025 compared to 2008, whilst Candidate List. With the implementation of a new product chemical -40% below our 2008 levels. In 2016, we reduced duction companies are ISO 140001 cerconstantly improving the quality of compliance IT platform in 2016, we have given our suppliers a smarter -50% CO₂ emissions by 7.2%, from 99,627 in 2015 tified to international environmental discharged water. In 2016, we cut water and more automated way to document product compliance with the -60% to 92,518 metric tonnes in 2016, bringing standards. consumption from 440,271 m3 in 2015 to Grundfos Focus List. The aim is to roll-in the entire Grundfos product Non-hazardous waste generation Hazardous waste generation them down more than 30% from 2008 417,891 m3 in 2016, corresponding to a 5% portfolio during 2017-2018, to ensure an agile process and a faster reacross our global facilities. Energy use is We have also dedicated ourselves to – and we are down more than 36% from sponse to customers. Note: Due to insufficient data, some years are presented using dotted lines. 16 sustainability report 2016 sustainability is our business 17 in practice Future Now Award Pumps & Products We start with Since 2009, we have been rewarding our own internal environmental initiatives with the Future Now Award. The award is granted to projects that have proven Last year: ourselves to reduce environmental footprint through an innovative approach with great High efficiency circulator pumps 5.5 billion kWh impact. SAVED AN ESTIMATED or the equivalent of the annual electricity consumption of 3.4 million EU inhabitants >30 NEW PRODUCTS  4.7% of OUR TURNOVER AND SOLUTIONS was invested in developing were launched in 2016 new solutions Steen Holm Jensen (left), Area Managing Director and John Zarnke (right), Quality, Safety & Environment Coordinator with the Future Now Award 2016. Production & Environmental Footprint 34% 83% Future Now Award 2016 Moreover, the company has had rainwater harvesting capabilities since of employees worked in a How Grundfos Australia Three streams, 2008, but these were not optimised. contributes to sustainability company that is OHSAS 18001 certified one initiative Through some maintenance programmes, the system contributed to Reduces CO₂ LOWER number of INJURIES With its three streams project, Grundreducing the use of municipality waafter investing in 100kW PV solar per million working hours fos Australia (GPA) brought home the ter by up to 45% compared to 2008. panel system than in 2015 Future Now Award 2016. It translated “Monitor safety and environmental Reduces timber waste sustainability as our value by combinperformance and always seek to im92% by diverting waste streams to pallet CO2 ing three key environmental impact prove. No matter how you are permanufacturers to repurpose and areas: energy, water, and waste. For forming you can always do better. 5.0% reuse energy, it invested in a 100kW PV SoSimple ‘life hacks’ like placing one 100% 7.2% lar Panel System, which will reduce litre water bottles in toilet cisterns CO₂ emissions by 50% and save the can make a significant reduction in company 28,988 euro in 2017. Taking water usage and cost nothing to imWaste is recycled by colour coding of PRODUCTION inspiration from the circular economy plement,” says John Zarnke, GPA-GNZ bins and engaging a best practice COMPANIES are ISO 140001 model, GPA contacted some local supQuality Safety & Environment Coordiwaste removal company to ensure no certified to international cut in WATER pliers who agreed to remove the timnator, who is also the initiator of the waste is sent to landfill REDUCTION in CO₂ environmental CONSUMPTION compared ber from site free of charge. In return, projects. emissions from 2015 standards to 2015 45% 30% the local suppliers are able to rework the timber back into functional packFor us, Grundfos Australia portrays a MORE THAN 2% 36% Reduction in municipal water use aging or household outdoor items. greater commitment to sustainability from 2008 levels through improveIn cooperation with the company’s by including all three streams in this ment of maintenance programme waste management provider, they way, reminding us that environmenand monitoring rainwater sort all their waste into colour-codtal issues are connected and do not harvesting capabilities REDUCTION in CO₂ ed bins, with the result that 100% of need to be thought of separately. waste collected from the site could be emissions from 2008 REDUCTION in energy use cut in WATER recycled or reused. across global facilities from 2015 CONSUMPTION from 2008 18 sustainability report 2016 water is our passion 19 Water is our passion According to the United Nations’ (UN) data in 2015, nearly 663 million people lack access to safe drinking water and around 2.4 billion people globally have no access to improved sanitation facilities. Our goal is to help in bringing clean water to all of them, and our strategy is to do it one drop at a time. When it comes to water, no effort is too small and every drop counts. Continuous innovation is the solution Water is a finite resource. Fresh water accounts for 2.5% of all the water on the planet and less than 1% is available to us. The UN also highlights that more than 80% of wastewater resulting from human activities is The world is thirsty for clean water. discharged untreated into water sources. We have to be smart in the way we use, reuse and conserve water. Our pump products and expertise are already having a major impact, but looking Through energy efficient and sustainable technologies, we can optimise ahead things are really exciting. water solutions and apply our knowledge of water to global challenges. With connected and smart solutions, we help our customers to save and reuse water, while our innovative solutions bring water to new customers in efficient and economical ways. All of this while building a sustainable business.” Wilbert van de Ven, Water is what we do best and Director, Water Applications & Technology. we bring that expertise to our business Grundfos’ pumps take care of almost and global commitments every day. seven thousand aquatic animals in Moskvarium Moscow, Russia. 20 sustainability report 2016 water is our passion 21 in practice grundfos lifelink A growing business with a social purpose RT IN AL PPO Sm artC ard TE NO ON SU CH PRO & E SER FES TIV GY VIC SI VA OLO E SUSTAINABLE N WATER SOLUTIONS TECHNICAL R SUSTAINABILITY T SH A K E A FINANCIAL IN 4 DIMENSIONS SOCIAL LI IP H O L H O SIS ENVIRONMENTAL S DE BUN TI C I-S ES LT ER SM M U RTN O D EL PA S “It is of huge value to us that we save our water resources,” says AQtap offers a direct and reliable supply of safe water 24/7 to Jonna Mortensen, Site Manager, Arla Foods, Rødkaersbro, Denmark. consumers in the Mathare informal settlement in Nairobi, Kenya. Sustainable technology: How the Biobooster system Grundfos Lifelink water solutions represent our commitment to providing Reusing milky water at Arla Foods contributes to stainability sustainable water solutions that are customised to serve people living in low-income communities in the developing world. Arla Foods is Europe’s second largment plants cannot purify. For a few • Arla Foods is now able to reuse 150 m3 est dairy company and a cooperamonths, Grundfos tested its new Biof water per day and are working on Grundfos Lifelink water solutions are designed to and service, Lifelink solutions also build on partnertive society owned by approximately oBooster technology on milky water reusing the remaining 300 m3. strengthen the quality, reliability and sustainabiliships across sectors and business model know-how. 10,600 dairy farmers. Every day, about before a contract for a full-scale plant • The technology for reusing water ty of drinking water supply in both rural and urban 2.2 million litres of milk flow into was signed. The solution was put into from cheese production will enable a communities. The Lifelink solution concept is the Grundfos Lifelink water solutions provides a holistic its mozzarella cheese dairy in Rødpractice in 2015 and has been treating future where dairies will not require result of years of field studies and research grasping approach to enabling a truly sustainable and longkærsbro, Denmark. In the process of milky water to drinking water quality, water, thereby reducing water conhow to solve the fundamental challenges faced by term reliable supply of safe water by supporting making cheese, around 85% of the allowing Arla Foods to safely re-use it sumption. water service providers and low-income consumers. revenue collection and efficient water service opermilk ends up as wastewater known at the dairy or discharge it to receiv• The surplus water can be safely ations. as milky water. Arla Foods came to ing water. The treated water has been released even into sensitive areas, as These issues include the ability to collect revenues Grundfos for a solution to reuse this partially reused at the dairy without it meets all legislative requirements, to secure funds for maintenance, the transparency In 2016, the Grundfos Lifelink business has taken water. Part of the problem was that compromising the high food safety thereby ensuring a viable local aquaand efficiency in water management, accountability significant steps on the journey to scale Lifelink milky water contains compounds standards in Denmark in 2016. tic environment. towards investors or the sheer lack of electric power solutions to more application areas and to several that traditional wastewater treatto transport water. communities, particularly in Africa and South East Asia. Arla is now able to reuse 150 m3 of water per day Lifelink solutions combine renewable energy, proven pump technology, water treatment and intelligent and is working on reusing the remaining 300 m3. water ATMs with online water management and a professional service network. On top of technology 22 sustainability report 2016 water is our passion 23 in practice water2life Delivering safe water in Nairobi, Kenya 24/7 “It is crucial that we are able as a utility to generate revenue where A journey across continents Philip Gichuki, Managing Director of NCWSC with the AQtap water nobody thought we would be able in Nairobi, Kenya. to generate revenue. This is really something that has made us feel really very good about this system. And more importantly, that now people are getting water legally and Water2Life brings clean water to some of the world’s most in a cheaper way than they were vulnerable. In 2016, this powerful employee-driven programme doing before.” wrapped up its latest project, bringing water to 20,000 people in Philip Gichuki, Managing Director of Vietnam, and we are getting ready to launch in the Americas. NCWSC. The communities are purchasing tap water at Grundfos AQtap water ATMs. In Nairobi, Kenya, the impacts of the illegal water cartels and delivers safe first Lifelink installations in the large drinking water at a low price directly to Mathare informal settlements have the local residents. Prior to the installaproven very positive to the challenged tions, water cartels charged residents residents and the water service providup to 20 times more for water not guarer, Nairobi City Water & Sewerage Comanteed as safe to drink. The consumers pany (NCWSC). With the Lifelink soluare now able to access tap water 24/7 tion based on automated water ATMs, via the smart-card based payment sysNCWSC has been able to cut off the tem of the Grundfos AQtap water ATMs. in practice Real time data for water consumption profiles Following the scaling up design water projects intelligently in ily come to fetch water? This will assist of Grundfos Lifelink water accordance with the specific profiles us to plan for how many of these facilisolutions, Grundfos conof more independent consumers using ties we need, and how much water we tinues to generate knowlautomated water kiosks based on Lifeneed to push to this area. It is very imedge from the increasing amount of link technology. “We are able to know portant. I like the whole thing because data delivered to the online water manthe water consumption in a family. the data is at our fingertips,” says Philip agement system connected to the inThat is very important when it comes to Gichuki, Managing Director of NCWSC. stalled base of AQtap water ATMs. From planning. How many times does a famthis data, we are able to generate real data based water consumption profiles Water dispensed by hour of the day (on average) for the mutual benefit of Grundfos and 9% our customers. By analysing the con8% Vietnam 2013-2016 sumption patterns, we have learned 7% Water2Life’s second stop was in the Mekong containers. Bottled water is too expensive and that water consumers benefit from 6% Delta, where water is abundant but heavily waterborne diseases are rampant. the flexibility of the automated water 5% polluted by metals, chemicals and bacteria. kiosks and tap water almost evenly 4% In the past three years, Water2Life brought throughout the day. During dry seasons, the concentration of safe water to 20,000 people in ten local com3% chemicals in the water is so high that washmunities. In cooperation with our local NGO 2% Based on this knowledge, we believe ing clothes or taking baths in the river burns partner Thrive Networks, we also engaged lo1% there is a great potential for our custhe skin, leaving it itching and damaged. For cals and children in the handling, usage and 0% tomers, the water service providers, to 1 a.m. 5 a.m. 10 a.m. 3 p.m. 8 p.m. 8 pm locals, the only alternative is rainwater that disposal of water to avoid contamination. sits for weeks once caught off rooftops or in 24 sustainability report 2016 water is our passion 25 The presence of a solar water pumping system has its own advantage in remote villages of developing countries. It is in fact only one of FACTS Partnerships the advantages. Water pumping accounts for for water Water Paradoxes in Mekong Delta, Vietnam a high percentage of energy consumption • Heavy metals from the many industries along the 4000km and we use a large amount of water to cool of river. Partnerships are essential to global progress, and are even the power plant to generate power to pump • Agricultural pesticides led into the river on its way through six Asian countries. more essential when working in unknown or unchartered water for our consumption. This alone should • 60% of the rural population do not have access to clean territory. This is often the case when we want to bring waencourage people to use solar water pumping drinking water and thousands die of water borne diseases. ter to remote or rural areas. We have signed global agreeas a primary solution.” • In the dry season, day labourers have to wear gum boots ments with seven NGOs in 2016: the International Federation of Red Cross, WaterAid, Adventist Development and Geraldine Tsui Yee Lin, Global Product manager because of chemicals in the water. Relief Agency International and German Agro Action. We also extended our agreement with World Vision International and partnered with two national NGOs, DanChurRESULTS chAid and Danish Refugee Council. Combining our knowhow with strong partners and local knowledge is not just Water2Life in Vietnam after 3 years good business – it is necessary and deeply founded in our More than values. 20,000 19,000 people in 10 local livestock have communities have access to clean Danish Refugee Council access to clean water In 2016, we partnered with the Danish Refugee Council in drinking water what we call a business-humanitarian partnership lab. We are exploring opportunities to pilot-test, co-develop and More than advocate for better solutions to global water related chal82,000 40% lenges. Starting up with a pilot project in a Ugandan refugee camp in 2017, our partnership with the Danish Refugee Council fosters an exchange of experience and expertise metres of water reduction in CO₂ that may enable us to service some of the world’s most Not only sustainable, solar water pumping system helps to supply water to remote locations, including communities in Kenya, Samburu – near Samburu National Park. pipes installed to after using solar vulnerable and do business whilst doing good. provide clean water panels in practice Water Aid partnership ©2016 World Vision/ photo by Jon Warren In 2016, we announced a five-year partnership with international development charity, WaterAid. Our goal is a shared and ambitious one: to reach everyone, everywhere with clean water by 2030. This is in line with the SDGs of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Partnering with World Vision to fight water scarcity Since our partnership with World Vision in 2014, we 2030 Water Resources Group have brought clean water to more than 300,000 peoIn 2016, we joined the prestigious 2030 Water Resources ple in Africa and Asia. Over the next five years, anothGroup, named so for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Deer 1,000 solar-powered systems are planned for the velopment and the SDGs that guide its goals. The group Sub-Saharan African region, in order to reach our goal brings together public, private, and civil society at country of supplying two million more people with clean walevel to have an open discussion about water management ter by 2020. The 1,000 units are expected to reduce CO2 Ms. Minh, the owner of the first water enterprise in Côn Phú Đa island, Vietnam, contributes to delivering clean water and to develop concrete proposals that can help drive acemissions by 39,000 tonnes over their 15-year lifespan. Jeneta Sneele no longer has to carry 20 litres of water balanced on her head to her neighbours. now that clean water is available in her village. tion on the management of water resources. 26 sustainability report 2016 social responsibility is our commitment 27 Social responsibility is our commitment Poul Due Jensen built a company based on integrity, principles, responsibility, and a sincere wish to make a difference. Today, we try to carry that legacy forward with a strong moral and corporate code and global and political engagement. From global to local change – we want to improve our positive impact and are helped greatly by our employees worldwide, who go the extra mile for others. Our ability to demonstrate social responsibility is evaluated based on what we do, not what we say.” Kim Nøhr Skibsted, Group Vice President, Communication, Our aim is to Public Affairs & Engagement make a positive difference. 28 sustainability report 2016 social responsibility is our commitment 29 in practice Future Now Social Award 2016 Socially committed to local community We share because we care and Grundpatients. Grundfos took an active role NGO also helped them with job applifos Mexico (MXP) employees show us by granting access to in-kind resources, cations. Afterwards, MXP invited them just that. In 2016, MXP’s social project such as meeting rooms, car fleets and as candidates to fill vacancies accordinvolved all departments in the comwork time. ing to their job description. The initiapany where each department created tive not only increased the possibilities its own social campaign. These camMXP also helped job seekers who were of filling some of MXP’s job vacancies, paigns were initiated by the employpreviously in prison to reintegrate it also shows that MXP lives out ees where they contributed to helping through work. It collaborated with an Grundfos’ values. different vulnerable groups and causes, NGO, whose mission is to aid innocent from helping homes for the elderly and people who are sent to jail and could From donating hair to cancer patients low-income communities to donating not afford to pay a lawyer. Apart from to helping low-income communities, MXP blood and their hair for wigs for cancer helping with the legal procedures, the committed to helping its local community. Diversity We aim to employ a diverse workforce positions, a mandate to always include that reflects society in terms of gender, qualified female candidates when reage, and ethnicity. In 2016, people of cruiting for executive positions has been non-Danish ethnicity in executive posiput in place. There are 12 members on tions made up almost 40%, reaching our the Poul Due Jensen Foundation board, We built our business based on social responsibility, target set for 2017. With 20% of women of whom the Grundfos Group’s European including gender equality in the workplace. in management positions, we are still 5 employees elect four. Of the remaining percentage points behind our 2017 tareight members, five are males and three get of 25%. We are still aiming for the 25% ratio, but have to accept that it will are females. The Board had no target to change the Board composition in 2016, We have standardised globally the definition probably take one or two years longer to reach the target than first anticipated. but has a target of a 50/50 gender split in connection with planned changes to the of people with reduced work capacity as we lifted our To help get more females into executive Board in 2017. ambitions to go beyond Denmark. Employees with and the direction for our work with peotion of the process for employing staff 20 A mandate to reduced work capacity ple with reduced work capacity. We have with reduced work capacity. Globally, our Diversity non-Danes in executive positions, % women in management always include qualified female candinow standardised the definition globally aim is to hire at least 3% employees with To get a picture of the current status, as we lifted our ambitions to go beyond reduced work capacity. We are currently in 2016 40 reaching our target positions dates when recruiting we collected performance data from Denmark and began the process of esat 2.2% and aim to reach the 3% target in set for 2017 for executive positions % some of the larger and older companies in the Grundfos Group and conducted tablishing a common understanding of the concept and how we wish to move 2020. The target for each Grundfos Company is set individually and reflects the site visits. Based on that, we set targets forward. The first step has been a descripwork-force composition. 30 sustainability report 2016 social responsibility is our commitment 31 Employees on A visit to the Sustainability long-term sick leave Zaatari Refugee and the US Congress We have the aim of ensuring early, dedicated and coordinated follow-up and contribCamp uting to any sick leave being as short and Lack of clean water is a major problem “Water and sustainability are global chalas active as possible. Currently, 92.7% of our on every continent, but it is particularlenges. Solving them takes the right people, Danish employees who have been on longly pressing in refugee camps. This year, making the right choices.” Kim Nøhr Skibsted term sick leave are retained at Grundfos. Group Vice President Kim Nøhr Skibspoke about the issues and opportunities at sted explored issues and challenges in the United States Congress in 2016. In Denmark, we continually coordinate the the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan. existing initiatives to ensure employees return to work after long-term sick leave. To Kim Nøhr Skibsted took the opportunity to create more awareness of the issues faced concerning water. ensure higher rates of retention, we developed a catalogue of relevant tasks that are appropriate for employees with reduced work capacity and we have described the Creating sustainable mindsets Employee satisfaction is one of our KPIs. process for retaining employees after longSustainability is the very essence of every company that wants someterm sick leave. thing greater than just short-term profit. And it goes well beyond a department or a report, CEO Mads Nipper told global leaders at the Employee satisfaction Based on the work with the EMS, manIn 2016, the PDD was completed by 80% United Nations this year. agers created action plans and defined of blue collar workers, and 86% of white We believe that our strength in doing development areas to be discussed in the collar workers. The PDD was supported Grundfos CEO Mads Nipper was among the speakers at The UN Global Compact Leaders Summit in New York City. business lies within our employees. annual Performance Development Diaby a new online tool making it easier for Grundfos is its people, bonded by a strong logue (PDD). The PDD aims to give: managers and employees to manage and set of values. It therefore comes naturally document the process for each employee. that employee motivation and satisfac(a) a clear assessment of each employee’s It was also followed up with workshops tion is one of our five key performance performance and potential level and and training on how to best utilise the indicators. Our Employee Motivational (b) provide clear feedback and engage in PDD at both the individual employee and Survey (EMS) is an annual survey where a dialogue about development and career organisational levels. we ask all our employees globally about opportunities. their motivation and satisfaction. Based on the result of EMS in April 2016, we saw an increase in motivation and satisfaction compared to 2015 (from 69 to 70 We are Grundfos points). However, we know it will require 2.2% 3% substantial efforts to meet our ambitious target of 78 points in the EMS in 2020. The Target: next EMS will be in September 2017. In the meantime, the EMS from 2016 provides us with a unique opportunity to focus on motivation and leadership – two of the of employees with of employees with most important levers to ensure the fureduced work capacity reduced work capacity ture success of Grundfos. globally globally by 2020 80% 86% We followed up the EMS with workshops and a toolbox for managers, to enable managers to understand and work with the results of the EMS along two tracks: (a) a team process to improve motivation of blue collar workers of white collar workers and performance in the teams and completed the Performance completed the Performance (b) a personal leadership track to improve Development Dialogue Development Dialogue leadership competences. 32 sustainability report 2016 ethics and integrity are our foundation 33 Ethics and integrity are our foundation As a global company that does its business based on honesty and integrity, it comes naturally for us to have a common set of guiding principles on what we believe to be a good business conduct, built based on our values. Code of Conduct As a global company, we need a shared set of values and principles for good and ethical business conduct. These are found in our Grundfos Code of Conduct and Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct is governed by a strong framework led by an independent ethics committee and informed by a cross-organisational forum. Any suspected breach of the Code of Conduct can be submitted to the Ethics Committee anonymously and in any language. We want to conduct business in a fair and legal way and that is why we have zero tolerance for corruption.” As a global company we need a shared Astrid Nørgaard Friis, set of values and principles for good and Head of Legal IPR, Lit & Compliance ethical business conduct. 34 sustainability report 2016 ethics and integrity are our foundation 35 In total, we received 13 claims of breaches of the Code of Conduct. Anti-corruption One claim was considered a breach of the Code of Conduct withGrundfos wants to remain a responsible corporate citizen with in labour rights. There were also six requests for advice, none of a legacy of sustainability, honesty and integrity. This requires an which were breaches of the Code of Conduct. absolute and ongoing commitment against corruption. None of the breaches to the Code of Conduct this year were related to corIn December 2016, we launched a revised Code of Conduct which ruption. will come into force on 1 January 2017. The revised Code shows our value-based approach to global business, and is more clear on In 2016, we rolled out anti-corruption and bribery training for how employees are expected to behave in accordance with the sales and service as mandatory pass/fail training. This project is Code. Training is expected to roll out globally for the first time in still ongoing. 2017, and we will launch a third party whistle-blower function in early 2017. The updated version of Grundfos Code of Conduct, available in 21 languages. We also launched an updated Code of Conduct with several rules to cover the risk of corruption practices. Anti-corruption is a big In order to assess to what extent Grundfos´ Suppliers Code of part of the mandatory Code of Conduct training, which applies to all Grundfos employees around the globe. The goal is to increase Conduct is embedded in suppliers’ operations, on-site audits are We also did 25 system audits, consisted of 13 existing suppliers awareness of our business ethics throughout the company globperformed at selected suppliers. That is what we in Grundfos call and 12 potential suppliers, and 28 process audits. All approved ally. Sustainability Audits. suppliers for group purchase in 2016 are on-site audited as part of the approval process. Our goal for 2017 is to roll out annual anti-corruption training for In 2015, we increased the number of sustainability audits to 15. all employees and to conduct a risk assessment to identify gaps Our aim for 2017 is a revised supplier Code of Conduct and an inin our compliance programme. In 2016, we established a steering committee with Group Mancrease from 15 to 100 sustainability audits, with improvements agement representation, to drive significant 2017 sustainable to follow-up processes and actions needed to reach 75% complisupply chain initiatives. ance for audited suppliers in the coming years. We see this as an in practice indication of our ability to better understand, follow-up on and improve our supplier base. 13 claims on breaches of the Code of Conduct 1 breach of labour rights 15 sustainability audits in 2016 and will conduct 100 sustainability audits in 2017 Anti-corruption training in Sales’ Backbone Programme We believe that our greatest astraining. It is therefore in our best set and the key to our success lies interests to create awareness and in our people. With that in mind, a educate our employees with the Human rights programme called Sales’ Backbone – knowledge of anti-corruption and We support and respect the protection of We launched our Grundfos Statement ment, aiming for five on-site country asmandatory certification and on-line thereby live out this core value of internationally proclaimed human rights Pursuant of the UK Modern Slavery Act sessments by 2020. training for all employees in the orthe company,” adds Astrid Nørgaard for everyone, and are committed to the in 2016 to explain our efforts to eradicate ganisation working within sales and Friis, Head of Legal IPR, Lit & Complidevelopment of a culture that supports slavery and modern trafficking in our supAlthough we have stepped up our efforts, service – is being rolled out, in which ance of Grundfos. the respect for human rights. ply chain and in our business. we realise that human rights is a dynamic anti-corruption training is a part of process and we must continually work to the course. “We have a training The Sales’ Backbone programme We expect all our business partners, inAs part of the Grundfos Human Rights improve our governance and actions. module which explains first-hand was first launched in June 2016 and cluding suppliers, to adhere to these comDue Diligence Programme, a five-counknowledge on how to prevent coris being rolled out gradually based mitments as well. try analysis was launched to determine ruption, which is entirely prohibited on regions. In 2016, 748 of our sales how our current human rights practices in Grundfos,” says Lene B. Lauridsen, and service persons in Europe, MidWe have a training Our commitment to respect Human compare to the UN Guiding Principles Senior Technical Advisor of Grunddle-East and Africa (EMEA) were Rights is integrated and communicated for Business and Human Rights. The five module which explains fos. “The goal of Sales’ Backbone certified, while the training in Asia across the organisation through our valcountries were China, India, Mexico, Rusfirst-hand knowledge is to strengthen the technical and Pacific Regions (APREG) certified 391 ues, our Code of Conduct and Grundfos’ sia and Denmark. application knowledge, which also employees. The training is currentglobal policies. We are also signatories of on how to prevent includes a legal scope of integrity ly ongoing and the goal is to reach the UN Global Compact and have worked Based on the analysis, we developed a corruption. and legislation. The module is high1,000 sales and service staff based in on the development and deployment of Human Rights Action Plan to address the ly supplemented with the revised America and China by 2018. the Grundfos Human Rights Due Diligaps. As a next step, we will conduct the Grundfos Code of Conduct and its gence Programme in recent years. first on-site human rights impact assess36 sustainability report 2016 indicator definitions 37 Indicator summary Indicator definitions The data provides no reporting on scope 3 emissions. Our data 2008 2015 2016 measurement techniques rely on the total energy consumption SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS related to corporate operations. The carbon footprint gives a PRODUCTS general overview of the company’s CO₂ emissions and is based on reported data from the reporting entities. CO₂ emissions are Investment in new products (% of turnover) 5.6% 4.5% 4.7% measured in metric tonnes. Emissions are calculated for all activHigh efficiency circulator pumps – energy saved (billion kWh annually) 4.5 5.5 ities in Grundfos companies which are included in the reporting PRODUCTION scope. Co2 (metric tonnes)* 132,603 99,627 92,518 The baseline year for carbon emissions and energy consumption Energy consumption (MWh)* 347,207 305,657 299,533 is 2008. For electricity, we use local factors whenever available, if Water usage (m3)* 655,136 440,271 417,891 SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS not available we use country specific factors from the IEA (InterNon-hazardous waste (kg per million working hours)* 228,000 101,000 99,000 national Energy Agency). Hazardous waste (kg per million working hours)* 94,000 54,000 50,000 Electricity savings Electricity savings are calculated as the energy savings by all For heat and steam, we use local factors whenever available, if Returned pumps from partners (kg) N.A. 6,057 7,908 Grundfos high efficiency circulator pumps sold in the EU between not available then we use the factor from the largest Danish proISO 14001-certified production companies (%) 84 92 92 2005 and 2016. The estimate is based on the actual sales figures duction company (“GBJ”). This CO₂ factor for heat and steam is Injuries (per million working hours) 10.21 4.83 3.27 for the year and assumptions about which previous models the close to the global average. Lost working hours due to injuries** (per thousand working hours) 0.96 0.68 0.39 pumps sold had replaced. The figure is calculated as energy savOHSAS 18001 production companies (%) 68 83 83 ings in kWh per year. Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, comparison figures have had minor adjustments since first reCarbon emissions and energy consumption ported. The adjustments are not material. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS OUR COMMITMENT The reporting of our energy consumption and carbon emissions PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT DIALOGUE*** data is based on the emission calculation factors provided by the Waste and water Blue collar 47% 80% IEA (International Energy Agency). This is in accordance with the The baseline year for water and waste was established in 2008. White collar 70% 86% Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which is an internationWater is reported as total use of water in m3. The water usage ally acknowledged standard for measuring greenhouse gas emisis defined as delivered municipal water, ground water from own DIVERSITY sions developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the well and surface water from lakes etc. measured in m3. Rainwater Female leaders 20% 20% World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). is not included. Non-Danes in key positions 40% 40% Employees with reduced work capacity in Denmark**** 4.0% 3.8% The GHG Protocol categorises direct and indirect emissions into Waste is measured in kg per 1 million working hours. The compothree broad scopes: nents in this indicator are hazardous and non-hazardous waste Employees with reduced work capacity globally 2.2% disposed of at landfill, incinerated with energy recovery or incinScope 1: all direct GHG emissions erated without energy recovery. Recycled waste is not included. ETHICS & INTEGRITY ARE OUR FOUNDATION GRUNDFOS CODE OF CONDUCT Scope 2: indirect GHG emissions from consumption of Some of our (smaller) companies have no information available Claims 13 13 purchased electricity, heat and steam on water and energy consumption, as this is included in the rent and not measured. The same challenge applies to non-hazardous Breaches 1 1 Scope 3: other indirect emissions, such as the extraction waste from some offices. The water consumption has been estiCompliance workshops 2 1 and production of purchased materials and mated, either by the local company or by Group EHS. Group entities audited 20 21 fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles Actions in response to corruption 3 0 not owned or controlled by the reporting entity, Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT electricity-related activities (e.g. T&D losses) comparison figures have had minor adjustments since first renot covered by scope 2, outsourced activities, ported. The adjustments are not material. Sustainability audits (third party auditors) 3 15 waste disposal, etc. System and process audits (Grundfos auditors) 42 53 ISO certification As in previous years, Grundfos provides reporting on scope 1 and The number shows the percentage of Grundfos production com2; however, the fuel consumption from our own vehicles is not panies certified according to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. * Comparison figures adjusted since first reported. included in scope 1 emission figures. Data has been collected, but Waste figures for 2015 are approximate. SAVINGS: the data processes are to be further improved before including Investment in the development of new products 5.5 billion ** Lost time injuries (LTI). kWh per year equal to electricity conthis in the Group report, not least when looking at comparison The investment in development of new products is defined as *** Based on registrations in the PDD system. sumption by 3.4 million inhabitants in **** 2015 not comparable to 2016 EU or 1,200,000 households. years. expenses or activities related to research, development and the 38 sustainability report 2016 indicator definitions 39 launch of new products. This is indexed in relation to the annual Employees with reduced work capacity (%) launched in 2009, and Grundfos Corporate Internal Control (CIC) turn-over. The indicator is calculated as the number of employees working executed many workshops in order to educate the whole organin the company on a valid Grundfos contract who have reduced isation. Workshops are now mainly conducted for new finance Number of injuries per million working hours working capacity due to a permanent health issue rooted in physmanagers. This means that CIC expects to conduct one or two Injuries are measured as lost time injuries, which have caused ical, mental or social challenges or disabilities. workshops each year. lost working hours for at least one day after the injury. The indicator is indexed as injuries per one million working hours for blue In cases where a Grundfos employee has reduced work capaciGroup entities audited, Grundfos Code of Conduct and white collar employees. ty, work requirements can be amended or adjusted accordingly. Grundfos Corporate Internal Control (CIC) visits a selected numThis can include the working hours, flexibility or mobility that are ber of Grundfos companies every year. The purpose is to review Please note that due to an enhanced data collection process, expected of them, and by adjusting the content of the job and and rate the internal control environment and to submit observacomparison figures have had minor adjustments since first renature of the work. The purpose is to enable the employee to contions, risk descriptions and recommendations for improving busiported. The adjustments are material for 2015 figures. tinue working despite the reduced working capacity. ness processes and controls, including in relation to the Grundfos Code of Conduct. Working hours lost due to lost time injuries Performance Development Dialogue (PDD) Lost time – due to lost time injuries – is measured in number of The Performance and Development Dialogue (PDD) is a formal The numbers of Internal Control visits performed by CIC durhours. The indicator is indexed as working hours lost due to injudialogue conducted in the first quarter of each year between a ing 2015 and 2016 were lower than in previous years because a ries per one thousand working hours. manager and an employee. The purpose of the PDD is to create number of Group wide processes were established. They support meaningful and motivational direction in the core areas for any the improvement of internal control environment across some Absence within the reporting year, that occurred from LTIs from Grundfos employee: performance and development. Grundfos organisations by performing Internal Control reviews previous years, is included. of Group wide processes thus, indirectly covering internal control The objectives of PDD are: environment in a number of Grundfos companies. To discuss, agree, finalise and document the goals for the year in three categories: incentivised, non-incentivised and develActions taken in response to incidents of corruption opment This includes breaches reported to the Ethics Committees or discovered by Grundfos Corporate Internal Control etc. To discuss, agree, finalise and document the competencies required for performance and development System and process audits System audits are quality audits of potential and existing suppliTo discuss, agree and document other areas relating to the ers. System audits include social and environmental aspects reemployee’s work life, such as general reflections and career lated to the Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct. During 2013, proaspirations cess audits were introduced to sharpen the scope and increase the pool of resources able to conduct audits, enabling Grundfos A global system called Success Factors supports the process. The to carry out the audits where and how they provide the greatest SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS OUR figures in the report are based on registrations in the system. value. Process audits, however, do not include social and environmental aspects. COMMITMENT Sustainability audits Workforce size Through Grundfos´ Suppliers Code of Conduct we communicate This covers the total number of employees at the end of the year to our suppliers that we expect them to operate in accordance – converted into equivalent full time employees. A full time emwith local and international standards in regards to human ployee has the standard number of working hours according to rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. In orlocal rules/agreements. Personnel hired from a temporary emder to assess to what extent Grundfos´ Suppliers Code of Conployment agency are not included. duct is embedded in suppliers’ operations, sustainability audits are performed on selected suppliers. The scope of these audits is Female leaders (%) Grundfos’ Suppliers Code of Conduct, and they are performed by Leaders are defined as having staff responsibility, i.e. they have an experienced third party selected by Grundfos. people reporting to them. ETHICS & INTEGRITY ARE OUR Non-Danes in Group positions (%) FOUNDATION Executive positions are defined as Mercer band level 1 to 4, corresponding approximately to “top 100” leaders in Grundfos (these Compliance workshops positions were previously referred to as key group positions). During 2016, one compliance workshop was arranged, which was a part of the new Finance Managers workshop. The concept was “Sustainability and responsibility are not a department or a report. They are the very essence in every company 0517/CORPORATE COMMUNICATION/12479-BrandBox that wants to think ahead and accomplish something greater than just creating short-term profit.” Mads Nipper, Grundfos CEO, speaking at The UN Global Compact Leaders’ Summit in New York City. The name Grundfos, the Grundfos logo, and be think innovate are registered trademarks owned by Grundfos Holding A/S or Grundfos A/S, Denmark. All rights reserved worldwide. GRUNDFOS Holding A/S Poul Due Jensens Vej 7 DK-8850 Bjerringbro Tel: +45 87 50 14 00 www.grundfos.com
