FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP SUSTAINABILITY & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2017 Annual Report Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP AT A GLANCE FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP has a portfolio of leading brands in the European professional wear market, providing work wear for a wide variety of services and industries, from large international conglomerates to small local businesses, across Europe and beyond. 11 brands 2,000 employees 2 owned factories 670 factories 2 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO We recognize that doing good business is good for business. And we are determined to strengthen society, influence change and drive efficiency. For us, sustainability means being oriented towards the future and being successful over the long term. We want to create added value for every­one affected by our activities. By doing so, we contribute to sustainable development – in the spirit of the new UN Sustainable Development Goals-, and will continue to abide by the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we pledged to support in 2015. While the world is going through rapid environmental and societal transformations, we, at Fristads Kansas Group and across our brands, strengthen our resolve to bring innovation and offer solutions to sustainability issues. Anders Davidsson CEO FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ 3 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP OUR COMMITMENT TO A SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT We believe that sustainability In our Code of Conduct, redefines business value and drives the labour standards are future growth. based on those of the Inter­ national Labour Organisation (ILO) and We began our journey 10 years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human convinced that our commitment to Rights. sustainability and corporate responsibility delivers added value to our customers, As a member of the United Nations employees, business partners, and Global Compact’s, we are committed throughout our supply chain. to its guiding 10 principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and We continuously monitor that our ethical Anti-Corruption. standards are shared and implemented in the countries and communities where our Our reference in striving to both activities have an impact. minimize possible negative impacts and maximize positive impacts on society Our brands are empowered to integrate and planet is the United Nations’ 2030 sustainability, through processes and Agenda for Sustainable Development. products that have a positive economic, Amongst its 17 Sustainable Development social and environmental impact, whilst Goals we have identified those relevant respecting each brand’s unique identity to our business and demonstrate how we and values. contribute to reaching them. 4 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP STRIVING FOR A SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL BETTERMENT We recognise that our business has an To harmonize remediation at factories impact on environmental and social through BSCI participant common aspects far beyond our own immediate platform. operations and we expect our suppliers To maintain a proactive onsite support and each and every of their factories to to factories from our regional compliance share the same values. teams and offer capacity building activities, We believe that sustainable OUR STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP changes are achieved through positive COLLABORATION dialogue and continuous improvement. To improve social compliance and To support the implementation of environmental production conditions in sustainable environmental programs our supply chain, we are a member of the through BEPI, the Business Foreign Trade Association since October Environmental Performance Initiave. 2016 and promote the implementation of: Last, but not least, in 2016, we launched The BSCI, Business Social Compliance our own chemical testing protocol to Initiative, enabling us: ensure the safety of our products for our To reduce the number of different customers and the environment. overwhelming audits done at factories Based on our Restricted Substance List, and the audit cost for factories as BSCI updated twice a year to reflect the lastest audit is shared among FTA members, European legsilation under the chemical freeing financial resources to be allocated guidance of our partner to continuous improvement, we continuously and randomly test garments of our brands’ core ranges. 5 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMPLIANCE PROGRAM AND PRODUCT TRACEABILITY The social and environmental our finished products, are trained performance of our suppliers remains to identify on site compliance deviations. our core selection and business According to the BSCI standard, if a Zero development criteria. tolerance issue (child labour/ bonded Our Code of Conduct describes the ethics labour and inhumane treatment/ and behaviour that we wish to promote occupational health and safety/ unethical throughout our supply chain. By signing behavior) is spotted in a factory, our our Code of Conduct, suppliers agree to quality controller will report in real-time to disclose and enroll each and every facto­ the regional compliance team that will ry producing for any of our brands as a trigger the Code Red process with the mandatory requirement to start business. designated brand. Since 2014 in Bangladesh, to be eligible This organisational escalation process in our compliance program, factories enables each brand to engage must have remediation in progress under immediately with the factory to implement Accord. remediation. To ensure full factory transparency, our In 2017, no zero tolerance have been Quality controllers that inspect 100% of reported within our supplier base. Supply chain compliance process 6 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP and all its brands only 2017 COMPLIANCE REVIEW cooperate with suppliers who comply with our Code of Conduct and the requirements of our Restricted Substances List. We are present with sourcing offices in all our main production regions, where our local compli­ ance teams together with independent third party auditors, BSCI accredited, work to support, educate and evaluate the factories we cooperate with. Our broad goals is to achieve full supply chain transparency from nominated raw materials to strategic suppliers. The benefit of pursuing this is not only for the matter of transparency but to be able to manage our environmental impact all the way through our supply chain. In that way we are able to identify potential business opportunities or risks. In 2017 compliance visibility has been extended to factories:  in low risk countries for all Tier 1 suppliers (Ready Made Garments & Cutting and Making factories), and  worldwide for Tier 2 suppliers (nominated raw material and accessories factories). For each extended category, when a factory has been audited under a standard other than the BSCI or SA8000, valid audit report is reviewed, accept­ ed, and remediation followed through by our regional compliance team. Amongst our brands, colleagues regularly visit each factory, and ensure that they are compliant and develop in the right direction. 7 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP LEADING BY EXAMPLE FAIR LIVING WAGES ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE We recognize that the To achieve a more sustainable business, fixed minimum wages in we must address the way our products sourcing countries are are designed, produced and search for sometimes too low for more sustainable materials. workers to provide for their families and uphold a decent living standard. It is Our Chemical Compliance program is widely recognised that workers’ ability to established to ensure that our products collectively bargain their wages is the do not contain any harmful or potentially best way to set wage levels in the context harmful chemicals. in 2017, we tested all of the different sourcing countries. We parts, including fabrics, zippers, buttons support this goal by promoting social etc. of more that 45 finished products dialogue in the workplace. from our brands core ranges. The tests are performed by our partner SGS. We continuously enhance No REACH non compliance have been our responsible and detected so far. ethical sourcing practices. In addition, 80% of our nominated raw Working with our materials are Oeko Tex certified. suppliers on open costing, In Bangladesh, where most of our knit long lead-time, forecast and steady items are produced and as part of our repeat orders, enables us to ensure that compliance follow up, we regularly review over minimum wages and working hours our factories’ ETPs (Effluent Treatment are implemented. And we continue to Plants) avoiding unwanted chemicals to contribute to industry specific collabora­ be discharged to the tions in since most factories produce for environment and that many different companies. treated water is reused. By 2020, our goal is to provide our customers with a range of more sustainable products and solutions, and use our resources to influence consumers in making sustainable choices when buying, using and disposing of garments. 8 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP WORKING CONDITIONS THE HEALTH AND SAFRTY OF THE WORKERS PRODUCING OUR PRODUCTS IS CRUCIAL. WE CONTINUOUSLY WORK TO IMPROVE THE WORKING CONDITIONS AT OUR FACTORIES. an A-Outstanding rating. And to ensure that the audit process has an actual positive im­ pact on workers, an independent Worker Survey, conducted by a third party, is planned for May 2018, to measure social performance, identify good practice and are­ as of improvement. Our factory is under ISO 9001 and The fundamental goals of the BSCI are ISO 14001 renewal process. only achievable through a strong and sustainable commitment to implement the system from all factory stakeholders. In February 2017, Fristads Kansas produc­ tion platform in Riga passed the audit with by example, they have integrated sustainability goals in their management systems. WENAAS WORKWEAR buys 80% of its products from China. In 2017, 100% of al its factories have undergone audit and are in remediation process. Their head office in Mandalen (Norway) is undergoing ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications, and strong in their will to lead 9 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITMENT MARTINSON WORKS CONTINUOUSLY TO MINIMIZE RESOURCE CONSUMPTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ON LAND, WATER AND AIR. They plan for the best use of materials and in 2015 to more than12% Q3 2017 of CLY/PES energy by using materials that have the least materials . The 2017 target of 18%, seems to environmental impact and collaborate with be achieved. suppliers that have a well-functioning environ­ The consumption reduction of water and mental and CSR work in progress. energy in manufacturing/purchasing trade The use of alternative fiber/materials with less products is according to action plan, from environmental impact has increased from 0.5% 43% in 2014 to 75% in 2017. As part of a sustainability and renewable energy sources initiative, a solar panel project, has successful been implemented at a factory in India, that manufactures a large part of Martinson’s garment . Since May 2017, 60-70% of the total energy consumption of the factory is fueled by the solar panels. 10 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP COMMUNITY CARING THE HEJCO BRAND IS ALL ABOUT CARE, FROM VALUES PRODUCTS, TO COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT. Our mission is to care about the people caring Hejco also became a Plogga partner and made for others. This means not only to produce the internal and external events. Plogga is a move­ best workwear to make their jobs easier but ment that combines health effects (running or also to take actions and do activities that sup­ walking) with taking care of the local environ­ port sustainably in the environment and ment that you are in (picking up the rubbish society. that you find along the way). In partnership with the organisation A Child’s Smile, an non-profit organisation giving dental care to children in vulnerable areas, Hejco started a long term cooperation with this organ­ isation and provides the volunteers workwear. This year the organisation treated over 2800 kids in the poor areas of Jamaica. Find more about this project here https:// www.youtube.com/watch? v=21ucJ2e_wKk&feature=youtu.be Hejco also gives away old workwear stock to a hospital in Malawi. This new cooperation is highly appreciated by the staff that did not have workwear before. The agreement with Human Bridge (recycling organisation) was renewed and old customer unique stock was able to be sent away to their health & care projects In third world countries . 11 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP United Nations Global Compact Commitment Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and re­ Fristads Kansas Group Sustainability & spect the protection of internationally proclaimed Corporate Responsibility Policy human rights; and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit and Union engagement in human rights abuses. Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct BSCI Code of Conduct Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the free­ Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program dom of association and the effective recognition and Union engagement of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program and Fristads Kansas Group Compliance Program Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in Fristads Kansas Group Code of Conduct respect of employment and occupation. BSCI Code of Conduct Environment ISO 14001 Certification Principle 7: Businesses should support a precau­ Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance tionary approach to environmental challenges; Program BEPI ISO 14001 Certification Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance greater environmental responsibility; and Program BEPI ISO 14001 Certification Principle 9: encourage the development and dif­ Fristads Kansas Group Chemical Compliance fusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Program BEPI Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Fristads Kansas Group Anti-corruption Policy corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and Compliance Program bribery. 12 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP 13 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP 14 Sustainability Report 2017 FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP FRISTADS KANSAS GROUP BOX 1102 / NORRA DÄCKVÄGEN 2 / 501 11 BORÅS / SWEDEN OFFICE: +46 (0)33 20 22 00 E-MAIL: csr.rsl@fristadskansas.com WEB: www.fristadskansasgroup.com 15
