Sustainable Development Goals Implemented by IDLC 1 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Table of Contents Subject PAGE NO Statement from the Chairman of the Board 1 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director 2 Reporting Parameters 3 1. IDLC INSPIRING LIVES & LIVELIHOODS 4-5 2. ABOUT IDLC Who we are 6 Our founding philosophies 6 Shareholding structure 6 Sectorial exposure 6 Our range of products and services 7 Our business model 8-9 Business segment review 10-12 Subsidiary review 12 Key corporate milestones 14-15 3. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 19-20 Committees of the Board & Management 21-24 Our organisational chart 25 Management Committee (ManCom) 26-27 IDLC's Statement of Corporate Governance 28 39 4. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES Regulatory bodies and memberships 40 CSR initiatives – 2016 41-44 Contribution to the national economy 45 Value-added statement 46 5. GREEN BANKING 47-48 6. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FOR REPORTING 49-51 GRI – G4 REPORTING INDEX General standard disclosures 52 Specific standard disclosures 53 Awards & Recognitions 55 Abbreviations ATA Anti-Terrorism Activities AML Anti Money Laundering BB Bangladesh Bank BSEC Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission BGMEA Bangladesh Garments Manufacturers and Exporters Association BID Basel Implementation Desk BAFI Basel Accord for Financial Institution Bn Billion CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDM Clean Development Mechanism CDMP Comprehensive Disaster Management Programme CEO Chief Executive Officer CRMS Customer Relationship Management System CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DFID Department of International Development DFIM Department of Financial Institutions and Markets DPM Discretionary Portfolio Management DSE Dhaka Stock Exchange DTE Directorate of Technical Education ECR Environmental Conservation Rules EEEF European Energy Efficient Fund EEK Energy-Efficient Brick Kiln EnvRR Environmental Risk Rating ESIA Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESMS Environmental and Social Management System ETP Effluent Treatment Plant FDI Foreign Direct Investment FI Financial Institutions GB & CSR Green Banking and Corporate Social Responsibility GCPF Global Climate Partnership Fund GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Green House Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative GTSC Gazipur Technical School and College HNW High Net Worth ICC Internal Control & Compliance ICF International Climate Fund IDCOL Infrastructure Development Company Limited IDLC IL IDLC Investments Limited IDLC LF IDLC Ladies' Forum IDLC SL IDLC Securities Limited IFC International Finance Corporation IFG International Factoring Group IIDFC Industrial and Infrastructure Development Company Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ILO International Labour Organisation IPFF Investment Promotion and Financing Facility IPO Initial Public Offering IT Information Technology JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency LEADS Livelihood Education and Development Services ManCom Management Committee MHFA Mental Health First Aid MIS Management Information System Mn Million MoU Memorandum of Understanding NBFI Non-Banking Financial Institution NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NRB Non-Resident Bangladeshis OJT On-the-Job Training PBT Profit Before Tax PPP Public-Private Partnership QIS Quantitative Impact Study REHAB Real Estate and Housing Association of Bangladesh RMG Ready-Made Garments RMF Risk Management Forum RPO Repeat Public Offering SBBN Small Business Banking Network SHS Solar Home System SME Small and Medium Enterprise SOP Standard Operating Procedure SREDA Sustainable and Renewable Energy Development Authority TAHN Training & Assistance for Health & Nutrition TAT Turn Around Time TNiA Training Need Assessment TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training VAS Value Added Service Statement from the Chairman of the Board Aziz Al Mahmood Chairman Dear fellow stakeholders, most trusted financial brands, we are committed to effective and transparent corporate governance in running our business. We At IDLC Finance Limited, as a national institution, we recognise aim to be transparent in all our activities and reporting initiatives our core responsibility to engage with governments, regulators and embrace best practices in our day-to-day operations, broadly and trade bodies across the country, helping shape a policy guided by our model Code of Conduct that is signed and ratified environment that operates in the best long-term interests of by each member of our Company as their commitment to uphold our clients and shareholders as well as for the wider financial the highest standards in all our dealings. Importantly, we remain community. With a rise in social inequality and with growing committed to our relationships-based, collaborations-led and population growth-induced pressures on our natural resources, innovations-driven focus with which we have built our reputation. we realise that the requirement to act responsibly has never been greater and we are deeply aware of this reality. This is why we take As one of Bangladesh’s leading non-banking financial institutions, our corporate responsibility seriously; in fact, it is not an appendage our competitive standing and reputation stem from our drive to of our business, rather, it is an integral part of it. create value for the society at large. Our financial strength, risk management protocols, governance framework and performance It is no surprise then that we have a specialised and dedicated aspirations are directly attributable to a discipline that regularly corporate social responsibility team and a separate Sustainability brings prosperity to our shareholders and customers and adds Report issued every year. For the wider benefit of our stakeholders, solidity to our business model. the impact of our practices highlighted in the report have been integrated within this reporting. Our principal objective Ambition, discipline and innovation drove IDLC’s strong results for is to present a collaborations-driven model that we have been 2016. It is the combination of these key elements that frame our practicing under our social responsibility ambit for maximising optimistic outlook for the future as well as we integrate our social benefits and creating all-encompassing stakeholder value. I must responsibility practices as a part and parcel of our business, driving also mention that as one of the leading enterprises in the financial our commitment to spread the largest good to the widest number. services space in Bangladesh, it is our overarching responsibility to Best wishes, ensure that other players also come forward simply because there is just so much to do. The report is therefore an encouragement. Aziz Al Mahmood Chairman The spirit of embracing corporate governance is of utmost IDLC Finance Limited importance at IDLC. Resultantly, as one of Bangladesh’s largest and SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Statement from the CEO and Managing Director Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA CEO & Managing Director Dear reader, I am proud of the fact that in addition to our ongoing social commitments, we have developed the scope and size of our At IDLC Finance Limited, the strength of our business operations green finance business by achieving BDT 1,200 million of loan provide us with a strong impetus to remain committed to our book with about 45 projects in the portfolio comprising green social responsibility programs and aspirations. In a similar tone, our buildings, renewable energy and energy-efficient projects, social responsibility activities and commitments to generate the waste management projects, capacity development programs maximum beneficial impact to the grassroots provides us with the and initiatives to ensure safety and security of factory workers, license to operate our business, win the trust of our communities among others, over the past two years. We are in the business to and embed philanthropy deeply into our culture. create value and one of the ways in which we have done so is by progressively constructing a risk-mitigated business model with On the business front, our overall funding and liquidity positions sustainable CSR budgets and spending. remained comfortable during the year 2016. This outcome is anchored on the strength of the IDLC brand and the niche we have In 2017, we expect to focus on creating a company that is created for ourselves in the non-banking finance sector (NBFC) in institutional in size and start-up-like in culture. What remains Bangladesh that has helped us stay ahead of the curve in a highly unchanged however is our focus on growing our returns ratios, competitive landscape. Our journey is one that has been built upon generating higher returns on shareholder funds and creating the relationships we have created and nurtured with our stakeholder increasing value in the hands of all those who invest in us, grow ecosystem comprising our customers, our employees, regulators, with us and depend upon us. The latter is critical from a CSR our shareholders, our communities and our environment. As an standpoint as we continue to lend a helping hand to enhance the ideology, we engage in deeper and more meaningful collaborations quality of lives on a micro level and contribute to comprehensive with our stakeholders in order to create sustainable value and to nation-building on a fundamental macro level. help achieve common objectives through mutual benefit. We invite you to be a part of our CSR journey simply because there As an extension of our social responsibility commitments, since is just so much to do! 2014, we have started to look more closely at the emerging possibilities of ‘green finance’ and sustainable business practices. Warm regards, Our business strategies are based on the fundamental conviction Arif Khan of sustainable business that creates an enduring enterprise, CEO & Managing Director integrating good governance, environmental consciousness and IDLC Finance Limited social concerns. In other words, our sustainability model is deeply rooted on the 3P approach people, planet and profit. Reporting parameters REPORTING CYCLE GRI-G4 LEVEL Annual ‘In Accordance’ ‒ Core REPORTING PERIOD REPORT EDITION PUBLICATION DATE OF January 1 ‒ December 31, 2016 THE MOST RECENT REPORT 6th April 2016 Methodology and Materiality GRI-G4 guidelines require stakeholder engagement to identify the material CSR and sustainability aspects for inclusion in the report. At IDLC, we have identified priority issues through discussions with the Board, the management teams and employees of the company. The CSR team also conducted interviews with CSR partners and beneficiaries and reviewed existing and new regulatory practices and incorporated the same, while drafting the report. The following were revealed as a result of the discussions that influence IDLC’s economic, environmental and social performance: Corporate governance, Social and environmental Capacity-building Superior customer ethics and compliance; obligations towards and enhancement experience through the community in which of knowledge for enhanced communication the company operates; key stakeholders; and and stakeholder accountability. Based on these issues, creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff, relevant material aspects were identified from the G4 guidelines and the necessary information was provided against specific performance indicators, detailing how IDLC manages these concerns through its strategies and operations. The process and list of material aspects have been detailed in the chapter “Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting.” Scope Boundary Contact Information The core focus of this report The report details how Please email your valuable is the CSR initiatives of IDLC. IDLC addresses the material suggestions and opinions In addition, issues affecting issues stated above and to hayesha@idlc.com, or the long-term sustainability how these significantly contact Ayesha Haque, of the Company’s overall influence performance Head of CSR, IDLC Finance operations have also been both within and outside the Limited, at incorporated. organisation. +88-0173-0374585. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 1 | IDLC: Inspiring Lives & Livelihoods Weaving a new story of growth, grit and gumption! at the village and through the discussions, Bilkis identified a new horizon opening up for her. She realized that this could be the ideal platform for her to leverage her abilities, learn new skills and eventually contribute to the family as well. In due course, Bilkis enrolled herself at the Gazipur Technical Training School and College in 2016. Part of Batch 11, she successfully completed her technical and on-the-job training at Far East Knitting and Dyeing Industries. Following successful completion of all the training modules, Bilkis eventually joined as a machine operator at the Gazipur factory. IDLC, as part of its CSR initiatives, implemented the skills development project in collaboration with Far East Knitting & Dyeing Industries Limited, ILO TVET Reform Project, Care Bangladesh and Gazipur Technical Training School & College, from June 2013 – December 2016. Through this model public-privatepartnership, IDLC was able to train 242 marginalised women from Bilkis Begum is an 18-year old bright and brave young woman North Bengal with 60% retention in the RMG sector. Clearly, this hailing from Chor (Riverine Island), Nilphamari, Bangladesh. model signifies that progressive partnerships are at the heart of achieving sustainable results. Bilkis and her family lived in penury as her father's farm income was barely enough to make ends meet for a family of six. Poverty Today, Bilkis has empowered herself through enhancing her skills forced Bilkis to cut her studies short. Aspiring to contribute to the and now earns as much as BDT 8,000, half of which she spends family, Bilkis tried many doors but in vain. She was almost about for her family. She is now a vital part of Bangladesh’s garments to give up when the community workers of Care Bangladesh met industry, contributing to the country's economy and leading the and counselled her. She was encouraged to attend a session held charge in women empowerment. Education – A powerful hope for a better future Mariyam completed SSC and HSC from the school and tried to return to her village. Unfortunately, the hardships would never cease as going back to the village either meant getting married or living in poverty. Being high-spirited and gritty, Mariyam returned to DAMM and asked for assistance that would help her attain higher educational qualifications and get a decent job. In 2016, Mariyam completed a Diploma in Nursing and is now working as an assistant paramedic at BNSB Dhaka Eye Hospital. The story of Mollika Akter Lubna, enrolled in Dhaka Ahsania Mohila Mission at the age of five, is similar. She lost her father when she was only three-months-old and since then, her family had no earnings source. At one point, her mother, in desperation, thought about giving her daughter for adoption. Fortunately, she then got to know about Dhaka Ahsania Mohila Mission and brought her daughter Lubna to Dhaka and admitted her in the school. After completion of her SSC and HSC, Lubna successfully got admission in Titumir College for higher studies. Today, she is pursuing an Honors degree and will soon be graduating with a major in Mariyam Akter lost her father at the tender age of five. Her mother, Political Science. in the hope of giving her a better future, requested relatives to help find a foster family or enrol Mariyam in a boarding school. With the Lubna thus gained back her confidence and started weaving help of close relatives and community volunteers, Mariyam got a new dream for her life. She is now looking forward to build a enrolled in the Dhaka Ahsania Mohila Mission Orphanage & School promising career and contribute to the growth and development (DAMM). of the country. 4 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Turning disabilities into abilities, converting challenges into dignified opportunities rights of persons with disabilities. She was assessed with having multiple disabilities including speech and hearing impairment. In 2015, supported by IDLC, she was enrolled into a vocational training program and a mainstream school, Fulkuri Kindergarten & High School, at Adabor, Dhaka. Sumona has displayed a unique passion for such activities as block, batik, tie-dye, embroidery and sewing. As a result, she was selected for advanced vocational training and admitted in Ashar Alo Training Centre under the department of Cutting and Handicraft, in 2016. Her performance was satisfactory and it is expected that she will be able to get a job with their support. After receiving professional assistance from SEID, she gradually developed her skills in reading, writing and drawing. She also became a part of several cultural performances, performing in a number of national-level programs as well as engaging herself in woman empowerment advocacy. Sumona is now 15 years old and, unfortunately, her father passed away a year ago, putting the family into a severe financial crisis. However, due to the training received by Sumona, she now helps Sumona Akter lives with her four-member family in an area her only earning parent (mother) by taking orders for embroidery adjacent to Mohammadpur. When she was born, she had no major and hand-stitched products. Sumona now earns BDT 1,500 complications but at the age of three, her parents noticed that she per month. She has not only developed her skills but has also did not respond to sound and also did not engage in any verbal demonstrated her potential and is now actively contributing to communication. When she was four, she was enrolled in SEID, a her family, living a life of dignity and respect. voluntary development organisation that works for promoting the Partners speak We were never refused by IDLC whenever we asked for After a family setback, Lubna almost gave up all hope to any assistance. It was just about sending a formal continue with her further studies post completing her proposal and the rest was done from their end, if they HSC. But with the support from IDLC, she started found merit in the idea. Our children are grateful to IDLC reliving her dreams again. Similarly, Mariyam also for their sustained contributions over the last ﬁve years. continued her higher studies in nursing after receiving Their support means a lot to us and our children and ﬁnancial support from IDLC. This is how both Mariyam represents a beacon of hope for a better tomorrow. and Lubna started a new life. Thanks to IDLC for always standing besides us and guiding these students Mahfuza Khanam towards a brighter future. President Shishu Bikash Chhaya Nurunnahar Abed General Secretary Dhaka Ahsania Mohila Mission Most school teachers ﬁnd it diﬃcult to manage pupils suﬀering from mental health problems. Research has indicated that in a classroom, one in 10 adolescents suﬀer from some kind of mental illness, including depression, anxiety and ADHD. Relevantly so then, for the ﬁrst time in Bangladesh, in partnership with IDLC Finance Limited, the Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation could pilot a mental health ﬁrst-aid program for high school teachers. It was lifetime experience for all 50 teachers who participated in this pilot project. Besides, as many as 2,000 students took part in the awareness discussions. Salma, a student of class 10, said ‘I will never bully my peers as I now know how it aﬀects their mental health and their wellbeing.’ In a small way, we achieved a big victory that day! Monira Rahman Founder & Executive Director Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation 5 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 2 | ABOUT IDLC Who we are IDLC Finance Limited is a full-service NBFI with a deeply entrenched presence in Bangladesh. We are focused on meeting the financing needs of businesses and individuals, while providing extensive financial solutions and value added services. We emphasize on securing the long-term wealth aspirations of our deposit-holders. And we implement the brokerage and investment mandates of our retail and institutional customers with speed and surety. Our founding philosophies Vision Mission We will be the best financial brand in We will focus on quality growth, superior customer the country. experience and sustainable business practices. Core values Customer Focus Equal Opportunity Passion Integrity Trust and Respect Eco-friendly Simplicity Shareholding Shareholding Composition 2016 structure 4.25% 14.21% Sponsors/Directors Institutions Individuls Foreign 21.88% 59.66% Sectoral Sectoral Exposure -31 December 2016 Apparels & Accessories Healthcare Services Textiles Export exposure Agro Based Industry Iron & Steel Textiles Local 4% 11% Information Technology 6% Building Materials, Cement, Glass, Ceramics, Pipes 5% Leather & Leather Products 0.4% 7% Chemicals 0.2% Packaging 5% Construction & Contractors 6% 1% Power & Energy 1% 0.4% Education 2% Pharmaceuticals 5% Enginering Paper & Paper Products 1% 2% 10% Food and Beverage Financial Services 3% Furniture & Related Products 2% 1% Service 3% 6% Household Products & 0.3% Home Appliances Professional Service 6% 2% 1% 10% Hospitality & Leisure Services Tele Communications Housing & Real Estate Transport 6 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Our range of products and services Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) Finance  Small Enterprise Finance  Medium Enterprise Finance  Supplier and Distributor Finance • Small Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Medium Enterprise Loan/ Lease • Seasonal Loan • Commercial Vehicle Finance • Factoring of Accounts Receivable • IDLC Purnota Women • Machinery Lease • Bill/ Invoice Discounting Entrepreneur Loan • Healthcare Finance • Work Order Financing • SME Shachal Loan • Revolving Short Term Loan • Distributor Financing • SME Surakkha • Commercial Space Loan • Revolving Short Term Loan • Commercial Vehicle Loan • Commercial Space Loan • Commercial Vehicle Loan • IDLC Udbhabon • SME Deposit Corporate Finance  Corporate Finance  Structured Finance Solutions  Green Banking Solutions • Lease Financing • Structured Finance Solutions/ • Over 50 products offered under • Term Loan Financing Arrangement of Funds Green Banking and Sustainable • Loan/ Lease Syndication Finance as per Bangladesh Bank • Commercial Space Financing Green Re-finance scheme • Project Financing • Syndicated Fund raising for Bonds • Short Term Loans (to meet • Arrangement of Commercial working capital requirements) Paper, Preference Shares, foreign currency loans etc. • Specialised Products (for meeting seasonal demand) • Securitisation of Assets • Green Financing • Working Capital Syndication • Corporate Advisory/ other services Capital Markets Operations  IDLC Securities Limited Services Services Products • Trade execution through the Dhaka • Corporate Advisory and Chittagong stock exchanges • Issue Management • Cash Account • Custodial and CDBL services • Underwriting • Margin Account through IDLC Investments Limited and other • Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients • Research enlisted merchant banks • Research and Advisory Services  IDLC Asset Management Limited • Easy IPO  IDLC Investments Limited • Mutual Funds • Premium Brokerage for High Products • Alternative Investment Services Net worth Individuals (HNIs) and • Margin Loan institutional and foreign investors • Discretionary Portfolio Management Consumer Finance  Loans  Deposit • Home Loans • Personal Loans • Flexible Term Deposit Package • Car Loans • Loan Against Deposit • Regular Earner Package 7 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Our Business Model Our value proposition Superior customer service, customised products and quick turnaround time (TAT) in meeting our clients’ ﬁnancial needs Having over 30 years of Our key partners and Our key resources experience in the providers of funds marketplace, our business model is designed to IDLC Finance Limited Funds withstand market pressures and absorb Shareholders Our human resources macroeconomic shocks. In order to make optimum Central Bank contributions across the Our intellectual capital value chain, we are careful Other banks and ﬁnancial to strike a balance between institutions Natural and other resources diﬀerent stakeholder objectives. Deposit clients Relationships with stakeholders With a keen sense of changing market dynamics Multilateral organizations and rapidly changing Policy incentives technology, our management team strives to make the best use of our Subsidiaries available resources, expanding on them Investors strategically. Regulators Group Vendors NGOs 8 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Channels Modes of communication Branches One-on-one meetings Website Phone conversations Direct selling Newspapers On-site visits Telephone and online channels Reports Conferences Key activities Our oﬀerings Our clients Innovate and sell ﬁnancial SME ﬁnance products Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) products Corporate ﬁnance products Corporate Houses Grow, develop and maintain client relationships Consumer loan products Individuals Attract and manage Savings products investments Investment products and Create brand awareness services Limited companies Commit to social and environmental responsibilities Investment banking services Institutional investors Supporting activities Corporate advisory services Fund managers Risk management Brokerage services Foreign investors and brokerage houses Continuous process improvement Ensure employees’ engagement and wellbeing Maintaining ﬁnancial prudence Cost structure Revenue streams Interest expense Interest income Infrastructure and technology Fee income Human resources Investment income Other administrative expenses Commission income 9 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Business segment review SME division IDLC’s SME division provides a wide bouquet of loan products leading to faster credit disbursal. During the year, we expanded and solutions to small and medium enterprises (SMEs), helping our footprint by establishing four new branches in the industriallythem meet their aspirations of achieving sustainable business thriving pockets of Habiganj, Mymensingh, Kushtia and Rangpur growth. Our suite of loan facilities and financing solutions, districts of Bangladesh. including term loans, working capital, project financing, Abashan loans or rent loans for small enterprises and working capital and Outlook project financing loans for medium enterprises, among others,  Focusing on business growth along with maintaining have created a real impact in the market and led to the division’s portfolio quality and strengthening the IDLC SME brand in sustainable growth over the years. SME financing. Recognising the growing competition in the industry, the division  Strengthening human capital to enhance productivity to made significant investments in technology to ensure faster and optimal levels through extensive training. more seamless services to SME clients. Towards this, the division  Introducing new products and modifying the existing fully implemented an automated credit appraisal system after products to meet the evolving market demand. the success of its pilot run. This technological advancement will  Implementing web/app-based client services to better serve not only save time in credit assessment and approval but also our customers as well as create an institutional memory. contribute to environmental sustenance by reducing paper  Providing training to women entrepreneurs of different districts usage. A centralized operation system, yet another pilot program, with a view to enhance their capacities and capabilities. was launched during the year to accelerate the service delivery  Tying-up with local and multilateral agencies to work towards process. This system will help in processing and preserving all sorts the development of marginal sectors that possess significant of loan-related documents. We also launched a comprehensive latent growth potential. credit scoring model on a pilot, which, once in full operation, will make credit assessment of small businesses even quicker, thereby  Focus more on SME customer-engagement activities. Consumer division IDLC’s Consumer division fulfils a vital role in the context of the developing their decision-making, leadership and entrepreneurial overall asset and liability business of the IDLC Group, ensuring capabilities. As such, during the course of the year, over 25 internal quality-led sustainable growth. The division is anchored on its and external training and development sessions were conducted major strengths that include long standing and proven customer for our business team. relationships, expert and professional sales team with door-todoor servicing capabilities and faster loan disbursement time The division organised several meetings, product training camps frame. Besides, the division’s direct involvement in consumer and relationship management events for a large number of the retail finance through providing home loans and car loans, the country’s real estate developers and automobile showrooms and division contributes significantly to the long-term growth of the dealerships. For instance, a ‘Fly High’ sales campaign was launched Company. Over the years, the division has created robust fund for all car vendors of the country in June 2016 and continued till sourcing capabilities (consumer deposit) from both retail as well as December 2016. In addition, we also participated in the BARVIDA institutional segments to ensure the smooth and streamlined flow car exposition and the REHAB fair to showcase our brand, engage of loan disbursement for all of the Company’s business divisions. with the industry and remain aware of the key trends shaping the industry. Also, new special offers were made to renowned The Consumer division launched a new variety of variable rate home corporates with a strong credit track record and positive response loans with geography-based pricing to align better with evolving was received from this initiative. customer needs and requirements. Besides, home loan product features were actively reviewed for outstation branches and effective Outlook changes were incorporated to make the products more convenient  Drive quality and profitability-driven growth by increasing the and attractive for customers, especially those residing outside Dhaka. number of loan applications through better coordinated efforts. With a view to further reinforce our customer relationships, we  Enhance the geographic footprint beyond Dhaka to tap into restructured and repositioned our central customer services team homogenous growth emerging out of other major regions and areas. for ensuring faster service and a uniform experience to our clients. In addition, we introduced the online credit appraisal system (OCAS)  Improve asset portfolio quality by engaging in comprehensive that resulted in significant value addition in terms of ensuring faster screening during loan sourcing and reduce PAR and NPL loan application processing. The system also works as an online data levels though consistent follow-up. warehouse, enabling us to retrieve comprehensive customer data at  Emphasize on portfolio retention, especially in the wake of the click of a button. rising competitive intensity.  Increase employee productivity. The division empowered its teams with the objective of  Increase the number of retail deposit customers. 10 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Corporate division Over the passage of time, IDLC’s Corporate division has made Outlook significant inroads into the confederation of local corporates, large  Focus on need-based financing to accommodate the growth corporate houses and multinationals. This was made possible aspirations of corporate clients. through our integrated relationship management approach with strong customer orientation, innovative product offerings  Foster business development through providing both longand superior service delivery. Progressively, the division has also term and short-term financing options to the country’s fastexpanded its geographical coverage and extended its product growing corporate houses. basket. Today, the division’s product suite comprises simple  Actively monitor government policies and track key macrolease finance, term loans, working capital finance across tenors, and micro-economic indicators for timely identification of asset finance, project finance, green finance under Bangladesh targeted niche market and growth sectors. Bank schemes and spontaneous participation in syndication  Structure composite solutions through traditional and nonarrangements, among others. traditional financing products.  Initiate strategic alliance with banks and development The division’s expertise and ability to provide innovative solutions organisations to tap into various business avenues and deliver to partner the growth aspirations of corporate clients is supported cost-effective and value-added solutions to corporate clients. by the following key USPs:  Continue to invest in people and technology to augment productivity.  Faster service  Explore green financing avenues to promote sustainable  Customised solutions business practices among the existing and potential clientele.  Competitive rates  Attain higher operational efficiency within the ambit of regulatory  Comprehensive industry knowledge frameworks to render flexible and thoughtful client services.  Transparency  Achieve stable but quality growth through maintaining low NPLs.  Trust and credibility  Utilise cross selling opportunities for new business acquisition. Structured Finance department (SFD) Though the Bangladeshi economy is integrated with the global bonds for commercial banks and fund raising is currently in financial system, being an emerging economy, it is continuing on progress. A significant portion of the fee income will come its growth path and hence, industrial and large project financing from this particular source in 2017. has become one of the key drivers of this transition. In this context,  Arranged BDT 2,450 million as commercial paper (CP) for loan syndication has emerged as an important facility since it helps three eminent corporate houses of the country. diversify lender risks and builds borrower credibility as many banks  In the trustee business, the SFD marked a new milestone and financial institutions participate in the loan arrangement, by acquiring new trustee deals from such institutions as AB especially for large-sized projects. Bank, Jamuna Bank, Trust Bank, BanglaTrac and Mutual Trust Bank. In total, 14 trustee deals are in progress and significantly With substantial GDP growth in the recent past, financing demand for contributing to the annual income of SFD. large infrastructure projects (transportation, communication, water and energy, etc.) is on the rise. In addition, public-private partnership  In addition to regular business, the SFD sponsors several (PPP) projects have also come to fulfil a vibrant role in the demand for knowledge sharing events. For instance, the department syndicated financing for large infrastructure projects. The development arranged ‘IDLC Presents Blueprints 2.0’, a platform for of the Bangladeshi economy has created a growing appetite for participants to apply their financial knowledge into analysis financing large-scale projects. Mega projects require various forms of and decision-making, working with templates of actual financing collaborations for successful fund arrangements. In addition, financial models, getting an opportunity to engage in a vibrant capital market is necessary for structuring different products discussions with professionals and enriching their skills as such as coupon-bearing bonds, zero coupon bonds, convertible aspiring financial analysts. bonds, etc. In the future, syndication deals are expected to become  The SFD also arranged a training program on ‘Mastering more complex as well as fiercely competitive. Besides, new sectors Project Finance’ with Euromoney Learning Solutions, a requiring newer funding models are also expected to emerge globally-acclaimed training institution for capacity-building over time. In parallel, adoption of global practices, prioritization of for industry professionals. The prime purpose of arranging environmentallyand socially-responsible projects and the efficient these activities is to nurture and sustain relationships with use of energy will be an important part of loan syndication. clients and other stakeholders. Some of the notable projects executed by the department Outlook include the following:  Expand product portfolio.  Completed the raising of around BDT 8,000 million for  Continue to arrange funds for large infrastructure projects. Karnafuly Dry Dock Limited with a significant portion of the  Continue to provide support to banks through its advisory services revenue already generated from the deal. on compliance-related issues with regards to the Basel-III accord.  Arranged BDT 1,350 million in the form of zero-coupon  The department also expects to manage all the existing bonds in order to fulfil certain funding requirements. We agency and trustee deals through a dedicated team to also received the mandate for arranging Tier-II subordinated provide better and faster service. 11 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Green Banking With rising global awareness on the negative impact of fossils fuels and other conventional energy sources, IDLC has identified Green Banking as one of its major priority sectors and is recognised as one of the market leaders in promoting the concept of green banking in Bangladesh. At IDLC, we are focusing on the ideology of ‘mother planet and its sustainability’, shifting from the traditional financing approach to nextgeneration green banking that supports sustainable and environmentally-positive developments. We do so through providing a wide range of especially-designed products and services at preferential terms and rates. Since its incorporation, IDLC’s Green Banking unit (GBU) has been promoting environmental-friendly practices and reducing its overall carbon footprint. Subsidiary review SME division In its quest towards providing holistic customer-facing solutions, fund products, thereby providing customers access to structured IDLC operates three subsidiaries: potential long-term wealth creation platforms.  IDLC Investments Limited Though the Group’s capital market businesses were significantly  IDLC Securities Limited impacted in the 2010 meltdown and the challenges that were brought forth by several global events, the operations have come out  IDLC Asset Management Limited stronger since then with the full absorption of the impairment losses These subsidiaries are engaged in providing a broad range of suffered on account of certain open exposures in the margin lending capital market solutions. IDLC Asset Management, which was portfolio. Today, all the businesses have created robust platforms in recently established, was created with a view to fortify the services terms of technology, processes, practices and human resources and basket of the IDLC Group in terms of offering a bouquet of mutual are rightly positioned to capture the upturn as and when the sociopolitical climate becomes more conducive and stable. IDLC Investments Limited IDLC Finance Limited commenced its merchant banking operations  Managed nine IPOs to raise a cumulative BDT 6,515 million as in 1999 through participating in IPOs underwriting. The Company of 31 December 2016. managed its first IPO as issue manager in 2003. Aligning with  Assisted in raising BDT 31,316 million for clients so far (since regulatory requirements, the merchant banking operation was inception). carved-out and transferred to IDLC Investments Limited (IDLCIL),  Reduced margin loans significantly since 2010 when the a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDLC Finance Limited. IDLCIL was prolonged bearish run in the market had started and have established in the year 2011. effectively cleaned the books. Simultaneously, we embraced the opportunity of counselling our clients to build a Products and services offered constructive, risk-mitigated and long-term portfolio.  Investment banking: Initial public offering (IPO), Repeat  Investment banking division achieved a robust performance public offering (RPO) & Rights issue management. (with revenue growth of 57.36% to BDT 28.42 million in 2016)  Corporate advisory on pre-IPO capital raising: Underwriting, with significant contributions from corporate advisory fees Arranging Pre-IPO placement/ Capital Raising under IPOs, (60.6%) and issue management fees (38.7%). Substantial Share Acquisition & Takeover and Equity valuation. Outlook  Discretionary portfolio management (DPM): MAXCAP, Profitloss sharing scheme, Capital protected scheme, Portfolio  We will actively market and grow the portfolio of our wealthadvisory service & Easy Invest. generating products like discretionary portfolio management and Easy Invest (monthly systematic investment plan). Core highlights, 2016  Due to the positive attitude of investors and increase in  Broadened the DPM product basket through the formal market participation in the form of incremental investments launch of ‘Easy Invest’, a monthly investment scheme that in the capital markets, many previously dormant investor focuses on building a long-term portfolio with small regular accounts are also becoming active. Against this backdrop, we investments. IDLC Investments pioneered the launch of this will look to cautiously increase our margin loan portfolio in a innovative product in the Bangladeshi capital markets. risk-managed way.  Over the last decade, the DPM team generated an average  Our investment banking team will be active to close the deals return of 8.41% and the current portfolio AUM stands at we currently have on board as we well actively seeking to about BDT 8 million. generate new deals. 12 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED IDLC Securities Limited IDLC Securities Limited (IDLCSL), one of Bangladesh’s top Core highlights, 2016 brokerages, commenced operations in 2006. The Company provides brokerage services to more than 15,000 retail, institutional  Significantly scaled-up the brokerage business, which does and foreign investors through sophisticated and reliable trading not require additional capital investments platforms of both the Dhaka and Chittagong stock exchanges. It  Fine-tuned the business model to achieve higher efficiency also serves around 2,500 customers of its enlisted merchant banks  Expanded and reinforced sell-side research coverage as a panel broker. The company possesses a proven track record  Enhanced retail and strategic sales efforts with the outcome of delivering quality customer services in strict compliance with of enlisting a larger customer base prevailing rules and regulations and maintains high standards for both corporate and employee ethics. IDLC Securities also offers  Achieved significant footing in foreign sales operations premium brokerage services to high net worth (HNW) institutional  Revamped operational risk management processes and foreign investors. Outlook Products 2016 was about consolidation as we prepared to look to the future  Cash account with confidence after coming out of the legacy issues of the past.  Margin account through IDLC Investments Limited and other With intellectual capital being an important fuel of our business, enlisted merchant banks we have built a strong team over the last couple of years. As we  Easy IPO capitalize on our human resources and integrate our teams, we  Premium brokerage for HNWs, institutions and foreign believe we can unlock significant operating leverage to further investors services provide value to our customers. We will also engage in capacity Trade execution through the Dhaka and Chittagong stock building sessions for our dealers, actively monitoring their exchanges portfolios. We expect to build on this human resource and dealer  Custodial and CDBL services network expansion as we further mine customer accounts and grow our business in a controlled and calibrated manner.  Bloomberg terminal for foreign clients  Research and advisory services IDLC Asset Management Limited IDLC Asset Management Limited, a fully-owned subsidiary of IDLC Outlook Finance Limited, was incorporated in Bangladesh on 19 November 2015, vide registration no. C-127068/2015 as a private company  Launch the Company’s first open-ended mutual fund, ‘IDLC limited by shares under the Companies Act, 1994. The Company Balanced Fund’ (subject to regulatory approvals). was awarded with asset management license on 6  Launch a series of open-ended mutual funds (subject to regulatory approvals). June 2016 with a paid-up capital of BDT 100,000,000 (BDT one hundred million only). IDLC Asset Management expects to  Develop extensive sales, distribution and marketing channels operate in the nascent and attractive asset management sector of to broaden the customer base for mutual funds distribution. Bangladesh, reinforcing the IDLC Group’s capital markets product  Leverage the strong brand equity of our parent company and portfolio. The Company’s principal objective is to conduct the create a vast network infrastructure, we intend to enhance business of asset management, primarily through launching and financial literacy and reach out to a larger population managing mutual funds, to cater to diverse investor needs. segment. Products  Mutual funds & Alternative investment services. 13 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Key Corporate Milestones 1985-2016 27 May Commencement of home ﬁnance and 7 Feb short term ﬁnance Licensed as a operations Non-Banking Financial Institution 1 Oct under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993 22 Jan Establishment of a Licensed as a branch in Chittagong, merchant banker by the main port city of the Bangladesh Bangladesh Securities and 23 May Exchange Commission Incorporation of the Company 1985 1986 1990 1993 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 22 Feb 20 Mar 25 Nov Commencement of 15 Jan Listed on the Dhaka Listed on the the leasing business Commencement of corporate Stock Exchange Limited Chittagong Stock ﬁnance and merchant banking Exchange Limited operations 14 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 29 Jan 14 Mar 3 Feb Opening of the ﬁrst Launching of Commencement of retail focused branch at discretionary portfolio operations at 18 Jan Narayanganj Opening of the Jessore Dhanmondi management services branch under ‘Managed Cap 24 Feb 29 Jun Invest’ 11 Mar Inauguration of the Opening of the Gulshan Change of logo and Savar branch Branch 5 Aug rebranding of IDLC Company name 8 Aug 22 Nov changed to ‘IDLC Inauguration of a Launched investment Finance Limited’ second branch in management services, from ‘Industrial Chittagong at ‘Cap Invest’ Development Leasing Nandankanon 8 Jun Company of 27 Oct Opening of the Khulna Bangladesh Limited’ IDLC entered Comilla Branch 23 Dec 18 Oct IDLC inaugurated its Opening of the Bhulta Branch Narsingdi branch 27 Dec 10 Nov Opening of the Natore Opening of the Branch Keraniganj branch 2004 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2016 15 Jun IDLC started operations 11 April at Mirpur Opening of the Hobiganj Branch 9 Aug 19 April 2 Jan Opening of the Kushtia Branch Opening of the ﬁrst Opening of the Tongi 31 May SME-focused branch branch Opening of the Rangpur Branch at Bogra 16 Aug 01 July 6 Apr Commencement of Commencement of operations of operations of IDLC IDLC Asset Management Limited, Opening of the 6 Jan a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gulshan Branch Opening of the Sylhet Investments Limited, a IDLC branch wholly-owned 09 August 1 Jul subsidiary of IDLC Launching of Easy Invest Relocation of the 26 Aug 24 August Company’s Registered Commencement of Opening of the Mymensingh and operations at Branch Corporate Head Oﬃce Narayanganj 25 November at own premises at Received LEED Certiﬁcation Gold 57, Gulshan Avenue under Commercial Interior for Chittagong Branch 18 Sep Commencement of operations of IDLC Securities Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of IDLC 15 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Human Capital Our human capital not only encompasses our employees, but also their health and well-being, their expertise, their experience, their innovative capacity and their motivation. Their skills and involvement determine our ability to realize our vision of becoming the best financial brand in the country. Our people define our success. Over the years, their passion, dedication and commitment have empowered us to reach new heights, propelling the company to become the leading NBFI of the country. Material Aspects Compensation Career development management Talent development Health & safety Employee productivity Highlights Restructured compensation and Increased focus on enhancing job beneﬁt policy to attract, retain and motivate the best resources objective based performance appraisal system for all employees Re-engineered recruitment Conducted training sessions and selection process to led by foreign trainers and ensure greater eﬃciency training institutions Challenges Ensuing work-life Providing a vibrant and Enhancing employee Boosting employee balance congenial work motivation retention environment 16 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED At IDLC, our goal is to ensure that our people are motivated, inspired and committed to delivering a consistently outstanding Number of Attendees performance. We deeply believe that in order to achieve this we need to provide them a great place to work, develop their 2,343 capabilities, empower them and appropriately reward their contribution. HR Planning The primary goal of our human resource department is to ensure that we have the right people at the right time in the right position. 287 202 Our HR department, through continuous consultation with other 31 departments, determines our future HR requirement. We then aim to meet such requirements through talent acquisition, talent Foreign In-house Customised Public Program development and succession planning. Our objective always remains to recruit dynamic people whose caliber and capabilities are best suited for the job, which we Performance and Reward conform to through our multi-step merit-based recruitment and selection process. In addition to recruiting employees externally, Our employees are reviewed against their job objectives either we seek to meet our HR requirements through job rotations. This annually or semi-annually depending on their job roles. Our enables us to create more career opportunities for our people and performance appraisal process enables us to emphasize on the enhances both lateral and upward mobility in our organisation. growth of our employees as well as identify their learning and career development needs. As a part of this process, through Talent Development constructive dialogue, our employees are also encouraged to work on areas where there is scope of improvement. We also We need to ensure that our employees are equipped with all the get to identify our high-potential employees for our successionnecessary skills to meet the ever-changing demands of this fastplanning program. This process also helps us to ensure that the paced, competitive industry. Therefore, we aim to create a culture contributions of our employees are properly recognized and of continuous development to enable them to grow and succeed appropriately rewarded. throughout their careers. Succession Planning While we try to provide our employees the maximum number of training and development opportunities, we also encourage Succession planning is critical to us, as it enables us to ensure them to take responsibility for their own development. This is leadership continuity and avoid extended and costly leadership fully supported by our training evaluation model, which not only vacuum. We prefer to promote from within the organisation so identifies the training programs necessary for the employees to that we can create greater career opportunities for our people. perform their day-to-day job roles, but also considers the areas During the year, we had several internal moves and promotions they seek to become more proficient in. into key leadership positions, reflecting that we have been able to grow the depth of our talent pool, consequent to which During the year, we have invested around BDT 14.19 million in our succession pipelines for key management positions got developing our people and provided 144 trainings. strengthened. In 2016, a total of 644 employees were promoted. Number of Trainings HR Composition 73 1% 9% Core Management 43 17% Staff Mid-level Management 16 Management 12 Non Management 73% Foreign In-house Customised Public Program 17 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Health and Well-being IDLC Ladies Forum At IDLC, the health and well-being of our employees is one IDLC Ladies Forum was developed to address our female of our top priorities. Following measures have been taken to employees’ views and opinions to facilitate a good working ensure the well-being of our employees both inside and outside environment for women through the participation of all women the office. employees from different positions in the hierarchy, posted in different departments and branches. Headed by the President,  Fire safety measures: All our branches are well equipped we have an executive committee of 11 members who represent with necessary safety measures including fire alarms, fire different divisions and branches of the group. extinguishers, etc. Periodically, fire drills are carried out to test the effectiveness of the fire safety measures. Ethical standards  First aid kits: All our branches have well-equipped first aid kits in order to maintain a hazard free environment. We adhere to the highest ethical standards and consider it to be a key business priority. We expect our employees to fully  Insurance: Our employees get group life insurance and embrace statutory compliances. It is mandatory for all our hospitalization insurance coverage. employees to read and sign the Code of Conduct every year as a  Company doctor: Employees have opportunity to consult sign of recurrence to the principles enshrined in it. Additionally, our company doctor on a monthly basis, if needed. IDLC encourages employees to act with integrity and spread the message of social responsibility to the community.  Earned leave: Our employees enjoy 25 days earned leave which includes a mandatory annual block leave of 15 calendar days. Operating Income Per Employee Productivity in BDT million Profit Before Tax  Casual leave: Our employees are entitled to a casual leave Profit After Tax of 5 working days.  Maternity leave: Our female employees get a maternity leave of six months. We also ensure that we provide full 4.10 support to the employees at their return so that it is easier 3.74 for them to balance work with their new home dynamic.  Sports participation: We encourage all to participate in 2.42 sports and have our own official football and cricket teams 2.14 who participate in corporate tournaments every year. 1.41 1.19  Employee engagement activities: These are aimed at enhancing our employees’ commitment and sense of belonging towards the company. 2015 2016  Grievance management and counselling: At IDLC, we encourage our employees to come forward and notify the management, if they experience anything, which is not in alignment with the core values of the company. We are committed to ensure swift and impartial resolution to grievances brought forward by employees. 18 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 3 | Corporate Governance Board of Directors Aziz Al Mahmood Faruq M. Ahmed Monower Uddin Ahmed Chairman of the Board Director of the Board & Chairman, Independent Director & Chairman, Executive Committee Audit Committee Meherun Haque S. M. Mashrur Arefin Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA Director of the Board Director of the Board Director of the Board Md. Kamrul Hassan FCA Syed Shahriyar Ahsan Director of the Board Director of the Board 19 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Mati Ul Hasan Atiqur Rahman Niaz Habib Director of the Board Director of the Board Independent Director Matiul Islam Nowshad CMgr, FCMI Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA Independent Director CEO & Managing Director 20 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Committees of the Board & Management As per DFIM Circular Letter No. 18, dated October 26, 2011 of The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing Bangladesh Bank on the policy regarding the responsibility and operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the accountability of the Board of Directors, Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Officer. An important feature of good governance is a Officer/ Managing Director of the Financial Institutions, the Board of clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of the Directors of IDLC formed two sub-Committees of the Board: committee from those of the Executive Officer.  Executive Committee; and ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the big picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and whether the  Audit Committee. goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and objectives within the overall All other Committees of IDLC are formed under the jurisdiction of budget. the management. The Management Committee is tasked with making key decisions Executive Committee (EC) for the Company’s management and operations under the The matter related to ordinary business operations of the official delegation of authority from the Board. The Committee Company and the matters that the Board of Directors authorises comprises senior executives who are from various key functions from time to time are vested on this Committee. and operations of the Company. Composition of Executive Committee Composition of Management Committee (ManCom) In compliance with the referred circular, the EC consists of four  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director members. The members are as follows:  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Chairman  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director  Faruq M. Ahmed, Director nominated by The City Bank Limited  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Members  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  Syed Shahriyar Ahsan, Director nominated by Sadharan Bima  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division Corporation  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Mati Ul Hasan, Director nominated by Mercantile Bank Limited  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA, CEO & Managing Director  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources Audit Committee (AC)  Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations The Committee is empowered, among other things, to examine  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer any matter relating to the financial affairs of the Company  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic and to review all audit and inspection reports, internal control Planning systems and procedures, accounting policies and adherence to compliance requirements, among others.  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance Composition of Audit Committee  Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA, Managing Director, IDLC Investments Limited The AC consists of four members. The members are as follows:  Md. Saifuddin, Managing Director, IDLC Securities Limited  Rajib Kumar Dey, Managing Director, IDLC Asset Chairman Management Limited  Monower Uddin Ahmed, Independent Director Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC) Members CEC evaluates all projects/ proposals of financing activities of the  Mahbubur Rahman, FCA, Director nominated by The City Company from the risk point of view. Bank Limited Scope of the committee  Kamrul Hassan, FCA, Director nominated by Transcom Group CEC holds the rights to:  Syed Shahriyar Ahsan, Director nominated by Sadharan Bima  Approve an appraisal report as per the proposed terms and Corporation conditions for consideration of the sanctioning authority; Management Committee (ManCom)  Request for additional information; The Management Committee is a group elected among the  Request evidence regarding any information provided; management staff to take responsibility of the governance and strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management  Suggest changes in or inclusion of terms and conditions Committee is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its Constitution regarding the client’s liability with IDLC Finance Limited or under the Financial Institutions Act, 1993. any other financial institutions or banks; 21 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  Suggest changes in terms and conditions concerned with Composition of Internal Control Committee repayment including repayment schedule, transfer price, late payment interest rate, true rate and effective rate;  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director  Suggest change or increase of security;  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director  Suggest change of the loan amount;  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Suggest increasing the equity participation of the client;  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Suggest providing an additional guarantor; and  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Decline a financial proposal based on overall risk assessment.  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Composition of Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC)  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director HR and Compensation Committee  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee was formed on 24  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on the Company’s  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection various HR related issues. The main role and function of the HR and Compensation Committee is to assist the human  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division resource department in developing and administering a fair and  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division transparent procedure for setting policies on the overall human resource strategy of the Group.  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division The responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, equal  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic opportunity and transparency in terms of suitable recruitment, Planning compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) competence, adequate training and development facilities, performance evaluation and promotion based on individual The main responsibilities of the ALCO are to look after the performance and contribution and other benefits-related issues financial market activities, manage liquidity and interest rate risk with regards to the Company’s operating results and comparable and understand market position and competition among other market statistics. activities. In carrying out its responsibilities, the ALCO convene periodical meetings and regularly reviews the decisions of the The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the meetings with due consideration of the market situation. management in fulfilling its corporate governance and oversight responsibilities in relation to establishing people management Composition of ALCO and remuneration policies. Chairman Composition of HR and Compensation Committee  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director Members  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO)  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Ahmed  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Rashid, Head of SME Division  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Ahmed Rashid, Head of SME Division  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Syed Javed Noor, Head of Consumer Division  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, Head of Corporate Division  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer Corporate Governance Committee Member and Organizer The Committee ensures that the Corporate Governance practice  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA, Head of Treasury & Strategic within the Company is as required by the Bangladesh Securities Planning and Exchange Commission (BSEC) and the Bangladesh Bank. The Committee also recommends and advises course of action in the Internal Control Committee areas where there is a scope of improvement. The Internal Control Committee addresses operational risks Composition of Corporate Governance Committee and frames and implements policies to encounter such risks. The Committee assesses operational risks across the Company  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director as a whole and ensures that an appropriate framework exists to identify, assess and manage operational risks.  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director 22 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection  Identify the scopes where efficiency of employee can be developed and arrange appropriate training in this regards;  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Amend existing policies and procedures as per requirements;  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance  Evaluate and reward the respective employees for integrity  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, ACA, Head of Statutory and good work; Reporting & Group Company Secretary  Improve e-governance system; BASEL Implementation Committee  Develop complaint management system; The Basel Implementation Committee is responsible for the  Implement code of conduct; implementation of Basel Accord for Financial Institution (BAFI) at IDLC. Managing risk based capital adequacy is the most important Composition of Integrity Committee responsibility of the Committee. The Basel Implementation  Headed by H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Desk (BID) of the Risk Management Department manages Director, the Committee consists of the following members: Basel activities. The results of risk based capital analysis along with recommendations are placed in the Committee meeting  M. Jamal Uddin, Deputy Managing Director by the BID where important decisions are made to maintain minimum/ regulatory capital and manage related risks. The BASEL  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) Implementation Committee Charter states that the Committee  Ahmed Rashid, GM & Head of SME has the following responsibilities:  Syed Javed Noor, GM & Head of Consumer Division  Apply the action plan of BASEL-II and review thereof;  Md. Mesbah Uddin Ahmed, GM & Head of Corporate Division  Communicate issues related to the implementation of BASEL-II to the management;  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources  Assist in carrying out the quantitative impact study (QIS), if necessary;  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control & Compliance  Engage in capacity building and training according to the training Central Compliance Unit (CCU) need assessment (TNiA) for the concerned officials; and Central Compliance Unit (CCU) is a committee responsible for  Establish a planning and supervisory review as required by supervising the Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Anti-Terrorism Pillar-II of BASEL-II framework. activities (ATA) at IDLC Finance Limited, formed on November 1, The reviews of the BASEL Implementation Committee include 2012. The CCU was constituted as per the “Guidance Notes on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing” issued  Review of action taken in previous BIU meetings by Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit, Bangladesh Bank, BFIU Circular no. 04 dated September 16, 2012.  Economic and market status and outlook Objective of CCU  Credit, market and operational risks related to capital adequacy  To ensure compliance of regulatory rules and regulations  Review of BASEL implementation status related to AML and ATA;  Action taken  To implement and enforce IDLC’s AML policies to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing; Composition of BASEL Implementation Committee  To ensure effective implementation of AML and ATA  Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA; CEO & Managing Director program across the company effectively  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Functions  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection Functions of the Committee are as follows:  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer  Keeping updated with changes in regulations regarding the  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance combatting of money laundering and terrorist financing, and accordingly adopting changes to IDLC’s AML and ATA  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, ACA, Head of Statutory compliance policy Reporting & Group Company Secretary  Supervising money laundering and terrorist financing Integrity Committee control procedures of the company so as to ensure legal and regulatory requirements Integrity Committee of IDLC was formed on October 22, 2013 in accordance with Bangladesh Bank’s letter no. HR-1 (O&D) Focal-1/2013-2 dated  Issuing necessary instructions across the company in line October 10, 2013 to abide by the code of integrity and good governance with company policy and Bangladesh Bank directives in line with National Integrity Strategy of Bangladesh.  Ensuring that proper KYC along with effective risk Functions assessment and control procedures are in place Functions of the Committee are as follows:  Providing advisory services to business and operational units on various issues linked with alleged money laundering  Create awareness on code of integrity and good governance activities or transactions across the company; 23 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016  Maintaining ongoing awareness on evolving money  Mohammad Jobayer Alam, Head of Treasury & Strategic laundering risks and their compliance procedures through Planning formal and informal training, workshop and seminars  Shafayet Hossain, Head of Special Asset Management  Development of adequate testing procedures to detect and prevent lapses in compliance  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control and Compliance  Monitoring business activities of branches through AML and ATA  Mohammad Jobair Rahman Khan, ACA, Head of Statutory self-assessment procedure and provide corrective measures Reporting & Group Company Secretary Composition of Central Compliance Unit  Jane Alam Romel, Group Chief Marketing Officer  H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA, Deputy Managing Director Risk Analysis Unit (RAU)  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit & Collection Concurrent with the formation of the RMF, the IDLC Risk Analysis Unit was formed to act as the secretariat of the Risk Management Forum  Mahbub-ul-Kader, Head of Internal Control & Compliance with the responsibility for identifying and analyzing various types Risk Management Forum (RMF) of risks appropriately and in a timely manner. The Head of Internal Control and Compliance acts as the Head of RAU. The Risk Management Forum was formed on April 15, 2013 in accordance with the Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular no. 01 dated Functions April 07, 2013 to introduce proactive risk management procedures  RAU identifies and analyzes all sorts of risks appropriately and in line with the international best practices framework. in a timely manner Functions  Collect all relevant data related to the risk indicators from different sources and information systems  Design overall risk management strategy  Assess the quality, completeness and correctness of this data  Communicate views of the Board and senior management regarding the risk management culture and risk appetite  Identify and quantify the risks and their exposures to across the Company material loss  Prepare risk management policies and procedures  Prepare a risk management paper on a monthly basis  Monitor the prescribed/ threshold limits of risk appetite set by  Conduct periodic stress testing the regulator and/ or by the Company itself IDLC Ladies Forum (IDLC LF)  Develop and observe the use of models to measure and monitor risks IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal ceremony with the participation of all the female employees from  Develop and oversee implementation of stress testing different levels of positions, working areas and distribution points  Oversee the capital management functions in accordance to address their views, problems and opinions to facilitate a better with the risk-based capital adequacy measurement accord, working environment for them. i.e. BASEL-II/ III Composition of IDLC Ladies’ Forum  Determine the most cost-effective way to minimise risks President  Highlight risks in portfolios and deficiencies of the  Shamima Akter Lovely, Assistant General Manager, Human Company on a timely manner and report the analyzes to Resources the Managing Director as well as the Board of Directors with specific recommendations and suggestions Executive Committee  Review market conditions, identify external threats and provide  Comprises of 11 women employees representing different commensurate recommendations for precautionary measures divisions and branches of the Group  Develop overall information system/ MIS to support the risk Secretary management functions of the Company  Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR Composition of Risk Management Forum (RMF) Members  Headed by H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan FCA, Deputy Managing All the women employees of the Group: Director, the Committee consists of the following members: This Forum will provide all women employees the opportunity  Asif Saad Bin Shams, Head of Credit and Collection for networking and provide a common platform to share and raise various issues and problems like discrimination, harassment,  Mir Tariquzzaman, Chief Technology Officer (CTO) negative attitude towards women and any other issue that may  Akhteruddin Mahmood, Group Head of Human Resources affect women employees within the Company. This will enable IDLC’s management to better understand and address these issues  Ataur Rahman Chowdhury, Head of Operations and develop strategies accordingly.  Md. Masud K. Majumder, ACA, Group Chief Financial Officer 24 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Our Organizational Chart Board of Directors Audit Committee Executive Committee CEO & Managing Director Credit Evaluation Committee Deputy Managing Director Deputy Managing Director Human Resources Finance Corporate Division Strategic Planning Corporate Change Management Structured Finance Treasury Information Technology Green Banking Corporate Affairs Corporate Social Responsibility Consumer Division Administration Marketing Communication SME Division Operations 25 Small Enterprise Finance Internal Control & Compliance Capital Market Operation Medium Enterprise Finance Credit Risk Management IDLC Securities Limited Supplier Finance IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Special Asset Management IDLC Investments Limited IDLC Asset Management Limited SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Management Committee Sitting Arif Khan, CFA, FCMA CEO & Managing Director Standing (from left) Asif Saad Bin Shams Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA Akhteruddin Mahmood Mohammad Jobayer Alam, CFA Head of Credit & Collection Managing Director, Group Head of Human Head of Treasury & Strategic Planning IDLC Investments Limited Resources Atatur Rahman Chowdhury Mahbub-ul-Kader Mir Tariquzzaman Head of Operations Head of Internal Control & Compliance Chief Technology Office 26 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Sitting (from left) H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA M. Jamal Uddin Deputy Managing Director Deputy Managing Director & Head of Business Standing (from left) Ahmed Rashid Syed Javed Noor Md. Saifuddin Head of SME Division Head of Consumer Division Managing Director, IDLC Securities Limited Mesbah Uddin Ahmed Md. Masud Karim Majumder, ACA Rajib Kumar Dey Head of Corporate Division Group Chief Financial Officer Managing Director, IDLC Asset Management Limited 27 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 IDLC's Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate governance represents a strategy for companies to ensure a framework of control for its administrative and management practices. This is achieved through procedures that are aligned with recognized standards that respond to the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Proper governance ensures fairness, transparency and accountability and safeguards the interests of all stakeholders, especially the minority shareholders. Empirical research also suggests that corporations that adhere to good governance practices are not only more sustainable but also tend to generate higher profitability. IDLC’s six core areas emphasize its effective corporate governance transparency and accountability. Keeping this in mind, clear strategy as demonstrated in the diagram. The company’s corporate structures and ownership supported by well-understood governance model is rigorously aligned with its well-articulated policies and procedures to guide the activities of the Company’s vision, mission, goals and objectives. management have been instituted and institutionalized. The Company’s Board of Directors are responsible for proper IDLC considers that its corporate governance practices comply governance, which includes setting out the Company’s strategic with all the aspects of the revised Corporate Governance Guideline aims, providing the necessary leadership to implement such (CGG) Notification No. SEC/CMMRRCD/2006-158/Admin/44, aims, supervising the management of the business and reporting dated August 07, 2012, issued by the Bangladesh Securities and to shareholders on their stewardship. The Board is collectively Exchange Commission (BSEC) and all aspects of Bangladesh Bank’s accountable to the Company’s shareholders for good governance DFIM Circular No. 7, dated September 25, 2007. In addition to to facilitate efficient and effective management towards delivering establishing the highest standards of corporate governance, IDLC long-term shareholder value within appropriately established risk also embraces best governance practices across all its activities. parameters. The independent role of the Board of Directors, separate and independent role of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, IDLC is committed to continually review all its corporate distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and governance policies and guidelines to ensure transparency in its Chief Compliance Officer and different Board Committees enable practices and the delivery of the highest ethical standards and IDLC to achieve excellence in corporate governance. quality information to its stakeholders on an ongoing basis. As a listed Company, IDLC must comply with the BSEC’s revised The sustenance of effective corporate governance remains CGG, which require the Company to provide a statement in the a key priority of IDLC’s Board. To exercise clarity about the Annual Report disclosing the extent to which it has complied with Directors’ responsibilities towards shareholders, corporate the BSEC Corporate Governance circulars. The status of compliance governance must be dynamic and remain focused on the shall be certified by a practicing Professional Accountant/Secretary. Company’s business objectives and create a culture of openness, 28 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED BOARD OF DIRECTORS, CHAIRMAN AND CEO of the Board, its Chairman and Chief Executive/Managing Director. The Board of Directors is in full control of the Company’s affairs Board of Directors and is also fully accountable to shareholders. It firmly believes that The Board of IDLC Finance Limited considers that its constitution the success of the Company hinges on the credible corporate should comprise Directors with an appropriate mix of skill, experience governance practices embraced by it. Taking this into consideration, and personal attributes that allow the Directors individually and the Board of Directors set out its strategic focus and supervises the the Board collectively to discharge their responsibilities and duties business and the related affairs of the Company. The Board also under the law efficiently and effectively, understand the Company’s formulates the strategic objectives and policy framework for the business and assess the performance of the management. The Company. In discharging the above responsibilities, the Board composition of the Board embraces diversity. The Directors possess caries out, inter alia, the following functions as per the charter a wide range of local and international experience, expertise of the Board and Bangladesh Bank’s DFIM Circular No. 7, dated and specialised skills to assist in decision-making and leading the September 25, 2007. Company for the benefit of its shareholders. The Chairman of the Board and the CEO of the Company Nomination Committee are different individuals The Nomination Committee is responsible for composition, The Chairman of the Board is not the Chief Executive of the balance and expertise of the Board as a whole and appraising the Company. The Chairman and the CEO & Managing Director are contribution of individual Directors, including a review of their different individuals. The role of the Chairman and the CEO & time commitment and attendance records. The Board, as a whole, Managing Director are independent and separate. decides on the nomination of any Board member and composition Role and responsibilities of the Chairman as defined by of the Board and its committees. the Board IDLC’s policy on appointment of Directors The Chairman runs the Board. The Chairman serves as the primary In relation to the selection and appointment of new Director, link between the Board and the management and works with the the existing Board of Directors possess the following duties and CEO and Company Secretary to set the agenda for Board meetings. responsibilities: It is the Chairman’s responsibility to provide leadership to the  Regularly review the size and composition of the Board and Board and ensure that the Board works effectively and discharges the mix of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives that its responsibilities as Directors of the Company. The role and may be desirable to permit the Board to execute its functions; responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board is defined and set by the Board.  Identify any competencies not adequately represented and agree to the process necessary to be assured that a candidate Role of the Chairman nominated by the shareholders with those competencies is selected; The Chairman’s primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective in its task of setting and implementing the Company’s direction  The Directors are appointed by the shareholders in the and strategy. The Chairman is appointed by the Board. The principal Annual General Meeting (AGM). Casual vacancies, if any, are features of the role of the Chairman comprise the following: filled by the Board in accordance with the stipulations of the Companies Act, 1994, and the Articles of IDLC;  Providing leadership to the Board;  Taking responsibility for the Board’s composition and  The CEO & Managing Director is appointed by the Board, development; subject to the consent of the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and approval of the Bangladesh Bank  Ensuring proper information for the Board; Planning and and conducting Board meetings effectively;  Getting all Directors involved in the Board’s work;  Any change in the members of the Board requires intimation to the Bangladesh Bank, all scheduled banks and Financial  Ensuring the Board’s focus on key tasks; Institutions (FIs), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange  Engaging the Board in assessing and improving its Commission (BSEC) and the stock exchanges. performance;  Overseeing the induction and development of Directors; and Role and responsibilities of the Board  Supporting the CEO & Managing Director. The Board is committed to the Company to achieve superior financial performance and long-term prosperity, while meeting Responsibilities of the Chairman stakeholder expectations of sound corporate governance The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the practices. The Board determines the corporate governance management, development and effective performance of the arrangements for the Company. As with all its business activities, Board of Directors and provides leadership to the Board for all the Board is proactive with regards to corporate governance and aspects of the Board’s functions. The Chairman is responsible for puts in place those arrangements that it considers are in the best leadership of the Board. In particular, he will: interests of the Company and its shareholders and consistent with  Ensure effective operations of the Board and its committees in its responsibilities to other stakeholders. conformance with the highest standards of corporate governance; The Board duly complies with the guidelines issued by the  Ensure effective communication with shareholders, host Bangladesh Bank regarding the responsibility and accountability 29 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 governments and other relevant constituencies and ensure  A formal corporate induction, including an introduction that the views of these groups are understood by the Board; to the Board, and a detailed overview of IDLC, its strategy,  Set the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions to operational structures and business activities; promote constructive debate and effective decision-making;  The roles and responsibilities of a Director, including statutory  Ensure that all Board Committees are properly established, duties and responsibilities; composed and operated;  A comprehensive induction program tailored by the  Support the CEO & Managing Director in strategy formulation Chairman and meetings with senior executives across IDLC and, more broadly, provide support and give advice; and sessions with IDLC’s business divisions; and  Ensure an effective relationship among Directors, acting as the principal conduit for communication and issues relating  A detailed induction program across risk, focusing on risk to business strategy, planned acquisitions and corporate appetite and the Group’s risk profile governance; Our Directors also attend various training programs and workshops  Establish a harmonious and open relationship with the CEO & arranged by national and international organisations. In 2016, our Managing Director; Directors attended a 2-day seminar on “Corporate Governance”,  Ensure that Board Committees are properly structured and all arranged by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). corporate governance matters are fully addressed; and Appraisal of performance of the Board  Encourage active engagement by all members of the Board. Annual evaluation of the CEO & Managing Director by the Both new and existing Directors are provided with the Code Board of Conduct for the Board members on general aspects of their Directorship and industry-specific matters. Moreover, the Board The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO & Managing Director is immediately informed of any new rules, regulations and/or based on the goals set for him considering the company vision and changes in existing regulations. The Board is also always kept mission at the beginning of each year. The annual financial budget updated on any development and changes in the business and other job objectives are discussed, reviewed and finalized by environment, risk and industry outlook to assist them to carry out the Board at the start of the financial year. The Board considers their duties as Directors. both financial and non-financial goals during the appraisal. Evaluation of the Board’s performance is conducted by analyzing Evaluation based on financial performance the performance of the projects and proposals approved by it. A quarterly review of classified and non-performing loans is always At the end of each quarter, the CEO & Managing Director is made by the Board to find out deviations and embrace course of evaluated based on the financial targets. The evaluation is done corrections, if any. based on both: Financial and accounting knowledge and expertise of  Achievement of targets against budget; Directors  Achievement of targets against the achievement of those IDLC’s Board of Directors consists of members who possess a targets in the previous year. wide variety of knowledge and experience in finance, economy, Evaluation based on Non-Financial goals management, business administration, marketing and law. This ensures that together, they formulate the right policy for the The CEO & Managing Director is also evaluated based on nondevelopment of the business while having the specialised skills financial goals in an ongoing basis. The non-financial criteria and the ability to foresee developments across a larger perspective include, but are not constricted to things such as: and with enough independence to audit the management in a  The confidence of the shareholders in the CEO, as reflected in balanced manner. the stock price of the company; Among them, two Directors are Fellow members of the Institute  The relationship of the company with the regulators; of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB). They normally provide guidance in matters applicable to accounting and auditIn addition, at the end of each year, an annual assessment and related issues to ensure compliance and reliable financial reporting. evaluation of the achievements of pre-agreed targets is done. During this evaluation, the deviations from target, and the reasons Holding of Board meetings for the deviations are discussed and assessed. As advised by the Bangladesh Bank, the meeting of the Board of a Continuing development program of Directors financial institution shall be held at its Corporate Head Office (CHO) or in the town in which its CHO is located. In compliance with this It is expected that all Directors have an understanding of IDLC’s directive, the meeting of the Board of Directors is normally held business model and the key challenges facing the Group as a at the registered Corporate Head Office of the Company. The whole, as this allows them to make an informed contribution to meeting is held frequently, at least once a quarter, to help the the Group. The Chairman ensures that all Directors receive a full, Board discharge its responsibilities and functions as mentioned formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, facilitated above. The meeting is scheduled well in advance and the notice by the senior management and comprising: of each Board meeting is given in writing to each Director by the Company Secretary. 30 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Process of holding Board meetings In compliance with the Corporate Governance guidelines, the Company Secretary has a defined role and responsibilities The Company Secretary prepares the detailed agenda for the approved by the Board. meeting. The Board papers comprising the agenda, explanatory notes and proposed resolutions are circulated to the Directors Committees of the Board well in advance for their review. The members of the Board The Board has established two permanent Committees to assist, advice have complete access to all the information of the Company, and make recommendations to the Board on matters falling within their enabling them to work efficiently. The members of the Board are respective responsibilities as per BSEC and Bangladesh Bank guidelines. also free to recommend inclusion of any matter in the agenda for discussions, subject to the permission of the Chairman of the Each Committee is governed by a formal charter approved by the meeting. The Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer Board, setting out its objectives, responsibilities, structures and always attend the Board meetings and the senior management is operations. invited to attend the Board meetings to provide additional inputs of the items being discussed by the Board and make necessary Executive Committee presentations. A four (4) members Executive Committee headed by a Director Directors’ remuneration is responsible for strategic and operational plans of the business. Matters related to the Company’s ordinary business operations and Directors are not entitled to any remuneration other than attending matters that the Board of Directors, from time to time, authorise, the meeting of the Board and its committees. are vested in this committee in accordance with the Statement of Bangladesh Bank vide its DFIM Circular no. 13 dated November 30, General and Operational Policies established and sustained by the 2015, re-fixed the maximum limit of remuneration to the Directors Board of Directors. This committee assists IDLC in taking prompt for attending meetings of the Board and its committees at Taka decisions and reacts swiftly to changes in the marketplace as they 8,000 per meeting per Director. The Board of IDLC adopted the occur. The rules of the Executive Committee is framed by the Board. said enhanced remuneration on December 24, 2015. Till then, the During the year under review, eleven (11) meetings of the remuneration was Taka 5,000 per meeting per Director. Executive Committee were held. The Company Secretary acts as Number of Board meetings held in 2016 the secretary of the Executive Committee. The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is six (6), IDLC’s Vision, Mission and Strategies out of the twelve Directors. During 2016, a total of thirteen (13) Board meetings were held. Board-approved vision and mission statements of the company Directors’ report on preparation and presentation of financial statements and corporate governance The Board of Directors, at its 193rd meeting held on May 13, 2012, redefined the Company’s vision, mission, strategic objectives The Companies Act, 1994, requires the Directors to prepare and value statements. Adhering to our value statements, we are financial statements for each accounting year. The Board of driving towards our vision. Directors accepts the responsibility for the preparation of the financial statements, maintaining adequate records for Strategies to achieve the Company’s business objectives safeguarding the assets of the Company, preventing and Aligned with our focus on enhancing shareholder communication detecting fraud and/ or other irregularities, selecting suitable and reporting our progress and prospects on an ongoing basis, accounting policies and applying those policies consistently we describe our strategy, resource allocation approach and our and making reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates future plans to achieve our business objectives. where necessary. The Board of Directors are also responsible for the implementation Audit Committee of the best and the most suitable corporate governance practices. Appointment of members and composition of the Audit Role of the Company Secretary Committee IDLC’s Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Board formed in The Company Secretary acts as a mediator between the Company, compliance with the requirements of DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 its Board of Directors, stakeholders, the government and regulatory October 2011 of the Bangladesh Bank and relevant BSEC notification(s) authorities. He has expertise in corporate laws, capital markets, and international best practices on corporate governance. security laws and corporate governance. He also advises the Board of Directors on the kind of practices to be adopted in upholding Composition of the Audit Committee consisting of an the high levels of corporate governance. Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary ensures that the best management In compliance with the DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 October 2011 practices and work ethics are embraced to create value for the of the Bangladesh Bank and Corporate Governance guidelines of Company. He represents the Company among internal and external BSEC, the Committee consists of four (4) non-executive members of stakeholders, coordinates the policies of the Company, fulfills the the Board including an Independent Director who is the Chairman management function and provides guidance on strategic decisions of the Committee. The quorum of the meeting shall not be filled for the improvement and growth of the Company. 31 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 until and unless the Independent Director attends the meeting. The In respect of financial statements: Company Secretary acts as the secretary of the Audit Committee. 1. Reviewing whether financial statements were prepared in compliance with all directives and guidelines prescribed by the Bangladesh Bank and other applicable standards Audit Committee Composition 2. Engaging in discussions with external auditors and the 1 management prior to the finalization of the financial statements Nominated Non Executive Directors 3. Attending and answering questions related to accounts and Independent Non Executive audit at the AGM Directors In respect of internal audit: 1. Reviewing the activities and organisational structure of 3 internal audit and ensuring that there is no barrier or limitation to the performance of an independent internal audit 2. Assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of internal audit 3. Assessing whether the management is appropriately Qualification of members including the Chairman considering compliance of recommendations made by the internal auditors with regards to the observations identified Mr. Monower Uddin Ahmed, one of the Independent Directors, by them is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, possessing of vast experience. Among others, two members, Mr. Kamrul Hassan 4. Placing recommendations before the Board of Directors in FCA and Mr. Mohammad Mahbubur Rahman FCA, are Fellow case of change of accounting policies members of the Institute of Chartered Accounts of Bangladesh (ICAB). They also possess significant experience in finance, In respect of external audit: accounting and audit. 1. Appraising the audit procedures and reviewing the All the members of the Committee are ‘financially literate’ as management letter submitted by external auditors defined by the revised corporate governance guidelines. 2. Assessing whether the management has appropriately Terms of reference of Audit Committee – empowering to considered the observations and recommendations made by investigate employees and retain external counsel the external auditors This role is further expounded on and clarified in the Terms of 3. Placing recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding Reference (ToR) of the Audit Committee, which was revised in light the appointment of external auditors of directives contained in DFIM Circular No. 13, dated 26 October, 2011 issued by the Bangladesh Bank. According to the revised ToR In respect of compliance with existing regulations: of the Audit Committee, its principal duties and responsibilities Reviewing whether the rules and regulations set by regulatory include the following: authorities (Bangladesh Bank and other regulatory bodies) as In respect of internal control: well as internal policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors are being complied with. 1. Evaluating whether the management: a. Has an appropriate internal control and compliance culture Miscellaneous: with regards to risk management Placing quarterly reports before the Board of Directors on b. Has clearly defined the duties and responsibilities of officials rectification / correction status of errors, fraud, forgery and other irregularities identified by internal auditors, external auditors and c. Has full control over the operations of the Company the Bangladesh Bank inspection teams 2. Reviewing the appropriateness of management information system (MIS) including information technology system and its use Undertaking development functions through implementing an improved infrastructure and reporting system and 3. Reviewing whether the management is complying with the recommendations made by internal and external auditors Performing all other supervisory activities as assigned by the Board 4. Reviewing existing risk management procedures to ensure as well as evaluating its own efficiency on a regular basis. that processes are effectively run within the Company Accessibility of Head of Internal Audit to the meeting of 5. Reviewing all fraud, forgery and internal control weaknesses the Audit Committee discovered by internal, external or regulatory auditors and thereafter keeping the Board of Directors informed of all The Head of Internal Control and Compliance has direct access to the discoveries and subsequent corrective measures Audit Committee, which in turn is directly accountable to the Board. 32 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Holding of the Audit Committee meeting during 2016 A formal well-defined organisational structure, setting out key areas of authority and responsibility and appropriate reporting As per the Terms of Reference, the Audit Committee is required to lines that is relevant to the nature and size of the Company’s hold at least four (4) meetings in a year. During the year ended 31 business; December 2016, the Committee held six (6) meetings. Human resource policies that demonstrate the Company’s Quorum of the Audit Committee meetings commitment towards recruiting employees who meet established standards of competence and ethical behavior. The number of Directors required to constitute a quorum is two (2). Of them, one shall be an Independent Director. The Company Risk assessment Secretary shall act as the secretary of the Committee. Risk assessment refers to the process(es) with which the Company The Audit Committee and Internal Control and Compliance identifies and assesses risks in the achievement of its objectives. A changing external and internal environment means that risk IDLC’s Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department is assessment is a dynamic process and must occur at all levels of tasked with reviewing the Company’s system of internal controls the organisational structure, ranging from branch and department including the conduct of regular audits of all operational units. ICC level reviews of portfolios, functions and operations to ManCom is operationally independent in that its members are not involved and ALCO meetings at the very top level of the management. in the Company’s operational activities and that the Head of ICC (HoICC), in addition to his direct reporting line to the CEO & Control activities Managing Director, also has access to the Audit Committee. Control activities are the policies and procedures that help ensure The Audit Committee is responsible for approving the annual audit that the management directives are carried out. Control activities plan of ICC and reviewing the plan’s subsequent implementation. have various objectives and are applied throughout the Company at all levels and in all functions. These include activities such as The internal audit reports or summaries thereof prepared by the authorization, reviews, reconciliations and verifications. ICC are reviewed on a regular basis by the Committee. Reporting of the Audit Committee Information and communication The information and communication component facilitates the The Audit Committee reports directly to the Board of Directors and functioning of the other components by providing information under certain circumstances, can also report to the BSEC. that is necessary for the attainment of Company objectives and Immediate reporting to the Board of Directors by establishing a continuous process for collecting, sharing and The Audit Committee shall immediately report to the Board of disseminating necessary information from both within and outside Directors in the following cases: the Company. Towards this end, the Company has established information systems that deal with internally-generated data  On conflict of interest; as well as external events, activities and conditions relevant to  Suspected and presumed fraud or irregularity or material business decision-making to produce operational, functional and defect in the internal control system; compliance-related information. In addition to Flexcube, our other  Suspected infringement of laws, including securities-related customised software have greatly enriched the capabilities of the laws, rules and regulations and Company’s information systems. In a more general sense, the IDLC culture encourages sharing of information and opinions across the  Any other matter which should be disclosed to the Board of management hierarchy and among different businesses, functions Directors immediately and departments. No such issues arose at IDLC during the year ended 31 December 2016. Monitoring The Company’s internal control system consists of five inter-related Monitoring ensures that controls are operating as intended and components: that they are appropriately modified in response to changing conditions. At IDLC, this is achieved through a variety of measures The control environment including ongoing monitoring which occurs in the course of, and as a part of, day-to-day operations as well as separate The control environment refers to the orientation, awareness and management reviews, evaluations and periodic internal audits of actions of those in the governance and management roles with various departments and business functions. regards to the Company’s internal control and its importance in the entity. Elements under IDLC’s control environment include: Although the Board of IDLC is primarily responsible for ensuring that the Company has an adequate and effective control system Active participation by those charged with governance as in place, ultimately, all employees are accountable for managing evidenced through regular meetings of its Board of Directors and internal controls. Business and operational units, particularly Audit Committee; department heads, are in-charge of ensuring that internal controls The communication and fostering of an environment that are established, well-documented and maintained across his / her consistently requires integrity and ethical behavior as evidenced department. The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department by regular communication and confirmation of its Code of acts as a second line of defense through conducting tests on the Conduct and zero tolerance for illegal or unethical behavior; efficiency and effectiveness of the control systems through audit. 33 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 A prudently designed management structure, clearly defined Compliance risk responsibilities, delegation of authorities, risk awareness, establishment of accountability at each level and a system of Compliance risk is defined as the current or prospective risk of periodic reporting and performance monitoring represent the key legal actions and / or material financial losses that an organisation elements of the internal control framework employed at IDLC. may suffer as a result of its failure to comply with laws, its own regulations, code of conduct and standards of the best practice Identification of key risks IDLC is exposed to – both as well as from the possibility of incorrect interpretation of laws internally and externally or regulations. The guidelines set out the respective roles of the Board, senior management and compliance function units in Risk is the element of uncertainty or the possibility of loss that managing compliance risks and also require formulation of a prevails in any business transaction in any place, in any mode written compliance risk management policy. and at any time. Risk is an integral part of the financing business. Risk management entails the adoption of several measures to Historically, IDLC has always fostered a compliance-oriented strengthen the ability of an organisation to cope with the vagaries culture. This has been reinforced in a variety of ways, ranging of the complex business environment in which it operates. from formal requirements to sign declarations of compliance with the IDLC Code of Conduct (requiring compliance with the IDLC always concentrates on delivering high value to its laws and regulations) to ongoing communication from the senior stakeholders through appropriate tradeoffs between risk and management stressing the need to do business under the highest return. In addition to the industry best practices for assessing, levels of compliance. In general, compliance risk management is identifying and measuring risks, IDLC also considers guidelines for embedded in the day-to-day management of business processes managing core risks of financial instructions issued by Bangladesh and practices of the Company. With the introduction of the Bank, vide FID Circular No. 10 dated September 18, 2005 for Integrated Risk Management Guidelines, the overall management management of risks and, more recently, DFIM Circular No. 03 of compliance risk is reviewed and appropriately amended to dated 24 January 2016. ensure conformity with the guidelines. A well-structured and proactive risk management system is in Reputation risk place within the Company to address risks relating to: Reputation risk may be defined as the risk of loss arising from  Credit risk damages to an organisation’s reputation. The guidelines set out  Market risk the respective roles of the Board and the senior management in  Liquidity risk managing reputation risk and also require financial institutions to  Operational risk implement a sound and comprehensive risk management process to identify, monitor, control and report all reputational risks. Money laundering and terrorist financing risk IDLC has already established a set of non‐financial reputational The new Integrated Risk Management Guidelines for Financial risk indicators and put in place a structured process for monitoring Institutions specify a number of additional risks that financial these and any other matters that might give rise to potential institutions are now required to manage and report in a more reputational risks. Till date, no material reputational risk issue structured manner. The key among these are: involving the Company has been identified. Strategic risk Environmental and social risk Strategic risk has been defined as the risk of potential losses IDLC is focused on sustainability, shifting from the traditional financing that might arise from adverse business decisions, sub-standard approach. In this regard, the Company is strengthening its credit execution and failure to respond adequately to changes in the appraisal process to be much more stringent from an environment business environment. The guidelines set out the respective and social (E&S) perspective, evaluating all the environmental and roles of the Board of Directors, senior management and business social factors such as project impacts on the environment and the units in managing strategic risks, identify the minimum steps to community in the long run, prior to sanctioning a loan. be followed in the strategic risk management process and also suggest measures for strategic risk control. Acknowledgment of Directors’ responsibility in respect of IDLC has been managing strategic risks ever since its inception. This internal control of IDLC is evident from the Company’s constantly evolving business model over the years. The Company has a clear strategic vision as to what IDLC’s Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for it wants to become and a mission statement that enumerates the maintaining the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system steps required to achieve its vision. Strategic issues are discussed of internal controls. The Board is of the view that the internal at a variety of forums including meetings of the Management control framework is designed to manage the Group’s risks within Committee and of the IDLC Board. Over the past few years, a an acceptable risk profile, rather than completely eliminate the risk separate Strategic Planning department has been instituted to of failure to achieve the policies, goals and objectives of the Group. assist senior management in this regard. The culmination of all The Board therefore believes that it can provide only reasonable, these efforts are reflected in annual strategy and budget sessions, rather than absolute, assurance regarding effectiveness against where the Company sets outs its plans for the next year. With the material mis-statements of management and financial information introduction of the new guidelines, more changes will be made or against financial losses and fraud. to the strategic risk management process as and when required. 34 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Subject to the caveats of reasonable assurance mentioned with the highest standards of ethics and compliance. above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed and assessed the Group’s system of internal controls with regards to its adequacy The Board views adherence to ethical standards and compliance as and effectiveness in providing reasonable assurance regarding an integral part of the broader corporate governance framework and the achievement of objectives relating to the effectiveness and seeks to adopt a holistic approach in ensuring its implementation. efficiency of operations, reliability of both external and internal As part of this, it has instituted a number of approaches to underline financial and non-financial reporting and compliance with the its commitment to high standards of ethical behavior: applicable laws and regulations.  Setting down standards of expected behavior through the In order to address and mitigate the risks prudently, at IDLC, the formulation and communication of a Code of Conduct. following committees are operational:  Installing a system of internal controls, which is reviewed, evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis.  Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC): To evaluates all projects / proposals of financing activities of the Company from the  Positioning Company policies and procedures on ethical risk point of view. foundations to ensure that ethical considerations are integrated in the day-to-day decision-making, activities and processes.  Risk Management Forum (RMF): To introduce proactive risk management procedures in line with international best  Establishing a clearly-defined organisational structure that practices framework. assigns responsibility and authority for the conduct of organisational functions while at the same time ensuring  Risk Analysis Unit (RAU): To act as the secretariat of the Risk accountability for individual actions. Management Forum with responsibility for identifying and analyzing the various types of risks appropriately and in a  Establishing a variety of monitoring mechanisms including the timely manner. creation and empowerment of an operationally independent internal audit team with reporting responsibilities to the audit  Central Compliance Unit (CCU): Responsible for supervising committee. the anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-terrorism activities (ATA) at IDLC.  Ensuring instant action with zero tolerance for identified instances of unethical and/or non-compliant behavior. Ethics and Compliance Code of Conduct for Board members The Board’s commitment to establishing the highest levels of The Board of Directors of IDLC is committed to the highest standards ethics and compliance of conduct in their relationship with IDLC employees, customers, members, shareholders, regulators and the public. This refers to The IDLC Group remains committed to upholding the highest conducting our business in accordance with all applicable laws standards of ethics and compliance by its employees. This and regulations and also represents our commitment to the spirit commitment is reflected in its Code of Conduct that covers, of the law. Our actions should reflect IDLC’s values, demonstrate among other issues, the following areas: ethical leadership and promote a work environment that upholds  Their relationship with and responsibilities to IDLC. IDLC’s reputation for integrity, ethical conduct and trust. This Code is intended to provide a statement of the fundamental principles  Their relationship with and responsibilities to customers. applicable to our Directors.  Compliance with laws and regulations. Our Directors are encouraged to bring forth questions about  Acting in a professional and ethical manner. particular circumstances that may involve one or more of the  Protection of business assets. provisions of this Code to the Chairman of the Board.  Disclosure of conflicts of interest. In compliance with the revised corporate governance guidelines  Prohibition of any conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit issued by the BSEC, the Board shall lay down the Code of Conduct or misrepresentation including insider trading. of all Board members and annual compliance of the Code has to Dissemination of the statement of ethics and Code of be recorded. Conduct Scope of the Code of Conduct All IDLC employees are required to sign an annual declaration (a) A member must observe the Board’s Code of Conduct confirming that they have read and understood the Code of whenever he/she: Conduct. The Human Resources department circulates the required declaration, and ensures that all employees signed the declaration.  Conducts the business of the Board The Internal Control and Compliance (ICC) department, through  Acts as a representative of the Board regular audits, assesses whether any employees have breached (b) The Board’s Code of Conduct shall not have any effect in the Code of Conduct. relation to the activities of a Board member undertaken other Board’s commitment to establishing high levels of ethics than in an official capacity, except and in so far as otherwise and compliance within IDLC indicated The IDLC Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring that Where a Board member acts as a representative of the Board at the the Company’s business activities are conducted in accordance meeting of another public body or Committee, he/she must, when 35 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 acting in that capacity, comply with the Board’s Code of Conduct, E. Confidential information except and in so far as it conflicts with any other legal obligations to which he/she may be subject to. The Board members shall maintain confidentiality of information entrusted to them in carrying out their duties and responsibilities, General obligation except where disclosure is approved by the Company or legally mandated or if such information is in the public domain. The Code of Conduct for Board members of the Company includes: The Company’s confidential and proprietary information shall A. Prudent conduct and behavior not be inappropriately disclosed or used for the personal gain or advantage of any Board member other than the Company. These Each Board member should seek to use due care in the performance obligations apply not only during a Board member’s term but of his / her duties, be loyal to the Company, act in good faith and in thereafter as well. a manner that such a Board member reasonably believes to be not opposed to the best interests of the Company. A Board member F. Fair dealing shall seek to: In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members i Make reasonable efforts to attend Board and Committee shall endeavor to deal fairly and should promote fair dealing by the meetings Company, its employees and agents with customers, suppliers and ii. Dedicate time and attention to the Company employees. iii. Seek to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, G. Compliance with laws and regulations confidentiality obligations and corporate policies of the Company In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members iv. Act in the best interest of, and fulfill their fiduciary obligations shall comply and endeavor to ensure that the management is to, the Company’s shareholders causing the Company to comply with all applicable laws, rules and v. Use due care and diligence in performing their duties of office regulations. and in exercising their powers attached to that office In addition, if any Board member becomes aware of any information that he / she believes constitutes evidence of material B. Business opportunities violation of any securities or other laws, rules and regulations In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board members applicable to the Company or the operation of its business, by the shall avoid: Company or any employee or another Board member, then such a Board member should bring such information to the attention of (i) Appropriating corporate business opportunities for the CEO & Managing Director of the Company. themselves that are discovered through the use of Company property or information or their position as Board member H. Insider trading (ii) Using Company property or information, or their position as Board member, for personal gain The Board members shall not engage in insider trading with respect to the purchase and sale of the Company’s securities. (iii) Competing with the Company The Board members shall not buy or sell securities while in C. Conflict of interest possession of material non-public information about the issuer of that security, whether the issuer is IDLC or any another company. Each Board member shall endeavor to avoid having his or her The Board members shall also not pass such information to private interests interfere with: someone who may buy or sell securities. The Code of Conduct for (i) The interests of the Company Board members sets forth guidelines for conduct and they affirm (ii) His or her ability to perform his or her duties and responsibilities compliance with the Code on an annual basis. objectively and effectively Accordingly, IDLC’s Board designed the Code of Conduct for all The Board members shall avoid receiving or permitting members the members of the Board and its annual compliance has been of their immediate family to receive improper personal benefits recorded for 2016. from the Company, including loans from or guarantees of To abide by the code of integrity and good governance in line with obligations by the Company. the National Integrity Strategy of Bangladesh, IDLC constituted an A Board member shall make a full disclosure to the entire Board ‘Integrity Committee’. of any transaction or relationship that such a member reasonably expects could give rise to an actual conflict of interest with the Existence of effective anti-fraud programs and controls Company and seek the Board’s authorization to pursue such through whistle-blower mechanism transactions or relationships. In recent times, the Company has come to identify the risk of fraud D. Company property as one of the emerging issues in the overall risk management framework. Planned anti-fraud initiatives include the introduction In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board of a whistle-blower mechanism. A whistleblower policy has already members shall endeavor to ensure that the management is using been formulated and placed before the senior management the Company’s assets, proprietary information and resources to for review and approval. Additionally, emphasis is placed on be used by the Company and its employees only for legitimate strengthening existing processes or activity levels and anti-fraud business purposes. 36 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED controls are embedded within the overall system of internal is to oversee IDLC in accordance with its Constitution under the controls. Financial Institutions Act, 1993. Redress of investor’s complaints The Committee is responsible for all aspects of the ongoing operations of IDLC. It delegates day-to-day operations to the IDLC has a formal complaint management process that is open Executive Officer. A significant feature of good governance is a to all stakeholders including both investors and customers. A clear segregation of the responsibilities and accountability of the dedicated complaints cell is headed by a senior member of the committee from those of the Executive Officer. management for dealing with complaints. Complaints may also be dropped at complaint boxes kept at all IDLC branches or can be ManCom is always aware of IDLC’s operations, keeps an eye on the big submitted online on the IDLC website: www.idlc.com. picture, monitors the strategic plan and if and whether the goals are being met. It needs to be satisfied that current events are in accordance with IDLC policies and objectives within the overall budget. Human Capital Performance review IDLC considers its human resources as its most important asset. We mobilize people and teams through engaging them with leading The CEO is responsible for setting financial targets as well as and cutting-edge financial industry practices and also as an operational and management goals for the members of the attractive employer. IDLC offers a broad spectrum of opportunities ManCom. Both short-term and long-term goals form part of the for both professional and personal development as well as a work performance management of all senior executives. Long-term environment that is characterized by respect, trust, cooperation goals are directly linked with the Company’s vision. Short-term and collaboration. We do so because the knowledge, skills and goals are generally directly linked to the objectives of the Company. enthusiasm of our employees are a major force that enables us to The CEO and the Evaluation Committee conduct a detailed review achieve consistent growth. IDLC believes its human resource is the of the performance of senior executives against these goals on an most important driver of building and running the Company. Each annual basis at the end of each year. and every employee is considered, developed and motivated to HR and Compensation Committee contribute optimally towards the achievement of corporate goals. IDLC’s HR and Compensation Committee was established on 24 Human resources policy May 2007 to provide a forum for discussion on the Company’s various HR-related issues. The principal role and function of Disclosure of general description of the policies and practices codified the HR and Compensation Committee is to assist the human and adopted by the Company with respect to human resource resource department in developing and administering a fair and development and management, including succession planning, merittransparent procedure for setting policies on the Group’s overall based recruitment process, performance appraisal system, criteria for human resource strategy. promotion and reward and motivation, training and development, grievance management and counselling. The responsibility of the committee is to ensure wide, equal opportunity and transparency in terms of suitable recruitment, Organizational chart compensation on the basis of merit, qualification and IDLC’s organisational chart outlines the internal structure of competence, adequate training and development facilities, the Company. It emphasises on the roles, responsibilities and performance evaluation and promotion based on individual relationships between individuals within the Company. It is used performance and contribution and other benefits-related issues to depict the structure of IDLC as a whole as well as the Company with regards to the Company’s operating results and comparable segregated by divisions and departments. market statistics. Structure Number of Meetings held There were two meetings of the HR Compensation Committee in The Company’s management structure comprises the CEO the 2016. The first meeting was held on June 2016, and the second & Managing Director and the management team (ManCom). meeting on December 2016. The ManCom is responsible for developing organisational and business strategies, embracing innovation and ensuring that the Work Performed in 2016 Company conforms to best governance and operating practices. The ManCom is also responsible for organisational effectiveness  The committee performed the evaluation of IDLC employees and the development of IDLC’s values and culture. The ManCom for 2016. is responsible for managing IDLC’s performance and key business  Decisions regarding the yearly increment of IDLC employees issues in line with the Company’s long-term strategy and for talent was made by the committee. and performance management. The ManCom is chaired by the  The committee determined the bonus for the employees of IDLC. CEO & Managing Director and the team meets face-to-face on a  Promotion declaration of qualified employees was also made regular basis. by the committee. Management Committee (ManCom) Remuneration of Employees The Management Committee is a group elected among the IDLC provides its employees with remuneration that is in line with management staff to take responsibility of the governance and industry standards. In addition to salary, IDLC employees also strategic direction of IDLC. The role of the Management Committee receive other benefits such as Provident Fund, Gratuity etc. 37 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Remuneration of senior executives Notice of the AGM is sent to the Dhaka Stock Exchange (DSE), Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), online Remuneration for senior executives is market-based and newspapers and print media. The notice of the AGM is also made competitive in order to attract, motivate and retain skilled and available on the company website. competent employees. The total remuneration package to senior executives comprises basic pay, allowances, retirement Communication during the AGM benefits (Gratuity and Provident Fund) and other benefits as per company’s policies. Executives are also paid a variable amount The shareholders who attend the AGM have the option to ask each year (yearly performance bonus) determined based on the questions and give suggestions to the Board members during performance of the company and the outcome in the executive’s the AGM. The CEO & Managing Director, on behalf of the Board, personal area of responsibility and individually established targets answers the queries of the shareholders. that were set in the beginning of the year. Communication through website IDLC Ladies Forum (IDLC LF) The Company’s website www.idlc.com displays, inter-alia, the IDLC has launched its first Ladies Forum through a formal Annual Reports, half yearly reports, quarterly reports, monthly ceremony with the participation of all the female employees from business reviews, product offerings, recent announcements, different levels of positions, working areas and distribution points presentations and event updates. to address their views, problems and opinions to facilitate a better working environment for them. All disclosures required by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission, Listing Regulations of the Dhaka Stock Exchange This Forum will provide all women employees the opportunity Limited and the Chittagong Stock Exchange Limited and the for networking and provide a common platform to share and Bangladesh Bank in the form of Price Sensitive Information (PSI) raise various issues and problems like discrimination, harassment, are made adequately and promptly. In addition to ensuring timely negative attitude towards women and any other issue that may compliance, this also enables dissemination of information to all affect women employees within the Company. This will enable stakeholders and the public through print and online media. IDLC’s management to better understand and address these issues and develop strategies accordingly. Environmental and Social Obligation Communication and Relationship with At IDLC, we believe in the concept of a sustainable business, one that integrates good governance, environmental issues and Shareholders social concerns with its business strategies to maximize value It is the Company’s policy that all external communication by the for stakeholders. IDLC’s sustainability model is based on the 3P Company will: approach – People, Planet and Profit:  Be factual and subject to internal vetting and authorization before issue  Not omit material information  Express information in a timely, clear and objective manner Proﬁt IDLC strongly believes that all stakeholders should have access to complete information on its activities, performance and product initiatives. CSR Communication through quarterly reports People Planet The Company reports to its shareholders four times a year through quarterly and half-yearly reports and a detailed Annual Report. Communication through AGM All shareholders have the right to attend the Annual General Meeting where they can meet and communicate with the  People, our stakeholders with whom we engage for our Directors and express their views regarding the Company’s business and the community where we live business, its future prospects and other matters of interest. The shareholders are always encouraged to attend the meetings or, if  Planet, our surrounding environment and the planet they are unable to attend, to appoint proxies.  Profit, our profit-generating capacity for long-term Process of communicating the schedule sustenance Accordingly, IDLC has aligned its CSR (corporate social At least 14 to 21 days before the AGM, hard copies of the Annual responsibility) initiatives to deliver on this commitment Report and notice of the AGM are mailed to shareholders as on the and aid community empowerment and responsible Record Date. environmental management in a sustainable manner. 38 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED At IDLC, we are also focusing on Earth and its sustainability, shifting this project is to help IDLC identify customers with potentially high from the traditional financing approach. In this regard, we are environmental and social risks, enable them to evaluate the E&S making our credit appraisal process to be much more stringent performance of such customers through its due diligence and from an environmental and social (E&S) perspective – evaluating credit appraisal processes and make those customers, especially all the environmental and social factors such as project impacts who are not in compliance with local E&S regulations, behave more on the environment and the community in the long run, prior to responsibly through the use of environmental or social covenants approving a loan. Being the only listed member of UNEP FI, we in the facility agreements. This project will not only satisfy the have been following Environmental Risk Management guideline Central Bank’s requirements but also enable IDLC to comply 2011 by Bangladesh Bank. Taking this approach one step further, with internationally-acceptable risk management standards. IDLC is in the process of adopting an extensive environmental and Furthermore, execution of the green banking policy, which is in social management system (ESMS) across the organisation with line with IFC Performance Standard, ADB Safeguard Policy and assistance from FMO, a Dutch development bank, and FI Konsult, Bangladesh Bank guidelines is considered as yet another milestone IDLC’s appointed consultant for this project. The overall goal of towards sustainability. 39 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community. IDLC’s sustainability model is based on the 3P approach people, planet and profit. We have identified our CSR focus areas in resonance with its organisational vision, mission, values and expertise. With its CSR initiatives, IDLC is actively contributing to socio-economic transformation of the underprivileged through better education, income-generation and providing access to proper health and hygiene facilities and also undertaking green banking initiatives in terms of both in-house management and external activities. Guiding Principles, Regulatory Bodies and Memberships IDLC’s CSR activities are regulated by the Sustainable Finance Department of the Bangladesh Bank. We are also members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) and the CSR Center (local network of UNGC in Bangladesh). IDLC has also integrated UNEP FI’s guiding principles in upholding human rights, labour standards, responsible environmental management and anti-corruption policies and practices. Associations Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association | Asian Financial Services Association | Bangladesh Merchant Bankers Association | Bangladesh Association of Publicly Listed Companies. Institute The Institute of Bankers, Bangladesh. Chambers of Commerce and Industry International Chamber of Commerce – Bangladesh | Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Bangladesh German Chamber of Commerce and Industry | The Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Other Memberships United Nations Global Compact | United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative | CSR Center of Bangladesh | International Factors Group (IFG), an international association of factoring companies |Small Business Banking Network (SBBN), a global initiative to improve access to financial services by small businesses. 40 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED CSR Initiatives, 2016 Investment Sectors 7% 2% 39% SME Corporate 32% Consumer Investment Others 20% Far East – IDLC Skills Development Program IDLC’s flagship project, which aims at empowering marginalised women from North Bengal, successfully completed its project tenure in December 2016. The project commenced in June 2013 and, till date, as many as 242 individuals have received training at Gazipur Technical School and College (GTSC) under the Directorate of Technical Education, Government of Bangladesh. Among them, 196 completed on-the-job training at Far East Knitting and Dyeing Industries Limited. Around 124 graduates are now successfully employed within the industry. All project costs, including monthly stipend and accommodation for trainees, initial orientation in North Bengal and transportation costs, remuneration for technical trainers and operational expenses and material costs of the training sessions are jointly sponsored by Far East and IDLC. The training equipment was provided by ILO with funding from the European Union. Besides technical training, the project also focuses on issues such as factory rules and regulations, labour rights, gender issues, worker-management relations and occupational health and safety standards. Promoting income-generation activities among adolescents with autism and intellectual and multiple disabilities through livelihood training IDLC extended its long-standing partnership with the Society for Education and Inclusion of the Disabled (SEID) and facilitated the organisation in conducting further vocational skills development among the adolescents with disabilities. This partnership extension was achieved through signing of a MoU by both organisations on 25 May 2016. 41 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 As per the MoU, SEID extended vocational training opportunities be drafted for extended vocational training and 80% of their family for selected adolescents and youth with disabilities, provided will be more supportive towards self-independency regarding advanced vocational training, established linkages with their adolescents with disabilities. outsourcing agents, buyers and job providers to place the graduates and exhibited their handmade products. It is expected The signing was chaired by Mr. Arif Khan, CEO & Managing Director, that upon completion of this project, 10 adolescents with autism, IDLC Finance Limited, and Mr. Ranjan Karmakar, Chairperson, SEID. intellectual or multiple disabilities will be involved in incomeSenior officials from both the organisations were also present at generation activities; 50% of the adolescents with disabilities will the signing ceremony. Shishu Bikash Chhaya, an orphanage based in Old Dhaka that currently enrolled for a Honors Degree in Bangla and a Diploma accommodates and grooms around 20 children, has been IDLC’s course in nursing. The Mission houses underprivileged girls partner since 2012. In 2016, IDLC continued to support 20 children of and supports their education up to completion of HSC (Higher the shelter so that they could continue with their educational pursuits. Secondary Certificate). In 2016, one of students from the orphanage completed her Honors Degree in Bangla, while the other student IDLC has been working with Ahsania Mohila Mission Orphanage continues pursuing her nursing degree. since 2013 through sponsoring two female students who are IDLC Partners with IWF to promote mental health and wellbeing at high school-level IDLC, as part of its corporate responsible practice, partnered Monira Rahman, Executive Director, Innovation for Wellbeing with Innovation for Wellbeing Foundation (IWF) to pilot the Foundation. development and implementation of mental health and wellbeing programs in high schools with the aim of enriching the The overall objective of the pilot project is to develop structured country’s human capital. Under the MoU signed between IDLC mental health programs at high school-level and document the and IWF, IWF will conduct a baseline survey; review the Mental process for roll-out across other schools by the Ministry of Education, Health First Aid (MHFA) for youth international training material; development partners and civil society organisations. The project, translate and adapt to the Bangladeshi context; design and to be implemented in high schools in Dhaka, encompasses the print an instructor kit, training manual and workbook; provide design and development of mental health education programs training to teachers on MHFA; develop educational materials and is focused on eliminating the stigma associated with mental for field testing and implement the program in collaboration illness. Since July 2016, IWF has partnered with Manik Nagar High with the selected schools. The signing was chaired by Mr. Arif School in Jatra Bari to implement this project and, going forward, Khan, CEO & Managing Director, IDLC Finance Limited, and Ms. plans to include more schools under the ambit. 42 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Enhancing infant care and breastfeeding skills of female garment factory workers in Chittagong IDLC, as part of its commitment towards the larger community, is implementing a project in collaboration with BGMEA, BSRM Foundation and TAHN Foundation, titled ‘Enhancing Infant Care and Breastfeeding Skills of Female Garment Factory Workers’ in Chittagong. The project aims to enhance infant care and breastfeeding skills of women garment factory workers by developing community-based peer counsellors and other relevant support systems. IDLC and BSRM are the partial sponsors of the project. TAHN Foundation is providing training and development to community peer counsellors and supervisors who will be engaged in creating awareness and educating women RMG workers and influential members of their families. From April 2016 to June 2016, 55 pregnant mothers were enrolled in the project and there were 83 deliveries. As many as 352 mothers received counselling services among whom 43 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 116 had babies between 6-18 months of age. From July 2016 challenging for women who work in factories that are typically far to September 2016, 45 pregnant mothers were enrolled in the away from their homes when they cannot go to breastfeed during project and there were 66 deliveries. Thirty-five pregnant women lunch breaks or if they do not have any family members to bring are yet to give birth and there are 62 mothers with babies below their baby to the factory for breastfeeding during lunch breaks. six months of age. The total number of mothers who are currently Though we have provided containers, unfortunately, they do not receiving our counselling services are 375 and 174 have babies have a separate room to express their breast milk and no fridge to between 6-18 months of age. The breastfeeding outcomes store it. All the mothers start complementary feeding after babies continued to be encouraging. Although the majority of mothers complete six months of age and they or the caregivers are trying managed to breastfeed their babies even after returning to work, to follow the recommended feeding practices. their numbers declined by the third month. Breastfeeding is more IDLC stands by the flood-affected victims of Nilphamari and Rangpur By August, 42 flood-related deaths were confirmed by local authorities. The floods roughly damaged 2.5 lac houses. To support the flood victims, the IDLC CSR team, in collaboration with the Rangpur unit of Bangladesh Red Crescent Society (BDRCS), under the supervision of its national headquarters, distributed emergency relief among 250 flood-hit families. Each of the beneficiary families received dry food and non-food and hygiene items to last for about two weeks. The relief distribution at Nilphamari was organised on 9 September 2016 at Dalia Bazar and the following guests and IDLC representatives were present: Dr. Hasan Habibur Rahman, Secretary of Red Crescent Society, Nilphamari; Mr. Manotosh Chandra Ghosh, Branch Manager of Rangpur, IDLC Finance Ltd; Mr. Sabuj Kumar Das, Officer, IDLC Finance Ltd and other dignitaries. On 10 September 2016, distribution took place at Rangpur, Pirgachha Upazila Parishad office in which the following guests and IDLC representatives were present: Mr. Tipu Munshi, Honorable Parliament Member of Pirgacchha, Rangpur; Ms. Aliya Ferdous Since 19 July 2016, heavy rains in the main riverine basins of Jahan, UNO, Pirgachha; Mr. Alhaj Afsar Ali, Upazila Chairman; Mr. Bangladesh and upstream catchments of India caused severe Ariful Islam, HoRB & AGM, IDLC Finance Ltd; Mr. Shahriar Rahman, flooding in the north and north-eastern parts of Bangladesh, Senior Executive Officer, Green Banking Desk, IDLC Finance Ltd and affecting an estimated 1.9 million people across 19 districts. Mr. Nobi Ullah Panna, Secretary, Red Crescent Society, Nilphamari. Tree plantation IDLC regularly conducts plantation activities across various regions of the country to contribute to carbon footprint reduction. In 2016, the Company sponsored a plantation program in which 200 saplings were planted at BCIC College, BCIC School at Mirpur and Lalmatia Womens’ College. The plantation was conducted with the support from Tarru Pallab, a voluntary organisation managed by renowned environmentalists in Bangladesh. 44 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Contribution to the National Economy IDLC aspires to be one of the major contributors to the economy Focus on SME Financing of Bangladesh both in monetary and non-monetary terms. IDLC SMEs are the key drivers of any economy, while narrowing was established in 1985 as the first leasing company in the country income inequality and supporting poverty alleviation. Researchers and with its pioneering role has established and popularized estimate presence of approximately six million SMEs in Bangladesh, lease finance as an alternative and secured source of long term making up 75% of the domestic economy, while accounting for finance. IDLC is the largest employer, financial service provider 80% of industrial employment and 25% of the total workforce. and taxpayer among the non-banking financial institutions in Under this milieu, IDLC initiated SME financing back in 2006, and the country. Some of our specific contributions to the national is now among the top five financial service providers to small economy are highlighted below: businesses in Bangladesh. Today it comprises more than 40% of Taxes to Government the total customer lending of IDLC. We are also committed to the development of women entrepreneurs across the country by In 2016, IDLC deposited BDT 1,221 million to the Government extending Women Entrepreneur Loans and non-financial services exchequer as corporate income tax. Also, BDT 749 million was for women through IDLC Purnota. collected and deposited to the Government exchequer as withholding tax, VAT and excise duty. Advance Corporate Tax Number of active clients (SME) Witholding Tax, VAT & Excise Duty in BDT million 1,221 10,812 9,325 822 7,619 749 696 6,638 549 5,222 465 486 397 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Employment generation Environment friendly technologies We create economic impact by creating employment and giving Sustainable economic growth and a healthy environment are appropriate training to the employees. As on December 31, 2016 interlinked. Keeping this in mind, IDLC is also offering 50 products IDLC group had more than 1,200 talented employees. During under green financing umbrella covering sectors like renewable 2016, the group paid BDT 1,048 million as salaries and allowances energy, waste management, non fire block brick, auto brick kiln, to its employees and spent BDT 14.19 million for both local and green industry, fire & safety measures, industrial energy efficiency, foreign trainings. Moreover, at a time when job creation is a top recycling industry etc. In the year 2016, IDLC have disbursed as priority for government, we catalysed our lending to small and much as BDT 589.53 million (BDT 525.8 million in 2015) under Green medium enterprises (SME), thereby helping accelerate both direct Financing umbrella, despite the unstable economic conditions. and indirect job creation. The increase indicates IDLC’s drive towards sustainability. Supporting community through various CSR activities Recruitment At IDLC, commitment to social welfare and community has been part of its corporate culture, and IDLC is much reputed for its contributions towards environmental and community 682 development. We support and stimulate economic growth by investing in programs that enable economic development with a social purpose. 281 208 2014 2015 2016 45 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Value Added Statement for the year ended December 31, 2016 Value-added is the wealth created by IDLC Finance Limited through extending lease financing, short-term finance (factoring of accounts receivable and work order financing), housing finance, merchant banking and corporate finance. The value-added statement indicates the total worth created and how it was distributed to meet certain obligations and the portion retained for the continued operation and expansion of the Company. Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 % % BDT BDT Value added Operating revenue 8,551,258,534 8,354,699,891 Cost of borrowing (4,622,068,956) (4,827,091,642) 3,929,189,578 3,527,608,249 Other income 506,398,528 433,242,052 4,435,588,106 3,960,850,301 Provisions (173,448,519) (291,570,010) Operating expenses excluding staff costs and depreciation. (634,611,786) (513,702,436) Value added 3,627,527,801 100% 3,155,577,855 100% Distribution of value addition To Employees as remuneration 893,737,599 25% 755,609,881 24% To Government 1,084,447,203 30% 1,031,699,212 33% as taxes To Shareholders 1,131,152,342 31% 628,417,968 20% as cash dividend Retained in the business 518,190,658 14% 739,850,795 23% as capital and revenue reserve 365,256,055 10% 615,402,154 20% as depreciation 152,934,603 4% 124,448,641 4% 3,627,527,801 100% 3,155,577,855 100% Number of employees 1,099 1,060 Value added per employee 3,300,753 2,976,960 46 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 5 | Green banking At IDLC, we are focusing on the ideology of ‘mother planet and Despite a challenging economic landscape, IDLC’s GBU disbursed its sustainability’, shifting from the traditional financing approach as much as BDT 589.53 million in 2016 (BDT 525.8 million in 2015) to next-generation green banking that supports sustainable under the green financing umbrella, which only indicates IDLC’s and environmentally-positive developments. We do so through drive and focus towards widening the concept of sustainability. providing a wide range of specially-designed products and services Bolstered by strong growth, IDLC is ready to take the challenge at preferential terms and rates. Since its incorporation, IDLC’s Green of meeting 5% direct green financing, a target set for all the banks Banking unit (GBU) has been promoting environmental-friendly and non-banking financial institutions from January 2016 by practices and reducing its overall carbon footprint. Bangladesh Bank to ensure sustainable financing for environmentfriendly projects. Special attention has been given to few niche 2016 was very significant for GBU. Portfolio-wise, the division sectors such as green industry, compliance management and cemented IDLC’s position as a frontrunner in promoting clean energy. Working with different DFIs for customised, blended sustainable business practices in Bangladesh. Today, green and low-cost green financing options represents one of the major banking has emerged as a strong differentiator for IDLC and has achievements of 2016. transformed into a brand of choice for next-generation financial solutions that thrive on green technologies. Green banking at IDLC – Our service bouquet Policy Formulation & Governance and BB Reporting Rollout of Training & ESMS across Awareness the organization Green Banking Unit In house Green Environment Financing Structural Audit, Risk assessment, Energy Audit, ESIA Our Green Banking unit continued to achieve new milestones, practices. Since the incorporation of GBU into our organisational lifting IDLC as a financial brand that has become synonymous with framework, some of the key milestones include the following: promoting sustainable and environmentally-compliant business 1st ﬁnancial institute to 1st ﬁnancial institute to Only listed member of Highest number of 1st ﬁnancial institution ﬁnance a project arrange green industry the United Nations Certiﬁed Energy to have a LEED-certiﬁed comprising the syndication. Environment Program Auditors in the country's branch. adoption of for Financial Institution ﬁnancial services energy-eﬃcient (UNEP FI) in Bangladesh. industry. technologies and ESCO model. 47 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Showcase projects and achievements Solar nano grid 1 Solar nano grid 2 Green industry Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP) Fire safety equipment Energy-efficient boiler Rolling out environmental and social management kind to achieve such an endorsement under the aforementioned systems category among the financial institutions of Bangladesh. At IDLC, as we integrate green financing into mainstream Green Office Guide (GOG) was developed for IDLC that consists of financing, we are strengthening our credit appraisal process a set of general instructions to be followed, aimed at improving from an environment and social (E&S) perspective, evaluating all in-house environmental management across the organisation the environmental and social factors such as project impact on by; Saving electricity, Minimising usage of water and paper and the environment and the community in the long run, prior to Keeping the office clean and hygienic. approving a loan. Being the only listed member of UNEP FI, IDLC Green marketing and training fulfils Bangladesh Bank Environmental Risk Management (ERM) guidelines for financial institutions (dated January, 2011) and the Lack of awareness with regards to the benefits of green projects and ECR-1997 standards within its organisational framework. IDLC also loosely regulated industries that overlooks gross non-compliance complies with the UNGC and UNEP FI principles on a voluntary represents some of the major challenges in implementing green basis, being the only listed financial institution in Bangladesh to do banking. In this context, in 2016, IDLC’s Green Banking unit actively so. Also, IDLC has been implementing environmental and social presented IDLC as a market leader in promoting sustainability management system (ESMS) from March 1, 2016 to compute across different market segments. As a responsible financial scoring of risk of different sectors under different business partner, we engaged with IFC’s PaCT (Partnership for a Cleaner segments. With a developed categorization tool that was built Textiles) program, offering blended financial models with USAID’s as per the ERM guidelines of Bangladesh Bank, IFC exclusion list CCEB team and promoting green financing through various and ADB safeguard for financing, environmental and social action business channels. plan for financial activities is on full roll-out across our credit risk management framework. As a part of our CSR activity, GBU organised regular training programs on ‘green awareness’ across the organisation. In addition, In-house environmental management with a view to strengthen the knowledge of business RMs on green products, GBU prepares a training calendar at the beginning With a vision to encourage and catalyse transformation towards of each year for continuous staff training. The green desk attended sustainable business practices, IDLC has established its Agrabad 27 green seminars in 2016, under which we engaged with 172 branch in the World Trade Centre in Chittagong. The new clients and in-house employees as part of our green awarenessestablishment has recently achieved the prestigious LEED building programs. Showcasing green products in different (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Gold Certification seminars, organising exposure visits and having an open dialogue from USGBC (United States Green Building Council) under the with green consultants are some of our other ongoing marketing category of ‘commercial interiors’. The branch is the first-of-itspolicies. 48 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED 6 | Stakeholder engagement for reporting Since 2011, IDLC has been publishing the Annual Sustainability practices and, if required, embrace corrective measures through Report in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the IDLC business model, annually. Although the concept of CSR is framework. The report is prepared in accordance with sustainability slowly gaining ground, practicing it to the full extent still remains reporting guidelines G4 issued by GRI which reflect IDLC’s a challenge for many companies and organisations. Enhanced contribution towards creating economic, social and environmental awareness and communication on the sustainability and strategic value. In accordance with the G4 stakeholder engagement section, aspects of CSR needs to be imparted to stakeholders, which will we have collected information from several sources, both financial accordingly shape their expectations in terms of the organisation’s and non-financial. CSR performance. The IDLC team has tried to identify sustainable business objectives In consideration of the above, IDLC has engaged with regulators, by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. management and employees to identify their preferences, This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing concerns and expectations from IDLC. Sustainability dimension Key stakeholders targeted Sustainable business objectives Economic Customers  Provide quality products that meet customer needs  Careful management of operations to protect customer interest, especially those of depositors Suppliers/ service providers  Adhere to proper procurement regulations while maintaining a good business relationship with the service providers Regulators  Ensure compliance with all regulatory guidelines and directives Social Employees  Continuously encourage staff and work towards creating a healthy, ethical and supportive work environment  Engaging staff in activities and sports other than business as usual, to achieve a balanced and productive environment which is beneficial to both employees and IDLC Local communities  Implementing initiatives targeted at marginalised communities and the underprivileged, to address requirements of the society in education and skills development, healthcare and overall poverty alleviation  Enhancing financial access to the marginalised Environmental Environmental/ Non-Government Conducting business without harming the environment Organisations Stakeholders engaged Engagement process Key issues raised by stakeholders Regulators  One-on-one meetings  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Circular issued by Bangladesh  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Bank on Green Banking and  Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and CSR the community Management Discussions  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation  Financial performance  Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff  Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities  Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment  Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and Green Banking initiatives  Superior customer experience through continuous improvement 49 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Stakeholders engaged Engagement process Key issues raised by stakeholders Employees Discussions  Remuneration and benefits  Career growth and development opportunities  Fair treatment  Safe and healthy work environment  Work-life balance  Employee grievance management Regulators  One-on-one meetings  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Circular issued by  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation Bangladesh Bank on Green  Responsibility of the organisation towards the environment and Banking and CSR the community Management Discussions  Corporate governance, ethics and compliance  Anti-corruption measures implemented by the organisation  Financial performance  Creating an enabling environment for all IDLC staff  Non-discrimination, diversity and equal opportunities  Social obligations through capacity development of the underprivileged and women empowerment  Environmental obligations through in-house management, CSR and Green Banking initiatives  Superior customer experience through continuous improvement Employees Discussions  Remuneration and benefits  Career growth and development opportunities  Fair treatment  Safe and healthy work environment  Work-life balance  Employee grievance management Material Aspects Identified As per GRI, materiality is the threshold of the sustainability subjects covered by the guidelines – known as ‘Aspects’ – which become sufficiently important that they should be reported. Based on the issues raised by the stakeholders during the engagement process, the following material aspects have been identified and included in this report: Economic Compliance Training and Education Biodiversity Employment, Occupational Diversity and Health and Safety Equal Opportunity Equal Remuneration Local Communities for Women and Men Marketing Communications Non-discrimination Anti-corruption Customer Privacy 50 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Boundary Defined for Each Material Aspect The report details how IDLC addresses the material issues stated above and how these significantly influence performance, both within and outside the organisation. Category Aspects Material within the Organization Material outside the Organization Economic • Economic Yes NA Performance • Procurement Practices Environmental • Energy Yes Yes • Biodiversity Any negative influence on protected and/ This aspect is material for the environment, • Compliance or high biodiversity areas caused by our and for communities living close to operations may lead to fines / sanctions / protected and/or high biodiversity areas. loss of license to operate / negative publicity. Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment and Occupational Health and Safety Yes NA Training and Education Yes NA Diversity and Equal Opportunity Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where we create job opportunities through our operations / branch networks. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Yes NA Human Rights Child Labor Yes NA Security Practices Yes NA Non-discrimination Yes Yes This aspect is material for communities where we create job opportunities through our operations /branch networks. Society/ Local Communities Local Communities NA Yes This aspect is material for local communities where we have operations or investments in projects. Anti-corruption Yes Yes This aspect is material for our customers and other stakeholders. Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety Yes Yes This aspect is material for our customers. Marketing Communications Yes Yes This aspect is material for our existing and potential customer groups. Customer Privacy Yes Yes Maintaining privacy of sensitive customer This aspect is material for our customers. information is one of the major priorities of our employees and a significant part of our employee Code of Conduct. 51 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 Chapter 7 | GRI – G4 Reporting Index The Report is ‘In Accordance’ with “Core” standards of the G4 guidelines. Accordingly, the General and Specific Standard Disclosures have been detailed below. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CONTENT/CHAPTER PAGE NO Strategy and Analysis G4 – 1 Statement of the Chairman of the Board 1 Statement of the CEO & Managing Director 2 IDLC’s statement of corporate governance 19-39 Organisational Profile G4 – 3 IDLC Finance Limited G4 – 4 Our range of products and services 7 G4 – 5 Corporate Head Office: Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 G4 – 6 Countries Served: Bangladesh G4 – 7 Nature of Ownership and Legal Form: Public Limited Company G4 – 8 Chapter 2 | ABOUT IDLC 6 Our branches our located across districts including Dhaka (Dhaka, Savar, Keraniganj and Imamganj), Narayanganj (Narayanganj and Bhulta), Gazipur (Gazipur and Tongi), Narshingdi, Chittagong, Kushtia, Mymensingh, Comilla, Bogra, Natore, Jessore, Khulna, Sylhet (Sylhet, Habiganj), Rangpur, Khulna G4 – 9 Chapter 2 | ABOUT IDLC 6 G4 – 10 Chapter 2 | ABOUT IDLC  Human Capital 16-18 G4 – 11 100% employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements G4 – 12 The nature of our operations limits dependence on material or service procurement from external bodies. Our major suppliers include providers of office equipment’s, including furniture, computers, kitchen appliances etc.; agencies for event organisation; contractors for maintenance of our branches; third-party agencies providing office assistants, security guards, cleaners etc. G4 – 13 Chapter 2 | ABOUT IDLC  Business Segment Review 10-12 Chapter 2 | ABOUT IDLC  Subsidiary Review 12 G4 – 14 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance  IDLC’s Statement of Corporate Governance 28-39 G4 – 15 Chapter 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices  Regulatory Bodies and Memberships 40 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4 – 17 IDLC’s subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited and IDLC Asset Management Liability have been included in the consolidated financial statements and accordingly have been covered in the Annual Financial Report 2016 and Annual Sustainability Report 2016. G4 – 18 Reporting Parameters 3 G4 – 19 Chapter 6 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting  Material Aspects identified 50 G4 – 20 Chapter 6 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 51 G4 – 21  Boundary defined for each Material Aspect G4 – 22 No information has been restated from that of the last report G4 – 23 This report has been prepared following the GRI-G4 guidelines. Major change in the scope of the report from G3.1 guidelines has been in terms of engaging with stakeholder groups to identify the most material aspects that influences the organisation’s economic, social and environmental performances, as well as influences stakeholder perception. ‘IN ACCORDANCE’ – CORE CHAPTER PAGE NO. Stakeholder Engagement G4 – 24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation include Regulators, Management and Employees G4 – 25 G4 – 26 Chapter 6 | Stakeholder Engagement for Reporting 49 51 G4 – 27 52 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Report Profile G4 – 28 January 1, 2016 – December 31, 2016 G4 – 29 April 2016 G4 – 30 Annual G4 – 31 Ayesha Haque, Head of CSR, Mobile +88-0173-0374585, Email: hayesha@idlc.com G4 – 32 GRI Content Index G4 – 33 No external assurance has been sought for this report Governance G4 – 34 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance 19 39 G4 – 40 G4 – 45 G4 – 46 G4 – 51 G4 – 52 Ethics and Integrity G4 – 56 Chapter 2 | About IDLC 6–9 G4 – 58 Chapter 3 | Corporate Governance 19-39 Chapter 2 | About IDLC  Human Capital 16-18 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES IDLC has tried to identify sustainable business objectives by understanding stakeholder expectations which are correlated. This is to ensure that IDLC can meet the objectives, modify existing practices and if required, take corrective measures through the business model annually. For this report, IDLC has only coordinated with customers and service providers who closely interact with the CSR department on pilot basis so that going forward, the process can be refined and more customers can be approached and information gathered more efficiently. Indicators by Aspects Category : Economic Economic Performance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EC 1 Chapter 2 | About IDLC 6 18 G4 – EC 4 Chapter 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices  CSR initiatives – 2016 41 – 44 Chapter 5 | Green Banking 47 48 G4 – EC 8 Chapter 1 | IDLC Inspiring Lives and Livelihoods 4–5 Chapter 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices  CSR initiatives – A review of 2016 41 44 Category : Environmental Energy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN6 Chapter 5 | Green Banking 47-48 Chapter 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices CSR initiatives 2016 44 Biodiversity PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN 11 IDLC does not own, lease or manage any operational site that are adjacent to protected areas and/or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4 – EN 12 IDLC does not engage in any business or operation that has any form of direct and/or indirect impact on biodiversity Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – EN 29 IDLC has neither been party to any non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations of the country nor has it faced any fines in this regard 53 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CATEGORY : SOCIAL PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 1 Our Human Capital 16 18 G4 – LA 2 Our Human Capital 16 18 G4 – LA 3 8 (Eight) staff underwent maternity leave in 2016, with a 100 percent retention rate Training and Education PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 9 Human Capital 16-18 G4 – LA 10 Following Inhouse trainings were given to staff of IDLC for further career development: How to Handle Regulatory Audit & Inspections; System Support of Customer Service; Service Quality Guideline; Anti-Money Laundering & Anti-Terrorism Regulations & Compliance Procedure; Land Documentation, Transfer & Registration; Cross Selling Refresher on Technology Platform; Land, Property Documentation & Others Law; Why Should Anyone Follow You? Vital Skills for the Modern Manager; Online Credit Appraisal System Supplier & Distribution Finance Internal Training -2016; Legal Documentation What makes you different from others leaders; Training & Discussion Session for Consumer Customer Service Team ; Online Credit Appraisal System; Technical Valuation; Car Loan Cross Selling(Consumer & SME Product); AML/CFT Regulations & Its Compliance Procedure Human Capital 16, 17 G4 – LA 11 Human Cap 16-18 Labour and Management Relations PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 12 The standard notice period is one month for such operational changes; however, this period may vary depending on the nature of operation and duties and responsibilities of the concerned officials. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – LA 13 IDLC offers similar basic salaries to all male and female staff for each employment category. Any difference in gross salary is determined by the individual’s performance, not his/her gender CATEGORY : HUMAN RIGHTS Non-discrimination PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – HR 3 No incident of discrimination has been notified to the Human Resource Department by employees through formal or informal channels CATEGORY : SOCIETY Local Communities PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – SO 1 Chapter 4 | Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainable Business Practices  CSR initiatives – 2016 41 – 44  Contribution to the national economy 45 Anti-corruption PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – SO 4 Corporate Governance 19 39 G4 – SO 5 IDLC’s policy mandates immediate dismissal of employees proven to be involved in any form of corruption within and/or outside the organisation, and IDLC strictly adheres to this policy. Formal channels are in place for stakeholder to file complaints against any malpractice by any IDLC staff and accordingly actions are taken by the respective departments. Compliance PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – SO 8 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with laws and regulations of the country and has not faced any fines/ non-monetary sanctions in this regard. CATEGORY : PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Communications PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – PR 7 IDLC has not been party to any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorships Customer Privacy PARTICULARS CHAPTER PAGE G4 – PR 8 IDLC has not been party to any incident related to breaches of customer privacy and/or loss of customer data. 54 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED Awards & Recognitions 16th ICAB National Award for Best Presented Annual 16th ICAB National Award for Integrated Reporting 16th ICAB National Award SAARC Anniversary Award Report (Financial Service Sector, NBFI) – First Position (among all listed companies) – First Position for Corporate Governance Disclosures Second position SAFA Best Presented Annual Report 2015 SAFA Best Presented Annual Report 2015 SAARC anniversary ICSB National Award Corporate Governance Financial Service Sector Joint Winner award for Corporate Governance Disclosure Overall Winner Excellence 2015 First Position United States Green Building Council (USGBC) certificate – The prestigious LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental ICMAB Best Corporate Award -2015 – Non-Banking SAFA Best Presented Annual Report 2015 Design) Gold certificate under commercial Financial Institution category Third Position Integrated Reporting Certificate of Merit interior category. 55 IDLC FINANCE LIMITED NOTES:
