COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2016 – AUGUST 2017 1 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Message from our Managing Director…………………………………….. 3 2. Company details ……………………………………………………………………… 4 3. Back ground of the company ………………………………………………….. 5 4. Communication on Human rights ……………………………………………. 6 5. Communication on Labor rights ………………………………………………. 7 6. Communication on Environment …………………………………………….. 9 7. Communication on Anti-corruption …………………………………………. 13 8. Appendices ……………………………………………………………………………….. 14 2 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 MESSAGE FROM OUR MANAGING DIRECTOR H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY10017 USA Dear Sir, I am pleased to confirm that Bunson Travel Service Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Since we became members in August 2015, we have made efforts to embed the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in our everyday work and ensure we operate in a sustainable manner. As we submit our second annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication and also through UN Global compact website. Sincerely yours, Julie Dabaly Scott Managing Director Bunson Travel Service Ltd 3 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 COMPANY DETAILS Company Name Bunson Travel Service Ltd Date 16-Aug-17 02nd Floor Park Place, Address Limuru Rd P.O Box 45456 00100 Number of 15-Aug-15 85 Membership Date employees Travel and Country Kenya Sector Leisure Finance Contact Name David Wachira Contact position Director Contact telephone +254732775566/ No. 3685208 4 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 WHO WE ARE Bunson Travel Service is the leading Travel Management Company established in East Africa in 1948. In 1950, we became the first Travel Agency licensed by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) in East Africa. In August 1999 we became the exclusive partner of Carlson Wagonlit Travel (a leading Global Travel Management Company). Leveraging on this we have presence, ability and capacity to assist and support our clients in over 153 countries and over 3000 locations globally. Along with IATA, we are associated with the following regulatory bodies:  Kenya Association of Travel Agents (KATA)  Kenya Association of Tour Operators (KATO)  International Congress and Convention Association (ICCA)  Global Business Travel Association (GBTA)  Universal Federation of Travel Agents Association (UFTAA)  American Society of Travel Agents (ASTA)  International Association of Travel & Tourism Professionals (SKAL)  Africa Tourism Association (ATA)  American Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM)  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) OUR APPROACH We commit ourselves to helping our clients drive savings while delivering service, enhancing security and sustainability as we affirm our leadership in the industry. OUR OBJECTIVE: Maximizing cost savings while maintaining the highest quality and consistent service levels adapted to international customer service standards. OUR VISION: Simple-extraordinary customer service and company growth as we serve our customer's needs in travel, tour and related services. OUR MISSION: Deliver efficient and innovative solutions to optimize travel and meetings and events management, by leveraging our global reach with the best people and superior service. OUR GOAL: Setting standards in the Travel and Tour Industry 5 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 SCOPE OF THIS COP This COP covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staff, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact i.e. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption for the period August 2016 to August 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses OUR COMMITMENT Bunson is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF OUR PROCESSES OR SYSTEM • The company has an able HR department which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the HR policies availed to all new employees and accessible through the company intranet. • We have 26 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager, 5 days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family. • Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave. • We also have in house fire marshals and first aiders. These fire marshals show all new staff the emergency exits and explain the fire alarm procedures and how not to obstruct emergency exits. • The company also advocates for clean desks policy where all employees are expected to keep their working desks and areas clean at all times • We provide a chill out room for employees to enjoy their lunch break which is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use 6 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 ACTIVITIES WE IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR • Training on fire safety to all employees and a few were chosen to be fire marshals as part of our Safety Policy • We implemented the clean desk policy to all staff to ensure that they maintain a clean and environment friendly desk • All employees were taken through one fire safety and security training to equip them with the required knowledge • The fire equipment and emergency exit are inspected every morning by the contracted security vendor • All employees were taken through our Business continuity program BCP in preparation of any eventuality after the elections. • Promotion of employees’ expressions and concerns through an online survey to the HR department MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY • At least two fire drills must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees • Occupational Safety and Health Performance: Number of fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (LTI), Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has not been reported in the last year • Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave LABOUR RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 OUR COMMITMENT The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Bunson being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. Bunson states clearly that no staff shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. The company states clearly that each role will have a job description that outlines the scope and mandate of the role holder. A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF OUR PROCESSES OR SYSTEMS • We advocate the standard working hours for Bunson employees to be 40 hours a week and lunch break of 1 hour except those working on shift programs. • We have a transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct or a general misconduct. • The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. • We don’t recruit persons under the age of 18 years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time advocate for the abolition of child labour. • We also have compensation and benefits policy where employees are entitled to some benefits that are additional to their salary and allowances. • We have a learning and development policy where Bunson recognizes that employees are its most valued asset and commit itself to the best of its ability to provide an opportunity for continuous learning and professional growth towards organizational effectiveness. ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR • Additional compensation and benefits in terms of revenue based incentives for travel and tours consultants • Addition of employees’ dependants to the company medical cover. • One training per month which falls under our Learning and Development Policy for the employees which supports growth of all employees with the aim of preparing them for senior management jobs in the future and also deal with the ever changing technology. 8 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY • Less demands from employees as they understand the recruitment process and their compensation plan • Retention of staff • Diversity in employment as we have a total of 85 permanent employees; 41 male and 44 female employees ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR • Competency based interviews for line managers and supervisors • Enforcement of leave management to ensure work life balance . Sustained training for all staff ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies OUR COMMITMENT As a company, we are in the business of travel management and with that come a lot of carbon emissions from airplanes and vehicles, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF OUR PROCESSES OR SYSTEMS At Bunson we are aware that in our daily operations, we use various products that can be harmful to the environment and ourselves as people, through the components they are made of (cleaning products) or the damage they do to the environment from the way they are disposed of or created. We are aware that we require various products and services in order to operate our business however, it is our responsibility to ensure we are aware of how these 9 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 products and services are procured, built and disposed of, to ensure we minimize our footprint on our planet earth. GNLD CLEANING PRODUCTS All of our offices (HQ, branches and implants) are cleaned using GNLD products. GNLD products have been “GREEN” since the 1960’s and are all made using 100% biodegradable raw materials. This ensures that the effects on our Bunson Travel staff and on the environment is as minimal as possible. WASTE PAPER RECYCLING Bunson Travel strives to be as paperless as possible. Along with implementing more technology in our operations we understand that while we are not fully paperless, we can also recycle the waste paper that we do produce at our head office and branch offices. Chandaria Industries, who supply us with some paper products, produce all of their paper products from waste paper. Responsible Bunson engaged Chandaria Industries on recycling our waste paper, which entails collecting any waste paper we have that is then collected by Chandaria Industries on a weekly basis. In turn, Chandaria Industries offer the equivalent products back to us (based on our recycling volumes). TAPS ON TIMER All of the water basin taps in the bathrooms are push button taps that run for a few seconds and then automatically switch off. This is to ensure that taps are not left dripping or left running when there is no one using them. Along with conserving precious water, it is also a saving for the company’s monthly water bills. TOILET FLUSH All toilet flushes are fitted with 2 options to flush depending on what the toilet is used for. There is flush with minimal water and a flush with full water quantity. A lot of water is used when flushing a toilet and this allows us to minimize that amount when possible. 10 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR MT KENYA TRUST AND NGUSHISHI SECONDARY SCHOOL BUNSON CSR SUPPORTED TREE-NURSERY 9th September 2016 Bunson CSR, through it’s partners at the Mount Kenya Trust, continued its treeplanting drive in the effort to off-set ours and our clients carbon footprints while replanting and protecting Kenya’s forests. The outreach of this partnership has expanded with the opening of a tree-nursery at the Ngushishi Secondary School, above Timau, on the slopes of Mt. Kenya. Ngushishi is the second such partnership that Bunson CSR is involved with (the first being Sirimon School Nursery, which continues to grow successfully). Along with the launch of the nursery at Ngushishi School was the launch of the One Tree Per Child initiative, being supported by another one of MKT’s partners, CHASE Africa UK. A team from Bunson CSR visited the nursery at Ngushishi Secondary School on Friday the 9th September 2016 to formally open the nursery and meet with the teachers and students that will be custodians of the tree-nursery and the One Tree per Child project. Ngushishi has an Environment Club, that are responsible for maintaining the nursery as well as getting more children from the school involved with their projects. BUNSON CSR AND FRIENDS OF EBURRU FOREST 23rd October 2016 The annual team building weekend at Bunson Travel is always highly anticipated by all and given the big drive from Bunson CSR in 2016, with regards to tree planting efforts through our partners at the Mt. Kenya trust, the 2016 team building event presented the opportunity to get involved in tree planting projects at the property we visited (Great Rift Valley Lodge GRVL), one we support in our business. Behind GRVL, as you continue to climb further up the hill, you will get to the Forest Reserve of Eburru Forest. In the last few months, brothers Colin and Tony Church (responsible for fencing the Aberdares through the formation of Rhino Ark, amongst numerous other conservation efforts), have re-located from Nairobi to Naivasha and have turned their attention to conserving and re-planting the forests around Naivasha, starting with the Eburru Forest. Through Bunson CSR's partners at the Woodlands 2000 Trust, we were introduced to Friends of Eburru Forest, which was formed by the Church brothers to attract more people to get involved with the Forest. After the team building activities on Saturday, all of the Bunson Travel staff made their way up to the Eburru Forest, where we would be planting 200+ trees in a corner of the Forest that needed re-planting. Friends of Eburru Forest were already there eagerly anticipating our arrival, and had already dug all the holes and placed the seedlings next to the holes, ready for planting and watering by the Bunson Travel team. Tony and Colin Church were on hand to address the Bunson Travel staff about the 11 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 Eburru Forest; its significance and the importance if conserving it and Kenya’s other water towers. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY AN UPDATE FROM SERMON SECONDARY SCHOOL AND NGUSISHI SECONDARY SCHOOL Sirimon Secondary School Pop: 120 students Age: 14-19yrs Location: Sirimon MKT was already working with Sirimon when BTS came on board to support school nurseries. The school already had around 2000 seedlings growing and an area was fenced off and water tank installed to help nurture and protect the seedlings properly. The nursery, which is cared for and maintained by teachers and students (with oversight from MKT), has now got some 5,000 cypress seedlings growing in it. The major challenge at this school is the cold and wind. Some of these trees are planted within the school compound, which is almost entirely devoid of trees. Others will be sent home with students for them to plant within their communities and homesteads. One of our next steps is to introduce the rearing of indigenous tree species and work with the school management to ensure proper care and uptake of the seedlings. Ngusishi Secondary School Pop: 200 students Age: 14-19yrs Location: Ngusishi By August 2016, the tree nursery in the school was secured with a good fence and water storage tank to ensure that there will always be water for the tree seedlings. MKT will work with the school to grow enough tree seedlings for planting in the school area and for the students to grow in their homes. 12 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact principles covered: Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery OUR COMMITMENT Bunson Travel Management is committed to ensuring a corruption free environment; this is embodied in our Code of Conduct. We also have a disciplinary Procedure and Consequence Management policy that helps outline correction and progressive process to address an employee’s misconduct, Code of Conduct non-compliance or to prevent nonrecurrence of undesirable behaviour. Our Code of Conduct provide specific guidance on corruption related concerns such as fair competition, conflict of interest, acceptance and giving of gifts, improper payments, working with government and regulators. As per the Code of Conduct, employees are strictly forbidden to accept any bribe, improper payment or inappropriate favour of any other kind. Besides cash payments, such inappropriate payments would include: • Kickbacks or kickback schemes, especially in form of cash • Unexplained rebates • Personal favors such as club memberships, entertainment and preferential treatment A BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF OUR PROCESSES OR SYSTEMS: • Our processes are guided by Policies and Process Documents. Some of these are as prescribed by CWT Global. • All our core functions and operations are automated and the systems monitored continuously for fraud prevention and response to business requirements. • We a robust booking system (GDS) which has improved efficiency in core customer processes including activations, billing & reporting. The system is integrated into E Travel 2000our Financial Reporting System hence reducing reconciliation errors which are sometimes subject to manipulation • For nonautomated processes, we have in place robust manual processes to mitigate business and operational risk • The processes are both preventative and detective in nature. We have 13 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 continuous monitoring of reports from the system and corrective action mechanism (e.g. Consequence Management) where any frauds or noncompliances are noted ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN THE LAST YEAR • Submitted our first COP to UN Global Compact and committed to implementing its standards. • Communication and annual signing of Code of Conduct by all senior management as stipulated by CWT Global • Implemented TTS – an online booking tool which gives travelers from our various clients an opportunity to see the fares available for flights. This was to enhance more transparency between the company and the clients. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY • Increased transparency for example with regards to procurement decisions. • Reduced fraud events or incidences and revenue leakages. • Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines • Ethics and values measures; the company issued warning letters to two employees as a away to curb corrupt dealings or violation of the company’s code of conduct • Increased sensitization of policies to reduce instances of corrupt dealings HOW DO YOU INTEND TO MAKE THIS COP AVAILABLE TO YOUR STAKEHOLDERS? We intend to communicate to all our stakeholders through: • Upload the COP report on UN Global compact website • Upload the COP report on our website www.bunsontravel.com. Already part of the information in this report is available on the website under Bunson CSR. 14 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 APPENDICES 1. TREE NURSERY PROJECT AT NGUSHISHI SECONDARY 15 Communication on Progress 2016 2017 2. TREE PLANTING AT EBURRU FOREST 16 Communication on Progress 2016 2017
