United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016-2017 In 2015, the Chambers Federation joined the United Nations Global Compact. The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. For further information on the Chambers Federations sustainability principles and practices please visit http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ or https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/participants/64881 to view our participation with the UN Global Compact. Global Compact Principles Human Rights The Federation invests into several initiatives which help to promote and develop basic human rights. Investing into rural and Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the undeveloped regions, initiatives like Fair Congo and the Fair Congo protection of internationally proclaimed human Foundation work with stakeholders to manage and monitor high rights. risk supply chains to ensure that the sale of natural resource based Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in products from these areas does not go to support armed conflict. human rights abuses. These initiatives go even further to develop these supply chains by establishing fair-trade standards and adherence to OECD guidelines. Labor Standards Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association The Federation’s initiatives focus heavily on the implementation of and the effective recognition of the right to all OECD guidelines including the worst forms of child labor in its collective bargaining supply chains and fair-trade standards as detailed by the World Fair Trade Organization. The largest direct recipients of investment are Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms cooperatives and disadvantaged groups, typically women. of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of This is further monitored by yearly audits to ensure the Company’s child labor. efforts are effective. Federation management and workforce, including contract workers, is made up in excess of 90% women and Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of youth (35 years or younger). discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach The Federation incorporates environmental protection into all of its to environmental responsibility. supplier contracts, monitors environmental impact of its investments and actively invests in new technologies to reduce the Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote ‘footprint’ of its projects. The Federation is currently developing greater environmental responsibility. new opportunities, specifically in the ASM community, to eliminate Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and the usage of Mercury(Hg), Cyanide(NaCN) and Nitric Acid(HNO3) in diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. scale from its supply chains and is currently implementing an ecofriendly standard in its Fair Congo ASM gold supply chain. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its The Chambers Federation is a US company, subject to FCPA forms, including extortion and bribery. regulations. All of the Federation accounts are restricted in use to limit the possibilities of corruption and all accounts are audited yearly, at minimum, in countries where corruption is widely prevalent. Measurement of Outcomes For the 2016-2017 reporting period, the Federation has initiated its investment into the Democratic Republic of Congo, focusing on the former conflict zones in the Kivu region. The Fair Congo initiatives are working with other stakeholders in the region, including USAID, to develop sustainable supply chains, focusing initially on conflict-free ASM gold. The Federation also began developing a new women empowerment project called Ukweli Jewelry, a woman owned and operated jewelry business based off of the Fair Congo gold supply chain. The Recycle Tribe initiative is also expanding from Kenya to DRC, creating new empowerment opportunities for women in the region. While measurement of these initiatives is limited at this time, we expect to begin to measure results, impact figures, with more accuracy in the beginning of 2018. CHAMBERS FINANCIAL GROUP A US Corporation Sept 5th, 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBA L COMPACT, REAFFIRMA TION To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the Chambers Federation reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. To view more detailed information on the impact of the Chambers Federations investments and initiatives please visit: http://www.chambersfederation.com/sustainability/ Thank you Matthew Chambers Chairman, Chambers Federation Chambers Financial Group, subsidiary, a US Federal Contractor matthew@chambersfederation.com / www.chambersfederation.com
