UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2016 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles of the Global Compact 4 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 6 Environment 9 Anti-corruption 11 Summary 12 Conclusion 14 Page | 2 Statement of Continued Support Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) prides itself on its continued commitment to the UN Global Compact principles. We have excelled in operating as a responsible corporate citizen for over 20 years, providing professional solutions to all aspects of the electoral process. We have made it our aim to continuously improve the prices and quality of our products and procurement services, providing a cost effective and streamlined supply chain for overseas projects run by international organisations. We have been lucky enough over the years to have built a vibrant multinational, multicultural and highly talented team working across several continents. This has opened up many new business opportunities in emerging markets and has provided us with a greater understanding of our responsibility as a community based entity. We make it a priority to try to positively influence the communities we work with worldwide and are committed to working with international organisations on increasingly complex areas of governance, social matters and the environment. At LGS we aim to consistently improve our practices in relation to every UN Global Compact principle. At the very core of this principled approach is our global team of staff who continue to manage increasingly complex risk situations and opportunities through positive global interactions. Lynda Scott-Tomlin Managing Director Page | 3 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights. Our employees are a reflection of our continued commitment to complying with international human rights guidelines. Training for every new employee includes awareness of the importance we place on upholding the human rights of all workers, locally and globally. These values are by no means limited to the immediate workplace but extend to all operations across a wide range of culturally diverse regions. Our global economic interactions have enabled our teams to acquire valuable local knowledge and insight, encouraging business growth in an environment committed to respecting the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We never engage in business with any company that is seen to be breaching human rights. We ensure, Page | 4 through continued training, that our employees are equipped with the tools for awareness and commitment to ensuring these values are upheld, both on an organisational level and internationally. We believe that by creating an immediate working environment that is free from discrimination we will be in a better position to encourage promotion of our values on a global level. By setting this example of zero tolerance towards human rights abuse we aim to encourage our suppliers to continuously examine their practices. Page | 5 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Due to our size, we are unable to form a trade union. However, we still place a great deal of importance on the choices and opinions of our employees and actively encourage communication at all levels of the business. Our employees tell us that they have excellent levels of employee satisfaction and we believe this is instrumental in enhancing our business outcomes. We achieve this through respecting and listening to employees, ensuring formal and informal open communication channels through meetings with employees and managers. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. We take full responsibility for providing our employees with fair employment conditions, rights, responsibilities and duties by providing employment contracts for each of our employees. Whilst we are not always able to prevent every form of unfair work practice Page | 6 amongst our international suppliers and their employees, we have made it a priority to establish procedures to ensure that our chosen suppliers are not involved in any form of forced and compulsory behaviour. These include regular site visits and continuous communication with our suppliers and their employees, and employment of local people to help ensure that site employees are protected. We are also lucky enough to have such a diverse multinational and multicultural team which enables us to gain insight into our suppliers’ work practices and make positive influences upon them. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. We have always had a zero tolerance policy towards working with companies who practice child labour. In order to ensure that we adhere to this commitment in the most stringent way possible we have adopted a number of thorough processes. These include frequently visiting sites and maintaining regular contact with suppliers and their employees. If an incident of child labour is uncovered we are able to use our influence on suppliers to promote ethical labour standards and work towards changing the practices of the company. Failing this, we commit to changing suppliers. Page | 7 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are lucky to have a multi cultural team bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the organisation. We value this greatly and strive to further develop their skill set by offering training and scope for promotion in an environment which promotes diversity and equal opportunities. We consider our multinational mixed sex team to be the driving force behind our success and by facilitating communication across cultures throughout the supply process we strive to lead by example and encourage our suppliers to adopt the same non discriminatory policies. Page | 8 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. As an organisation we prioritise preservation of the environment in all areas of our work. We train our office and site employees to practice environmentally friendly administration, recycling and disposal. We also encourage our suppliers to be environmentally conscious by offering improved sea freight services so that they choose this over the less environmentally favourable air transport. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We encourage employees and stakeholders to be more environmentally responsible by inviting them to consider the Global Compact guiding principles in their work. As a result we can be sure that they are equipped with the skills needed to identify new strategically sustainable practices and innovations in line with these principles. Page | 9 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. It is our aim as an organisation to source and utilise the most environmentally favourable technology. Our staff and suppliers are also encouraged to report on market innovations and carry out market research and evaluation. In order to ensure that the best possible technology is used in production we monitor sites through spot checks on factories and make every effort to maintain effective communication with suppliers. Page | 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have always prioritised promotion of a zero tolerance culture towards any form of corruption and we continuously strive to achieve the highest levels of good governance to facilitate this. Our staff are supported to fully understand the global nature of corruption through provision of internal training and development programs. These offer insights into best practice and ensure we are able to stay abreast of national and international related legislation. Our good governance and value centred leadership ethos is reflected in our continued support of the Howard League for Penal Reform, a charity that focuses on encouraging less crime, safer communities and fewer people in prison. Page | 11 Summary Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy To support and respect the Implementation of appropriate internal and To acquire the knowledge to be able to To constantly refine our protection of internationally external recruitment and training programs. interact with communities in a culturally understanding and practice of the acclaimed Human Rights and legally sensitive way so that we are guiding principles of the Universal able to provide sustainable, credible and Declaration of Human Rights mutually beneficial economic growth for all parties. To be non-complicit in human Constant evaluation, innovation and To foster a corporate environment free of To provide ongoing re-evaluation of rights abuses reinforcement of the guiding principles fear, functioning transparently and our business practices, in order to Universal Declaration of Human Rights and honourably in the communities we trade ensure we best reflect and enact the CRC. with. these guiding principles To uphold freedom of association Structured communication forums across the To ensure employees and partners feel To continue empowering our staff and effectively recognise the right organisation, and with stakeholders, empowered to take responsibility, at a and stakeholders, enriching their to collective bargaining including suppliers, partners and personal level, for positive corporate insight and understanding of the manufacturers. citizenship within the communities we guiding principles. work. To uphold the elimination of all Regular personal presence on site. To promote a corporate environment free To become an increasingly positive forms of forced and compulsory Engaging positive influences in culturally of fear, functioning transparently and influence against forced and labour sensitive environments. honourably in the communities we trade compulsory labour. with. To uphold the effective abolition Rigorous adherence to a zero-tolerance To interact with communities in a To explore opportunities to invest in of child labour policy towards child labour. culturally and legally sensitive way in order child-related charities supporting the to provide sustainable and mutually communities in which we operate. beneficial economic growth for all parties. Page 12 Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy To eliminate discrimination in Implementation of appropriate internal and To provide a diverse and all-inclusive team To continue our program of internal respect of employment and external recruitment and training programs. of employees with equal opportunities to training and evaluation so that we occupation Provide suitable and appropriate working acquire the skills necessary to advance in are continuously more able to environments which meet Health and Safety the workplace. identify strengths and weaknesses standards, and which secure our investment and focus on correcting any in duty of care for our staff. potential imbalance. To support a precautionary Ongoing research to keep abreast of global To provide economically beneficial services To continue empowering our staff approach to environmental environmental challenges. in a manner that supports the protection and stakeholders, enriching their challenges and sustainability of the environment. insight and understanding of the guiding principles. To undertake initiatives to Constant evaluation of existing interactions. To provide a cost-effective yet To continue our program of internal promote greater environmental Strategic selection of sustainable practices. environmentally sound business model. training and evaluation, in order to responsibility best identify strengths and weaknesses, and focus on correct any potential imbalance. To encourage the development Constant research, networking and To provide a constantly improving offering, To selectively focus on key methods and diffusion of environmentally evaluation of innovations and opportunities one which meets the need for the to improve the information and friendly technologies in technological advancement. sustainability of global environments. research channels. To work against corruption in all Application of rigorous standards of To provide a transparent service to our To refine and develop our forms, including extortion and compliance internally, with a zero-tolerance clients and our stakeholders, in which all recruitment and training methods, bribery policy towards corruption, extortion and parties strive to achieve best practice and internally and externally, to provide bribery. responsible corporate citizenship. a better universal understanding of the problem, and the solutions. Support for the Howard League for Penal Reform. Page 13 Conclusion As an organisation operating at an international level, we are continuously vigilant in the many complex situations that arise and make every effort to revise practices wherever necessary. Only in this way can we be sure that we are able to continue to fulfil our commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles. We have prioritised our programme of self-governance over the years and are proud to say that it has evolved to become a highly structured program of self-assessment. Our staff and supplier training schemes aim to reinforce best practice and raise awareness of key issues. In addition, we are stringent in all our procedures and processes, in particular immediately following major projects. These include thorough debriefings which allow us to review performance, highlight any key weak areas and facilitate ideas for improved future business. Our continued commitment to the 10 Global Compact guiding Principles is an extremely important part of our business and the day to day processes and procedures. We are continuously refining our adherence to these principles and, as a result, are finding that we are becoming more and more involved in a business community of increased integrity. This, in the long term, will create even more of a positive influence all round and be highly beneficial to all stakeholders, locally and globally. 14
