45 2016 45 Global Leading Energy Solution Partner 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Report Summary Table of Report Summary 01 Contents Table of Contents 02 CEO Message 03 Overview Introduction 05 Vision and Strategy 07 Proactive Risk Management 10 Sound Governance 11 Materiality Assessment 13 KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc. (hereinafter “KEPCO E&C”) publishes SustainabilStakeholder Communication 15 ity Reports every two years. This 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report is the fifth of its kind and KEPCO E&C, Reaching New Heights 16 contains major issues as identified by a materiality assessment. Through this report, KEPCO E&C 2015-2016 Highlights 19 discloses its sustainability management performance and activities in a transparent manner. Sustainability Issue Reporting Guidelines Independent Assurance This report has been prepared in accordance This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Stanwith the GRI Standards and received third-party dards and fulfills the requirements of the Core assurance from an independent verifier to ensure “in accordance” option regarding the “Principles reliability of the content reported herein. The Challenge Safety Communication Reliability Expertise for Defining Report Content” and the “Principles assurance results are provided in the Third-Party KEPCO E&C, KEPCO E&C, KEPCO E&C, KEPCO E&C, KEPCO E&C, for Defining Report Quality.” The detailed reAssurance Statement on page 61~62. Pursuing the Prosperity Dreaming of a Safer Sharing Hopes and Offering Trust and Striving to Be porting guidelines are provided on pages 61-64 of Mankind and Cleaner Future Dreams Confidence the Best under Third-Party Assurance Statement and GRI Inquiries 23 29 35 41 47 Standards Index. This report can be downloaded on KEPCO E&C’s website (www.kepco-enc.com). For any Reporting Period and Scope inquiries, you may reach us by using the folSustainability & Human Rights Performances The reporting period for this report is from Janlowing contact information. Economic Performance 55 uary 1, 2015 to December 31, 2016. For performance requiring an annual trend analysis, the Environmental Performance 57 report provides data covering three years (2014 Social Performance 58 2016). In the case of some qualitative perforHuman Rights Management 59 mance, the report provides data for the first half Division in Management Planning Department, of 2017. This report covers mainly KEPCO E&C’s Appendix Charge Performance Evaluation Team sustainability management activities and perKEPCO E&C, 269 Hyeoksin-ro Third-Party Assurance Statement 61 formance of its domestic business sites (headAddress (Yulgok-dong), Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do GRI Standards Index 63 quarters and the NSSS Division in Daejeon, etc.) and those of its overseas business sites within a Tel 054-421-4081 UNGC 65 Email ofk7979@kepco-enc.com limited scope. ISO 26000 66 List of Awards and Affiliated Associations 67 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report CEO Message Engaging in nuclear decommissioning in line with government policies since March 2017, KEPCO E&C has paid close attention to the government’s policy changes while strengthening our technological capacity regarding the next-generation energy sources, such as new and renewable energy, nuclear fusion and hydrogen. We are also systematically preparing to expand our business areas to plants and the environment. Established in 1975 with the goal of accomplishing self-reliance in power plant engineering technology, KEPCO E&C has utilized its technological capacity in the energy industry to contribute to Korea’s economic development and provide convenience for its people over the past 40 years. Abundance, affordability, cleanliness, security and diversity form the basis of KEPCO E&C’s energy technology. With a “positive attitude can destroy every negative obstacle” and the mindset sailing against headwinds, KEPO E&C will turn challenges into opportunities. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C is committed to the following sustainability management directions with a view to achieving sustainable development. First, KEPCO E&C will focus all of its capacity in securing source technologies for new energy sources through sincere commitment to technological development. Since its establishment, KEPCO E&C has faced a series of challenges but has been able to overcome them through the concerted determination and will of its employees. We believe now is the time to come together as one and move towards the future by focusing on increasing our capacity. Second, KEPCO E&C will build a robust energy industry by forming win-win relationships with small and medium-sized enterprises. KEPCO E&C has provided firm support for the national energy industry along with countless small and medium-sized enterprises and we have grown together through mutual technological KEPCO E&C will play a leading role in the midst of highly development and joint projects, based on which we will play a central role in establishing a mutual accelerating paradigm changes in the energy industry by growth structure. promptly reorganizing and expanding new growth engines. Third, we will create a corporate culture that values perseverance and passion, while building a company that fulfills its social responsibilities. Even under many unfavorable conditions, KEPCO E&C was able to grow into a company possessing Dear esteemed stakeholders, the world’s top power plant design technologies, thanks to its corporate culture that values perseverance and passion. We will cherish and further develop our corporate culture and build a First of all, I wish to extend my sincere appreciation of your continued support and solid base on which we can grow, hand in hand with the community. encouragement for KEPCO E&C. It is with great pleasure that I introduce our fifth Sustainability Report, presenting KEPCO E&C’s future directions in line with the various paradigm changes I ask for your unwavering support for KEPCO E&C as we carry our vision into the future as a socially taking place in the energy industry. responsible and ever-growing company. The energy industry in the Republic of Korea is preparing itself to initiate a new era of Thank you very much. KEPCO E&C development. In line with the government’s policy directions of producing clean and safe CEO & President Koo-Woun Park energy through a reduction of traditional low-cost nuclear and thermal power, and an increase in environmentally-friendly renewable energy and LNG, we expect rapid changes to take place not only within KEPCO E&C but throughout the entire energy industry. 03 04 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Introduction Overview Since its foundation in 1975, KEPCO E&C has fulfilled Korea’s power plant demands based on its techShareholder KEPCO E&C was listed on the Korea Exchange in December 2009 with a total of 38,220,000 listed nological capacity to design nuclear, thermal and hydroelectric power plants. One of the world’s best stocks. As a subsidiary of Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), 65.77% of KEPCO E&C’s Composition power plant design and engineering companies, KEPCO E&C is the only one that can independently shares are owned by KEPCO. conduct both architect engineering and nuclear steam supply system design. Furthermore, it is pi6.27% National Pension oneering the development of clean coal thermal power plant design technologies by developing Service 2,396,547 eco-friendly facilities through desulfurization and denitrification. KEPCO E&C is also securing competitiveness throughout the energy industry with its eco-friendly and new & renewable energy projects, Korea Atomic 2.06 % Energy Research 65.77% 100% transmission and distribution/substation projects, and PM/CM projects. Institute Korea Electric 787,500 Power 25.40% Corporation Retail Investors 269 Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, 25,138,694 Foundation October 1975 Head Office 9,707,642 Gyeongsangbuk-do President Guardian Ministry of Trade, Industry and Employee Stock & CEO Koo-Woun Park Agency Energy 0.50 % Ownership Association Asset KRW 786,596 million 189,617 Legal Article 317 of the Commercial Ground for Code: Stock Company under the No. of Establishment Commercial Act 2,266 employees Corporate History Established in 1975 as Korea Atomic Burns & Roe, KEPCO E&C has played a central role in promoting the technological development of the Korean energy industry and providing a stable supply of electric power for the past 40 years. Since relocating to Gyeongbuk Innocity in 2015, KEPCO E&C prepares to reach new heights as the energy industry readies itself for new paraBusiness Areas In March 2017, KEPCO E&C added nuclear power plant decommissioning to its existing four esdigm changes. sential businesses—design and engineering, operations and maintenance (O&M), eco-friendly business, and project management and construction management (PM/CM)—under its articles of incorporation. The company is thereby preparing itself for new paradigms in the energy industry. Jul. 1982 Renamed as KOPEC(Korea Power Sept. 2003 Selected as No. 1 in construction management Engineering Co., Inc.) following equity (CM) performance acquisition by Korea Electric Power Sept. 2000 Received Canada’s “CNS John S. Hewitt Team Type ▶ Design & Engineering O&M Eco-friendly PM/CM Decommissioning Corporation (Operations & Maintenance) Achievement Award” Apr. 1977 Finalized decision to promote the Jan. 1997 Conducted nuclear power plant A/E due to the company’s role in taking charge of nuclear transfer of the nuclear steam supply system (NSSS) power plant design and engineering Jan. 1975 Established as Korea Atomic Burns & Roe 2007~2016 1997~2006 1987~1996 1975~1986 Jun. 2016 Acquired contract for SMART PPE and ITER CMA Has its own independent Enhances operability and Has manpower and Active development and Has reference performance Dec. 1996 Received the “World’s Best Power Plant Dec. 2015 Ranked No. 1 on ENR’s Competitechnology for architect maintainability by offering performance in technology cultivation of eco-friendly in areas such as public tiveness ▶ engineering nuclear/ technological support to development and Award” from U.S. Electric Power International “overseas revenue from technologies projects thermal power plants power plants in operation decommissioning (Boryeong Units 3 & 4) nuclear power plant design” for four consecutive years Dec. 1995 Received the “Project of the Year Award” from • Nuclear power plants • ‌erformance improvement • ‌Flue gas desulfurization/ • Public projects • ‌Decommissioning engiU.S. Power Engineering (Hanbit Units 3 & 4) Dec. 2009 Listed on the Korea • Thermal power plants and continued operation denitrification facilities • Private SOC projects neering/Decontamination/ • ‌Combined cycle and • ‌Performance restoration, • ‌ESCO, new and renewable • Power generation projects Dismantling of main Exchange / Acquired Areas ▶ Apr. 1987 Selected as the main A/E contractor for cogeneration power plants life cycle extension and fuel energy projects • Overseas projects equipment contract for the UAE nuclear switching, etc. • Water pollution prevention • Site restoration Hanbit Nuclear Power Plant Units 3 & 4 power plant design project • Waste disposal facilities (First time in Korea) 05 06 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Vision and Strategy Global Leading KEPCO E&C strives to become a “Global Leading Energy Solution Partner” through the Vision Energy Solution KEPCO E&C endeavors to provide a wider range of services by expanding its business areas to the 2025 system built on its management philosophy of pursuing customer satisfaction and the prosoverall value chain, including preand post-management. This includes businesses such as engiEnergy Solution Partner perity of mankind by reinforcing power plant design and engineering technologies as a leader in neering and EPC, as well as energy fields beyond electric power. Partner the energy industry. 1 Solution Mid to Long-Term Actively embracing new paradigms in the energy industry, KEPCO E&C has re-established its mid to long-term management strategies for future sustainability. Based on its five core values of chalEngineering Management Strategy lenge, communication, expertise, reliability, and safety, KEPCO E&C will strive to realize its vision Structure and attain management goals. KEPCO E&C has identified five strategic directions and 16 strategic Value Chain Follow-up Funding Consulting Engineering Procurement Construction O&M tasks in line with the company’s Vision 2025 as follows. management Scope 2 DecommisVision ▶ Global Leading Energy Solution Partner Financing, Establishing sioning, Master Plans, Site Selection Nuclear and Thermal Power Plant Engineering, ReprocessConsulting, Building EPCM, Transmission and Distribution/Substation Challenge Communication Expertise Reliability Safety Power ing, etc. Infrastructure O&M OE, Risk Management, Safety Consulting, Technical Consulting, etc. Decontamination, Core Energy Environment and New and Renewable Energy Radioactive Values ▶ Waste ManMarine Power Plant agement, etc. 〮 ‌Promote 〮 ‌Secure independent 〮 ‌Ensure high quality 〮 ‌Provide safe and clean 〮 ‌Accept challenges in Nuclear Fusion, Hydrogen, etc. communication technology to win reliability from energy new business areas among main offices, 〮 ‌Promote technological customers 〮 ‌Reinforce technological 〮 ‌Actively expand to job groups, and catch-up to compete 〮 ‌Build corporate culture development to overseas markets generations with competitors of mutual trust strengthen safety 2025 Sales figures Future Attain KRW 2.5 Technological Attain 25% in Attain 65% Secure Management and operating growth Exportation trillion sales and development future growth in overseas 12 core Goals ▶ profit ratio engine sales goals 10% operating goals engine sales business technologies 1 2 goals goals profit ratio Engineering Solution Power Energy Strategic Strengthen competitiveness Secure future energy Strengthen the global Advance energy solution Strengthen the sustainability • Provide Customized Comprehensive Consulting • Advance to Next Generation Energy Businesses Directions ▶ in core businesses solution growth engines business capacity technology management structure Financing, ‌ Establishing Master Plan, Site New and renewable energy Selection Consulting, Building Infrastructure, etc. Nuclear Fusion, Hydrogen, etc. OE, ‌ Technical Consulting, Risk Management, • ‌Strengthen corporate social Safety Consulting • ‌Expand to Other Energy Fields and Environmental • ‌Advance power plant responsibility • Secure ‌ a business base for Businesses engineering technology • ‌Advance safety-oriented • ‌Strengthen manpower back-end management & • Expand ‌ Back-end Management of Nuclear Marine Plants • ‌Expand businesses based • ‌Build capacity to expand nuclear technology to enhance execution of decommissioning Power Plant ‌Decontamination, Radioactive Waste Management, on customer needs global business • ‌Advance eco-friendly strategy Strategic • Expand ‌ new and renewable Decommissioning, Reprocessing, etc. etc. • ‌Implement EPCM • ‌Strengthen infrastructure and high-efficiency plant • ‌Build attainment and a Tasks ▶ energy businesses businesses on a selective to push forward global technology development-oriented • Explore ‌ energy new basis business • ‌Diversify next generation organizational basis businesses for sustainable • ‌Expand engineering-based energy solution technology • ‌Reinforce the risk growth O&M businesses management structure at the company level 07 08 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Proactive Risk Management Providing Customized KEPCO E&C is building a customized comprehensive consulting business by expanding its busiEnterprise Risk KEPCO E&C operates a forward-looking and enterprise-wide risk management process by which ness areas to cover the overall value chain. Ranging from establishing initial strategic plans, risks are managed on a regular basis through Corporate Risk Management (CRM) and Project Comprehensive Management(ERM) financing, and pre-consulting to engineering cooperation with players in each field, EPCM, O&M, Risk Management (PRM) which analyze and manage corporate risks and project risks, respectiveConsulting System and back-end management & decommissioning, KEPCO E&C’s comprehensive consulting sets the ly. The Risk Management Team which is in charge of implementing ERM realizes proactive risk foundation for its Total Solution business structure. management by issuing risk management report in the form of Risk Management Status Reports and Bi-Weekly ERM Reports and incorporating risk management into the organization’s agenda Major Corporate Risk and decision-making processes. Indicators (CRIs) Related to Sustainability Management Corporate Risk Management (CRM) Management Areas AssessKEPCO E&C is an engineering company whose biggest asset is its human resources. It therefore Level 1 Level 2 CRI ment Strategy Planning Construction Operation Decommissioning Category Category Term manages, through the CRM system, corporate risk indicators (CRIs) relating not only to business Number of but social factors that may have an impact on sustainability management. There are 49 CRIs in requests for ten management areas such as financial accounting, auditing, and contracts. The Risk Owners in • ‌Establishment of Midto • ‌Strategic financing services for • Owner’s engineering • System optimization • ‌Establish decommissioning Moral HalfAuditing disciplinary achazard yearly Long-term Strategic Plans power plant construction • ‌Establish mid to long-term • ‌Diagnose power plants’ lifeplans tion by external • ‌Develop policies and • Power plant life-cycle design O&M master plan cycles and establish measures • ‌Plant characterization organizations the relevant departments conduct risk management by assessing risks and formulating effective guidelines • Power plant M&A advisory • ‌Conduct geotechnical to improve performance • ‌Site restoration and final Employment ratio of the response measures regularly. • ‌Support decision-making for • Environmental impact analysis engineering • Assess asset value status survey disabled Employstrategic investments • Establish ‌ a power plant • ‌Contractual and legal conflict ment Number of job • ‌Conduct risk assessments on operation system advisory solicitation Project Risk Management (PRM) new businesses cases found Number of Quarterly Project Managers are the risk owners who operate the risk management process from identifying Labor Human Managecommunications for the project risks to implementing risk responses. In the case of potential projects, the risk manageResources ment Relations prevention of Labor-Management process is undertaken at the preparation and exploration stage, the bidding stage, and the ment conflict contracting stage. For ongoing projects, the process is undertaken on a half-yearly basis. The Establishing the KEPCO E&C is establishing the basis to expand into new businesses in line with new paradigms Integrity project risk factor pool consists of 66 factors for potential projects and 158 factors for ongoing in the energy industry. It is evolving from power generation businesses based on conventional Basis for New Energy assessment Customer results of the ManageYearly projects in six areas regarding contract, technology, client, etc. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C applies generation businesses, such as nuclear and thermal power, into next generation businesses using Anti-corruption Businesses ment the lessons learned from its overseas and EPC projects and takes continuous measures to imand Civil Rights new and renewable energy, like hydrogen and nuclear fusion. Commission Public ReputaRatio of negative prove the risk management process by updating the risk factors to enhance project performance Monthly Relations tion media reporting and increase the project profitability. Type Description Approach • ‌Selective technological investments based on new and Strengthening Financial KEPCO E&C is exposed to higher exchange risks as overseas sales increase due to the diversification of its international market. To systematically manage exchange risks, the Risk Owner of Risk Management renewable energy sources with high investment efficiency Environmentally-friendly, safe and • ‌Technological development and capacity-building for new renewable energy sources such as exchange risk receives foreign exchange training program and improve risk management stratNew and solar, hydro, and wind power renewable hybrid businesses, converging technologies – Exchange Risk Management Renewable Energy between new and renewable energy sources or with other egies consistently. energy sources Enhancing Enterprise • ‌Technological development and reinforcement of research As the importance of risk management increases, KEPCO E&C is strengthening its risk manageEnvironmentally-friendly and capability in preparation for the mass production of ment system on the enterprise-level by implementing various tasks that aim to innovate risk infinitely renewable energy sources based not on the location of the hydrogen using nuclear power • ‌Implement nuclear power hydrogen demonstration Risk Management management to enhance profitability and financial soundness. Hydrogen resources but related technologies projects through information exchanges and technological System cooperation with domestic/international institutions Strengthening Enterprise Risk Innovating Risk Management to Improving Financial Management System Enhance Profitability Soundness Infinitely available and safe energy • ‌Expand business areas within ITER and secure business/ source with no risk of radioactive technological basis by continuously acquiring contracts leaks, greenhouse gas emissions, • ‌Secure a leading position in an age of the commercialization • ‌Create a stronger culture of risk • ‌Make a risk management diagnosis • Strengthen financial stability Nuclear Fusion or high-level radioactive waste of nuclear fusion management of external organizations mandatory • ‌Strengthen financial risk management • ‌Improve the risk management system in prior to conducting projects based on • Strengthen ‌ profitability management line with changes in the business structure qualitative and quantitative standards per project • ‌Strengthen connections with the existing • ‌Increase profitability by developing business system profit and cost assessment models • ‌Establish a risk management system in in consideration of the public interest which risk owners play a leading role and profitability 09 10 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Sound Governance Structure of the Board The Board of Directors, the highest decision-making body of KEPCO E&C, consists of eight members: Strengthening the KEPCO E&C secures the expertise of its Board of Directors by receiving recommendations of the Presseven directors and one auditor, including the CEO who also serves as the Chair of the Board, one ident Nomination Committee and evaluating the capability of public agency executives when apof Directors Expertise of Directors executive auditor, two executive directors and four non-executive directors. The President serves a pointing directors. To ensure rational decision-making and the expertise of the Board, professionals three-year term, while the directors and auditor each serve a two-year term. The directors and auditor in fields such as nuclear power and public policy are appointed as non-executive directors. are appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea, the Minister of Strategy and Finance, etc., upon resolution of the general meeting of shareholders, given that they do not fall under the grounds Management Suggestions by Cases of Management Suggestions by Non-Executive Directors for disqualification set forth in Article 34 of the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. Non-executive Directors Type Policy Suggestions Applications (Unit : Case) Review measures to utilize the main office building Added “real estate leasing” to essential business (October 17) BOD Status (As of August 9, 2017) in Yongin (First meeting, February 12) 21 Permanent Head of Organization Share the company’s major issues with employees Enabled working-level employees to attend weekly management meetings to and establish measures to collect feedback Park Koo-Woun, President & CEO share the company’s major issues and receive feedback 15 (First meeting, February 12) Offer various capability-building programs Implemented leave of absence for self-development (December 27) Permanent auditor to employees other than current educational Eligibility: Employees with at least five years of service Lee Dong-Geun, Auditor 8 Management programs (Fourth meeting, May 20) Duration: Maximum one year Operate various programs to improve employees’ Established “Self Development Day” (October 15) Executive Directors Non-executive Directors quality of life after relocation to Gimcheon ‌Every first and third Thursday, employees get off work on time and engage in (Sixth meeting, August 30) self-development programs (IT lectures, university lectures, etc.) Jo Jik-Lae, Director of Nuclear Division Other Non-Executive Directors External Directors Kim Jae-Won, Director of Energy Division Park Seong-Chul, Director Park Ji-Hyeon, Director 2014 2015 2016 Add strategic tasks to management goals regarding Added “Cultivating future talent and creative people” to major task action cultivating talent and helping employees to Park Tae-Bong, Director plans improve their skills (Ninth meeting, December 27) Park Jae-Hyeon, Director Increase interest and participation within the company regarding investment and promotion of Held lecture on “Sun Village and New Energy Projects” Appointment of the Board of Directors the government’s new energy-related projects (August 5, Gimcheon Headquarters) (First meeting, February 12) Type Deliberation & Decision Appointment ① ‌Selected “nuclear power plant post-management” as a new growth Business business group Deliberation/decision at Public Enterprise Steering Committee and decision Make efforts to develop the nuclear power plant ② ‌Obtained a decommissioning research contract from a foreign company CEO & President President management technologies and market to secure at general meeting of shareholders (PEL) for the first time in Korea drive for the company’s new growth ③ ‌Added to essential business under articles of incorporation (March 2017) Executive Directors Decision at general meeting of shareholders CEO & President (Third meeting, March 21) ‌Businesses related to nuclear power plant decommissioning, spent nuclear Non-executive Deliberation/decision at Public Enterprise Steering Committee and decision Minister of Strategy fuel, and radioactive waste Directors Directors at general meeting of shareholders and Finance Deliberation/decision at Public Enterprise Steering Committee and decision Executive Auditor President Director Remuneration at general meeting of shareholders Remuneration of the directors, which consists of a basic salary, incentives, and severance, is paid according to the management performance of the company within the limit approved by the Operation of the Board The non-executive director pre-monitoring system adopted in 2015 contributed to increasing the general meeting of shareholders. In the case of executive directors, incentives are paid upon evalparticipation of non-executive directors in BOD meetings. To operate the BOD systematically, opof Directors uation of their performance against the annual target. External directors receive the monthly fees eration plans are regularly established and reviewed. The BOD is convened at the request of the necessary for carrying out their duties. Chair or at least one-third of the directors in office and shall be attended by the majority of the directors in office. The Chair of the Board shall notify the directors and auditor seven days prior to Shareholder Status and As of December 31, 2016, the majority shareholder of KEPCO E&C is Korea Electric Power Corpothe meeting, and the voting right of any director with special interest in specific agendas shall be ration (KEPCO) with a share ownership ratio of 65.77%. Pursuant to relevant laws and regulations, limited to prevent conflict of interest within the Board. Protection of Rights all shareholders are entitled to attend general meetings of shareholders, cast votes, and particiPerformance of the Board of Directors pate in dividing profits. Information regarding corporate management is disclosed in a transparent and accurate matter via the KEPCO website, general meetings of shareholders, and disclosure Type 2014 2015 2016 reports, thereby guaranteeing shareholders’ rights. Meetings (No.) 9 9 9 Resolutions (No.) 22 27 31 Shareholder Status Pre-deliberation Rate (%) 100 100 100 Name of Shareholder Number of Stocks Owned Share Ownership Ratio (%) Decisions after Amendments (No.,%) 0(0) 0(0) 1(3.23) Korea Electric Power Corporation 25,138,694 shares 65.77% Reported Agenda (No.) 2 9 7 National Pension Service 2,396,547 shares 6.27% BOD Participation Rate (%)* 77.5 89.3 72.2 Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute 787,500 shares 2.06% Non-executive Directors Participation Rate (%) 63.6 87.5 57.4 Retail Investors 9,707,642 shares 25.40% Frequency of Statements by Non-Executive Directors (%) 43.2 47.1 47.8 Employee Stock Ownership Association 189,617 shares 0.50% * ‌BOD participation rate decreased due to business trips and other commitments of directors affiliated with the Total 38,220,000 shares 100.00% government (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Ministry of Science and ICT). 11 12 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Materiality Assessment KEPCO E&C performed a materiality assessment to identify internal and external issues that may Major Issue Pool A total of 12 core issues were derived from the 24 issues identified through the materiality assessaffect the company and to collect the various opinions of stakeholders to be effectively reflected ment. The core issues are discussed under the same heading in KEPCO E&C’s report according to Economic in this report. By utilizing standard indicators for sustainability management, a pool of economic, 1. Creating economic value its four core values. social, and environmental issues was developed, followed by a materiality assessment on each 2. ‌Market position and corporate reputation issue using media research, benchmarking of businesses in the same industry, and internal/ex3. Expanding to the global market 4. ‌Technology development and Impact: Financial, operational, and strategic impact Relevance: Impact on corporate image and reputation ternal surveys. Detailed accounts of the core issues identified by the materiality assessment are innovation thoroughly provided in this report. 5. Creating new growth engines Social Emerging issues Core issues 6. Healthy corporate culture Impact Reinforcing shared growth Materiality Assessment Process 7. Improving customer satisfaction 8. Reinforcing shared growth Technology development and innovation 9. Training and education Step 1 10. Strengthening safety and hygiene Climate change response 11. ‌Ethical management and activities Training and education anti-corruption Strengthening the information 12. Hiring talented people Ethical management and anti-corruption security system Standard indices such as GRI Standards, ISO 26000, DJSI, SASB and the UN SDGs were evaluated to 13. Diversity and equal opportunities Creating new growth engines Strengthening safety and hygiene identify sustainability management issues. A pool of 44 issues and 24 core issues were identified. 14. ‌Strengthening the information Expanding to the global market Development of security system 15. ‌Win-win management with the Win-win management with a Pool of Issues Eco-friendly management the community community system Improving quality 16. Proactive risk management management 17. Improving quality management Media research, benchmarking of businesses in the same industry, survey of internal/external stakeholders, and an external evaluation were conducted on the core issues. Environmental 18. Climate change response activities 19. Company-side energy reduction 20. Eco-friendly management system Internal/ 21. ‌Eco-friendly technology Step 2 Benchmarking development Media of businesses external External 22. Pollutant discharge management research in the same stakeholder evaluation 23. ‌Supply network environment industry survey assessment 24. Biodiversity preservation efforts Analysis of 1,187 articles Identification of global Survey of internal Impact assessment Relevance Analysis of relating to KEPCO E&C trends by analyzing employees and of each issue by an Issues published in 2015 issues covered in the external stakeholders external evaluation 2016 by approximately sustainability reports regarding the pool of conducted by 140 domestic and of nine advanced identified issues sustainability 2016 KEPCO E&C Core Issues international media companies in the management experts outlets same industry Material Issue Topic Report category page Expanding to the global market Challenge : KEPCO E&C, pursuing the prosperity of mankind 27-28 Technology development and Economic Performance Expertise : KEPCO E&C, striving to be the best 52 Step 3 innovation Creating new growth engines Other business issues Challenge : KEPCO E&C, pursing the prosperity of mankind 26 Analysis and evaluation outcomes were comprehensively considered to evaluate the materiality of each issue. Reinforcing shared growth Other business issues Communication : KEPCO E&C, sharing hopes and dreams 39-40 Materiality Assessment Training and education Training and education Expertise : KEPCO E&C, striving to be the best 48-50 Strengthening safety and hygiene Safety and hygiene within the workplace Safety : KEPCO E&C, dreaming of a safer and cleaner future 30-32 Ethical management and Anti-corruption Reliability : KEPCO E&C, offering trust and confidence 44-45 Step 4 anti-corruption Strengthening the information A total of 12 core issues were derived from the materiality assessment, and an internal review Customer Privacy Reliability : KEPCO E&C, offering trust and confidence 46 security system was undertaken to determine the scope, extent, and duration of reporting. The core issues were thoroughly reported in this 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report. Win-win management with Local Communities Communication : KEPCO E&C, sharing hopes and dreams 36-38 Identification the community of Core Issues Improving quality management Other business isseus Reliability : KEPCO E&C, offering trust and confidence 42-43 Climate change response activities Emissions 30 Safety : KEPCO E&C, dreaming of a safer and cleaner future Eco-friendly management system Energy, water 33-34 13 14 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Stakeholder Communication KEPCO E&C, Reaching New Heights KEPCO E&C categorizes stakeholders that have both direct and indirect impacts on corporate management activities into three groups: value creating and delivering type, value purchasing type, and value impacting type. Stakeholders in each group communicate with KEPCO E&C through various channels. The opinions gathered through this communication are actively reflected so as to enhance corporate sustainability. Through these efforts, KEPCO E&C will continue to do its best to achieve sustainable growth hand in hand with its stakeholders. In August 2015, KEPCO E&C constructed a state-of-the-art The world’s No.1 intelligent building that not only symbolizes its position as KEPCO E&C Headquarters a global energy company but also realizes reduced energy consumption. This revolutionary low-carbon green building A Global Power Leader of also provides an incredibly pleasant work environment. Energy Companies With its new, cutting-edge building, KEPCO E&C will Major stakeholders Matters of interest and Major communication Direction of reach new heights as it heads into the future. communication issues channels communication Scope • ‌Management meetings, board meetings 2 underground Employees floors • Management seminars 28 aboveground • Talks with the CEO • ‌Employees: Promote loyalty floors Labor union • Suggestions for improvement to the company and boost Gross area • Corporate sustainability • ‌Creative and innovative leaders morale • ‌Employment stability, enhancement of labor group (The Serom) • ‌Labor union: Promote 145,864.24 ㎡ Suppliers • Grievance settlement system mutual development based conditions • ‌Labor-Management meetings, on trust Use • Shared growth, fair trade workshops, working-level • ‌Suppliers: Shared growth meetings and fair trade Public ser• ‌Supplier meetings and workshops Value Creating and vice facilities • Supplier visiting program Building Delivering Type • Customer service center coverage Location Actor of value creation and partner of value achievement 17,679.56㎡ Floor area ratio 269 Hyeoksin-ro • Management CTO meetings 83.72 (Yulgok-dong), Gimcheon-si, • Project review meetings (PRM) % Gyeongsangbuk-do • ‌Technological capacity • ‌Ordering party: Enhance • ‌Project/Engineering review Lot area Value Purchasing Type for business execution customer satisfaction, meetings Building • ‌Improvement of increase business execution coverage ratio 121,919.30 Purchaser of businesses related • Customer satisfaction survey economic efficiency capability ㎡ to nuclear power, plants, new Customers • ‌Customized technological and renewable energy, etc. training 14.50 % Value Impacting Type • Government liaison system • ‌National Assembly/ Stakeholders having direct • Protocol system Government : Implement and indirect impact on • ‌Implement government • Management disclosures government policies and corporate management and the policies • ‌General meeting of find rational solutions to implementation of projects • ‌Enhance corporate value shareholders current issues National Assembly/ • ‌Right to know, corporate • Domestic and International IR • ‌Shareholders: Promote Government social responsibility • Media reports corporate value and achieve • ‌Invigorate local • ‌Information disclosures continued growth Shareholders/ economies (Government 3.0) • ‌Media/Community: Disclose Investors • Homepage information to build trust Media • Activities in local communities and strengthen cooperation Community 15 16 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Special Page Reducing Environmental Impact with a New Eco-friendly Building Win-win Activities in the New Location of the Headquarters Major Items Support for the Cultivation of Local Talent the company’s own volunteer group that was organized in Since relocating to Gimcheon Innocity in North Gyeo2005. In 2017, over 40 employees visited a farming village Transportation ngsang Province, KEPCO E&C has played a leading role located in Sangjwawon-ri, Guseong-myeon, Gimcheon-si • Eco-friendly transportation using bicycle parking racks in cultivating local talent. In July 2015, KEPCO E&C doand helped with harvesting onions under the sweltering • ‌At least two public transportation hubs nated KRW 100 million to the Gimcheon-si Talent Culheat. They also purchased some of the onions they had within 150 meters tivation Foundation, supporting scholarships and the helped harvest, contributing to the farms’ income. Energy • ‌101 points on the energy performance index improvement of the educational environment for local • ‌New and renewable energy such as sunlight talent. It is also expanding industrial-academic coopSupport for Promoting Traditional Markets and geothermal heat eration with high schools and universities in the region In an effort to boost the local economy by promoting Ecological Environment while implementing various regional cooperation prothe use of traditional markets, KEPCO E&C carried out a • ‌Improve biotope in consideration of the ecological environment grams—such as a human resources development procampaign in June 2017 in Gimcheon Hwanggeum Tradi• Increase the natural soil green area ratio gram in the field of power generation plant engineering tional Market. It also donated Onnuri gift certificates in Materials and Resources CAD—to support the cultivation of local talent. the amount of KRW 3 million to Wolmyeong St. Mary’s • Use eco-friendly certified products • ‌Use products that provide information on House, a welfare organization based in Gimcheon, carbon emissions Agreement with Gimcheon University to Create a thereby sharing through giving as well as contributing Indoor Environment Vocational Education and Training Course to the promotion of traditional markets in the region. • Create natural ventilation • ‌Individual control of the lighting A vocational education and training course is an underSince relocating to Gimcheon Innocity in 2015, KEPCO environment in work spaces graduate degree program established and operated by E&C has carried out various win-win activities in the Water Resources universities under inter-institutional cooperation with the region and will continue to strengthen its ties with the • ‌Expand the use of rainwater and heavy water State, local governments, or enterprises by executing an local community. • Apply water-saving hygiene tools agreement to promote education particularly in the industrial fields. In March 2017, KEPCO E&C signed an agreement with Gimcheon University to establish and operate a Con1 vergence Energy Engineering Department as a vocational Argon Gas OA education and training course. The Department offers SA courses converging construction, mechanics, and electric EA RA Low emissivity Level 1 Energy 100% LED three-layer Total Heat Exchange Efficiency Lighting Sunlight Generation and electronic engineering to approximately 20 students, coating Building holds regular student meetings to promote team building Strengthen the performance of the Enhance the efficiency of facilities Minimize energy use Minimize energy use 2 building envelope and motivation, and provides students with opportunities ‌Calculate the optimum heat ‌100% LED lighting in ‌100% LED lighting in ‌Enhance glass shielding of solar source capacity work spaces work spaces to participate in exhibitions and study tours to enterprises. radiation ‌Apply air conditioning equipment ‌Minimize the lighting ‌Minimize the lighting Enhance glass insulation and a total heat exchanger density in main rooms density in main rooms Classes are held every Wednesday (evening) and Saturday Apply super insulating materials ‌Enhance the performance of the (daytime) to enable students to effectively combine study Enhance ‌ insulation of the highest floor geothermal heat pump Apply electric retractable screens Expand the geothermal heat zone and work. Various scholarship programs are being devised to provide 50% of tuition fees to students and other institu3 tional measures to boost motivation. Supply Rate (Against amount of energy use) 19.28% A Helping Hand to Local Farms KEPCO E&C has carried out a variety of activities in the Installed Capacity 1 ‌Support for the Cultivation local community such as giving a helping hand at local 4 of Local Talent Geothermal Heat Sunlight (PV) (Closed Loop) Solar Heat farms during busy farming seasons, cleaning the environ2 ‌Agreement with Gimcheon University Air conditioning ment, and volunteering at affiliated institutions. At the 3 ‌A Helping Hand to Local 1,824.66 kw 2,808 ㎾, 65.30m2 Solar Heat Geothermal Sunlight center of KEPCO E&C’s community service activities is the Farms (327Wp x 5,580sides) Heating 2,745 ㎾ Collector Heat Pump Module 4 ‌Support for Promoting Chamsarang (“True Love Service Corps”) Volunteer Group, Traditional Markets 17 18 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2015 2016 Highlights KEPCO E&C Announces Ten Major New Growth Businesses KEPCO E&C’s New Building Wins the Grand Prize at the Green Architecture Competition In January 2017, KEPCO E&C selected and announced new growth businesses, reflecting its KEPCO E&C’s new building that was built in Gimcheon Innocity upon relocation was awarded purpose of incorporation and future strategic directions. Ten major new growth businesses—(i) the Grand Prize at the 2016 Korea Green Architecture Competition hosted by the Presidential nuclear decontamination and decommissioning, (ii) spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, (iii) Commission on Architecture Policy in November 2016. The new building, boasting a gross area small and medium-sized reactors, (iv) i-POWER, (v) floating storage power plant, (vi) Industry 4.0, of 145,864m2, with 28 aboveground floors and two underground floors, is an eco-friendly, ener(vii) enhancement of thermal power performance, (viii) environment improvement, (ix) generaKEPCO E&C Wins an Overseas Decomgy-saving building that was rated first class in green construction, 1+ level in energy efficiency, tion of new & renewable energy, and (x) convergence of new & renewable energy—were selected missioning Research Contract for the and first class as an intelligent building. The award was given in recognition of its excellence as in five areas: post-management of nuclear power plants, development of nuclear reactors for First Time in Korea an eco-friendly construction project that actively applies new & renewable energy and various export, convergence technology, clean thermal power, and new & renewable energy. These new In August 2016, KEPCO E&C executed a regreen technologies such as sunlight generation facilities, thermal heat air conditioning and heatgrowth businesses will be implemented in a systematic manner by supplementing relevant orgasearch contract on nuclear decommissioning ing systems, and rainwater/heavy water facilities. nizations, manpower, and institutional systems. with a German company, PreussenElektra GmbH, PEL. Pursuant to this contract, KEPCO E&C will conduct research on system KEPCO E&C Launches an “Open Library” changes for optimizing cost and energy EPC for Local Residents KEPCO E&C Is Awarded the Presidenduring nuclear decommissioning, analyzing tial Award at the Korean National In June 2016, KEPCO E&C created an open the cost benefit of adding or modifying the Quality Award library for local residents and the families of equipment or systems required for nuclear its employees. Located on the first floor of KEPCO E&C received the Presidential Award decommissioning in its preparation stage. By the new KEPCO E&C building and covering at the 42nd Korean National Quality Award, winning this contract, KEPCO E&C’s extensive 510m2, the open library currently offers over hosted by the Korean Agency for Technology experience and technology in nuclear power 10,000 publications. These include books for KEPCO E&C Wins the Invest in and Standards under the Ministry of Trade, Inplant engineering were recognized in the dustry and Energy to reward enterprises and children and young adults, English-language Provence Award overseas nuclear decommissioning market. individuals who have achieved outstanding books, and periodicals, and an additional KEPCO E&C Establishes a Branch Office At the ITER Business Forum 2015, KEPCO E&C management performance through quality 25,000 books will be acquired in the near fuin Indonesia was awarded the Invest in Provence Award, management activities. The award was given ture. The open library is expected to serve as which is an award given by the Provence In February 2017, KEPCO E&C established in recognition of KEPCO E&C’s notable quality a bridge between KEPCO E&C and the local Foreign Investment Promotion Agency and KEPCO E&C’s EPC Project Achieves 4 a branch office in Jakarta, Indonesia. The management performance, such as adopting community by offering a learning space for the Marseille Chamber of Commerce and Million Accident Free Man-Hours branch office aims to win contracts for the quality assurance system for the first time the local children and a cultural space for the Industry in recognition of the contribution thermal power plants and nuclear power as a domestic engineering company and eslocal residents. As of October 12, 2015, KEPCO E&C’s EPC of foreign companies to the development plants in countries such as Vietnam and tablishing a quality management system that (Engineering, Procurement and Construcof local economies in France. KEPCO E&C’s Malaysia by tapping into the Southeast meets global standards. tion) project in Côte d’Ivoire had achieved contribution to promoting the local econAsian market. It is expected that through 4 million Man-hours without an accident. omy was recognized as it had established our branch office we can effectively make The project aims to convert the existing the ITER International Organization Liaison inroads into the rapidly growing Southeast power plant with a 110MW class gas turOffice in June 2015 and helped increase the Asian electricity market and KEPCO E&C bine into a combined cycle power plant organizational capability of ITER. will continue to make various efforts to by adding two heat recovery steam generexpand into overseas markets. ators (HRSG), one steam turbine, and one air cooled condenser (ACC). KEPCO E&C was able to achieve 4 million accident-free KEPCO E&C Earns the Highest Grade in the Shared Growth Assessment Man-hours through strict health, safety KEPCO E&C earned a grade of “Excellent” (the highest possible grade) in the 2016 Shared Growth and environment (HSE) management Assessment for Public Institutions, announced annually by the Minister of Trade, Industry and activities such as safety trainings, safety Energy in accordance with Article 19 of the Act on the Promotion of Collaborative Cooperation inspections, and permit to work system. between Large Enterprises and Small-Medium Enterprises. KEPCO E&C earned high points for its This achievement proves KEPCO E&C’s strong commitment to achieve shared growth, implementation of shared growth plans, estabworld-class safety level, and its effort to lishment of a shared growth roadmap and tasks reflecting its institutional characteristics, and the create a safe working environment will ONE-STOP shared growth support system. It is notable that KEPCO E&C was selected as an “excelcontinue. lent” organization since it jumped two grades in just one year, an unprecedented achievement in a public institution assessment. 19 20 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Sustainability Issue 41 Reliability KEPCO E&C, Offering Trust and Confidence 42 Providing Reliable Quality 44 Establishing a Culture of Integrity and Trust 23 Challenge 47 Expertise KEPCO E&C, Pursuing the Prosperity of Mankind KEPCO E&C, Striving to Be the Best 24 Creating Future Growth Engines 48 Strengthening Talent Management and Cultivation 27 Expanding into the Global Electricity Market 52 Securing Expertise through Technological Development 29 Safety KEPCO E&C, Dreaming of a Safer and Cleaner Future 30 Safe and Clean Energy 35 Communication KEPCO E&C, Sharing Hopes and Dreams 36 Sharing with the Local Community by Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibility 39 Win-win-based Shared Growth 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Creating Future Growth Engines Challenge KEPCO E&C, Increasing KEPCO E&C continues to strengthen its competitiveness by reinforcing the safety of its nuclear powPursuing the Prosperity of Mankind Competitiveness in the er plant architect engineering business, maximizing customer satisfaction by diversifying its portfolio such as APR1400, APR1000+, APR+ and SMR, and expanding its EPCM and engineering-based Nuclear Power Business O&M business. MA (Management Approach) 2015-2016 Key Performance IMPORTANCE OF ISSUE In 2016, the plant industry was impacted by the economic downturn and stronger global Nuclear Power Business competition due to oversupply and low demand. This new era is marked by low growth, low Strategies to Strengthen Competitiveness consumption, and high unemployment. Nevertheless, it is critical for companies to turn such 2016 International Nuclear Power hardships into opportunities and advance forward. As such, KEPCO E&C will strive to yield Plant Design as Published by ENR sustainable performance results by facing these new challenges. World’s No. 2 Our Approach Notwithstanding recent hardships in winning contracts, KEPCO E&C has continued to strengthen its capacity in core business areas such as nuclear energy and the plant business. FurtherAdvancing Power Plant Expand Businesses Based Selectively Implement Expand the EngineeringArchitect Engineering on Customer Needs the EPCM Business based O&M Business more, it has selected and actively implemented ten new growth businesses in five major areas: 1 2 3 4 post-management of nuclear power plants, development of nuclear reactors for export, converStrengthen safety of nuclear Expand the performanceKEPCO E&C’s Ten New Growth gence technologies, clean thermal power, and new and renewable energy. In the global electricDiversify the portfolio Implement the nuclear power plant architect enhancing business for Businesses in Five Major Areas of reactors EP business ity market, KEPCO E&C continues to expand into new markets by acquiring contracts regarding engineering power plants in operation New Growth Businesses small and medium-sized SMART nuclear power plants and ITER projects. • ‌Prepare for safety regulations • ‌Develop various types of ‌ • Expand business range from • Implement ‌ projects that offer and technology standards, reactors such as APR1400, architect engineering-oriented improvement measures for which are growing in APR1000+, APR+ and SMR businesses to EP businesses the safety and performance of Our Plan importance following the • ‌Offer an optimal range of • Decide ‌ upon participation in nuclear power plants Fukushima nuclear accident choices to customers by projects based on profitability • Discover ‌ new businesses KEPCO E&C will continue to strengthen the competitiveness of its core businesses by • ‌Strengthen safety-related improving market responses • Respond ‌ to market demand in through cooperation with technologies and quality and customized reactor types a timely manner and increase relevant advanced companies making advancements in architect engineering technology and expanding its areas of • ‌Secure global quality design flexibility by expanding • Attempt ‌ expansion to the business. The company will also secure new growth engines by implementing its ten new • ‌Bolster the safety culture and business to procurement Middle East and U.S. markets establish design safety by for nuclear power plants in Won the Contract for the ITER growth businesses in five major areas. Through these efforts, KEPCO E&C seeks to contribimproving internal systems operation CMA Project ute to the prosperity of all as a “Global Leading Energy Solution Partner.” Performance Interview Hwang Seong-Ryul (Deputy Head of Department, KEPCO) “‌I hope KEPCO E&C will continue to reach new heights with thorough preparations to meet future 1. Began ‌ commercial In December 2016, the Shin Kori-3, a third-generation APR1400 reactor, began commercial operation. The challenges.” operation of Shin Kori-3, safety and propriety of APR 1400, also applied to nuclear power plants to undergo construction in the For an enterprise to achieve sustainable growth in the midst of new energy paradigms set forth by the new government, the world’s first UAE, has thus been verified. The excellence of the “Korean nuclear reactor design” has been demonstratit must make great efforts to develop new business areas, explore new business items, and make technological advancethird-generation reactor ed through the stable construction of the Shin Kori-3. ments. As a leading company in energy technologies, KEPCO E&C has been expanding its business areas into post-management of nuclear power plants and new and renewable energy. All the while, it is maintaining its existing strengths 2. Established ‌ a KEPCO E&C has established a proactive response system for handling delay factors which checks the in engineering and EPC projects. Post-management of nuclear power plants is an area in which active discussions have been taking place with the recent governmental policies on nuclear decommissioning and the permanent shutdown of comprehensive design status of relevant processes on a daily basis and operates a database that serves as standardized supplier the Kori-1 reactor. It is an area that requires technological advancement as well as industrial experience for tapping into management system document list. In addition, by establishing a data-based configuration system and a database of design overseas markets. New and renewable energy is also an area where technological development and efforts to reinforce to carry out design requirements, KEPCO E&C has eliminated any potential nonconformance of reactor design requirements, competitiveness are vital. I hope that KEPCO E&C will face these challenges by making technological advancements and for multiple reactors design documents and physical configuration, as well as gained reliability for its superior reactor design developing new markets, thereby taking a new leap forward as a total energy solution partner expanding beyond its simultaneously technology. strengths in architect engineering and the construction of power plants. 23 24 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Increasing KEPCO E&C will pursue economically feasible plant design businesses by carrying out proposal-orientKEPCO E&C’s New In order to diversify its portfolio for increased business revenue and achieve its mid to long-term ed projects based on eco-friendly and highly efficient thermal power plant design. In addition, it cremanagement goal of ‘25% in future growth engine sales’ under Vision 2025, KEPCO E&C has selectCompetitiveness Growth Businesses ates future growth engines by selectively implementing small and medium-scale EPCM businesses and ed ten new growth businesses in five major areas. The new growth businesses were selected based in the Plant Business strengthening competitiveness in the plant business by expanding its thermal-based O&M business. on their propriety, novelty, and marketability in consideration of the government’s strategies in the energy industry and KEPCO E&C’s own management strategies. Mid to long-term plans will be esOptimal design for highly tablished and implemented for these new growth businesses, which are expected to be the future “Increase customer satisfaction efficient and eco-friendly growth engines of KEPCO E&C. thermal power plants by optimizing facilities and advancing eco-friendly power plant design technology” Implement proposal-oriented plant businesses “Carry out proposal-oriented projects by creating a task force for each ordering party and producing customized designs” Strategies to Strengthen Expand overseas EPCM Competitiveness in the businesses “Reinforce business development Plant Business in regions with ongoing projects (West Africa) and expand into new markets (Southeast Asia)” Post-management Expand engineering consulting Power Plants business areas “Expand business areas including power · ‌Decontamination decommissioning such as O&M plant performance enhancement and · ‌Spent nuclear radioactive waste seismic design” New and Renewable Development of Energy Reactors for Export Performance in the Plant Business · ‌New and renewable · ‌Small and medium-sized energy power generation reactors 1. ‌Successfully completed In 2016, KEPCO E&C successfully completed 1,000MW-scale ultra-supercritical coal-fired thermal power plants, · ‌Convergence of new and · i-POWER renewable energy two large-scale thereby meeting 100% of its target goal for technological independence and setting the foundation for expanding ultra-supercritical into the overseas market for large-scale thermal power plants. In particular, for Dangjin Units 9 and 10, the design Ten New coal-fired thermal standards for building eco-friendly power plants were improved in response to changes in trends. Air pollution preBusinesses Major power plants (1,000MW) vention facilities with enhanced performance were also applied to reduce fine dust. Facilities to detect and warn of hazardous substances were also installed, meeting the strict requirements under the Toxic Chemicals Control Act. 2. ‌Applied VE (Value Value engineering (VE) refers to a rational approach to enhance design quality while reducing cost, based on Clean Thermal Power Convergence Technology Engineering) and the low-cost, high-efficiency economic principle. By applying value engineering in constructing the Gangthe 3D design basis neung Thermal Power Plants Units 1 and 2, KEPCO E&C was able to not only shorten the construction process · ‌Performance improvement of · Floating storage power plant thermal power plant · Industry 4.0 verification process but also reduce a total of KRW 75.7 billion of life-cycle costs, including KRW 62.7 billion in construction costs · Environment improvement and KRW 13 billion in maintenance costs. In addition, it has developed a 3D design basis verification system to improve design quality, increasing design accuracy by reviewing interference factors in advance by using 3D simulations, while enhancing work efficiency through 3D direct design in each technological area. 3. ‌Strengthened the EPC By successfully executing the Osan EPC project, KEPCO E&C won customer trust and built the foundation business capacity for carrying out preliminary projects for follow-up fuel cell projects and winning additional contracts. Furthermore, by successfully completing the CIPREL IV EPC project in Côte d’Ivoire, KEPCO E&C secured the capacity to execute follow-up EPCM projects, based on which it will attempt to obtain new EPCM projects in West African and Southeast Asian countries. 25 26 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Expanding into the Global Electricity Market Winning the Contract for the ITER Winning the SMART Pre-Project Completing Zero-Accident CMA Project Engineering (PPE) Project Construction in Overseas EPCM Businesses Since 2016, KEPCO E&C has been providing KEPCO E&C is currently carrying out pre-project Construction Management-as-Agent services engineering (PPE) of a system-integrated modCIPREL project in Côte d’Ivoire for the International Thermonuclear Experular advanced reactor (SMART) nuclear reactor KEPCO E&C successfully had constructed for 4 milimental Reactor (ITER) project by winning a since winning the KRW 82.5 billion contract. lion hours with no industrial accidents and began KRW 230 billion contract. The ITER project is a SMART is a small-sized reactor with multiple commercial operation of the CIPREL project in Côte super-large international joint research project purposes, such as supplying electricity to small d’Ivoire. The CIPREL IV Volet B EPC project aims to in which seven countries—Republic of Korea, cities with a population of under 100,000 with a convert the existing open cycle power plant into a United States, Russia, the European Union, quarter of the capacity (100MW) of existing recombined cycle power plant into a combined cycle Japan, China, and India—will jointly construct actors as well as living water and heat through power plant by adding two heat recovery steam a super-large thermonuclear experimental reHeaddesalination. It is particularly useful in counquarters generators (HRSG), one steam turbine, and one air actor in Cadarache, France, to substantiate the tries that have difficulty building single eleccooled condenser (ACC). The project also contribpossibility of mass producing energy through trical grids due to the dispersion of the poputed to the development of domestic companies nuclear fusion. KEPCO E&C organized a conulation. Winning this project is significant for by helping small and medium-sized enterprises sortium with AMEC FW UK and ASSYSTEM KEPCO E&C because the company gained an enter into overseas markets, while proving KEPCO France, winning the contract based on its techopportunity for the initial commercialization of E&C’s ability for safe construction by achieving 4 nological prowess and confidence gained from small and medium-sized nuclear reactors. This million zero-accident hours. a variety of past projects, including radioactive took place in a time when the need for reactors waste management, as well as engineering is attracting attention again following the Paris Takoradi T2 Project in Ghana and cable engineering projects from the ITER Agreement, under which countries around the KEPCO E&C’s T2 project in Ghana was successfully international organization. KEPCO E&C was world agreed to reduce their greenhouse gas completed with no industrial accidents and has able to accomplish this on the merit of its emissions. This project is also expected to be begun commercial operation. The T2 project aims world-class nuclear and thermal power plant a new breakthrough in which nuclear reactors to increase the total generation capacity to apengineering capabilities. Winning this project Headquarters will become an export item by entry into other proximately 330MW by converting the existing gas will help promote KEPCO E&C’s practical engiITER Liaison Office, France countries. plant, the Takoradi T2 (220MW, simple cycle), into neering and excellent technological capability Côte d’Ivoire Branch a combined cycle power plant. By achieving 7.9 in the global market and secure various techGhana Branch million zero-accident hours, KEPCO E&C proved Saudi Arabia Branch nologies needed to build thermonuclear reacits ability for safe construction and opened up new UAE Branch tors in the future. possibilities in the EPC business area by successfully completing the first power plant overseas. 1 2 3 4 5 6 1, 2 Winning the contract for the ITER CMA Project 3, 4 Winning a PPE contract for a SMART project 5 Côte d’Ivoire CIPREL project 6 Ghana T2 project 27 28 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Safe and Clean Energy Safety KEPCO E&C, Strengthening the HSE KEPCO E&C has selected ‘safety’ as one of its core values and applies a systematic HSE manageDreaming of a Safer and Cleaner Future Management System ment process to effectively operate its HSE management system. HSE Management Process MA (Management Approach) KEPCO E&C operates a systematic Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) management system based on the requirements of the international standards OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001. The HSE management system covers practical operational measures to prevent disasters and accidents 2015-2016 Key Performance IMPORTANCE OF ISSUE during the course of business, according to which the company will manage the relevant processes. As safety and environmental regulations continue to become more stringent in the international community, demand has been rising for nuclear power design that prioritizes safety. • Improvement ‌ of the HSE • Establish ‌ HSE management Especially in the aftermath of the Gyeongju earthquakes, public scrutiny of nuclear power management system through Action Policies and Goals Plan policies plant safety is growing and the importance of verifying safety in the design stage of building HSE management review • Choose ‌ major tasks and Accident-free Construction in and target management each implement strategies is being further emphasized. As eco-friendly and high-efficiency technologies in both the quarter Domestic and Overseas EPC Projects Continuous domestic and international markets take center stage, the demand for new & renewable en12.79 Million Hours Improvements ergy, the energy sources of the future, is also increasing. • ‌Verification processes such as • ‌Strengthen employee internal auditing, inspection, Our Approach and assessment to effectively Check Do capabilities by applying HSE management techniques manage HSE management Upholding safety as one of its core values, KEPCO E&C has established and operates a Health, including HSE education, zero system and assess propriety Safety, and Environment (HSE) management system in accordance with global standards. accident campaign, etc. HSE System (Certificate) KEPCO E&C is making strides in creating a safety culture throughout the company through various programs to establish employees’ well-being as the top priority. By concentrating its caHSE Plans and Operation pacity on technological development and the commercialization of eco-friendly energy sourcSecured Commercial CCS Technology In executing the EPC project, KEPCO E&C operates a Health, Safety, and Environment (HSE) managees, KEPCO E&C is aiming to become a more competitive player in the next-generation energy 2.56 GJ per Ton CO2 businesses oriented around new & renewable energy such as solar, water, and wind power. ment process that both reflects the needs of the government and customers, and can be adapted to the business environment. First of all, HSE plans are devised after the legal requirements and cusOur Plan tomer demands are accurately identified. A risk assessment is then carried out for the overall project, based on which risk factors are identified in advance. Prevention measures are then established and KEPCO E&C will continue its efforts at the company level to further promote a culture that First Aid Center implemented accordingly. holds safety as the highest priority. In order to secure growth engines for future energy soluThe Hygiene Management and First Aid Center is operated according to the HSE plans, managing the tions, one of its five strategic directions, KEPCO E&C will continue making efforts toward develHighest Level in Four Areas health of KEPCO E&C’s employees. The work permit system enables safe and eco-friendly construcoping and commercializing sustainable eco-friendly next-generation energy sources. tion through the management of hazardous substances and dangerous work and the prevention of Certified as an fire. KEPCO E&C instills safety consciousness throughout the company by implementing HSE educaEco-friendly Building tion in each work area and distributing HSE handbooks for employees to make sure they understand and practice what they have learned. Interview Hwang Joo-Ho (Professor, Department of Nuclear Engineering, Kyung Hee University) First Aid and CPR Education Since 2012, KEPCO E&C has been providing first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) education to employees so that at least a certain percentage of individuals in each department can provide “Research on the management and safety of post-management of nuclear power plants is first aid response in case of emergency medical situations such as cardiac arrest. In 2015 and 2016, absolutely essential.” KEPCO E&C has accumulated extensive technological capacity and experiences in the area of nuclear power plant 134 completed the First Aid education program and 111 employees completed the CPR program, safety throughout its corporate history. Nuclear decommissioning and post-management have recently become an bringing the total number of employees certified as first aid providers to 510 (22.5% of all employees). important issue, requiring a transition from an academic approach to a practical approach based on an engineering perspective. This will enable decommissioning technologies to be applied to actual projects. In this regard, KEPCO HSE Inspection and Measures E&C must create an organization to handle post-management work, cultivate experts, and increase investment in deAt the inspection stage, the HSE check, HSE audit and safety accident investigations are carried out to commissioning technology. Based on such efforts and outcomes, it is anticipated that KEPCO E&C will play a leading role in securing world-class decommissioning technologies. identify any non-conformance arising in the course of EPC project and establish response measures. In particular, the HSE inspection applies the color coding system for all business managers to easily Color Coding HSE Inspection manage equipment and continuously improve the non-conformance management system. 29 30 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Establishing and KEPCO E&C has identified core activities and implemented various programs to establish a safety Securing Safe Nuclear Designing Safe Nuclear Power Plants in Korea culture. In addition, it carries out regular monitoring to check and improve safety issues, which KEPCO E&C has conducted a probabilistic seismic safety assessment to verify the earthquake resisPromoting a Safety Power Technology will allow such a culture to take root in the company. tance of nuclear power plants in case of natural disasters. Through the analysis of seismic hazards, seisCulture mic fragility, and seismic accident sequences, the company increased the resilience of nuclear power Establishing a Safety Culture Policy and Process for Nuclear Power Plants plants in the face of disasters by strengthening seismic design standards in next-generation reactor By establishing a safety culture policy, KEPCO E&C’s CEO has demonstrated his conviction to firmtypes. Furthermore, a stress test was conducted to evaluate the response capability of nuclear power ly establish a safety culture in the company. By applying the Corrective Action Program (CAP, the plants in operation against extreme natural disasters, which confirmed their response capability and safety culture data processing system) to all nuclear power businesses, non-conformance items safe design. In October 2015, KEPCO E&C obtained a license to operate Shin Kori Unit 3, the world’s first in safety, health, environment, and quality are continuously identified and handled. Through third-generation reactor and gauge for judging the propriety of APR1400 design as the preceding unit these efforts, KEPCO E&C is able to secure high quality by identifying in advance and effectively of the nuclear power plant in the UAE, and began its commercial operation in December, 2016. managing potential problems that may arise during architect engineering. Analysis of Seismic Hazards Analysis of Seismic Fragility Analysis of Seismic Accident Sequences Securing Professionalism Increasing Safety Consciousness ‌ • Review historical materials on ‌ • On-site investigation of equipment • Analyze power plant system in Safety Culture earthquakes and structures • Analyze relay malfunction KEPCO E&C provides safety culture education courses for each rank to instill safety consciousness 1 2 3 • Review ‌ materials on • Analyze seismic response • ‌Identify equipment and • ‌Education for cultivating professionals in all employees, while completing domestic and international professional courses to secure epicenters and topographies • ‌Analyze soil-structure structures of analysis ‌Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power (KHNP) • Investigate analyzed sites interaction professional cultivation program safety culture professionals and expertise. An event called “Quality Day” is regularly held with (1 person) suppliers to share opinions on quality issues as well as improve their understanding of the impor‌Domestic and international academic participation program tance of nuclear power plant safety. • Reinforce reactor response capability to disasters by strengthening seismic design standards in next-generation reactor types (2 persons) • Implement improvement measures to increase the seismic performance of vulnerable equipment after on-site inspections Employee Education Evaluating the Safety Culture (Including Supplier Employees) As part of its efforts to implement a safety culture program based on the International Atomic • ‌Education for distributing and Securing Nuclear Power Plant Decommissioning Technology and Competitiveness in the Energy Agency (IAEA) standards, KEPCO E&C has been conducting self-evaluations of its safety applying visual tools Back-end Management & Decommissioning Business • ‌Education for on-site employees at culture since 2013. Using the safety culture survey jointly developed by KEPCO E&C and the Konuclear power plants in operation Since the beginning of the 21st century, KEPCO E&C has been devoted to developing nuclear power rea Atomic Energy Research Institute, the level of safety culture among its employees is regularly (115 persons in 4 domestic sites) plant decommissioning technologies. To this day, it is strengthening its technological competitive• ‌Safety culture education for evaluated. Through these efforts, vulnerabilities and areas for improvement are identified and design-related suppliers through ness in the areas of decommissioning planning and site restoration upon the completion of decomreflected in various activities to promote greater safety within the company. Quality Day missioning efforts. In 2016, KEPCO E&C won a decommissioning research contract from overseas, Benchmarking of proving its ability to execute decommissioning and setting the foundation for expanding into related Best Practice Cases businesses both at home and abroad. KEPCO E&C has also obtained technologies from advanced • ‌Reflecting best practices to KEPCO overseas markets related to back-end nuclear fuel cycles by holding two advisory meetings with forE&C’s safety culture program by Completing Accident-free Construction in All Domestic and Overseas EPC Projects benchmarking advanced companies eign technical experts and four technical transfer education sessions. in safety culture In carrying out power plant extension projects in Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire, KEPCO E&C ‌KHNP’s safety culture program (Process / Education / System)) operates an HSE management system in which the laws and regulations of each country, • ‌Applied for a patent for the “independent storage facility for storing spent nuclear fuel during nuclear decommissioning” company rules, and customer demands have been well reflected. Thanks to its systematic Technological • ‌Published four research papers including one titled, “SFPI Conversion Design Factors in HSE management system, KEPCO E&C was able to achieve 12.79 million accident-free hours Development Nuclear Decommissioning and Case Analysis” • ‌Selected the highest priority items in the mid to long-term technological development in the entire construction process, earning recognition for its world-class quality and safety roadmap of Vision 2025 management capability. • ‌NSSS system design in consideration of decontamination, decommissioning and Technical Expert minimization of contamination (May ’16 – Jul ‘16, DERADS, U.S.A.) Country Site Name Construction Date Accident-free Hours Advisory Meetings • ‌Machine design for spent fuel storage cask (Sep. ’16 – Dec. ’16, ADVENT, U.S.A.) Ghana Takoradi T2 Combined Cycle EPC Site December 2015 7,900,000 Côte d’Ivoire CIPREL IV EPC Site February 2016 4,563,000 • ‌Technology Transfer in six areas including decommissioning transition design (Preussen Elektra GmbH, Germany) Republic of Korea Osan Combined Heat and Power Plant Site February 2016 334,720 • ‌Technology Transfer in three areas including decommissioning work package (WEC, U.S.A.) Technical Transfer • ‌Education on decontamination and decommissioning technologies Education (Korea Atomic Industrial Forum) • Decommissioning education, Argonne National Laboratory, U.S.A. • Decommissioning education, Korea 31 32 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Establishing EcoKEPCO E&C is a leader in realizing “clean energy,” based on its extensive engineering experience and Developing Technology to Demonstrate New and Renewable Energy eco-friendly technologies. In line with the government’s environmental conservation and greenKEPCO E&C is making consistent efforts to gain technological competitiveness in the businesses that are friendly Power Plants house gas emission reduction policies, KEPCO E&C will consistently strive to protect the environment driven by new & renewable energy technologies, such as solar, offshore wind, and bio-based power. In 2016, and secure technological independence by actively expanding into new business areas related to the company developed demonstration technologies for generating power from new & renewable energy Marketable CO2 Compression new and renewable energy and eco-friendly power plants. Technology and expanded its business areas. These business area expansion efforts include developing a feasibility analysis tool for offshore wind farm project, optimal process for multi-fuel biomass facilities, and feasibility Item Existing ImproveSecuring Eco-friendly Technologies Technology ments analysis and design technologies for solar power plant. DemonBasic design In order to reach Korea’s greenhouse gas reduction goal, obtaining carbon capture and storage (CCS) stration and FEED detechnologies for commercial is necessary. In this regard, KEPCO E&C has been participating in govof 10MWvelopment of Implementation Performance Facility scale CO2 150MW-scale ernment-led CCS technology development projects since 2008 and has accumulated experiences Scope Wind Power • ‌Won a government contract for the fundamental capture and CO2 capture in wet amine Carbon Capture and dry Carbon Capture technology, as well as patent application in • ‌Developed a feasibility analysis tool for offshore investigation and complex design of nuclear-renewable compression and compreswind farm project (Jan. ’15 Dec. ’16) facilities sion facilities Korea. The company also boasts excellent technological capacity in air pollution prevention facilities combined power generation (Dec. ’16) Amount of 70,000 ton 1 million tons such as flue-gas desulfurization and denitrification, in addition to design and construction capacity • ‌Developed an optimal floating storage-based ‌ • Signed a joint development agreement for the Jeju Captured Hallim offshore wind farm project with KEPCO, CO2 per year per year and wide-ranging project execution experiences in the area of water and waste water treatment techmodel for offshore wind farm (Jan. ’16 Dec. ’16) KOMIPO and Daelim (Dec. ’16) Amount of nology. In 2016, in response to the government’s special requirements of fine particles immediately, • ‌Developed technology for designing wind turbine • ‌Developed the EPC business for phase 2 construction Agent Re2.64 GJ 2.56 GJ KEPCO E&C modified the design standards of the air pollution substance emission for Dangjin Units 9 towers (June ’14 June ’16) of the Yeomsan wind farm generation per ton CO2 per ton CO2 Energy and 10 and Taean Units 9 and 10, and then took measures to fully satisfy the licensing requirements. Bio-based • ‌‌Won a contract for the basic/detail design and • ‌Developed optimal processes for multi-fuel power owner’s engineering services for the Dangjin Biomass ※ ‌Carbon capture and storage (CCS) refers to a technology that captures carbon dioxide, liquefies it by applying presbiomass facilities (Jan. ’14 Dec. ’15) Unit 2(100MW, Coal+PKS multi firing) (Nov. ’16) sure, and then stores it. Solar • ‌Developed feasibility analysis and design Greenhouse Gas Reduction Goals • ‌Won a contract for feasibility study of the solar Power technology for solar power generation of Electricity companies Improving the Performance of Environmental Facilities in Aging Power Plants (Sept. ’16 Sept. ’17) power project using disused railway yard (Jan. ’17) 2030 Reduction KEPCO E&C makes continuous efforts to improve the performance of aging power plants in Korea and 2030BAU Goals propose the installation of additional environmental facilities. These efforts are particularly focused on 314.7MtCO2 improving the performance of generation facilities. Such improvements include replacing turbines and Domestic boilers, and partially replacing electric power facilities and auxiliary equipment. KEPCO E&C also esKEPCO E&C’s Eco-friendly Building Receives Highest Level Certifications in Four Areas 850.6MtCO2 218/6(25.7%) Overseas tablishes measures to install additional environmental facilities for air pollution reduction, such as deIn November 2016, the KEPCO E&C building located in Gimcheon, Gyeongbuk Province won the Grand Prize 96.1(11.3%) sulfurization and denitrification facilities, in consideration of the specific characteristics of each power at the 2016 Korea Green Architecture Competition. The award was given in recognition of its excellence as 37% plant. In 2016, the company established the basis for undertaking performance improvement projects an eco-friendly building that actively applies new and renewable energy and various green technologies Electric Domestic reduction Eco-friendly 112.4MtCO2 by winning a performance improvement project for Boryeong Unit 3 and feasibility study contracts for construction such as solar power generation facilities, thermal heat air conditioning and heating systems, and rainwaPower BAU (Electricity ter/heavy water facilities. The building is highly energy efficient as it uses a vacuum/triple glazing system, 333MtCO2 Samcheonpo Units 5 and 6, as well as executing 500MW-scale standard thermal power performance (Highest level certified) companies 99Mt) improvement feasibility study contracts for power plants owned by four generation companies. high-efficiency energy materials, and high-efficiency LED lighting. It was also certified as an eco-friendly, energy-saving building, being rated first class in green construction, 1+ level in energy efficiency, and first class as an intelligent building. A Climate Change Conference for the KEPCO Group The COK 11 (Conference of KEPCO Group • Photovoltaics (PV): 1,824.66kw Final Decision ▶ KEPCO Group CEO Council Companies to cope with climate change) was Energy efficiency level • Solar Water Heating: 65.30m2 established to devise greenhouse gas reduction Officer in Charge (Level 1 certified) • ‌Thermal Heat (Closed Loop): Coordination of Issues ▶ strategies at the company level in line with KoDirector of Climate Change Air conditioning 2,808 ㎾, External Experts Heating 2,745 ㎾ rea’s greenhouse gas reduction target. The COK Governmental Consultation 제 KRIEA 2015-05 호 Advisory Group 지능형건축물 인증서 대상 건축물 : 한국전력기술(주)신사옥 11 will respond actively at the company level to 소 재 지 : 경상북도 김천시 혁신로 269(율곡동) 인증등급 : 지능형건축물 1등급 건축환경분야 88점 기계설비분야 93점 Head of T/F 전기설비분야 85점 백분율 91.85% 정보통신분야 138점 시스템통합분야 102점 Preparation of First Draft ▶ 시설경영관리분야 91점 총 점 597점 governmental policies for reducing greenhouse 위 건물은 국토교통부가 정한 지능형건축물 인증기 Head of Department for Climate Change 준에 따른 심사를 통해 지능형건축물 1등급으로 인 정되었기에 인증서를 교부합니다. 2015년 8월 6일 gas emissions and the general issues of climate 사단법인 한국환경건축연구원장 Collection of Opinions from Service from Professional Smart building KEPCO Group Institutions change. Members of the COK 11 will cooperate (Level 1 certified) closely to establish a carbon management system Identify Reduction Develop Reduction Strengthen Communication Analyze Reduction for the KEPCO Group, secure core technologies Options Technologies and Cooperation Capacity for greenhouse gas reduction, and carry out core • ‌Expand low carbon • ‌Early commercialization of CCS • Share reduction BP • Calculate annual BAU power sources • ‌Clean thermal power generation • ‌Establish verification system • ‌Diagnose uncertain tasks including reinforcing joint research and • Fuel switching effect • ‌Increase efficiency of • ‌Establish statistics system variables development. Through such efforts, the KEPCO • ‌Expand demand transmission/distribution • ‌Promote public awareness • ‌Analyze reduction areas Super high speed management • ‌Apply reduction technologies and capacity Group as a whole will strive to maximize the ef• ‌External (Overseas) to businesses • ‌Set targets based on information fects of greenhouse gas reduction throughout the reduction businesses scenarios communication First class grade Photovoltaic Power Thermal Heat Air Conditioning Solar Water Hybrid Wind Power entire process from power generation to sales. * ‌KEPCO E&C is currently participating in this conference to Generation (PV) and Heating (Open Loop) Heating Street Lights Generation establish the greenhouse gas reduction roadmap. 33 34 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Sharing with the Local Community Communication KEPCO E&C, Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategy KEPCO E&C, Sharing Hopes and Dreams System KEPCO E&C pursues its goal to help create a happier and healthier society by carrying out various social contribution activities. The company has created a culture of sharing and leverages its unrivaled power plant architectural engineering technologies and human resources to improve the lives of MA (Management Approach) others. To ensure that the company fulfills its role as a corporate citizen, KEPCO E&C has established strategic tasks in three areas talent cultivation, external relations, and region-specific activities and continues to improve the social contribution system. 2015-2016 Key Performance IMPORTANCE OF ISSUE Execution of the Social Goals Contribute to the happiness of mankind and society through social contribution activities Corporate social responsibility (CSR), the idea that companies have social responsibilities to fulContribution Budget (Unit : KRW Million) fill beyond seeking profits, is now a core value adopted by many companies. More recently, by 1,163 Strategy Talent Cultivation External Relations Region-specific combining CSR and each company’s business model, the idea of creating shared value (CSV) and Tasks Offering over 10,000 Publications shared growth is now accepted as an important social paradigm. Various government policies • ‌Operate the Power Engineering • Nuclear experience activities School • Overseas volunteer work also encourage the alleviation of polarization, as well as balanced regional development, by sup716 720 • ‌Provide lectures and other • Disaster relief activities • Hope-sharing volunteer work Open Library porting companies’ relocation to innovation cities and win-win cooperation activities. support at the KEPCO International • Blood drives • ‌Support cultural activities in the region Nuclear Graduate School • Volunteer ‌ activities in affiliated • ‌Open activities in welfare • ‌Support activities of the Talent institutions facilities Our Approach Cultivation Foundation • Occupational exploration activities Since relocating its headquarters to Gimcheon in 2015, KEPCO E&C has enacted various CSR 2014 2015 2016 programs as it strives to earn recognition as a member of the local community. As a public enterMid to Long-term Roadmap prise in architectural engineering, KEPCO E&C shares its excellent technological capacity and the Since founding the Chamsarang Volunteer Corps in 2005, KEPCO E&C has engaged in various social skills possessed by its employees through programs to foster talent, namely the Power Engineercontribution activities. The company established a mid to long-term roadmap for social contribu2016 Shared Growth Evaluation ing School. The company also carries out shared growth activities with small and medium-sized tion after relocating its headquarters to Gimcheon in 2015 and has been setting the groundwork for “Excellent” Grade enterprises in the region. In addition, it operates various shared growth programs with small and a mutually beneficial relationship with the local community. KEPCO E&C seeks to effectively carry (Grade 1) medium-sized suppliers, supporting their capacity-building through joint technology developout the company’s unique social contribution activities in the region. ment, a win-win payment system, and public procurement. 2015~2016 2017~2018 2019~2020 Our Plan Strengthen ties with the regional Expand social contribution Systematize social contribution community through customized activities by executing activities In an effort to build a strong partnership with the local community and its small and medisocial contribution activities representative businesses um-sized suppliers, KEPCO E&C will communicate with them as much as possible and reflect their needs in its mid to long-term strategies. KEPCO E&C will consistently strive to improve and The Talent Sharing Volunteer First Public Enterprise to Adopt Social Contribution Organization Corps implementing social contribution and shared growth programs. The Social Contribution Commission, chaired by the CEO, sets KEPCO E&C’s social contribution direcWin-win Payment System tions and strategically carries out its social contribution activities. The department in charge monitors the planning, implementation, assessment, and outcome reporting of the company’s social contribution activities. The Chamsarang Volunteer Corps in each division play a central role in implementing various Interview Yeo Bang-Hee (Social Welfare Worker, Wolmyeong St. Mary’s House) volunteer activities. With the creation of the Talent Sharing Volunteer Corps in 2016, employees gained access to volunteer opportunities through which they can actively share their talents with others. “I hope this warmhearted sharing will continue.” Over 150 elderly people reside in Wolmyeong St. Mary’s House. KEPCO E&C’s donations, both material and finanPurpose Promote the quality of life of the Social Contribution Committee cial, have had an incredibly positive impact on our residents’ lives. Participating in KEPCO E&C’s CSR activities socially vulnerable in line with (Chair: President & CEO) Disaster Relief Volunteer Corps KEPCO E&C’s core values (Operated temporarily in times has also been a valuable experience for St. Mary’s House, and we’ve been able to help in promoting visits to tra(Founded in May 2016) Social Contribution of national disasters) ditional markets. We greatly appreciate the volunteer work of KEPCO E&C’s newly hired employees in 2016 who Target Children under 12 years of age Organization in Charge wholeheartedly shared their time with our residents and provided valuable help in many areas, such as everyday from low-income families in Gimcheon activities, farm work, and performance and music activities. I look forward to KEPCO E&C’s social work as they Support Weekly tutoring and experiential Chamsarang Volunteer Corps Talent Sharing Volunteer Partnership with External share their warmth and affection for people who are in need. learning, etc. Corps Organizations Others This group is run voluntarily by • ‌Business Management • ‌New Energy Businesses employees and the members Volunteer Corps Volunteer Corps create a unique program for • ‌Nuclear Volunteer (As of August 1, 2017) each year. Corps • ‌Reactor Design Volunteer Corps 35 36 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Talent Cultivation KEPCO E&C is well-positioned to implement an array of activities to foster talent due to the comRegion-specific Social Since relocating its headquarters to Gimcheon Innocity in 2015, KEPCO E&C has been making various pany’s unmatched power plant architectural engineering technologies and accomplished emefforts to communicate with the local residents and contribute to regional development. In doing so, Social Contribution Contribution Activities ployees. The company trains future talent in the natural sciences and nuclear power fields and it created a consultative body including Gimcheon City and 73 welfare facilities in April 2015, and has Activities been engaging in many region-specific social contribution activities. provides young adults in the local community with opportunities to explore their future careers and develop their capabilities. Chamsarang Volunteer Corps Engaging Employees for Volunteer Activities 1 Performance KEPCO E&C’s employees have come to grasp the true meaning of sharing and earn recognition as Power Engineering School (PES) Camp Number of Participants (Unit : Persons) part of the Gimcheon community through their volunteer work. This was able to take place because Since July 2011, KEPCO E&C has held the Power Engineering School (PES) Camp twice a year (in the 747 of the employees’ sincere communication and cooperation with the local residents. The company’s summer and winter seasons) for university students studying natural sciences across the country. PES 696 Chamsarang Volunteer Corps engaged in a diverse range of volunteer activities. These efforts included is a three-day camp offering various programs including special lectures in humanities, basic educavolunteer work by new employees, activities conducted in small groups, and lending a helping hand tion in nuclear power, team tasks, and power plant tours. Participants are invited to visit the KEPCO 350 at local farms and welfare institutions. In 2016, the Talent Sharing Volunteer Corps was launched and 2 E&C headquarters, Kori nuclear power plants, and the KEPCO International Nuclear Graduate School it attracted the participation of 107 employees thus far. These volunteers donated their skills by ofduring the camp. The program not only offers a valuable opportunity for participants to improve their fering weekly tutoring and experiential learning opportunities to individuals from socially vulnerable understanding of nuclear power and explore their future careers, but it also academically motivates 2014 2015 2016 groups. The Mayor of Gimcheon City lauded KEPCO E&C for the company’s contribution to promoting them to pursue their interest in electric power technology by providing scholarships to outstanding the community’s welfare with a certificate of appreciation. students. A total of 609 university students have completed the course from 2011 to 2016. Volunteering Hours (Unit : Hours) Greater Access to Experiential and Cultural Activities 3,670 Since 2016, KEPCO E&C has organized a myriad of cultural and experiential programs for the purpose 1. ‌2016 Power Engineering School Fostering Local Talent and Exploring Careers 3,310 of helping members of the local community gain a basic understanding of nuclear power generation. (PES) KEPCO E&C operates a variety of programs to cultivate future talent, such as academic-industrial 2,501 2. ‌Donation to Gimcheon Talent These programs also provide greater opportunities to local residents who have relatively less expoCultivation Foundation cooperation, scholarship support, and career exploration. In 2015 and 2016, KEPCO E&C donated sure to culture compared to individuals living in large cities. For instance, KEPCO E&C has created an KRW 100 million, respectively, to the Gimcheon-si Talent Cultivation Foundation to financially open library on the first floor of the company’s headquarters, offering a space for local residents to ensupport outstanding students and help improve the local educational environment. The compajoy over 10,000 publications including children’s books, educational materials, and English-language ny also helps local talent develop their capabilities through academic-industrial cooperation with 2014 2015 2016 books. The company also provides various educational and cultural activities and programs to the high schools and universities in the region, operating power generation plant engineering CAD local community, including the Wolseong nuclear power plant tour for children from low-income famprograms and student research programs. ilies in the region, book donations, free screenings of the latest movies, and musical performances. 5. ‌Lending a Helping Hand in One-Company, One-Village Campaign to Promote Traditional Markets and Boost the Local Economy External RelationsKEPCO E&C spreads the value of sharing to those in need by utilizing its business characteristics Sisterhood Farms In an effort to build up the local economy and strengthen ties with the community, KEPCO E&C’s CEO 6. ‌Volunteering by Newly Recruited and core capabilities and cooperating with related organizations. oriented Social Employees and employees held a campaign to promote traditional markets in Hwanggeum Market in Gimcheon 7. ‌Opening of the KEPCO E&C Open Contribution Activities Library City. The campaign was done with the hope of contributing to a more vibrant local economy and to Gyeongju Earthquake Disaster Relief Activities 8. ‌Campaign to Promote Traditional enable the company to build deeper relationships in the region. 3 In 2016, a series of earthquakes hit Gyeongju, a city where multiple nuclear power plants are Markets located. KEPCO E&C provided emergency technical support by dispatching a group of seismic de5 6 7 8 sign and reactor safety assessment experts, and then donated a relief fund of KRW 62 million to earthquake victims. Global Social Contribution Activities 4 KEPCO E&C regularly carries out social contribution activities overseas to achieve the company’s goal of contributing to the happiness of people and societies around the world. It provides support for improving education and the environment in villages in Vietnam and the Philippines. In Yanbian, China, the company supports the conservation and inheritance of Korea’s ‘national soul’ Interview While Korea underwent compressed economic growth, Gimcheon on the contrary had to experience a prolonged stagnation. Against this backdrop, residents of Gimcheon Innocity have high hopes for KEPCO E&C’s relocation of its headquarters to their city, which is understandable givamong ethnic Korean adolescents residing in the region. In 2015, KEPCO E&C signed a sisterhood Park Hyun-Joo en the company’s size and the nature of its work. Particularly noteworthy are its efforts to communicate and bond with local residents through agreement with Yanbian People’s Publishing House for the support and cooperation of the “Yun (Reporter, various cultural activities such as movie screenings, concerts and exhibitions. The Open Library, in particular, is a cultural space open to the 3. ‌Global Social Contribution Activities Dong-Ju Poetry Prize” literary contest. Through this agreement, KEPCO E&C helps promote the Yeongnam Ilbo) general public and overcomes the limits of one-time events which only a limited number of people can enjoy. I hope that KEPCO E&C’s perfor4. ‌Yun Dong-Ju Poetry Prize Literary Contest in Yanbian Korean language and culture among ethnic Korean adolescents in China. mance through its business activities will have a positive impact on the regional community as a whole and contribute to achieving a balanced regional development. 37 38 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Win-win-based Shared Growth Advancing the Shared Strategy Strategic Promotion of Innovating and Spreading the Shared Growth Ecosystem as a Relocated Public Institution Upon completing relocation to Gimcheon Innocity in 2015, KEPCO E&C has established a threeGrowth System By setting leading changes in the technological ecosystem through win-win growth as one of its four stratShared Growth Culture egies, KEPCO E&C has established strategic tasks that the company is now implementing. The win-win track strategy consisting of market development, talent cultivation, and joint research. This strategy and Establishment of sets the direction for the company as it fulfills its social responsibility as a public institution and growth strategy was established through a process of opinion gathering and discussion, establishment Shared Growth Assessment by and reporting of strategies, submission of basic plans to the government, and activity review. The compaInfrastructure strengthens the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. Various prothe Government (MOTIE) ny is focused on carrying win-win cooperation activities and is strengthening corporate social responsibiligrams have been carried out in accordance with this strategy: KEPCO E&C has participated in local Excellent (Level 1) ty (win-win management) in its mid to long-term management strategies. As a result of these efforts, KEPpurchasing consulting events, conducted academic-industrial joint research with local institutions, Average Average Shared Growth Performance CO E&C received the highest grade of “excellent” in the 2016 Shared Growth Assessment by the Ministry of and developed technologies for localization. Thus far, the company’s job creation and talent culti(Level 3) (Level 3) Trade, Industry and Energy, which is an improvement of two grades compared to the previous year. Category Unit 2015 2016 vation efforts in the region have increased employment in Gimcheon city by 9.5% (Employee Trends Personnel in Charge Persons 6 27 by Region in April 2016 by the Ministry of Employment and Labor, August 22, 2016). 2014 2015 2016 Goal Leading Changes in the Technological Ecosystem through Win-win Growth Technology Sharing 2 4 Win-win Management by Developing and Expanding Benefit Sharing Joint Expansion to 3 5 Overseas Markets Establishing Shared Growth Strategic Win-win Growth as Expand Benefit Sharing Utilize Technological Expand Public Registered Count 2 The Benefit-sharing system is a core shared growth task of the government. The Ministry of Trade, Benefit Sharing Strategies Tasks a Relocated Public Win-win Capacity Establish Procurement Industry, and Energy announced the establishment of a win-win culture through benefit sharing via Institution Management Cooperative Structure Opportunities for SMEs Confirmed Benefit Sharing 3 the Third Basic Plan Regarding Large, Medium, and Small-sized Companies (November 17, 2014) and Opinion-gathering and Discussion • ‌Sign mutual cooperation • ‌Operate technology-based • Increase ‌ ratio of SME agreement with KEPCO • Develop ‌ benefit-sharing market support program products Purchasing of % 69.0 80.3 press release in January 2017. In line with these government policies, KEPCO E&C has enacted various • ‌Internal discussion on reflecting SME Products KPI index Group types of contracts • ‌Support patent right allow• Establish ‌ goals in comparison efforts to expand the benefit-sharing system and play a leading role in implementing shared growth • ‌Develop support programs • Find ‌ new benefit-sharing ance and technical protection to previous year • ‌Shared growth consulting for local suppliers tasks • ‌Support mutual expansion • Strive ‌ to achieve goals such and win-win cooperation. As a result, the company was able to increase the number of registered and (Shared Growth Committee, June) • ‌Improve cash flow of • Confirm existing tasks to overseas markets and as reflecting key suppliers localization performance indicators (KPI) Sales from Joint Expansion to confirmed performance-sharing tasks from zero in 2015 to five in 2016. Overseas Markets in 2016 (SMEs) Establishment/Reporting of Shared (Unit: KRW million) Growth Strategies Establishing a Shared Growth & Win-win Development Structure Utilizing Its Organization • ‌KEPCO E&C Shared Growth Committee Country Supplier Sales Technological Capacity (Chair: President & CEO) Reporting In 2016, KEPCO E&C newly established the Corporate Partnership Team to take charge of the compaUAE (Hydro power clean As a public enterprise specializing in architect engineering technology, KEPCO E&C has aimed (July 27) ny’s win-win growth initiatives and systematically implement them. This team then formed a compadevelopment) New project to create and adopt a shared growth model consistent with the company’s characteristics to inny-wide shared growth consultative body, the Shared Growth Consultative Group. Driven by its deterCanada (Darlington) New project Submission of Basic Plan on Shared crease the effectiveness and longevity of its win-win cooperation activities. KEPCO E&C’s efforts mination to achieve win-win growth, the company also made adjustments to related organizations UAE 8,256 Growth Côte d’Ivoire 591 have been concentrated on creating a one-stop support system for small and medium-sized enand policies, such as elevating the position of the Chair of the Shared Growth Committee, the highest • ‌Submission of Basic Plan on Shared Ghana 2,356 terprises, covering technological development, technical protection, and market development. Growth to Ministry of Trade, decision-making body regarding shared growth, from director-level to the CEO. KEPCO E&C also reIndustry and Energy (Shared Growth ceived positive feedback in the government’s shared growth assessment for its professional and sysKEPCO E&C’s program for SMEs helps them jointly expand into overseas markets by supporting Committee) (August 22) tematic performance management by the organization in charge, company-wide cooperative efforts, localization and experience-gathering in global settings. The company also supports SMEs to exSME Product Purchasing Ratio and pursuing shared growth at the business planning stage. (Unit: %) plore and develop new markets through joint technological and business development activities. Shared Growth Activity Monitoring System 80.3 • ‌Company-wide Shared Growth Cooperation • ‌Self-monitoring of performance • ‌Shared Growth Organization in Charge: Task Force 65.1 69.5 Strengthening Public Value by Purchasing More SME Products Corporate Partnership Team • ‌Feedback via supplier VOC • ‌No. of Persons in Charge : 5 (To be expanded) (Under direct supervision of the CEO) KEPCO E&C has contributed to stabilizing SME management and building a healthy industrial eco‌Executes practical tasks with the authority (December 21-23, visited 9 suppliers) • Division of Duties/Major Duties ‌Officer in Charge: Establish strategies and Establishment Establishment to appoint personnel and make system by actively promoting the purchasing of SME products. To ensure that the company may of Organization of Cooperative independent decisions plans in Charge of Group for Shared • ‌No. of Members: 27 persons from 5 teams continue to purchase SME products, irrespective of any changes in its management circumstances, ‌Review performance and manage progress Shared Growth Growth ‌Manage external relations with shared • Division of Duties/Major Duties the goal was set to increase the purchasing ratio, rather than the absolute amount of purchasing. ‌Operate programs in each team, devise growth related institutions, etc. new programs, etc. 2014 2015 2016 As a result, the ratio increased from 65% in 2014 to 70% in 2015, followed by 80% in 2016. Organizational Structure for the Shared Growth Consultative Group Management Team President & CEO Pursuing Two-way Shared Growth by Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Shared Growth Committee Establish basic plans for shared growth / Review, guide, and manage shared Head of Shared Growth Consultative Group KEPCO E&C has strengthened communication efforts with its SME suppliers to achieve actual shared growth based growth performance on a win-win relationship, rather than one-way support. Since December 2016, KEPCO E&C has adopted the “Shared Benefit Sharing Market Development Human Resources Capacity Growth Finds You” program through which the company visits its suppliers to hear their difficulties and suggestions. New Program Support Team Program Support Team Program Support Team Program Support Team In April 2017, it organized the KEPCO Cooperation Society, which is a consultative body of subcontractors consisting Establish measures for Establish plans and operate perjoint expansion to overseas Develop pool of technical Develop new shared growth of ten suppliers, and signed a shared growth win-win agreement. It also continues to make improvements to the conformance distribution tasks such personnel programs in line with government as benefit-sharing system markets Increase purchase of Cultivate talent policies tract system and internal regulations for the fair and transparent selection and management of suppliers. SME products 39 40 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Providing Reliable Quality Reliability KEPCO E&C, Increasing KEPCO E&C strives to provide its customers with the best-quality products to achieve sustainable Offering Trust and Confidence Competitiveness through growth. By strengthening its quality management system, the company enhances the design quality and safety of its power plants and gains the trust of its customers. Quality Management MA (Management Approach) Upgrading the Quality Management System Systematic Establishment of KEPCO E&C promotes the quality of its products and services by identifying core tasks based on the MB Quality Management the strengths and weaknesses of its quality management system, with a view to establishing a Model system that meets the highest global standards. In particular, KEPCO E&C takes various mea2015-2016 Key Performance IMPORTANCE OF ISSUE sures for its own MB quality management model to take root by identifying and concentrating Planning Stronger demands are being placed on companies to implement the government’s on undertaking improvement tasks in strategic planning, customer and human resources man･ Establish plans anti-corruption policies and fulfill their social responsibilities. In view of eliminating agement, and operations management. ･ Form an implementing organization corruption and the abuse of office within the public sector and society in general, the * ‌MB quality management model is a U.S. national quality award system aimed at promoting the global competitiveness of domestic companies. The MB model has been benchmarked and operated in 92 countries, including the Republic of Korea. Anti-corruption and Bribery Prohibition Act, also known as the “Kim Young-ran Act,” has Diagnosis Korean National been enacted, along with many other efforts to establish a corporate culture of integrity. Quality Award ･ ‌Analyze operational gaps in the quality Issues Measures As companies become more exposed and vulnerable to risk factors such as sophisticated Presidential Award cyber attacks and the recurrence of design errors, internal reform is necessary to improve management system ･ Identify nine core improvement tasks Strategic Need to establish a feedback system to Establish a computerized management process Planning systematically manage major issues such as and feedback system for managing major issues their competitiveness. management directions Improvement/ Customer Establish a customer satisfaction promotion Our Approach Measures Difficult to establish improvement measures and Management process by conducting the customer satisfaction reflect them in the following year’s plans because ･ Assessment by external experts survey in the first half of the year and reflecting the customer satisfaction survey is conducted in KEPCO E&C identifies emerging risks and prevents them in advance. The company mini･ ‌Analyze strengths and weaknesses the second half of the year the analysis results and improvement measures in the second half mizes potential damage or loss by responding in a timely manner to risk factors that may → ‌Share improvement measures at the company level Human Create a separate education and training system emerge during the course of business due to quality issues and information leaks. To preResources Need to create a systematic education program for each job category and operate educational for suppliers’ employees Ethical Management Training vent and systematically handle anti-corruption issues, the company analyzes its ethical Establishment programs for external human resources Performance (accumulative) management performance from a PDCA perspective and reflects the results in the ethical Operational Mismatch between midto long-term Strengthen connection between the two by 9,951participants management plans for the following year. ･ Prepare a company status report Management management strategies and the company’s PDCA reflecting the R&D process in the business process ･ Prepare a task completion report cycle according to the quality management according to midto long-term management system strategies Our Plan KEPCO E&C will continue its efforts toward establishing an advanced ethical culture Consistent Improvement of the Quality System throughout the company by upgrading its quality management system, spreading a culKEPCO E&C increases the efficiency of its business process by promptly reflecting changes to its ture of integrity throughout the company, and strengthening its ability to “self-treat” corquality system documents such as the quality management manual, supplier business proceEstablishing the ruption. Furthermore, the company will reinforce information security by making its secudure, risk management procedure, and project design control procedure. In 2016, improvement rity control activities more effective and the relevant systems more stable. measures were reflected in the company’s organizational operation, vision and quality manageCyber Security Control ment policy, and process/system. It also simplified the procedure for each division (bureau) so Tower that it is in accordance with the company’s standard procedure while also reflecting the characteristics that are unique to that division. Interview You Han-Beom (Transparency International Korea, Managing Director) “Responding to the paradigm of voluntarily realizing integrity and ethics” Strengthening Quality Education In today’s management environment, integrity and ethics have become a demand of the times as well as a universal valKEPCO E&C conducts headquarters-level and on-site business quality education, through which ue for all companies. The paradigm is also changing from preventing corruption simply by abiding by the law in a passive its employees gain a better understanding of each division’s project quality assurance manual sense to voluntarily achieving integrity and ethics by actively establishing an appropriate set of values in an organization’s and operational quality assurance manual. The company also provides quality capacity-building members. In this regard, KEPCO E&C has been providing incentives to people of integrity and spreading an ethical culture education to its suppliers to enhance their design capacity and service quality. The company has throughout the company by implementing various ethical management programs including the Sinmungo, the personnel’s off-line petition & discussion system, ethics & integrity reward system, and the integrity day. I hope that KEPCO E&C invited employees of its suppliers and shared with them important quality-related information will continue its efforts in always being vigilant against corruption and internalizing an ethical consciousness. such as domestic and international trends related to nuclear energy and response strategies, subcontractor PQ assessments and business execution capacity assessments, and major issues in subcontractor quality audits. 41 42 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Establishing a Culture of Integrity and Trust Pursuing Zero Design KEPCO E&C aims to achieve zero design errors by internally stabilizing quality control activities. Establishing In pursuing ethical management of the highest level, KEPCO E&C strengthens its integrity and ethics The company will also secure customer trust and reliability by enhancing its design quality through infrastructure by establishing an integrity/ethics system and promotes an ethical awareness among Errors a Transparent quality assurance programs. its employees by offering customized ethical education courses. The company also makes diverse efOrganization through forts to create a clean ecosystem among its suppliers and the local community. Quality Audit Performance Stabilizing Quality Verification Activities Ethical Management To enhance design quality and the efficiency of the design process, KEPCO E&C carries out various quality Establishing an Ethical Management System (Unit: Number of Cases) verification activities. It regularly inspects the design process, the results of which are reflected to improve Strives to win the trust and confidence of the society through its companywide ethical management, Type 2014 2015 2016 the process. Quality assurance activities for the design process include quality assurance audits and quality KEPCO E&C has established a TOP ethical management system. TOP stands for Trust through enPlan 30 32 35 Internal monitoring. Both internal and external quality assurance audits are performed according to annual audit hancement of ethical awareness, Organization of the ethical management infrastructure, and Pride in Audits Perfor31 32 35 mance plans, and quality monitoring is carried out on specific processes for design outputs on an ad hoc basis. its culture of integrity and ethics. According to the TOP strategic plans, the company selects and earExternal Plan 31 24 25 nestly implements the major tasks. Audits PerforReport Audit Results and Establish an Annual (Suppliers) mance 38 24 29 Plan Audits per Unit Conduct Audits Implement Corrective Audit Plan TOP Ethical Management Strategic System Action TOP Ethical Management System • ‌Establish internal/external • ‌Establish audit plans per • Pre-audit meeting • ‌Prepare and report the (TOP: Trust, Organization, Pride) Vision ▶ Participate in Integrity and Ethics, Trust in KEPCO E&C audit plans per division project/department • Conduct the audits auditor’s report : ‌KEPCO E&C’s corporate culture based (bureau) in the beginning • ‌Organize audit teams, • Post-audit meeting • ‌Request corrective action, Trust Build Trust Organization Establish Infrastructure Pride Spread an Ethical Culture on building Trust by promoting ethical of each year (requiring CEO identify the scope, notify check the implementation Strategy ▶ Build social trust by promoting Upgrading the ethical management Inspire pride by spreading awareness, establishing infrastructure approval) the relevant parties of the of corrective and preventive in its Organization, inspiring Pride by ethical awareness system an ethical culture schedule, etc. action and results thereof spreading an ethical culture, thereby • ‌Promote ethical awareness by • ‌Increase the motivation for ethical • Eliminate routine unethical conduct offering ethical education to management and self-monitoring • Practice ‌ ethical management in becoming a TOP-tier company employees • ‌Strengthen implementation of the Code everyday business Tasks ▶ • ‌Conduct ethical education and PR of Ethics • Strengthen ‌ cooperative activities In 2016, KEPCO E&C included technical experts in the internal auditing process, thereby strengthactivities to suppliers and external • ‌Establish the ethical assessment system, for ethical management in external ening the inspection of conformance between licensing and design documents. Meanwhile, the customers e.g., the mileage system relations company maximized the efficiency of the external auditing process by, for instance, conducting a comprehensive audit on suppliers involved in multiple projects. Ethical Education Performance Trust: Building Social Trust by Promoting Ethical Awareness (Unit: Number of persons) Strengthening Ethical EducationㅣTo help employees have greater ethical awareness, KEPCO E&C provides relevant training that is customized to each level of job position, from freshly recruited employees Minimizing Design Errors through Corrective and Preventive Action 2015 5,675 KEPCO E&C seeks to minimize design errors in its nuclear and thermal power plants by improving all the way to top executives. Members of the upper management are required to complete executive 2015 5,756 and supplementing its design process. The detailed processes that may affect design quality from the courses at the Ethical Training Institute every year, while new employees are encouraged to participate in 2016 9,952 planning stage to the final stage are thoroughly documented, computerized, and strictly managed. the company’s anti-corruption policies by taking required courses in ethical education. The company also Moreover, the company takes measures in advance to modify any part of the design input, design provides education to persons in charge of ethics-related duties to strengthen expertise in their work. Furchanges, supplier documents, corrective action program, and quality record control that require thermore, KEPCO E&C operates the “Ethical Education Finds You” program, which is a set of educational improvement, and preventive activities were strengthened by promptly implementing corrective accourses customized to various users such as field office employees. The company also offers online ethitions. Such efforts resulted in the company reducing the average number of items requiring corrective cal education programs to all employees regarding the Code of Ethics and corruption case studies. action from 4.3 cases per audit in 2015 to 3.2 cases in 2016, and design errors continue to decline. Type Education Direction Performance • ‌Education for newly recruited employees and online education for each Ethical education to each level of job position Life cycle-based position level KEPCO E&C receives the Presidential Award at the Korean National Quality Award ethical education (Newly recruited employees to management) • ‌Ethical education courses for management at the Ethical Training Institute Education Focus on personnel dealing with ethical • ‌Education to cultivate lecturers in integrity and ethics KEPCO E&C has been a leader in quality management, having obtained the N-Certificate from the American customized to users management (Target integrity and ethics leaders in each division) • ‌“Ethical Education Finds You” program to field office employees both Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) in 1984 and becoming the first engineering company in Korea to Education to domestically and internationally minimize ethical Ethical education customized to user groups adopt a quality management system. As a public enterprise in engineering, the company has also led quality blind spots • ‌Ethical education programs for employees of suppliers on the Anti-corruption and Bribery Prohibition Act management among domestic companies in the same industry by adopting international standards such as ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001, and ISO 27001. Based on its superior design quality, KEPCO E&C actively expanded into the global market, attaining many notable achievements such as being ranked No. 1 in “overseas revePromoting Education and PR activities targeting SuppliersㅣIn an effort to build the basis for fair 42nd National Quality Management nue from nuclear power plant design” for four consecutive years (2012~2015) and No. 3 in “overseas revenue trade and develop hand-in-hand with its suppliers, KEPCO E&C offers ethical management education Convention from combined cycle power plants” (2015) on Engineering News-Record (ENR), an American architectural and to their employees and expanded related activities. In particular, the company demonstrates its deengineering magazine. Rising to become a truly global engineering company, KEPCO E&C was honored with termination to implement ethical management by strengthening PR activities such as displaying prothe Presidential Award at the Korean National Quality Award in 2016, in recognition of the outstanding quality motional banners, implementing the use of specific document forms for ethical management, and of its power plant designs and safety efforts. adding Ethics News to the corporate newsletter to introduce integrity and ethics-related news. 43 44 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Organizational Structure Organization: Advancing the Ethical Management System Strengthening KEPCO E&C operates security regulations that fully reflect the Basic Guidelines on National Inforof the Ethics Management Strengthening the Ethical Management Organization and Ethical CodeㅣTo strengthen the driving force bemation Security and the Operational Guidelines on Information Security of the Ministry of Trade, Committee the Information hind the company’s pursuit of ethical management, KEPCO E&C operates the Ethics Management Team and Industry and Energy. After the design-related information systems were designated as national inforCEO the Ethics Management Committee, which is the highest body deliberating on important ethical management Protection System mation communication infrastructure in January 2016, the company has spared no effort in estabCommittee Chair issues. In addition, it pursues ethical management attuned to the characteristics of each division and appoints lishing measures in accordance with the Information Communication Infrastructure Protection Act. It Code of Conduct managers from the department head level and “ethical management keepers” from workcontinues to strengthen its information security system to prevent any leakage of design technology Head of Officer in Three ing-level employees for effective communication with the voices from the field. Moreover, it was the first doand documents in response to increasing cyber hacking attacks. Charge of Division/ the Code of Designated mestic company to establish the “Code of Ethics for Professional Engineers,” stipulating it in the Ethical Code of Bureau Employees Conduct Conduct for employees and elevating this code to the level of company regulations. KEPCO E&C has strengthEstablishing an Information Security Control System Members Members Members ened the standards of professional conduct based on current status analysis through lectures and meetings, KEPCO E&C complies with the ISO 27001, the international standard for information security manwhile expanding educational and PR activities regarding improvements to the prior reporting system. agement systems, and maintains its certification through continued efforts to improve the information security system. Through various efforts to strengthen information security in accordance with The KEPCO E&C Integrity and Establishing the Ethical Management and Monitoring SystemㅣTo engage employees in ethical manageits information protection system, the company received a higher ranking in the security audit of Ethics System ment activities, KEPCO E&C operates an integrity and ethics system, through which the company announces public institutions under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. its ethical management strategies, the Code of Ethics, the Integrity and Ethics Newsletter among other items to help employees gain an understanding of the overall integrity policy. KEPCO E&C also operates a single Undertaking More Advanced Cyber Security Activities portal system encompassing all matters related to ethical management, such as application for and manageKEPCO E&C operates its own cyber security control tower capable of responding rapidly to informament of the integrity mileage and corruption/bribery reporting system. Finally, to systematically implement tion leaks and cyber hacking. The cyber security control tower monitors for security threats and leakethical management, KEPCO E&C has established a PDCA-based ethical management process through which age of technical documents in real-time and disseminates status information by combining informait analyzes the related results each year and reflects them in ethical management plans for the next year. tion protection system and control facilities. It has also strengthened its internal security response capacity by assigning security control experts and established control rooms, conference rooms, and Plan Execution Monitoring Feedback other facilities to undertake information security control related work. The company has built a solid Establishment of the Cyber Security Increased Log-ins to the Control Tower foundation in robust preparation for cyber attacks by not only operating its own cyber security conIntegrity and Ethics System trol tower but connecting it to the control towers of the National Intelligence Service and the Ministry 2015 24,034 of Trade, Industry and Energy. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C conducts simulated training against maliAchieved the Maximum Ratio 2016 119,821 • ‌Analyze the internal/external • ‌Adjust organizations and norms • ‌Conduct the ethical management • ‌Reflect in the plans for the of a Perfect Score on the cious emails to raise awareness of the importance of preventing the leakage of technical documents. management environment and • ‌Operate the integrity and ethics survey upcoming year the previous year’s performance comprehensive program at the • ‌Conduct the ACRC integrity survey • ‌Adjust the content of ethical Terminal Security Index Finally, the company improved terminal server security by blocking network connections to terminal • ‌Establish detailed plans for company level • ‌Reflect in the responsible education according to the level of (Unit: %) servers that are vulnerable to security threats. * ‌The number of users logging on to the implementing ethical management • ‌Code of Conduct managers at the management KPIs semi-annually accomplishment 2016 Integrity and Ethics system in 2016 strategies division and bureau levels carry out • ‌Reflect in the internal assessment First Half 93.95 increased due to the reinforcement of their duties results and reward system Strengthening Security Processes ethical policies such as the enactment of the Anti-Corruption Act and better Increase As part of its efforts to systematically implement and gradually reinforce information security, KEPof 3.33% access to the system. Pride : Instilling Pride through a Culture of Integrity CO E&C strengthened security processes in the areas of facility, document, and human resources 2016 Operating Ethical Management Promotion ProgramsㅣKEPCO E&C holds the Integrity Convention to 97.28 security. First of all, the company operates a visitor management and CCTV control systems, while Second demonstrate the company’s resolve to eliminate corruption and solidify a culture of integrity. The comHalf controlling access more strictly by applying a dual control system that requires passwords and card Ethical Management Emblem pany also emphasizes its intention to conduct business ethically by installing banners in the main lobby 90 92 94 96 98 100 keys to restricted access areas. These systems allow for more rigorous control of access by outsiders and Slogan of the headquarters building, entrance of each department, and other major locations, as well as printing or incoming equipment, and it also blocks the leakage of internal documents. Furthermore, the comthe integrity emblem and slogan on business cards and outgoing documents. Other efforts include the pany reduces security risks by systematically managing informational assets, for instance, by reguIncreased Log-in to the Integrity Pledge taken by all employees, monthly integrity messages, the “Integrity Golden Bell” quiz conIntegrity and Ethics System larly evaluating the propriety of authority to handle confidential information and detecting irregular test, and the integrity reward system, through which employees actively participate and take the lead in Design Information System internal activities using the technical information log system. the company’s ethical management activities. Document Centralization Solution Raising Suppliers’ Security Awareness Strengthening External Cooperation to Create a Clean EcosystemㅣIn view of creating a clean, corrupKEPCO E&C has established a systemic basis to support security activities by its suppliers by estabSupplier PC tion-free ecosystem, KEPCO E&C makes various efforts to build a fair society through external cooperlishing special conditions in security-related contracts. The company has also supported their estabation, such as actively taking part in the activities of the Korean Network on Anti-corruption and Trans• ‌Access to the design information system lishment of information security control systems so that they can carry out their own security control is allowed only after logging into parency, a public-private anti-corruption consultative group and signing the Fair Play Pledge against the Document Centralization Solution activities. For the first time in the KEPCO Group, KEPCO E&C adopted the “Document Centralization Corruption hosted by the UN Global Compact. The company also focuses its regional cooperation efforts • ‌Design documents cannot be saved Solution” which fundamentally blocks any leakage of design documents by only allowing access affor ethical management by, for instance, signing an MOU for supporting ethics-related work among pubon suppliers’ PCs ter logging in to the design information system. lic institutions in Gimcheon Innocity. 45 46 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Strengthening Talent Management and Cultivation Expertise KEPCO E&C, Fair Recruitment KEPCO E&C’s recruitment opportunities are open to anyone on an equal basis irrespective of Striving to Be the Best System gender, alma mater, or region. To recruit employees based on their work performance capacity based on a fair recruitment and selection system, the company developed job descriptions based on the National Competency Standards (NCS) in 2015 and has applied them in the recruitment MA (Management Approach) process. As a public enterprise, the company contributes to increasing social equality by actively recruiting women, the disabled, local talents, and high school graduates. 2015-2016 Key Performance IMPORTANCE OF ISSUE Systematic Talent Cultivating Talent in Connection with Management Strategies Companies can acquire superior competitiveness and sustainable growth by securing In order to respond in a timely manner to the changing management environment, maintain its and nurturing talented individuals and retaining high technological capacity. The power Development position as a leader in core business areas, and continuously enhance its business performance, plants, in particular, lie in a rapidly changing management environment such that the deKEPCO E&C has established an HRD strategy and a mid to long-term talent cultivation roadmap in nuclearization and environment-friendly new & renewable energy emerge as important connection with its management strategies. IAEA-recommended national issues. Against this backdrop, KEPCO E&C is expected to be flexible enough to Training Methodology strengthen human resources and facilitate organizational communication. It is also necRecruitment Performance Established the essary to nurture new growth energy businesses by securing core technologies in early (Unit: Number of persons) Systematic Approach to stages in relation to nuclear decommissioning and new & renewable energy design. Type 2014 2015 2016 Strategies ▶ Strengthen individual Advance Lead the competency Training (SAT) Program Permanent emStrengthen HRD 120 86 72 competency for the competency enhancement of the ployees infrastructure sustainable growth management system energy industry Our Approach Female employees 21 18 11 Interns 93 93 93 KEPCO E&C has newly established a job-oriented recruitment and training system and • ‌Re-establish the • ‌Re-establish the • ‌Enhance supplier • ‌Secure global Temporary core competency to competency model competency to secure reliability by 32 29 14 operates global standard training programs in order to help its employees cultivate their employees execute Vision 2025 for advancing the quality and prevent establishing SAT • ‌Strengthen the competency-based corruption in the Program capacity to perform the project and work. Based on a healthy corporate culture and winHRD system nuclear industry competency to • ‌Improve the win labor-management relationship, the company spares no effort to increase employee Social Equality Recruitment execute differentiated • ‌Establish the com• ‌Strengthen external training and evaluaPerformance global business petency evaluation education to secure tion system Passive Auxiliary Feed-water System satisfaction. Meanwhile, it builds a solid technological basis to diversify its businesses by system to operate the an advancement of on an ongoing basis (PAFS) Tasks • Strengthen ‌ corporate (Unit: Number of persons) forming technological partnerships with advanced foreign companies, playing a leading ▶ values (Safety, ethics, competency model power plant design • ‌Establish training Designated as National role in government research and development projects on nuclear technology, and develType Current female 2014 2015 2016 creativity, sensitivity) • Develop ‌ CDPs in consideration of expertise technology system • ‌Contribute to society management system Core Technology 208 197 206 • ‌Secure infrastructure oping environment-friendly power plant design technologies. employees and applicability by fostering future for external Female employee • Organic ‌ connection talent education and 9.6 9.2 9.6 ratio (%) with education to employee training Our Plan Female managers increase the 3.0 3.0 3.0 executability of the By upgrading the training system, KEPCO E&C will continue to implement consistent feedback ratio (%)* HRD strategy * ‌Female employees who are in the and improvement to achieve 100% of the levels required by the International Atomic Energy position to be appointed as team Agency (IAEA). It will also continue the efforts to achieve the complete independence of demanagers or positions of higher level Investment in R&D against Sales To successfully implement its HRD strategy, KEPCO E&C performs job analyses and organizational commissioining technology with strategic cooperation with the KEPCO group companies, govcompetency evaluations, based on which the company adjusts its competency-oriented training pro12.2% ernment and foreign companies and its own technological development efforts. gram and provides customized training programs according to the employees’ job and positions. Basic Competency 직무역량 Job Competency 글로별역량 Global Competency Interview Lee Dong-hoon (Team Manager, Subcontract Team, KEPCO E&C) Leadership Competency Personal Organizational Occupational Job Global Language “Enhancing productivity through an employee-centered corporate culture” Competency Competency Conduct expertise Mindset Since relocating its headquarters to Gimcheon Innocity in the second half of 2015, KEPCO E&C has helped its employees Strategic LeadPrincipal Job Promoted Em▶ to settle down in the region by opening an in-house daycare center, adopting flexible work hours, building a company dorTechnical Expertise ership Course Core Values (Challenge, Expertise, Academic Activities, Domestic Degree Integrated Talent Cultivation Training 2:1 Intensive English Training and (History, Philosophy, Communication) Video Telephone English Training Reading and Communications Long-term Leadership mitory, and leasing rental apartments. The company also helps its employees enhance expertise in their work by offering ployee Course Integrity and Ethics Training Customized Overseas Training Occupational Conduct Departmental Professional Online/Offline English and Supervisory OA System User Training Overseas On-site Training Certificate Maintenance, ▶ Pre-retirement Training education through its “Mid to Long-term Talent Cultivation Strategy” program. In 2016, a creative and innovative leaders Manager-level Orientation Training Training Course Security Training Leadership Communication, Safety, Reliability)Training Course Training, Group Seminar group “The Serom” was founded to discuss current issues and create future business for the company. The group is orgaTraining Course Overseas Degree Course Capacity-building Training Training, Group Seminar Writing Training Training License Training Senior II Staff-level Lead▶ nized into ten teams consisting of team members with a diversity of job positions, departments, age and gender, who are Training (Basic, Intermediate, Advanced) Career Employee Career Employee being fostered as next-generation leaders, sharing management status through the field of communication with the CEO ership Training Senior I Training Training at “Let’s Talk” sessions. I hope that KEPCO E&C will continue to grow into a sustainable company, whose employees work ▶ productively while finding balance between life and work with the help of employee support programs and policies. Follow up Junior ▶ 47 48 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Education and Training Job Competency Training Global and Leadership Capacity-building Education Performance KEPCO E&C provides various technical training courses for different fields and career levels to KEPCO E&C has established and operated the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) required by the (Unit : Hours) continuously strengthen its employees’ competency in core technologies. In particular, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to strengthen its global capacity for executing projects overType 2014 2015 2016 four-level mandatory technical training course for design specialists is the company’s core seas and developing new markets. The company also provides online and offline language education Total Employee Education 262,428 229,371 199,408 technology education, the subjects and contents of which are organized in consideration of the courses and offers opportunities to participate in overseas educational programs to help employees Hours employees’ number of years of service and job duties. Recently, more educational courses have acquire skills in foreign technologies and develop a global mindset. In particular, the company offers Education been offered in connection with other job areas to promote engineers’ ability to cooperate and a long-term commissioned education program such as the master’s degree program at the KEPCO Hours per 118 101 88 Person integrate their knowledge with other fields. Furthermore, the company responds to the needs of International Nuclear Graduate School to educate global professionals. Furthermore, in responding efJob Educaspecific employee groups and encourages their integration by, for instance, offering basic techfectively to the rapidly-changing management environment, the company has developed and provided tion Hours 60 61 66 nology orientation course to high school graduates and career and temporary employees, and esleadership education to all employees at each job position level. per Person tablishing a Convergence Energy Engineering Department in a local university. The company also provides field-centered and case-oriented professional education so that the technology transfer Job-oriented Shift Work System for Career Development of the cumulated know-how of long-term employees and retirees can be made effectively. With a view to helping employees design their own careers by finding the kind of work that suits their capacity and aptitude, while increasing productivity by placing the right person in the right position, Certificates Four-level Mandatory Technology Education Course for Design Specialists KEPCO E&C actively implements a job-centered shift work system. In doing so, 48 career development PE/PMP Engineers Engineering Trainingareas were defined and five career development paths (CDP) were established and applied. 693 499 Level 4 Advanced Courses 30.5% 21.9% Engineering TrainingLevel 3 • ‌Improve and supplement Level of Position Type Principle Total Intermediate Courses independent design Staff-level/ManagerCareer • Movement ‌ among divisions (bureaus) and job groups considering one’s major, aptitude, 1,508 Engineering Traininglevel exploration type etc. persons Level 2 Basic Courses Senior Manager-level Career-setting (66% of All • Movement considering one’s aptitude, career goals, senior’s opinions, etc. • Improve and supplement independent design (Section Head ) type Employees) Level 1 Introductory Training • Manager ‌ type: Movement among similar job groups considering one’s aptitude and career Professional Senior Manager-level Two-track career • Obtain basic knowledge in design engineering goals Others Engineers (Department Head, management • Expert ‌ type: Excludes shift work employees and performs duties in one’s professional area 73 Division Head) type 243 in principle 3.2% 10.7% Up to 1 year of experience 2 to 4 years of experience 5 to 7 years of experience 8 to 10 years of experience In addition to these efforts, KEPCO E&C maintains its pool of professionals in each technological area Reasonable and Fair Performance Evaluation in Connection with Management Strategies KEPCO E&C conducts organizational and individual evaluations of all employees on an annual baby helping employees obtain professional certifications, while encouraging them to acquire the latest Performance Evaluation sis, and ensures that efforts are rewarded by fair compensation through a reasonable performance technologies and knowledge by offering education via domestic and overseas professional instituevaluation system. By setting individual performance goals in connection with the strategic directions. In particular, the company runs degree programs in 12 major technological areas including detions of Vision 2025, KEPCO E&C’s management goals, the company will be able to achieve its goals commissioning and post-management, thereby cultivating key personnel in new growth areas. in an efficient manner. To ensure that the evaluations are objective, the weight of each index is adjusted in consideration of the characteristics of each department’s work and commissioned trainEvaluation Objection System Best Practice ings are provided to performance managers to enhance their expertise. Finally, the company is able Process to conduct such evaluations in a fair manner with the help of a performance management organizaEstablished the SAT(Systematic Approach to Training) Program in compliance with Evaluated Department Raise objection tion as well as deliberation and appeal system through the Performance Management Committee. IAEA Standards Raise objection within 5 days of notification The Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) is an education development methodology recommended by the President & CEO International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In order to enhance reliability in job performance, KEPCO E&C Submit objection Notify result Performance Management External Evaluation Group introduced The SAT Program in 2015 and established the Personnel Job Qualification (PJQ) management Committee system. According to the system, qualifications required for job performance are identified through a job Evaluating Request for Chair ‌ Director of the Management Director Department requirement review and Administration Division analysis, according to which design engineers’ qualification levels are established. In ten job areas, 127 PJQs Evaluation Management Members Director of the Nuclear were developed, as well as procedures including work performance procedures which were reflected in PJQs. Within 3 days of receipt Division / Director of the Department Energy Division / Management Planning Accordingly, the company allows only those who have obtained required qualifications to perform their work. Director of the NSSS Division Request for Notify result Department Furthermore, new programs, such as the instructor certification program, were introduced to support the SAT, review while education and training regulations, operational guidelines and other relevant regulations were modiEvaluation Management Evaluation Management Evaluation Management Evaluation Management Performance Department Department Department Department fied. Through these efforts, KEPCO E&C received 3.92 out of 4 points in the SAT system assessment conducted Management Review Management Planning Project Support Department, Project Support Department, Project Support Department, by Sargent & Lundy, a firm that provides consulting services in establishing the SAT, thereby being recognized Committee Department Nuclear Division Energy Division* NSSS Division as an educational system in compliance with IAEA standards and regulations. By further expanding the appliReview within 10 days of receipt * As of August 1, 2017 cation of the system, 2,890 qualifications have beein obtained in 19 job areas as of the end of 2016. 49 50 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Securing Expertise through Technological Development Establishing a Sound Supporting a Balance between Work and Family Developing Core In order to secure a basis for advancing energy technologies to achieve the goal of becoming a “Global To help its employees find a healthy balance between work and family life, KEPCO E&C offers variLeading Energy Solution Partner” under Vision 2025, KEPCO E&C actively pursues the development Organizational Culture Independent ous maternity and childcare support policies. Prenatal examination leave has recently been adoptof technologies for the stable supply and demand of electric power and new growth. With a focus Technologies on diversifying technology and building a core basis to strengthen safety-related power plant design ed, while the company guarantees maternity leave as an employee’s right and strongly encourages them to take maternity leave. Moreover, the company has opened additional daycare centers in the technologies, enhance quality reliability, and build new growth capacity, the Power Engineering ReFlexible Work Hours System Performance workplace and improved the conditions of “maternity rooms” for pregnant and nursing employees. search Institute and technology groups under each division play a central role in carrying out various (Unit: Number of persons) Research and Development core independent technology development tasks. Furthermore, KEPCO E&C has adopted the flexible work hour system to promote leisure among Performance Type 2014 2015 2016 its employees. After a pilot test, employees took a survey, providing feedback to fine-tune the (Unit: KRW million) President & CEO Flexible start/finish times with 8 work536 402 509 system. Accordingly, employees can choose from several flextime systems according to the reaCategory 2014 2015 2016 R&D Cost 63,378 72,356 61,856 Technology Policy & Strategy Department Power Engineering Research Institute ing hours per day sons why they are opting for flextime—whether it be self-development or childcare. Furthermore, R&D Cost Ratio 7.5 11 12.2 Overall Management of Technology Development Performance of Research Projects Flexible number every second and fourth Thursday has been designated as “Self-Development Day,” on which against Sales (%) of working hours Number of Patper day, 5 days per 1,214 1,346 employees are encouraged to depart work on time and spend time on themselves. Finally, the ent Applications 24 26 32 Nuclear Division Energy Division NSSS Division week company continues its efforts toward enhancing employees’ quality of life, for example, offering and RegistraTechnology Group Technology Group Technology Group tions (Domestic) self-development programs in yoga, baking, etc. ~2015 Phase 1 2016 Phase 2 2017~ Phase 3 Number of Patent Applications Secure a Basis for the Advancement of 11 15 9 Establish Energy Solution Strategies Secure 12 Core Technologies and RegistraEnergy Technology Helping Employees Settle Down in Gimcheon tions (Overseas) • ‌Midto long-term technology • ‌Advance safety-centered nuclear • ‌Secure competitiveness in energy To help employees settle down and start a new life in Gimcheon after relocating, KEPCO E&C offers Number of Particdevelopment strategy rolling technologies solution technology support for residential and cultural activities. It provides residential support through temporary ipation in Domes25 26 26 • ‌Select core technologies and pursue • ‌Build the basis to diversify new growth • ‌Pursue the Total Energy Solution business tic R&D Projects technology development technologies by securing 12 core technologies company housing, dorms, and support for paying interest on housing funds, while improving living conditions by holding concerts and musicals as well as operating convenience facilities such as Level of Technological Efforts to Develop Nuclear Decommissioning Technologies a library, café, and dry cleaner service. Independence in Nuclear With the advent of the nuclear-free era beginning with the decision to permanently shut down nuclear Decommissioning Design power plant Kori-1, KEPCO E&C is making diverse efforts to achieve complete technological indepenEstablishing Win-win With the goal of “establishing win-win labor-management relations by creating a culture of reliability (As of the end of 2016) dence in nuclear decommissioning design and secure decommissioning execution ability by 2021. In Deand harmony,” KEPCO E&C makes various efforts to build healthy and reasonable labor-management Labor-management cember 2015, the company signed decommissioning technology development and project participation 83.1% relations through active communication and cooperation. The Labor-management Council, consisting Relations MOU with PEL Germany and Westinghouse USA. KEPCO E&C also signed a long-term cooperation system of fewer than ten members with at least three from each side, consults on issues such as employee grievfor acquiring technology through, for example, consultations with technology experts and technology ances, welfare, safety and hygiene. The council’s regulations clearly state its obligation to thoroughly transfer education. It also continues its efforts to develop its own technologies. report on management issues including management performance and plans and HR management. In 2016, the company also created the Win-win Labor-management Relation Manual in an effort to establish Government R&D Project a labor-management conflict prevention and management system under a multiple union system. Such As part of the 5th five-Year Nuclear Research and Development Project by the government, we led the develconsistent efforts enabled KEPCO E&C to mark 12 consecutive years of zero labor-management disputes. opment of the core technology for i-Power/SMR* making contributions to the nation’s technological innovation in the nuclear industry. In 2016, we were recognized for our technological expertise in the PAFS** (Passive Labor Union Status Auxiliary Feed-water System) and it was designated as the nation’s core technology. (Unit: Number of persons) * i-Power: Innovative and safe light-water reactor / SMR: Small modular reactor Number of Employees Eligible Members ** ‌PAFS (Passive Auxiliary Feedwater System): A technology that allows safe cooling of nuclear reactors without the need for control to Join Labor Unions First Union 1,448 1,433 by an operator, enabled by a natural driving force mechanism even in the case of power outage in a nuclear power plant 2,102 20 Second Union Efforts to Secure Eco-friendly Technologies * As of the first quarter of 2017 In an effort to help achieve the national greenhouse gas reduction target and respond to rising national concerns over micro dust, KEPCO E&C actively pursues the realization of clean thermal energy and develEstablishing an Open Labor-management Culture opment of new & renewable energy design technologies. The company is working toward commercializIn 2016, KEPCO E&C opened an online one-stop grievance settlement system in connection with ing carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology through the development of CCS-related design techthe company’s portal, through which all nine of the cases reported were settled. In addition, “Let’s nology and patent applications. Beginning in 2016, the company has played a leading role in developing Talk,” an event for employees to openly discuss issues with the CEO, was held twice. Other efforts to technologies to optimally reduce fine particles in Korea by starting the development of design technology Conversation with the CEO through the build a labor-management culture of open communication include the foundation of “The Serom,” for fine particles reduction equipment in power plants. At the same time, the company actively pursues “Let’s Talk” initiative a creative and innovative leaders group to invigorate communication within the company. technological development for wind, biomass, and solar power. 51 52 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Sustainability & Human Rights Performances 55 Economic Performance 57 Environmental Performance 58 Social Performance 59 Human Rights Management 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Economic Performance December 31, 2016 and 2014 Years Ended December 31, 2016 and 2014 (Unit : KRW) (Unit : KRW) Statements of 42th Period 41th Period 40th Period Statement of 42th Period 41th Period 40th Period Financial Position Assets Comprehensive Sales 506,012,235,393 657,603,284,844 841,917,292,827 Current assets 270,553,473,741 341,559,413,770 355,292,163,952 Service 469,011,054,329 481,765,162,581 491,097,544,074 Cash and cash equivalents 21,451,507,884 15,287,585,438 76,277,879,110 Income Construction 37,001,181,064 175,838,122,263 348,574,986,253 Current financial assets 2,986,850,119 7,483,937,095 1,493,767,807 Other 0 0 2,244,762,500 Trade and other receivables 64,075,156,476 141,778,770,529 87,860,981,506 Cost of Sales 319,625,983,408 496,010,874,854 669,739,244,055 Due from customers for contract work 137,622,731,067 130,197,478,236 164,162,822,779 Service 287,205,726,701 329,093,479,042 332,180,634,099 Income tax assets 5,257,387,747 0 0 Construction 32,420,256,707 166,917,395,812 335,649,055,187 Inventories 0 0 1,599,450 Other 0 0 1,909,554,769 Current non-financial assets 15,887,046,536 23,538,848,560 25,495,113,300 Gross profit 186,386,251,985 161,592,409,990 172,178,048,772 Non-current assets held for sale 23,272,793,912 23,272,793,912 0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 180,440,434,532 126,905,523,209 105,625,922,866 Non-current assets 516,042,270,043 513,596,307,541 422,320,285,937 Operating profit (loss) 5,945,817,453 34,686,886,781 66,552,125,906 Non-current financial assets 42,676,540,241 37,717,859,086 12,742,339,585 Finance income 10,781,121,506 2,805,959,172 5,463,970,930 Long-term trade and other receivables 18,507,953,303 16,423,243,737 5,121,910,547 Finance costs 2,448,303,480 1,015,475,428 1,246,592,817 Property, plant and equipment 328,118,688,933 337,840,858,872 290,233,461,485 Other income 14,779,678,133 7,142,338,671 8,741,417,857 Intangible assets 57,277,122,849 46,190,828,007 42,675,767,028 Other expenses 2,355,950,527 3,992,805,803 1,218,866,265 Investments in associate and joint venture 5,818,036,445 8,059,998,552 12,741,705,357 Other income (loss), net (1,072,236,864) 1,555,201,319 (5,374,520,752) Deferred income tax assets 58,993,814,264 62,434,873,115 54,581,036,821 Share of loss of associate (2,212,175,863) (4,671,121,716) (2,258,294,643) Non-current non-financial assets 4,650,114,008 4,928,646,172 4,224,065,114 Profit before income tax 23,417,950,358 36,510,982,996 70,659,240,216 Total assets 786,595,743,784 855,155,721,311 777,612,449,889 Income tax expense 5,622,343,393 5,463,737,044 15,900,240,955 Liabilities Profit for the year 17,795,606,965 31,047,245,952 54,758,999,261 Current liabilities 286,443,757,114 342,314,683,563 315,766,213,721 Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year, net of tax (5,052,388,034) 482,320,519 (9,484,507,411) Trade and other payables 88,273,920,532 150,834,515,233 167,168,407,260 ‌Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently 11,439,702 7,673,863 3,843,424 Due to customers for contract work 57,574,596,652 76,219,499,091 85,857,469,098 to profit or loss ‌Unrealized net changes in fair value of available-forCurrent financial liabilities 91,810,000,000 58,365,000,000 88,309,694 10,604,041 7,673,863 3,843,424 sale financial assets, net of tax Current provisions 42,276,877,950 38,715,521,050 42,117,235,130 ‌Share of comprehensive income of joint venture 835,661 0 0 Income tax liabilities 0 7,055,950,503 13,189,718,297 ‌Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss (5,063,827,736) 474,646,656 (9,488,350,835) Current non-financial liabilities 6,508,361,980 11,124,197,686 7,345,074,242 ‌Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability, (5,039,443,892) 482,670,153 (9,488,350,835) Non-current liabilities 78,232,410,286 96,055,979,295 54,715,728,811 net of tax Non-current trade and other payables 1,007,834,000 0 0 ‌Share of remeasurements of the defined benefit (24,383,844) (8,023,497) 0 Non-current financial liabilities 0 30,010,000,000 3,845,000,000 liability of associate Total comprehensive income for the year 12,743,218,931 31,529,566,471 45,274,491,850 Defined benefit liabilities 56,843,032,595 57,991,687,618 45,480,578,953 Earnings per share Non-current non-financial liabilities 10,054,496,623 5,677,592,718 3,307,486,475 Basic and diluted 468 816 1,439 Provisions 10,327,047,068 2,376,698,959 2,082,663,383 Total liabilities 364,676,167,400 438,370,662,858 370,481,942,532 Equity Paid-in capital 7,644,000,000 7,644,000,000 7,644,000,000 Share capital 7,644,000,000 7,644,000,000 7,644,000,000 Retained earnings 424,410,254,775 419,287,176,546 409,640,299,313 Legal reserve 3,822,000,000 3,822,000,000 3,822,000,000 Voluntary reserve 407,856,475,546 383,943,283,938 360,547,650,887 Unappropriated retained earnings 12,731,779,229 31,521,892,608 45,270,648,426 Other equity components (10,134,678,391) (10,146,118,093) (10,153,791,956) Treasury shares (10,300,328,600) (10,300,328,600) (10,300,328,600) Accumulated other comprehensive income 165,650,209 154,210,507 146,536,644 Total equity 421,919,576,384 416,785,058,453 407,130,507,357 Total liabilities and equity 786,595,743,784 855,155,721,311 777,612,449,889 55 56 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Environmental Performance Social Performance * ‌Please note that KEPCO E&C’s environmental performance data show highly fluctuating values after the relocation of the headquarters to Gimcheon Innocity in 2015. Development of EcoEco-friendly R&D Personnel (Unit: M/M) Eco-friendly R&D Cost (Unit: KRW million) Talent Management Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 friendly Technologies 242.0 5,760 Performance Permanent Persons 2,200 2,204 2,216 2014 2014 Temporary Persons 102 67 50 2015 195.6 2015 4,893 Total Male Persons 2,072 2,039 2,027 2016 167.5 2016 2,730 Female Persons 230 232 239 Total Persons 2,302 2,271 2,266 * 2014 data have been adjusted following the reestablishment of calculation standards in 2015 Disabled Employment Rate % 3.00% 2.99% 2.99% New Recruitment Persons 120 86 72 Greenhouse Gas Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 Retirement Persons 81 83 59 Emissions and Energy Turnover Persons 29 26 13 GHG Emissions tCO2eq 3,324.15 6,167.95 7,274.02 Education Hours per Person Hours 118 101 88 Consumption Direct Emissions tCO2eq 685.58 813.70 945.00 Industrial Accidents Disaster cases 0 0 2 Indirect Emissions tCO2eq 2,638.57 5,354.25 6,329.02 Labor Union Membership Persons 1,502 1,483 1,501 Gas Consumption ㎥ 160,381 261,982 284,619 Electric Power Consumption MWh 5,659 11,494 13,574 * 2014 data have been modified from previous reports according to adjusted calculation standards. ‌Permanent employees: In the 2014 documents, 27 (5 executives, 20 indefinite-term contract employees, 1 emergency planning * ‌Increase in greenhouse gas emissions in 2015 is the result of emissions being comprehensively managed in the relocated employee, and 1 reserve forces commander) were excluded headquarters in Gimcheon Innocity with a plottage that is 3.5 times larger than the former headquarters in Bundang, Jukjeon ‌Temporary employees: In the 2014 documents, 20 indefinite-term contract employees were categorized as permanent Office, and Daejeon Office combined, in which emissions were separately managed prior to relocation employees Male employees: In the 2014 documents, 5 (male) executives were excluded Total: In the 2014 documents, five executives were excluded Retirement: In the 2014 documents, 4 retired executives were excluded Water Consumption (Unit: Ton) ‌Resignation: In the 2014 documents, dismissal and early retirement were included in resignations but in 2017 only voluntary (Water and Wastewater resignations were included Consumption) Shared Growth Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 72,509 89,223 45,918 Performance Government (MOTIE) Assessment Average (Level 3) Average (Level 3) Excellent (Level 1) Private-sector Job Creation Persons 6,055 6,091 5,214 Technology Education for 2014 2015 2016 Persons 726 964 561 Suppliers’ Employees * Water consumption is comprehensively managed without separating water and wastewater. KRW 100M 808(Contract Amount) 1,478 1,198 275 Joint Project Development KRW 100M (Completed Amount) (Completed Amount) (Completed Amount) Municipal Waste (Unit: Ton) cases 3 5 8 Output (Gimcheon) Shared Benefit Registered/ Confirmed Tasks cases 0/0 0/0 2/3 • ‌Job creation and contract performance decreased due to changes in management conditions and the completion of headquarters 27 31 relocation. 13 Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 2017(Target) 2014 2015 2016 Disabled Persons Enterprises 6 5 4 21 KRW Social Purchasing Technology Development Products 33 222 12 25 100M Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2,998 2,656 1,319 1,763 Waste Paper Recycling Waste Paper Recycling (Unit: Ton) Waste Acid Treatment (Unit: Ton) Public Procurement % 65.1 69.5 80.3 82.0 and Waste Acid 89.0 1 2014 2014 Treatment • ‌Public procurement: Ratio of cost spent in purchasing SME products out of the total annual product purchasing cost (According to the Act on Facilitation of Purchase of Small and Medium Enterprise-manufactured Products and Support for Development of Their 2015 42 2015 0 Markets, 50% of total purchasing cost is the mandatory ratio) • ‌Public procurement has steadily increased due to efforts to fulfill KEPCO E&C’s social responsibility as a public enterprise and 2016 117 2016 2 actively respond to government policies. • ‌From 2014 to 2015, the purchase of CCTVs and generators (those certified as technology development products) sharply increased due to the relocation of the headquarters, and the purchasing amount normalized in 2016. 57 58 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Human Rights Management KEPCO E&C Human KEPCO E&C fully supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and does its best to prevent any human rights violations in connection with business management and business relations. Rights Management The company also strives to comply with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGP) as demonstrated in its major performance in human rights outlined below. Respect for Diversity and Prohibition of Discrimination In order to respect diversity and eliminate discrimination based on gender, level of education, Appendix race, religion, and other factors, KEPCO E&C makes various efforts to bring about change in people’s awareness and improve the related policies. To prevent discrimination based on the form of employment, employees performing work continuing on a permanent basis are considered for permanent employment and are subject to the same salary increase rate and benefit packages as permanent employees. The company fully complies with the Act on the Protection of Dispatched Workers and the Act on the Protection of Fixed-term and Part-time Employees, the number of violations of these laws standing at zero as of 2016. In addition, the company bans discrimination Third-Party Assurance Statement 61 and promotes fairness in human resources management by prohibiting unfair and discriminatory factors such as level of education, solicitation, and regional ties in promotion assessments and GRI Standards Index 63 operating a performance-oriented HR management. Prohibition of Forced Labor and Child Labor UNGC 65 KEPCO E&C prohibits all forms of forced labor such as involuntary servitude and slavery, grave human rights issues that are taking place on a global scale. At the same time, the company also ISO 26000 66 makes systematic efforts to protect the basic rights of the employees of its suppliers, who may be vulnerable to forced labor. All forms of child labor are also strictly prohibited. List of Awards and Affiliated Associations 67 Maternity Leave Status Protection of Motherhood (Unit: Number of persons) KEPCO E&C systematically helps its female employees to find a healthy balance between work Male Female and home. To make the company’s maternity and childcare policies more practical, the com2014 31 pany now allows mothers to divide their maternity leave into two time periods and encourages 9 22 them to take prenatal examination leaves according to their stage of pregnancy. The company 2015 43 15 28 has also opened more daycare centers that are able to accommodate a total of 350 children 2016 44 compared to 140 previously. Furthermore, conditions of “maternity rooms” within the work10 34 place have been improved to better support pregnant and nursing employees. As of 2016, 10.5% of KEPCO E&C’s employees are women. Return-to-Work Rate after Strengthening Communication between Labor and Management Maternity Leave KEPCO E&C encourages communication between labor and management through multiple Type 2014 2015 2016 communication channels and various activities. Employees’ grievances are settled through the Male 100% 100% 100% Labor-management Council, in addition to labor-management workshops and collective barFemale 100% 100% 100% gaining to solve issues in a timely manner. In 2016, various issues were settled by holding collecTotal 100% 100% 100% tive bargaining and workshops on six and two occasions, respectively. Additionally, the company has designated personnel in charge of employee grievance settlements in order to systematically collect and handle employees’ opinions. The grievance settlement system is further supported by the Grievance Settlement Committee, Grievance Settlement Counseling Center, and the Voices of Employees. 59 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Third-Party Assurance Statement To The Stakeholders of KEPCO E & C Materiality assessment process, stakeholders inclusiveness, key issues, internal response procedures, and etc. Assessment of data analysis and descriptions and sustainable management performance in the Report Preface Consistency between the financial data contained in the Report and the audited financial statements 2016 KFQ was engaged by KEPCO E&C to provide limited assurance on the ‘2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report’ (further ‘the Report’). Our reInterviews with relevant staff responsible for providing information in the Report sponsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. KFQ conducted its assur• Resolution of Findings ance based on completeness of the data and information provided by KEPCO E&C. KEPCO E&C is responsible for all contents within the Report KFQ confirmed that some errors, inappropriate information, and ambiguous expressions found during on-site visit were properly reflected including the reporting principles and standards. in the final Report. Independence • Limitations ‌ KFQ is not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, other than providing an assurance opinion, and there has been no interest beThe Report has been prepared solely for KEPCO E&C in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume retween KEPCO E&C and KFQ. KFQ has no biased opinion on stakeholders of KEPCO E&C. sponsibility to anyone other than KEPCO E&C for our conclusions we have reached in the statement. Completeness and responsiveness of sustainability performance information presented in the Report have inherent limitation due to their nature and the methodology used for Assurance Standards determining, calculating and estimating such data. KFQ has designed and implemented assurance according to the following standards. • AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 Opinion • AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard 2008 Based on the verification activity stated herein, KFQ confirmed that the Report meets the GRI Standards ‘Core Option’. According to the prin• GRI Standards ciples of AA1000 APS 2008 and AA1000 AS 2008, inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, sustainability performance information were • ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Standard assessed and KFQ could secure reasonable grounds to provide Type 1 level of assurance with the following confirmation: Assurance Scope 1. ‌(Stakeholders Inclusiveness) KEPCO E&C subdivided nine stakeholders into three groups related to the major issues of sustainable manKFQ identified the followings as its scope: agement. To hear any concerns and opinions from them, KEPCO E&C had a customized communication strategy for each stakeholder • ‌KEPCO E&C’ sustainable management activities and performances of the headquarter and all business establishment (domestic and overgroup and reflected their responses and opinions to its sustainable management activities. seas) described in the Report 2. ‌(Sustainability Context) In terms of sustainability, KEPCO E&C continues to actively respond to the economic, environmental and social • Compliance with the guidelines according to GRI Standards Core Option effects that stakeholders requires based on the core issues. These sustainable management activities and performances were properly • GRI Standards compliance assessment regarding contents of the Report and assurance principles of reporting quality contained in the Report. • ‌Application of Type 1 assurance approach according to AA1000 APS 2008 and AA1000 AS 2008 to assess compliance with inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness principles and reliability of sustainability performance information. The term ‘Moderate Assurance’ used in 3. ‌(Materiality) KEPCO E&C established issue pools and reviewed by internal guidelines and external assessment criteria (GRI Standards AA1000 AS is designed to be consistent with ‘Limited Assurance’ as articulated in ISAE 3000. guideline, DJSI, ISO 26000, media coverage, benchmark, and issue analysis) incompliance with the materiality assessment process. We • Core subjects in ISO 26000 are not aware of any material topics concerning its sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. 4. ‌(Completeness) KEPCO E&C applied reporting scope, boundary and temporal criteria. We confirm that the Report is suitable for stakeAssurance Procedures holders to assess sustainability performance. KFQ designed procedures to have reasonable assurance of the Report’s critical errors or inappropriate information. KFQ verified the reliability of the contents, processes and systems of data generation and report preparation. Recommendation for Improvement • ‌Document Review For further advanced sustainable management, KEPCO E&C is expected to monitor sustainability performance index for corporate social reWe reviewed the reliability of non-financial data in respect of the ‘Sustainability’ by cross-checking the Report with GRI Standards, quantisponsibility in a systematic way, reflect those required improvements on its management activities by setting up medium to longterm plans. tative data of KEPCO E&C, and internet & media research information. We also confirmed whether or not the financial information menIn addition, KFQ recommends KEPCO E&C to set up continuous management improvement measures for the key issues evaluated by their tioned in the Report was correctly derived from internal documents and the audited financial statements from business report on Finanimportance and mainly focus on them when generating future reports. cial Supervisory Service Dart System (http://dart.fss.or.kr). August 2017 CEO Nam Dae Hyun • ‌On-site Verification Seoul, Korea Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ) KFQ visited KEPCO E&C headquarter and conducted on-site verification to confirm reliability of the sustainability activities and performance data contained in the Report and to evaluate the effectiveness of the reporting process. We performed verification in the accuracy topic of the aggregated data from KEPCO E&C. These procedures included the following: 61 62 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances GRI Standards Index Gri Standards Universal Standards (GRI 100) Economic Performance (GRI 200) Topic No. Title Page Note Topic No. Title Page Note GRI 101 : Foundation 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 55-56 GRI 201 : 102-1 Name of the organization 5 Economic Performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 29, 33-34 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 5 GRI 205 : 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 44-45 102-3 Location of headquarters 5 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 44-45 102-4 Location of operations 27-28 102-5 Ownership and legal form 5-6 102-6 Markets served 5 GRI 102 : 102-7 Scale of the organization 5-6 Organizational Profile 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 47-51, 58 102-9 Supply chain 39-40, 58 Environmental Performance (GRI 300) 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 1, 6, 39-40 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 1 Topic No. Title Page Note 102-12 External initiatives 1, 59, 65-66 GRI 302 : 102-13 Membership of associations 68 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57 Energy GRI 102 : 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 3-4 GRI 303 : Strategy 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 57 Water GRI 102 : 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 7-8 Ethics and integrity GRI 305 : 305-1 Direct(Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 GRI 102 : Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect(Scope 2) GHG emissions 57 102-18 Governance structure 11-12 Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 15 GRI 306 : 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 57 Effluents and Waste 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 15 GRI 102 : 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 15 Stakeholder Engagement 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 15 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 5-6 Social Performance (GRI 400) 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 13-14 102-47 List of material topics 13-14 102-48 Restatements of information 1 102-49 Changes in reporting 1 Topic No. Title Page Note GRI 102 : 102-50 Reporting period 1 GRI 401 : 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 48, 58 Reporting practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 59 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 GRI 413 : Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 1 413-1 18, 35-38 Local Communities programs 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 61-64 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 30-31 102-55 GRI content index 63-64 GRI 416 : Customer Health and Safety Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products 102-56 External assurance 61-62 416-2 30-31 and services 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 23, 29, 35, 41, 47 GRI 103 : GRI 418 : Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 103-2 The management approach and its components 23, 29, 35, 41, 47 418-1 46 Management Approach Customer Privacy customer data 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23, 29, 35, 41, 47 63 64 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances UNGC ISO 26000 Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2007, KEPCO E&C has complied with the ten major principles in the four areas of human rights, ISO 26000 is an international standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), providing guidance on intelabor, environment, and anti-corruption. The company will strive to be a leading Korean company in global sustainable management grating social responsibility into a company – more specifically, the seven core issues of organizational governance, human rights, labor by respecting international standards in sustainable management and fulfilling its social responsibility. practices, the environment, fair operating practices, customer issues, and community involvement and development. Through various efforts to comply with the ISO 26000, KEPCO E&C will strive to be a sustainable company. Major themes Principle Page Core Subject Key Issues Index Page Governance Structure Decision-making process and structure 6.2.3 11-12 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 59 Duty of care 6.3.3 Human Rights Status of human rights risks 6.3.4 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 59 Avoidance of collusion 6.3.5 Handling of complaints 6.3.6 Human Rights 51, 59 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to ollective bargaining. 51 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Economic, social, and cultural rights 6.3.9 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 59 Basic principles and rights at workplaces 6.3.10 Labor Employment and employee-employer relations 6.4.3 5. Abolish child labor effectively. 59 Labor conditions and social protection 6.4.4 30-32, Labor Practices Social dialog 6.4.5 48-50 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 48, 59 Health and safety at workplaces 6.4.6 Human development and on-the-job training 6.4.7 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 29-30 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Sustainable use of resources 6.5.4 17, Environment 29-30, Alleviation of and adaptation to climate change 6.5.5 33-34 Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 29-30 Protection of the natural environment and restoration 6.5.6 Prevention of corruption 6.6.3 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 33-34 Responsible participation in politics 6.6.4 41, Fair Operating Practices Fair competition 6.6.5 44-45 Anti-Corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 44-45 Promotion of social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Fair marketing 6.7.3 Guarantee of consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Consumer Issues Consumer services, support, complaint and dispute settlement 6.7.6 42, 46 Protection of consumer information and privacy 6.7.7 Access to essential services 6.7.8 Consumer and civil education and understanding 6.7.9 Participation in local communities 6.8.3 Education and Culture 6.8.4 Creation of jobs and functional development 6.8.5 Community Involvement and 18, Technology development and access 6.8.6 Development 35-38 Creation of wealth and income 6.8.7 Health 6.8.8 Social investment 6.8.9 65 66 2016 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Overview Sustainability Issue Sustainability & Human Rights Appendix Performances Awards and Membership in Associations External Evaluations and Awards Membership in Associations and Groups Award Year Organization Memberships to Organizations Korea Listed Companies Association (Auditor) Gimcheon City (registration license fee) Korean Association of Environmental Impact Assessment Public Corporation Audit Forum Gyeonggi Branch Office of Korea Construction Association Korea Management Association Institute of Internal Auditors Korea Korea Association of Surveying and Mapping Korea Electronic Document Industry Association Minister of Defense Appreciation Certificate for “One-company, One-barrack” program 2015 Ministry of Defense Korean Standards Association Korea Construction Technology Management Association Korea Productivity Center Seoul Bar Association Korea International Trade Association Korea Industrial Technology Association NY State Office of Court AD. Korea Fire Facility Association Korean Association for Industrial Technology Security Korea Listed Companies Association Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation Emergency Safety Planner, Ministry of Trade, Korea Engineering Promotion Association Korea Plant Industries Association Industry and Energy President of the Korean Red Cross Appreciation Certificate for establishing customized CSR 2015 Red Cross Gyeonggi Branch Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korea Electric Works Corporation Gyeonggi-do Plant EPC Committee Seoul Office of Korea Exchange Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers Association of Overseas Infrastructure Development CFO Academy Korea Information and Communications Council of the Heads of Daeduck R&D Special Institutions Korean Network on Anti-Corruption & Transparency International Contractors Association of Korea Daedeok Innopolis Korean Academy of Organization and Management Korea Association of ESCO Korea Special Library Association 2015 Korea Nuclear Technology Award – Group Award for Nuclear Design and Equipment Production (Development BG) Korea Construction Engineers Association Korea Architects Registration Board 2015 Korea Atomic Industrial Forum ‌Distinguished Service in the Area of International Cooperation in Nuclear Power (Ha JaeGyeongbuk Metropolitan Government Korea Personnel Improvement Associationd hong, Head of Department and Lee Seong-myun, Head of Department) (registration change notification fee) Memberships to Technology-related Organizations Korea Construction Engineers Association Korea Electric Engineering Association Korea Engineering & Consulting Association LACP Korea Electric Association Korea Nuclear Industry Council Korean Nuclear Society Sustainability Report Award LACP 2015 Spotlight Awards Gold 2015 (League of American Communications Professionals) Korea Industrial Technology Association International Electrical Research Exchange (IERE) Korea Energy Foundation (WEC Korea Committee) Korea Electrical Engineering & Science Research Institute Korea Engineers Club AESIEAP Energy Future Forum Korea Forum of Chief Information Officers Korea Institute of Information Security and Cryptology Korea Association for Fusion Energy and Korea Atomic Equipment Advancement Association Society for Women in Nuclear Power AcceleratorTechnology Provence Foreign Investment Promotion Agency, Women in Nuclear Korea The Korean Radioactive waste Society Korean Association for Radiation Protection ITER Business Forum 2015 ‘Invest in Provence Award’ 2015 Marseille Chamber of Commerce and Industry Korean Society for Mechanical Engineers Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers Korea Institute of Fire Science and Engineering (Energy and Power Engineering) Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea Power Standard Operating Council ASME The Korean Society for Noise and Vibration Engineering IEEE (Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers) The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korea Instrument and Controls Professional Engineers The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers, Council The Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea Association Korean National Quality Award, Presidential Award 2016 Korean Standards Association The Ergonomics Society of Korea Korea Concrete Institute International Systems and Automation (ISA) Korean Society of Civil Engineers The Geological Society of Korea Korean Society of Steel Construction Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea ACI(American Concrete Institute) Korea water Resources Association The Korean Society of Engineering Geology The Korean Structural Engineers Association Architecture Institute of Korea Korean Institute Of Construction Engineering and ASTM-D33 Technical Committee Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture Management 2016 Dream Start Performance Report Appreciation Certificate 2016 Gimcheon Innocity Korea Project Management Association (KPMA) The Corrosion Science Society of Korea ASME PVP Korean Society of Pressure vessels & Piping Computational Structural Engineering Institute of Korea RANDEC (Radwaste & Decommissioning Center) CICIND(International Committee on Industrial The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers-Studies Korean Geotechnical Society Chimneys) Association Korean Institute of Navigation and Port Research Korean Association of Environmental Impact Assessment Korea Smart Grid Association Korea CCS Association (Korea Carbon Dioxide Capture and WNA(World Nuclear Association) Korea wind Energy Industry Association 2016 Korea Green Architecture Competition, Grand Prize 2016 Presidential Commission on Architecture Policy Storage Association) Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Korea Institute of Plant Engineering & Construction Korean Standards Association Korean Association of Ocean Science and Technology Korea Institute of Quality Management Korean Society of Project Management (KSPM) Societies Korean Energy Climate Environment Council 67 68 This report is printed on FSC™ (Forest Stewardship Council) Certified paper with soy ink. 269, Hyeoksin-ro, Gimcheon-si, Gyeongsangbuk-do, South Korea 740-220 Tel. 054-421-4081 www.kepco-enc.com
