keep reinventing 2016 Sustainability Report We use plastic bottles collected in Haiti to produce new HP ink cartridges—improving lives and the planet. Learn more. Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Contents Introduction Energy efficiency 51 Integrity 108 Letter from President and CEO Innovation in 2016 53 Corporate ethics 109 Dion Weisler 3 Product repair, reuse, and Governance 110 Executive summary 4 recycling 65 Ethics training 111 HP overview 8 Customer programs 66 Anti-corruption 112 Sustainability strategy 10 Vendor audits 67 Privacy 113 United Nations Sustainable Data 68 Management and oversight 113 Development Goals 11 Product security 115 HP sustainability goals 12 Society 75 Human rights 117 Stakeholder engagement 13 Supply chain responsibility 76 Respecting human rights 117 Materiality 14 Increasing supply chain Partnering on human rights 119 Sustainability governance 15 transparency 77 Driving sustainable factories 77 Government relations 120 Policy priorities 121 Environment 16 Combating forced labor 79 Political engagement 124 Circular economy 17 Empowering and protecting workers 80 Policies and standards 125 Our footprint 20 Promoting health and safety 81 Carbon 21 Water 22 Audit results 82 About this report 126 Responsible minerals 85 Overview 127 Supply chain environmental impact 24 Supplier diversity 89 Independent accountants’ review report 130 Greenhouse gas emissions 25 Employees 90 Diversity and inclusion 91 United Nations Global Compact Waste 29 index 132 Water 30 Engaging employees 93 Material issues 133 Operations 32 Talent development 95 Global Reporting Initiative EHS management and Compensation and benefits 96 index 135 compliance 33 Wellness 96 Endnotes 141 Greenhouse gas emissions 34 Health and safety 97 Waste 37 Communities 98 Water 38 Entrepreneurship 99 Products and solutions 39 Education 101 Designing for the circular Disaster recovery and economy 40 volunteerism 103 Materials 43 Data 104 2 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Letter from President and CEO Dion Weisler At HP, we’re reinventing for a better world. Sustainability guides every aspect of our business, fuels our innovation and growth, and works to enable everyone, everywhere to thrive. It is the right thing to do for our business, for society, and for the long-term future of our planet. Our world faces difficult challenges, including climate change, inadequate access to quality education, economic and gender inequalities, and unfair labor practices. We’re encouraged to see governments, corporations, organizations, and individuals supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In 2016, HP made meaningful progress on 15 of the 17 SDGs, and set bold new targets in key areas where we can have the greatest impact—including two major goals to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our operations and supply chain. We are furthering our efforts to protect and empower workers across our supply chain to ensure the people who make our products can thrive at work, at home, and in their communities. We also are making strides in propelling a circular, low-carbon economy—continuing to transition our company and our customers from linear “take, make, discard” use and manufacturing processes toward a more circular “make, use, return” approach. For instance, through an innovative partnership, hundreds of people in Haiti are collecting recyclables to help support their families, and plastic bottles are finding a new purpose in creating HP ink cartridges. This program not only supports full-circle innovation and helps keep plastic out of the waterways that drain into the Caribbean Sea, but it also provides the people of Haiti with access to new social and economic opportunities. We’re also shifting from transactional product sales to service models, delivering better value to our customers with less waste and cost. With innovations in industrial 3D printing and digital publishing, we’re working to transform industries and accelerate a materials-efficient economy. Inclusive and quality education is essential for people to improve their lives and livelihoods. We help bring quality education and digital literacy to people where they are—including refugees and those living in underserved communities with no access to information technology. More than 9.5 million people have benefited from our efforts to improve the quality of learning since the beginning of 2015—and we are committed to enabling better learning outcomes for millions more. We’re proud of our progress, and we’re inspired by the positive impact we’re seeing. But there’s still work to be done. Every day is a chance to turn change into opportunity, set the bar higher, and keep reinventing for a better world. You can find more information on HP’s goals and sustainability efforts in this report. Dion Weisler President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. 3 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Executive summary HP Inc.1 creates technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. Through our portfolio of printers, PCs, mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer experiences that amaze. Our strategy Sustainability is central to HP’s vision to create technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. Setting bold, long-term goals for HP focuses our strategy where we can have the greatest impact. We measure success by how our actions and solutions help create a more sustainable future for people, businesses, and communities. During the last year, we set several social goals to complement the environmental goals that cover each phase of our value chain. Our new goals 1 Develop skills and improve well-being of 500,000 factory workers by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 2 Double factory participation in our supply chain sustainability programs by 2025, compared to 2015. 3 Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. See a summary of progress against each of our sustainability goals. This report includes performance data through FY2016 (which ended October 31, 2016), unless stated otherwise. 4 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Environment HP circular economy HP is reinventing how products are designed, manufactured, used, and recovered as we shift our business model and operations toward a circular and low-carbon economy. Materials recovery and reuse Product recycling, print supplies closed loop recycled plastic content, hardware recycled content (PCs, printers) Reuse/refurbishment HP Indigo Reconditioning Program, Circular economy enablers PC and printer reuse HP Jet FusionTM 3D printing Product-as-a-service solution Parts HP Subscription Services, HP Device as HP commercial a Service, HP Managed Print Services, and industrial HP Instant Ink graphics printing solutions Maintenance/upgrade model HP Indigo, HP PageWide Web Presses, modular design, freely available service manuals Products Materials reduction/reuse and renewable energy initiatives in HP’s supply chain Services and operations also support the circular economy User Carbon footprint, 2016* Water footprint, 2016** 36,243,700 tonnes CO2e 207,024,000 cubic meters 45% 22% 1% Supply chain Supply chain decrease in carbon footprint compared to 20152 53% 75% 3% 1% Products and 2% Products and Operations solutions Operations solutions decrease in water footprint Our footprints decreased due to a continued shift to smaller and less energy-intensive compared to 20152 desktops, notebooks, and tablets. This counteracted increased GHG emissions and water consumption related to printing due to a shift toward more energyand feature-intensive products, more accurate assumptions about the use of duplexing, and the inclusion of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper. * See relevant notes on page 69. ** See relevant notes on page 70. 5 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report In 2016: Supply chain Operations Products and solutions 21% 5% More ENERGY STAR decrease in supply chain GHG decrease in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity compared to GHG emissions from operations 2010 3 compared to 2015 certifications and EPEAT and EPEAT Gold registrations for our personal systems 16% 3% portfolio than any other manufacturer decrease in product transportation GHG emissions compared to 2010 decrease in potable water consumption compared to 2015 57% reduction in materials consumption per printed page on average through HP Instant Ink4 Product repair, reuse, and recycling In 2016: 5.05 million units of hardware repaired 1.25 million units of hardware remarketed We collect used products for resale and recycling 119,900 tonnes of hardware and supplies in 73 countries and territories worldwide. recovered for recycling 6 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Society Supply chain responsibility In 2016: 98% 1st of factories reporting monthly data met place ranking in NGO Know the Chain’s student worker guidelines inaugural benchmark of ICT companies’ efforts to protect workers in their supply 25% chains from forced labor increase in average supplier performance in social and environmental responsibility (SER) Scorecard Communities 1,250+ 60 jobs generated based on skills gained in schools in 11 countries received state-ofthe first three years of the Mashrou3i the-art HP Learning Studios project in Tunisia5 Employees The most diverse board of directors Employees completed 1.1 million training among U.S. technology companies, hours, an average of 21 hours each including five women and five minority members with three underrepresented minorities 6 Integrity Privacy Government relations Published a new Privacy Statement Signed amicus brief opposing a U.S. with simpler, more customer-friendly executive order on immigration language Endorsed open letter urging presidentReceived EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Certification elect to honor the U.S. commitment to from the U.S. Department of Commerce Paris Climate Agreement Launched the world’s only PC integrated privacy screen,7 designed to combat visual hacking Human rights Evaluated all nine relevant corporate functions against the appropriate UN UDHR rights 7 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP overview HP Inc.1 creates technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. Through our portfolio of printers, PCs, mobile devices, solutions, and services, we engineer experiences that amaze. We sell to individual consumers, smalland medium-sized businesses, and large enterprises, including customers in the government, health, and education sectors. We pursue growth in adjacent markets, such as graphics solutions, copiers, and commercial mobility. We are defining new market categories through 3D printing and immersive computing platforms that fuse together the physical and digital worlds. We delivered on our full-year financial commitments and executed well on our strategy to protect our core, drive growth, and invest in our future, all while taking cost out of the business. We reported net revenue of $48.2 billion and $3.2 billion of net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2016. See extensive information about our financial performance at our Investor Relations site. Corporate summary • Fortune 100 company • Dion Weisler, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. • Margaret C. Whitman, Chairman of the Board, HP Inc. • Incorporated in the State of Delaware, United States • Ticker symbol HPQ on the New York Stock Exchange • Corporate headquarters: Palo Alto, California See a list of recent awards and recognition. 8 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report How we deliver value Sustainability is fundamental to our corporate strategy and informs our decisions throughout the value chain. It advances our current and future lines of business and helps us meet our customers’ needs. Our approach to creating value is multifaceted, as illustrated by the graphic. Inputs in 2016* Human Intellectual Financial Manufactured Natural Social and relationship 49,000 HP employees** 18,000+ patents $29.0 billion HP manufacturing 900,000+ tonnes of HP Sustainability Policy total assets plants materials in our products The most diverse $1.2 billion Employee, supplier, and and packaging *** board of directors invested in R&D $0.5 billion 100s of production partner codes of conduct among U.S. net debt suppliers Energy use across the and engagement technology companies value chain $4.38 million in 207,024,000 cubic meters social investments value chain water consumption HP business model HP business model Supply chain Operations Products and solutions Value chain Six continents, 100s of production suppliers, Oﬀices and manufacturing facilities Printers, personal systems, solutions 1,000s of nonproduction suppliers worldwide, 49,000 employees Consumers, SMB, Enterprise, Stakeholders Suppliers and their workers Our employees Government, and Communities Products Notebooks and tablets Personal Desktops Systems Workstations Displays Accessories Solutions Extraction, manufacturing, Facilities, transportation Mobility transportation fleet, R&D centers Security Software Products Services Printers Presses Printing Ink and toner Accessories Media Sustainability is integrated throughout our business model Value created in 2016* Social and Human Intellectual Financial Manufactured Natural relationships 1 million+ HP employee Breakthrough innovations $48.2 billion Every 60 seconds, 1% decrease in 10/10 for CSR on the Gartner training hours completed that enhance net revenue HP delivers 102 PCs, carbon footprint Supply Chain Top 25 sustainability in each of 63 printers, and 983 45,700 workers at supplier $3.8 billion 1% decrease in DJSI Sustainability World our product groups consumables to customers factories reached through earnings from continuing water footprint Index for 5th consecutive year all over the world**** training and empowerment operations before taxes CDP Climate A List for Entrepreneurship, programs ECO declarations available 3rd consecutive year education, and disaster for product groups relief programs delivered representing 93% worldwide of revenue * These proof points are representative examples and not a full list. ** As of October 31, 2016. *** This number does not include packaging for commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation for any products. ****As of April 2017. 9 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Sustainability strategy Making life better for everyone, everywhere With operations in 170 countries, our community is the world. We recognize and embrace “At HP, sustainability serves the opportunity and responsibility to address some of the greatest shared challenges facing society today, including resource scarcity, the shift to cleaner energy, access to as a guiding principle for quality education and economic opportunity, human rights protection throughout the how we conduct business and supply chain, and data security and privacy. create solutions that Sustainability is a powerful force for innovation. It drives progress toward our business are changing the world.” priorities, from designing and delivering our core products and services, to developing Dion Weisler, President and Chief new business models and solutions that generate growth. It also helps us unlock value Executive Officer, HP Inc. and shape the future through breakthrough technologies such as 3D printing. Our holistic approach to sustainability covers a broad range of issues across three pillars: • Environment: HP is reinventing how products are designed, manufactured, used, and recovered as we shift our business model and operations toward a circular and lowcarbon economy. Working with our supply chain partners and others, we are reducing the environmental impact of our products and services at every stage of the value chain. We invest heavily in research and development to help customers stay ahead of what’s next, and enable them to seize new opportunities while advancing their own sustainability priorities. Through industry-leading repair, reuse, and recycling programs, and our product-as-a-service business models, we aim to keep products and materials in circulation for as long as possible, while driving further closed loop View the Sustainability at HP video. innovations. • Society: We’re using our technology, innovation, and scale to create a more just and inclusive society. Throughout our supply chain, we empower workers and ensure Perfect protections for the people who make our products. We are deeply committed to our employees, who are central to our company’s success, and dedicated to fostering a 10 diverse, welcoming, and collaborative company and industry. Working with business and nonprofit partners, we deploy our technology, capital, and resources to advance quality learning and digital inclusion, meeting people where they are and taking them scored for corporate social where they want to go . responsibility in The Gartner • Integrity: HP is committed to always acting with integrity, fairness, and accountability, Supply Chain Top 25 for 2017 which are fundamental to an inclusive society and a thriving business. We are uncompromising in our expectations of ethical behavior by our employees, partners, and suppliers. We have structures, programs, and processes to safeguard human rights across our value chain. Through robust policies, protocols, and controls, we secure the privacy of our customers and employees. This commitment to responsible corporate citizenship ensures that HP is a trusted partner to our customers and all of our stakeholders. 10 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report United Nations Sustainable Development Goals HP supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have existing programs that contribute to progress against 15 of the 17 goals, and will continue to drive innovations that help achieve them. This table references sections of this report that relate to each goal. Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and everywhere security and improved nutrition and promote well-being for all at all promote sustainable agriculture ages HP’s actions Communities HP’s actions No major programs at HP’s actions Wellness, Health this time and safety Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and quality Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and Goal 6 Ensure access to water and education for all and promote empower all women and girls sanitation for all lifelong learning HP’s actions Supply chain HP’s actions Supply chain HP’s actions Communities responsibility, Diversity and environmental impact: Water, inclusion Operations: Water Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, Goal 8 Promote inclusive and Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, reliable, sustainable and modern sustainable economic growth, promote sustainable energy for all employment and decent work for all industrialization and foster innovation HP’s actions Renewable energy, HP’s actions Supply chain Products and solutions: Energy responsibility, Communities HP’s actions Circular economy, efficiency Communities Goal 10 Reduce inequality within Goal 11 Make cities inclusive, safe, Goal 12 Ensure sustainable and among countries resilient and sustainable consumption and production patterns HP’s actions Supplier diversity, HP’s actions Communities Communities HP’s actions Circular economy Goal 13 Take urgent action to Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably Goal 15 Sustainably manage combat climate change and its use the oceans, seas and marine forests, combat desertification, halt impacts resource and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss HP’s actions Our footprint, Supply HP’s actions No major programs at chain environmental impact: this time HP’s actions Paper GHG emissions, Operations: GHG emissions, Products and solutions Goal 16 Promote just, peaceful and Goal 17 Revitalize the global inclusive societies partnership for sustainable development HP’s actions Supply chain responsibility, Responsible minerals, HP’s actions HP proudly supports Diversity and inclusion, Corporate the UN Sustainable Development ethics, Human rights Goals, the UN Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative, and other global efforts to advance sustainable development 11 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP sustainability goals Driving progress across our value chain Progress indicators Achieved Setting bold, long-term goals for HP focuses our strategy where we can have the greatest impact. We measure On target success by how our actions and solutions help create a more sustainable future for people, businesses, and Needs attention communities. Our efforts also drive progress toward the United Nations SDGs. Goal Progress in 2016 UN SDGs Environment Climate change Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from global operations by 25% by 2025, 5% HP’s global operations produced 383,700 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e emissions, 5% less than 13 25% compared to 2015. our 2015 baseline. Learn more. Renewable Use 100% renewable electricity in our global operations, with a goal of 40% by 2020. 14% Renewable electricity purchased and generated on-site accounted for 14% of our total consumption. 7, 13 electricity Learn more. 100% Supply chain Reduce first-tier production supplier and N/A The base year 2015 is the first year data is availN/A 13 GHG intensity product transportation-related GHG emissions able. Learn more. 10% intensity 10% by 2025, compared to 2015.1 Supplier CO2e Help suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions between 940,000 Through December 2016, suppliers achieved 47% of this target through new and ongoing energy 13 emissions tonnes CO2e 2010 and 2025. 2 efficiency projects, energy management programs, 2 million tonnes and renewable energy use. Learn more. Product GHG Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of HP’s product portfolio by 25% by 2020, compared 19% Achieved a 19% decrease, partly due to an ongoing shift in our personal systems product mix to 7, 13 emissions intensity to 2010. 3 smaller, more energy-efficient devices. Learn more. 25% Natural resources Achieve zero deforestation associated with HP 100% Achieved for HP brand paper, and surveyed our 13, 15 Zero brand paper and paper-based product packHP brand paper-based packaging suppliers to establish a Deforestation aging 4 by 2020. paper baseline for the percentage of certified and recycled fiber. Learn more. Potable water Reduce potable water consumption in global operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 3% Potable water consumption equaled 2,477,000 cubic meters globally, 3% less than in 2015. 6 consumption Learn more. 15% Product recycling Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and 119,900 Recycled 102,800 tonnes of hardware and 17,100 12 1.2 supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. tonnes tonnes of ink and toner cartridges. Learn more. million tonnes Society Empowering Develop skills and improve well-being of 500,000 factory workers by 2025, since the 45,700 45,700 supplier factory workers participated in 14 worker skills development and well-being projects, 8, 5 500,000 beginning of 2015. factory bringing the total to 123,700 workers trained since workers workers the beginning of 2015. Learn more. Doubling factory Double factory participation in our supply chain sustainability programs by 2025, compared to N/A The methodology for measuring progress against this goal and baseline data will be published in HP’s 8, 12, 13 participation 2015. 2017 Sustainability Report. Learn more. 2x Better learning Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015. 4.9 More than 9.5 million students and adult learners have benefited from HP solutions that advance quality 4 outcomes for million learning and digital literacy and enable better learning 100 million people outcomes since the beginning of 2015. Learn more. Integrity Business conduct Maintain greater than 99% completion rate of annual Standards of Business Conduct training 99.74% Achieved a 99.74% participation rate, despite reducing the training window from 18 to five weeks. training among active HP employees and the Board of Learn more. 99%+ Directors. 12 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Stakeholder engagement We seek insight from everyone our business affects #1 The success of our sustainability strategy relies on collaboration with and input from key stakeholders, including employees, suppliers, customers, peer companies, public ranking policy makers, industry bodies, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), sector experts, and others. Through regular, ongoing, close contact with our stakeholders, we are better able to anticipate emerging trends and challenges and innovate solutions. received in inaugural Know the Chain benchmark We identify appropriate stakeholders to engage by assessing factors such as their of information and expertise, willingness to collaborate, reputation, location, and sphere of influence. We communications technology gather valuable insights for improving our business and sustainability strategy through a companies' efforts to protect range of engagement activities. These include partnerships, sponsorships, collaboration workers in their supply chains from forced labor on industry initiatives, customer and supplier education, supplier capability-building programs, supplier audits and assessments, conference participation, employee surveys, mentoring, white papers, and more. Examples of recent engagement activities related to material issues include the following: • Circular economy: Through the Ellen McArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100, a global platform, top companies and innovators drive progress toward a more materialsand energy-efficient future. During the year, we worked with a telecom company on a case 5 years study related to modularity, co-led a repairability project with iFixit, and started a new project on 3D-printed spare parts. Read more in Circular economy. • Climate change (relates to multiple material issues): To expand our impact beyond in a row, named to the Dow our business and industry, we join leading companies in the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) Jones Sustainability World Climate Savers program and RE100 to set and pursue ambitious climate action goals. Index and North American Index Read more in Our footprint. We work with WWF’s Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) and our suppliers to determine the source of virgin fiber and to increase the amount of certified fiber where possible, and we report progress annually to the WWF GFTN and CDP forests program. Read more in Paper. • Energy and GHG emissions in supply chain: In 2016, we launched a program to establish best practices and national guidelines for facility energy management across China’s IT sector. The three-year pilot—with NRDC, the China National Institute of Standardization, local agencies, and suppliers in Suzhou, China—will enhance suppliers’ energy-related operations, technology, and continuous improvement processes. Read more in Supply chain environmental impact. • Waste and hazardous materials in supply chain: As a member of Green America’s Clean “A” lists Electronics Production Network, HP supports our industry’s movement toward zero exposure to hazardous substances during product manufacturing. The multistakeholder initiative focuses on safer alternatives to priority substances, and a common achieved for CDP Climate standard for reporting substance use, among other activities. Read more in Materials. Change (3rd consecutive year), Forests, and Supply Chain • Labor practices in supply chain: In 2016, HP joined our customer Diageo, a UK beverage company, to empower more than 4,000 women through leadership training in four of our supplier factories in China and Malaysia. This program is part of Diageo’s broader worker empowerment initiative, Plan W, and contributes to HP's ongoing work to support women in and out of the factory. Read more in Supply chain responsibility. • Diversity and inclusion: The company has collaborated with organizations such 13 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report as Anita Borg Institute, Association of Latino Professionals for America, Catalyst, Diversity Best Practices, Information Technology Senior Management Forum, National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Out & Equal Workplace Advocates, 100% achieved on Corporate Equality Professional Business Women of California, Simmons Leadership Conference, and Tapia Conference: Diversity in Computing. • Social application of IT: To support employability for young refugees in the Middle Index every year since 2003 East, HP will provide the technology and tools to learn business and IT skills. Our partners include Digital Promise, the Global Business Coalition for Education, Intel, and Microsoft. Read more in Communities. Numerous additional examples of stakeholder engagement are included throughout the report. External ratings and rankings also provide HP with external validation and valuable feedback about our progress in sustainability, which we take into consideration 82nd as we develop our strategy. ranking achieved out of more than 4,000 listed companies in Corporate Knights 2017 Materiality Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations We invest our time and resources where they matter most We periodically conduct materiality assessments to review the sustainability issues we face, reconfirm our long-standing areas of focus, and clarify and shape our sustainability strategy and investments. This enables us to focus on the areas where we can have the greatest positive impact, determine any gaps, and identify emerging issues and new leadership opportunities for our business. We have set aggressive goals related to several of our most material issues, to manage performance and drive long-term progress. Building on a model previously established, we produced a materiality assessment EPA Smartway for HP in 2015. Working with the consultancy BSR (formerly Business for Social Responsibilty), we reviewed internal documents, interviewed key internal and external Excellence Award received for stakeholders, and considered developments in our industry and emerging trends 3rd consecutive year (and 5th time overall) in sustainability. We also took into account leading reporting frameworks, including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Standards. The resulting matrix maps issues by relative importance to sustainable development and to HP’s business success. It categorizes each issue based on the three pillars of our strategy: environment, society, and integrity. Issues in the four upper-right-hand sections fall above the materiality threshold for the purpose of this report. Topics below the materiality threshold are not covered in as much detail, but remain important to HP’s sustainability and business strategies. Top 1% Information about the issues covered by our materiality matrix, including their definitions, corresponding GRI G4 Aspects, and the boundary of each Aspect, can be found in the GRI index and throughout this report. score for all suppliers assessed by EcoVadis and 8th consecutive Gold CSR rating 14 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP 2015 materiality assessment Environment Society Integrity High Access to technology Energy and GHG emissions in supply chain Labor practices in supply chain Freedom of expression IT as a sustainability solution Privacy Responsible paper sourcing Product energy efficiency Responsible sourcing of minerals Product life cycle management Supply chain codes, standards, Social application of IT and engagement Use of substances of concern in products Relative importance to sustainable development Waste and hazardous materials in supply chain Water in supply chain Board structure and independence Anti-corruption Circular economy Data and product security Environmental impact of operations Diversity and inclusion Intellectual property protection Ethical behavior and business partnerships Packaging Transparency, accountability, Product transportation and reporting Public policy engagement Responsible marketing Collaborative economy Additive manufacturing Employee training and development Executive compensation Employee volunteerism Employee wellness and benefits Lobbying and political contributions Supplier diversity Occupational health and safety Natural disaster relief Supply chain resilience Relationships with law enforcement agencies Taxes paid Sale and misuse of IT products and services Workforce reductions and relocations Low Low Relative importance to HP’s business success High Sustainability governance Our commitment begins with our leaders At all levels of the company, starting with our Board of Directors, we embed sustainability throughout our strategy, policies, programs, and value chain. The HP Board of Directors’ Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility (NGSR) Committee oversees global citizenship policies and programs as well as other legal, regulatory, and compliance matters regarding current and emerging political, environmental, global, and public policy trends. The Committee receives regular updates on key sustainability metrics and results. (Listen to NGSR Committee members talk about sustainability at HP.) Our Executive Leadership Team, led by our CEO, retains overall responsibility for sustainability as part of our business strategy. A team of executives, led by our Global Head of Sustainability and Product Compliance, sets HP’s sustainability strategy and drives progress companywide. These leaders also connect with the NGSR Committee and other relevant executive committees. 15 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability ENV Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Environment HP is reinventing how products are designed, manufactured, used, and recovered as we shift our business model and operations toward a circular and low-carbon economy. 16 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Circular economy Leading and scaling a global transformation By 2030, there will be three billion new technology users globally. Simultaneously, the world faces pressing challenges related to resource availability, climate change,1 and inequality. We believe that delivering the economic and social benefits of technology to billions more people must be done sustainably. This requires a profound shift from a traditional, linear production model of “take, make, dispose,” to a circular and low-carbon economy. This model is regenerative by design and continually recovers and reuses materials. It decouples business growth from a reliance on increasingly scarce raw materials, benefiting the environment while advancing business success. Innovative new business models such as product-as-a-service offerings increase the value derived from resources while strengthening customer engagement and relationships. The shift from analog to digital printing and additive manufacturing (3D printing) holds the promise to transform supply chains. Our priorities Decouple business growth from Disrupt industry business Digitize supply chains and consumption models production • Keep materials in use at their highest • Reinvent how solutions are designed and • Transform how entire industries design, state of value for as long as possible delivered make, and distribute products • Develop energy-efficient products that • Provide product-based services that • Advance commercial print solutions to are designed for recyclability help customers easily scale technology support the analog-to-digital shift • Decrease the amount of materials solutions while reducing costs and waste • Progress 3D printing technologies that required to make and use products • Extend product life through design for streamline prototyping and improve the • Create new technologies and products repairability economics of short-run manufacturing that enable customers to reduce their • Increase repair, reuse, and recycling material usage • Repurpose products at end of service through repair, reuse, and recycling 2016 highlights 105 million kWh 25%+ 10x faster of renewable electricity purchased and reduction in paper waste and up to 30% HP Multi Jet Fusion technology enables the generated on-site globally, 14% of our total decrease in imaging and printing costs printing of high-quality parts up to 10 times consumption through HP Managed Print Services faster2 and at a lower cost 3 than other 3D print systems currently on the market 17 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP has a long history of driving more sustainable practices across our value chain and beyond. Leading our industry and customers toward a circular and low-carbon economy at scale is the next step in that journey. Our efforts cut across customer segments, from home users to the largest enterprises. Through innovative design, we are transforming every part of our product and services portfolio, to keep products and materials in use for longer, reducing environmental impact while providing customers increased value. The graphic below illustrates four “loops” that contribute to “circularity,” with the inner loops being the most resource effective. Numerous examples of HP offerings in each View Full Circle with HP, a video about our progress in area are included. this area. Our circular economy strategy Materials recovery and reuse Product recycling, print supplies closed loop recycled plastic content, hardware recycled content (PCs, printers) Reuse/refurbishment HP Indigo Reconditioning Program, Circular economy enablers PC and printer reuse HP Jet FusionTM 3D printing Product-as-a-service solution Parts HP Subscription Services, HP Device as HP commercial a Service, HP Managed Print Services, and industrial HP Instant Ink graphics printing solutions Maintenance/upgrade model HP Indigo, HP PageWide Web Presses, modular design, freely available service manuals Products Materials reduction/reuse and renewable energy initiatives in HP’s supply chain Services and operations also support the circular economy User Our suppliers play an essential role in our circular economy strategy. We work closely with them to use materials, energy, and water more efficiently and to remove substances of concern from our products and manufacturing processes. For example, at our major supplier in Brazil, end-of-service HP products are recycled and raw materials are reused in manufacturing. See Supply chain environmental impact for more detail. We also collaborate with product recovery and materials vendors to close the loop on material flows at end of service. See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for additional information, including our new recycling goal and a link to a detailed list of our global By sourcing recycled plastic collected at the Truitier, recycling vendor sites, a first in the industry. Haiti, landfill that can be upcycled for use in our closed loop ink cartridge recycling program, we illustrate how an innovative approach to material reclamation also Customers are also critical to achieving circular systems and maintaining the value of creates new economic opportunities and drives a more products and materials. We offer products with modular features such workstations, inclusive circular economy. high-end printers, and digital presses, which allow customers to upgrade as their needs evolve, rather than buy new models. We provide free service manuals for most products, supplemented with service options, warranties, and repair services. We also provide access to replacement accessories and parts and enable customers everywhere to repair HP products directly, for example using iFixit, rather than only sending them to centralized repair facilities. Learn more. 18 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 25+ years HP Planet Partners has provided By shifting to product-as-a-service offerings such as Managed Print Services and Device as a Service, customers get the latest technology while helping to keep products, components, and materials operating at a high level for as long as possible. Through our personal and business customers Instant Ink service, customers return cartridges at a significantly higher rate than those with convenient ways to recycle that purchase ink in conventional ways, helping to reduce materials consumption by 57% our products on average per printed page. We demonstrate circular principles in our own operations as well. HP continues working 70% to reduce waste and increase recycling of materials and water, and we’re making progress toward our goal of 100% renewable electricity in our operations, and 40% by 2020. HP Elite Slice business PC is up to Beyond our own value chain and industry, progress in this area demands business 70% lighter than the EliteDesk leadership, collaboration, and effective public policy. In 2016, HP advanced the circular 800 G2 Small Form Factor PC economy more broadly by: • Publishing 5 ways to take part in the circular economy, a guide that recommends 10/10 critical questions organizations can ask themselves to advance circular economy principles in-house. • Delivering executive thought leadership. “Bringing sustainability full circle,” published The HP Elite x2 1012 G1 received in our Innovation journal, describes how our circular economy approach tackles a perfect iFixit score for environmental challenges. repairability, the first ever for a tablet • Leading and participating actively in several collaborative projects with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Circular Economy 100, a global platform of top companies and innovators working to accelerate progress in this area. During the year, we worked 3.4+ with a telecom company on a case study related to modularity, co-led a repairability project with iFixit, and started a new project on 3D-printed spare parts. billion HP ink and toner cartridges • Contributing to public policy discussions, in areas such as the Basel Convention on the manufactured through 2016 in Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal and our closed loop program, using the legitimate movement of used equipment. Learn more in Government relations. more than 88,900 tonnes of recycled content plastic 19 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Our footprint Measuring our impacts across the value chain 1% The manufacturing, delivery, and use of HP products and solutions requires a substantial amount of natural resources. To understand our impacts, we were the first in the IT industry to publish a full carbon footprint and one of the first to disclose a complete water decrease in carbon footprint compared to 20151 footprint. These cover our entire value chain—from hundreds of production suppliers and thousands of nonproduction suppliers to our operations, product transportation providers, and millions of customers worldwide. The insights we gain through this process enable us 1% to prioritize efforts to continually improve our performance and track our progress. HP has set ambitious climate goals across our value chain to drive progress (see below). decrease in water footprint As a part of renewing participation in the Climate Savers program, HP worked with WWF compared to 20151 specialists to develop a science-based target for Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and a supply chain GHG emissions intensity reduction goal for Scope 3 emissions. WWF has publicly supported those goals, confirming the rigor of our goals-setting process. Together, our Scope 1, 2, and 3 goals align with guidance from the Science Based Target Initiative, from which we are pursuing target validation. Our goals Supply chain GHG emissions intensity Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Product GHG emissions 10% 25% 25% reduction in first-tier production supplier reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG reduction in the GHG emissions intensity 3 of and product transportation-related GHG emissions from global operations by 2025, HP’s product portfolio by 2020, compared emissions intensity by 2025, compared compared to 2015 to 2010 to 20152 Supplier CO2e emissions Renewable energy Potable water consumption 2 million tonnes 100% 15% CO2e emissions from suppliers prevented renewable electricity usage in global reduction in potable water consumption between 2010 and 20254 operations, with a goal of 40% by 2020 in global operations by 2025, compared to 2015 20 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report We also incentivize suppliers to set and take steps to meet their own goals, helping us reduce the carbon footprint of our supply chain. To extend our influence beyond HP and the information technology industry, we join leading companies in goal-setting efforts through the WWF Climate Savers program and RE100. HP is one of 22 leading companies participating in WWF’s Climate Savers, a global program to engage business and industry on climate and energy. Carbon Supply chain and customer use-phase emissions drive our footprint We strive to reduce the climate impact of our supply chain, operations, and products and solutions. HP’s carbon footprint in 2016 equaled 36,243,700 tonnes of CO2e, 1% less than in 2015. During the year, we worked to set and make progress toward our GHG emissions reduction goals across the value chain. See a full list of our goals and progress. Products and solutions were the main contributor to our footprint, equaling 53% of the total. Absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from personal systems product use fell by 10% compared to 2015, reflecting a continued shift to smaller and less energyintensive desktops, notebooks, and tablets. In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product use footprint calculations. As a result, reported GHG emissions related to printing rose by 11% compared to 2015. Not including those products, printing-related GHG emissions HP was named to CDP’s “Climate increased by 1% over that period, due to a shift toward more energyand featureA List” for the third year running in recognition of the company’s intensive products and more accurate assumptions about the use of duplexing (a smaller leadership in corporate action on percentage than previously assumed). Overall GHG emissions from product use across climate change. our portfolio increased by 1% year over year. Without the addition of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, there would have been a 4% decrease overall. We continue to pursue innovations that advance product energy efficiency and optimize paper use during printing. See Products and solutions for details. Supply chain GHG emissions were the second-largest contribution to our footprint, representing 45% of the total. The volume and type of products we manufacture drive emissions in this category. Absolute GHG emissions from our supply chain fell by 4% compared to 2015. During 2016, a continued shift toward less-materials-intensive personal systems, as well as lower printer sales, contributed to our overall emissions reduction. HP is dedicated to understanding and reducing supplier GHG emissions through stringent management and transparency requirements, goal-setting, supplier collaboration, and incentives for ongoing performance improvement. See Supply chain environmental impact for details. Our operations are the third and smallest contributor to our carbon footprint, representing 2% of the total. Operational emissions result mainly from the amount and GHG-emissions intensity of energy used in our facilities. See Operations for details. View full carbon footprint data for 2015–2016 and details about our methodology in the HP carbon accounting manual. 21 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Carbon footprint, 2016* 36,243,700 tonnes CO2e 45% 53% 2% Supply chain 45% Operations 2% Products and solutions 53% Greenhouse gas emissions in our supply chain result Greenhouse gas emissions from our operations Emissions from the energy our products and solumainly from the raw materials used in, and manuresult mainly from the energy used by our facilities tions consume after sale, while used by customers. facturing of, our products. around the world. Product use 19,300,000 Materials extraction through manufacturing Facilities 352,700 Product end of service De minimis 14,700,000 Transportation fleet 31,000 Buildings leased to others De minimis Capital goods 200,000 Business travel 60,000 Investments De minimis Upstream energy production 100,000 Employee commuting 200,000 Transport 1,300,000 * See relevant notes on page 69. Water Improving our understanding of consumption across the value chain Because many parts of the world grapple with the availability and quality of water resources, HP is committed to calculating, disclosing, and reducing water use across our global value chain. In 2016, our water footprint equaled 207,024,000 cubic meters, 1% less than 2015. Electricity consumption across the value chain was the most significant contributor, representing 67% of the total, since electricity generation is a major water user. Half of our overall footprint was due to electricity-related water consumption resulting from product use. That amount decreased 3% year over year, largely due to a continued shift to smaller and less energy-intensive desktops, notebooks, and tablets. The close connection between GHG emissions from energy use and water consumption underscores the importance of our efforts to continually improve product energy efficiency. The manufacturing of paper used by customers in our products accounted for 26% of HP’s water footprint in 2016. This amount increased by 13% compared to 2015 due largely to the inclusion in our calculations this year of commercial and industrial graphics printing 22 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report solutions, which use substantial amounts of paper. Not including those products, paperrelated water consumption would have decreased by 2%. We encourage customers to use paper efficiently in a variety of ways, including using duplex printing or lower-impact paper, and recycling paper after use. For more information, see the Paper section. Through 2016, potable water consumption5 at HP sites globally decreased by 3% compared to 2015. To drive progress moving forward, we have established a new goal to reduce potable water consumption in global operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. View full water footprint data for 2016 and an explanation of the methodology in the HP water accounting manual. Learn more about how we reduce water use across our business in Supply chain environmental impact, Operations, and Products and solutions. Water footprint, 2016* 207,024,000 cubic meters 22% 3% 75% Supply chain 22% Operations 3% Products and solutions 75% Our suppliers affect our water footprint primarily While our operations are not water intensive, water Customers using our products account for most through their use of electricity. We encourage suppliers availability is a growing concern. We are commitof our water footprint. This water is indirectly to use and discharge water responsibly, and provide ted to using less water, especially at operations in consumed through using electricity to power our tools that improve water management practices. water-stressed regions. devices and through paper manufacturing. Direct consumption 12,600,000 Direct consumption 3,224,000 Indirect consumption – electricity for product use Indirect consumption 31,800,000 Indirect consumption 3,200,000 103,300,000 Indirect consumption – paper use 52,900,000 * See relevant notes on page 70. 23 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Supply chain environmental impact Driving sustainability across our global network HP’s hundreds of production suppliers and thousands of nonproduction1 suppliers are essential partners in our efforts to embed sustainability across every aspect of our business. Together, we drive changes that benefit our business, suppliers, customers, and the environment. We believe that transparency is essential to advancing sustainability across our industry, and request that our suppliers provide key environmental data. Our priorities Reduce production suppliers’ Decrease product transportationReduce nonproduction environmental footprint related GHG emissions suppliers’ environmental • Measure, report, and motivate reduction • Enhance our logistics networks impacts of supplier environmental impacts • Prioritize transportation modes with lower • Reduce environmental impacts through • Build supplier capabilities to reduce GHG GHG emissions collaboration emissions through energy management • Improve shipping densities through • Support environmental reporting and renewable energy use optimization programs and innovative practices • Drive supplier transparency and goal packaging setting • Advance standard GHG emissions • Elevate supply chain environmental calculation process across transportation standards through collaboration industry 2016 highlights 21% 16% 4% decrease in supply chain GHG emissions decrease in product transportation GHG increase in strategic nonproduction intensity compared to 2010 2 emissions compared to 2010 suppliers publishing environmental reports Our goals Supply chain GHG emissions intensity Supplier CO2e emissions 10% 2 million tonnes Reduce first-tier production supplier and product transportationHelp suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent related GHG emissions intensity 10% by 2025, compared to 20153 (CO2e) emissions between 2010 and 20254 24 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our supply chain account for 45% of our overall carbon footprint and 22% of our total water footprint. Wherever possible, we advance industry-leading practices that reduce supplier costs and risks while decreasing GHG emissions and other environmental impacts. Our suppliers play a pivotal role in our transition toward a circular economy. We collaborate to remove waste from the supply chain, improve efficiency, and create closed loops to capture and reuse valuable materials. For more information about how we work with suppliers, see Supply chain responsibility and Supply chain responsibility: Our approach. We hold our suppliers to high standards in support of our sustainability commitments. All suppliers must follow the HP Supplier Code of Conduct and we track conformance through rigorous internal and third-party audits. We evaluate suppliers on key areas including environmental permits and reporting, air emissions, pollution prevention and resource reduction, use of hazardous substances, wastewater, and solid waste generation. HP’s social and environmental responsibility (SER) scorecard integrates HP’s expectations on a range of SER factors into our procurement team’s supplier management process. This incentivizes suppliers to improve environmental performance beyond the requirements in our Supplier Code of Conduct, such as transparent disclosure of environmental impacts and efforts to reduce GHG emissions and energy consumption. Our sustainability and procurement staff work closely to help suppliers meet our high expectations. See Supply chain responsibility for more detail. Beyond our own value chain, we elevate expectations for suppliers throughout the IT industry. In 2016 and 2017, we participated in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Environmental Sustainability Working Group’s ongoing effort to update and strengthen the EICC Code of Conduct. Greenhouse gas emissions Helping suppliers cut 2 million tonnes of CO2e emissions We are dedicated to helping our first-tier production suppliers reduce their carbon footprint, and to decreasing emissions related to product transportation. Through December 2015 (the most recent year data is available), first-tier production supplier and product transportation-related GHG emissions intensity decreased by 21% compared to 2010.5 Moving forward, we have reset our supply chain GHG emissions intensity $73 reduction goal using 2015 as our new baseline. WWF has publicly supported this goal, confirming the rigor of our goals-setting process. Learn more. million We also made progress toward our goal of helping suppliers reduce their carbon footprint by cutting 2 million tonnes of CO2e emissions between 2010 and 2025. As of December 2016, suppliers achieved 47% of this target through new and ongoing energy efficiency saved since 2010 through projects, energy management programs, and renewable energy use. Combined, these supplier GHG emissions reduction programs efforts saved more than 940,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions through 2016. 25 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Supplier GHG emissions performance, 2010–2016* tonnes CO2e 6,000,000 100% tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net revenue, 2010 = 100% 5,000,000 80% 4,000,000 60% 3,000,000 40% 2,000,000 20% 1,000,000 0 0 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 Production supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Product transportation Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions * See notes *, **, †, and †† on page 71. For more detail on supply chain GHG emissions, including production suppliers, product transportation, and nonproduction suppliers, see Data. View HP’s 2016 carbon footprint. Moving forward, HP will continue to: • Incentivize suppliers to set and achieve their own GHG emissions-reduction goals • Spur the adoption of renewable energy by suppliers to decarbonize the energy they use • Extend energy management and efficiency capability building programs and contribute to the development of best practices for the IT industry • Guide suppliers to improve the accuracy, completeness, and transparency of GHG emissions calculations and reporting • Drive adoption of new product transportation industry-wide GHG emissions tracking methodologies Production suppliers Production suppliers provide materials and components for product manufacturing and assemble HP products for global distribution to customers. To complement our efforts to make the quality, sustainable products our customers seek, we engage more than 95% (by spend) of these suppliers on reducing their environmental impact. This depth of engagement raises supplier awareness and knowledge of sustainability and promotes the level of transparency we view as key to progress. HP was one of 29 companies In 2015, first-tier production suppliers generated 3 million tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 globally out of more than CO2e emissions attributable to HP, a 3% increase compared to 2014. This reflects a small 3,300 assessed by CDP to rise in emissions intensity among several of our larger suppliers as well as increased make the inaugural supplier orders for products which are relatively GHG intensive to manufacture. Encouragingly, engagement leaderboard. 93% of our production suppliers (by spend) had set GHG emissions reduction-related goals by year’s end, nearly the same as in 2014, but 25% more than in 2013. 26 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP encourages suppliers to use renewable energy as a strategy to reduce GHG emissions. In 2015, 47% of suppliers (by spend) reported using renewable energy, up from 28% in 2013. 93% In addition, we request Scope 3 environmental data from suppliers that represent over 95% of HP’s spend. These companies have varying levels of environmental management maturity. Moving forward, we will continue to help suppliers enhance the accuracy and of HP suppliers (by spend) completeness of their GHG emissions calculations and reporting, including the use of had GHG emissions-reduction renewable energy. targets in place in 2015 Engaging suppliers to reduce GHG emissions Our supplier Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) in China and Southeast Asia is a leading initiative for reducing production suppliers’ utility costs and environmental footprint. Since 2010, more than 200 first-tier and sub-tier supplier sites in China and Southeast Asia have joined and benefited from EEP. Implemented in partnership with nongovernmental organizations such as BSR, the World Resources Institute, and WWF, the program helps suppliers to build capabilities, improve energy efficiency, and explore the use of renewable energy, resulting in reduced GHG emissions and water use as well as cost savings. In 2016, 44 first-tier suppliers submitted new operational efficiency plans with potential combined annual savings of more than 143,600 MWh of energy, and 1 million cubic meters of water from 300 projects. These included initiatives to install renewable energy, adopt ISO 14064 and 50001 standards, install energy and water metering systems, and complete energy audits. Since 2010, participants in this program have saved a cumulative $73 million and contributed to preventing more than 940,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions from product manufacturing and transportation. HP also brings suppliers together to explain our environmental expectations, provide training, and share best practices. At our 2016 environmental summit in Chongqing, China, 42 suppliers joined representatives from government, WWF, and HP to discuss future plans in areas including energy efficiency, renewable energy, and green manufacturing. During the year, we also launched a Strategic Energy Management pilot with NRDC, the China National Institute of Standardization, local agencies, and suppliers in Suzhou, China. The three-year trial will enhance suppliers’ operations, technology, and continuous improvement processes related to energy management, with a goal to establish best practices and national guidelines for facility energy management across China’s IT sector. HP’s supplier Chicony Electronics Co., a participant in the initiative, implemented heat recovery, LED lighting, and water efficiency projects in 2016 that will save an estimated 1,800 tonnes of CO2e emissions, 52,000 cubic meters of water, and $300,000 annually. Chicony is evaluating installation of solar energy at the site in 2017 to further reduce GHG emissions. 27 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Product transportation On a typical day, more than 1.5 million products ship between our manufacturing sites, distribution centers, and customers. Decreasing the carbon footprint of this global transportation activity is essential to reducing our supply chain GHG emissions. In 2016, product transportation resulted in 1.2 million tonnes of CO2e emissions. HP worked to improve performance and advance industry standards in three key areas: More efficient supply chain network We optimize our global logistics network at every opportunity—improving efficiency, cutting costs, and reducing environmental impact. Whenever feasible, we consolidate shipments and send HP products directly to customers or the distribution centers closest to them. We also work to identify new routes that decrease overall emissions and costs. We continue to use SmartWaysm partners for 100% of our products shipped by truck in the United States and Canada. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) program improves road transportation efficiency and reduces GHG emissions. In 2016, HP won its fifth, and third consecutive, SmartWaysm Excellence Award in the large shipper category. Less environmentally impactful transportation Shifting from air transportation to less GHG-intensive modes such as ocean freight reduces our carbon footprint. By doing so, in 2016 we prevented the release of 35,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions related to notebook shipments from China to the Americas, Asia, and Europe. Smaller and lighter packaging can also reduce GHG emissions from transporting our products, by increasing shipping densities. Read more about our innovative Packaging solutions. Leading improvements across the industry Accurately and consistently measuring GHG emissions is critical to making global progress toward a low-carbon economy. When freight suppliers generate GHG emissions reports, many rely on standard fuel efficiency calculations rather than actual fuel used. This is a challenge to understanding how emissions vary on a regional and global basis, and to quantifying emissions savings from sustainability upgrades. In 2016, we joined the Smart Freight Centre-led Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) to develop the Global Logistics Emissions Framework, which standardizes the global emission calculations for the transportation industry and incorporates fuel usage. This new methodology provides more accurate data for analysis and improves comparability across companies and industries. The GLEC framework was accepted by the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol and by CDP as a method for CO2 calculations. Moving forward, we are requesting that our product transportation suppliers use the GLEC framework for HP’s 2017 footprint calculations. To further advance this area, HP also worked with the following organizations to reduce GHG emissions across our global supply chain: Clean Cargo Working Group, Green Freight Asia, the International Air Transport Association, the United Nations Climate & Clean Air Coalition, and U.S. EPA SmartWaysm. 28 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Nonproduction suppliers Nonproduction suppliers provide HP with critical goods and services that are not directly related to product manufacturing. We source staffing, telecommunications, and travel (excluding product transportation) from a variety of industries. HP collaborates with some of these suppliers, based on size and sector, to provide training, improve reporting, and reduce environmental impact. In 2015, our nonproduction suppliers reported 240,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions attributable to HP. For this same year, the percentage of HP nonproduction strategic suppliers that produced environmental reports increased by 4%. Moving forward, HP will build supplier partnerships to standardize emissions reporting and decrease emissions. Waste Conserving resources and reducing waste Supporting our production suppliers’ efforts to generate less waste reduces the environmental footprint of HP products and accelerates progress toward a circular economy. In 2015, our production suppliers generated 105,000 tonnes of nonhazardous waste, 15% less than in 2014, and 48,000 tonnes of hazardous waste, a 7% increase. We request waste generation data from more than 95% of production suppliers (by spend). Through the end of 2015, 57% of our production suppliers (by spend) set waste-related goals. We are working to improve the coverage and accuracy of waste data our suppliers provide. For guidance on waste management and minimization best practices, we refer suppliers to the Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) Environmental Reference Tools. For more detail, see Data. Advancing toward a circular economy in Brazil 720+ In Brazil, where we have substantial manufacturing operations, HP has worked with suppliers since 2006 to drive progress toward a circular economy. In 2016, we won two prominent Brazilian environmental awards, Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade and Premio Eco, for our tonnes of end-of-service HP products efforts. The program has three elements, all designed to support closed loop recycling and zero waste to landfill. Innovation and Recycling Center: In 2008, we established an Innovation and Recycling were collected and recycled Center adjacent to our key manufacturing facility, which produces 100% of HP PCs and at Brazil's Innovation and Recycling Center printers made in Brazil. The center recycles end-of-service HP hardware, printing supplies, and accessories, enabling the reuse of recycled raw material in new products. Through these efforts, most of the waste generated by our long-standing manufacturing partner remains in our own local supply chain and is kept from landfill. We collected and recycled more than 720 tonnes of end-of-service HP products at this location in 2016. Zero Waste program:6 Since 2013, we have worked with other Brazilian partners to conserve raw materials by reusing the waste generated in manufacturing and transporting HP products in local supply chains. For example, our suppliers reused more than 500 tonnes of wooden pallets and more than 497,000 cardboard boxes. 29 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report SmartWaste returns tracking: The SmartWaste project enables faster and more effective recycling solutions. We use radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology in all HP products manufactured in Brazil, which stores information about the manufacturing of the product. This enables us to better manage end-of-service HP electronic equipment, by helping us to determine how long products were used and how the materials in returned products can be most effectively reused and recycled. This project also provides insights on what features best support our transition to a circular approach. Water Better measurement improves management Many of our suppliers operate in regions around the world where water stress is a growing threat. We work with our supplier base to improve water management in their operations and drive responsible withdrawal and discharge. In 2015, supplier water withdrawals equaled 44 million cubic meters, 10% more than in 2014. This reflects increased proportionate spending on products which are relatively water intensive to manufacture as well as variations in the data reported by suppliers. We request water withdrawal data from more than 95% of our production supplies (by spend), and are strengthening the coverage and accuracy of data provided. Through the end of 2015, 80% of HP production suppliers (by spend) set water withdrawal-related goals. HP is a member of the GSCP and uses its Environmental Reference Tools to help suppliers improve water use practices and other aspects of environmental performance. We use the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Global Water Tool to assess risks to local environments and communities across our supplier base, from facilities with waterintensive operations in water-stressed locations. In 2017, we will add a second assessment tool to more robustly identify our supply chain water risks and focus our efforts. For more detail, see Data. View HP’s 2016 water footprint. Supply chain transparency HP is committed to, and recognized for, transparent disclosure of our supply chain performance. The Corporate Information Transparency Index, developed by the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE) and NRDC, evaluates the environmental practices of global brands' supply chains in China. In 2016, HP was ranked seventh of 29 global IT companies and 17th among all 198 brands assessed. To support supplier compliance and transparency, and to ensure that our suppliers met local laws relating to air, water pollution, and waste, in 2016 HP cross-checked supplier sites representing 95% of HP’s spend against IPE’s database of environmental violations. We also collaborated with four first-tier manufacturing suppliers in China, to ensure that their sub-tier suppliers also comply with local environmental laws. This review of 758 sub-tier suppliers uncovered 14 firms that had violated local law. Through December 2016, 13 suppliers provided corrective and preventive action plans or monitoring 30 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report reports to demonstrate that the breaches had been addressed. They also provided this information directly to IPE or through the institute’s audit process. To resolve the remaining violation by a sub-tier supplier, we are still working closely with the first-tier supplier involved. Pollutant release and transfer registers (PRTR) involve companies submitting to an authority inventories of substances released. The authority then makes this data available to the public. In 2016, HP collaborated with IPE to engage nine final assembly sites in China to submit through IPE’s PRTR system. In 2017, we plan to expand this work to more final assembly suppliers in China. In 2017, HP became a member of the CDP supply chain program. We are strengthening our robust engagement with suppliers on critical environmental issues by adding our voice to CDP’s call for disclosure and action. To further promote transparency, we also request our suppliers to make their CDP responses public, and are emphasizing our desire for disclosure on important issues such as GHG emissions, water risks and use, energy consumption, and adoption of renewable energy. 31 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Operations Continually improve our performance HP is dedicated to addressing climate change by minimizing our carbon footprint across the value chain, including our operational impacts. While greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions associated with HP's offices and manufacturing facilities, transportation fleet, and employee commuting and business travel together represent just 2% of our footprint, modeling sustainable operations also helps us to lead change in our industry and beyond. Our bold goals are designed to drive improved environmental performance at our owned and leased facilities around the world, while saving money and decreasing risk. We accelerate progress toward a circular economy through on-site innovations that reduce waste and preserve natural resources, and by using renewable energy to power our operations. Employee engagement and buy-in is critical to achieving our operational sustainability goals. In 2016, we hosted an in-person Sustainability in the Workplace session at our site in Boise, Idaho, United States, to communicate HP’s energy, waste, and water programs. In 2017, we plan to expand the initiative to additional sites. We are also exploring ways to communicate real-time metrics to drive engagement in our energy, waste, and water programs. About our operational data All data reported in this section refers to HP operations through October 31, 2016. As of that date, HP owned and leased 225 sites in 67 countries. This report includes invoice data from 61 sites, including administration and support, manufacturing plants, research and development facilities, and warehouse operations. These 61 sites represented 77.4% of HP’s total floor space of 2.11 million square meters. Data was extrapolated for the remaining floor space based on intensity factors derived from directly tracked usage, unless stated otherwise. 32 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Our priorities Reduce GHG emissions Decrease energy Reduce water Decrease solid waste • Optimize energy efficiency at consumption and costs consumption • Minimize waste generation all HP sites • Prioritize energy efficiency in • Prioritize water efficiency in • Employ cost-effective reuse • Generate on-site renewable new construction new construction and recycling energy • Implement energy efficiency • Optimize water-intensive • Increase landfill diversion rate • Evaluate utility-scale off-site projects at legacy sites manufacturing processes • Pursue Green Business power purchase agreement • Install submeters to identify • Install sustainable Certification Inc. Zero Waste (PPA) renewable energy opportunities for reduction landscaping Certification at corporate contracts headquarters • Perform virtual energy audits • Deploy smart metering at • Purchase renewable energy new and legacy sites from utility suppliers • Implement fault detection and diagnostics software • Establish potable water • Promote more efficient conservation plan for key employee commuting and • Seek competitive bids for deregulated energy sources sites auto fleet 2016 highlights 5% 6% 3% 90.1% decrease in Scope 1 and reduction in energy use decrease in potable water nonhazardous waste landfill Scope 2 GHG emissions from compared to 2015 consumption compared to diversion rate operations compared to 2015 2015 Our goals Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Renewable electricity Potable water consumption 25% 100% 15% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG renewable electricity in our global reduction in potable water consumption emissions from global operations by 2025, operations, with a goal of 40% by 2020 in global operations by 2025, compared compared to 2015 to 2015 EHS management and compliance Delivering best practice across our facilities HP owns and leases facilities around the world. Our Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy and EHS management system guide site managers in using best practices to limit environmental impacts, meet our internal standards, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We investigate all allegations that our facilities failed to comply with applicable laws, and take corrective action where needed. Newly acquired companies must implement our EHS management system as a part of their integration. For information about how we manage employee health and safety at our facilities, see Health and safety. 33 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Our sustainable facilities We pursue environmental management and green building certifications at HP owned and leased facilities worldwide when feasible. In 2016, 16 facilities continued to be a part of our global ISO 14001 certificate, the international standard for environmental management systems. Three locations have LEED certification and one has Green Mark certification. ISO 14001 LEED Green Mark Greenhouse gas emissions 1 Energy savings and green power reduce our climate impact The vast majority of GHG emissions from operations are related to the energy used to Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG power our facilities. To save money, drive progress toward our goals, and reduce our emissions from operations, climate impacts, HP focuses on efficient energy use and a greater reliance on renewable 2015–2016 electricity. We pursue the following strategy: tonnes CO2e • Aggressively reduce energy consumption by optimizing efficiency and launching new efficiency projects. 400,000 10.0 • Increase on-site generation of renewable power. tonnes CO2e/$ million of net revenue* • Procure off-site renewable power to offset facility emissions from brown power, including 300,000 7.5 through renewable energy credits (RECs) and power purchase agreements (PPAs). 200,000 5.0 In 2016, HP’s global operations produced 383,700 tonnes of Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, 5% less than our 2015 baseline. This equaled 8.0 tonnes of CO2e per $ million of net revenue, a 2% increase from 2015 due to falling revenue. 100,000 2.5 The key driver for this reduction was a 6% decrease in energy consumption globally (see Energy efficiency section below). These gains occurred despite a small increase in GHG 0 0 emissions in Asia Pacific and Japan due to a new manufacturing facility in Malaysia. 2015 2016 To reduce HP’s future emissions in Asia Pacific and Japan, we are pursuing on-site solar Americas PPAs in Malaysia and Singapore as well as off-site solar PPAs in India. While we reduced Europe, Middle East, and Africa electricity use significantly at some sites, such as Dublin, Ireland, and Palo Alto, California, Asia Pacific and Japan GHG emissions intensity (tonnes CO2e/$ million United States, electricity used at these locations is generated from sources that have no of net revenue) * GHG emissions, so the reductions did not reduce our total emissions. To continue to make * Historical progress toward our goal of reducing Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from global emissions-intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial operations 25% by 2025, compared to 2015, we will further increase our renewable reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. energy use at locations worldwide. WWF has publicly supported this goal, confirming the rigor of our goals-setting process. Learn more. See Data for more detail. 34 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Sources of GHG emissions from operations, 2015–2016 percentage of total Scope 1 and 2 emissions Sources of GHG emissions 2015 2016 Scope 1 Natural gas 7% 7% Diesel/gas/oil 0% 0% Transportation fleet 8% 8% Refrigerants (HFCs) 1% 1% Perfluorocarbons 1% 1% Scope 2 Purchased electricity for operations 83% 83% District cooling and heating (purchased) for operations 0% 0% Learn more about how we reduce GHG emissions across our business in Supply chain environmental impact and Products and solutions. View full carbon footprint for 2015–2016 and details about our methodology in the HP carbon accounting manual. See our available CDP climate submissions. Energy efficiency Energy use is a significant operating expense for HP and the main driver of our climate Energy use from operations, impact from operations. Our operations consumed 879 million kWh of energy in 2016, 2015–2016 6% less than our 2015 baseline. Energy intensity equaled 18,200 kWh per $ million of million kWh net revenue, 1% more than 2015 due to decreasing revenue. Key factors driving reduced absolute energy use during the year included efficient design in new construction and 1,000 20 investing in energy efficiency at existing sites. Highlights from 2016 included: thousand kWh/$ million of net revenue 800 16 • Retro-commissioning: Projects completed at the beginning of the year improved the efficiency of existing mechanical and electrical infrastructure at three large 600 12 HP facilities in Boise, Idaho, United States; Corvallis, Oregon, United States; and Singapore, saving 8.8 million kWh annually. 400 8 • LED lighting upgrade: Six sites in three countries updated fluorescent fixtures with LED tubes, saving 5.5 million kWh of energy and $482,000 a year. In 2016, LEDs became 200 4 the standard light fixtures for all new HP construction projects moving forward. 0 0 • Smart building project: In Malaysia, we completed construction of a new 2015 2016 manufacturing facility featuring LED lighting, daylight harvesting, submetering, occupancy sensors, and high-efficiency HVAC systems. This smart building will use Stationary combustion (natural gas and diesel) 12% less energy than a standard manufacturing facility. Electricity * Energy intensity (thousand kWh/$ million of • Energy audits: Through ASHRAE (American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air net revenue) ** Conditioning Engineers) Level 2 energy audits, we identified opportunities to save an * Includes estimated 7.2 million kWh of energy per year across our facilities in Barcelona, Spain; purchased electricity and electricity generated on-site. Kiryat Gat, Israel; Pritech Park, India; San Diego, California, United States; San José, Costa ** Historical energy-intensity values were calculated Rica; and Tuas, Singapore. Conservation measures being implemented include electrical using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. submetering, continuous retro-commissioning with fault detection software, and high-efficiency refrigerant replacements. HP also initiated a virtual audit program that engages our on-site operations employees to provide high-level energy audits. See Data for more detail. 35 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Renewable energy By shifting toward renewable, carbon-neutral energy, we can stabilize our energy costs and dramatically reduce GHG emissions from our operations. We currently operate five sites in four countries with 2.5 MW of combined installed solar capacity. In 2016, renewable electricity purchased and generated on-site accounted for 105 million kWh of electricity globally, 14% of our total consumption and making progress toward our goal of 40% by 2020. Our year-over-year renewable energy use decreased 18% from 2015, largely due to decreased electricity consumption at sites that use 100% renewable electricity. In 2017, we will continue to evaluate a utility-scale off-site power purchase agreement in the United States, a feed-in tariff contract for solar energy at our Palo Alto, California, United States, corporate headquarters, and four solar power purchase agreements in Malaysia and Singapore. HP is also exploring renewable energy opportunities in India. To support these efforts, in 2016 we joined RE100, a global initiative led by the Climate Group of top businesses committed to using 100% renewable electricity to lead the transformation of global energy markets. In 2015, to help scale broader private sector adoption of renewable energy, we joined 62 other companies and signed the Corporate Renewable Energy Buyers' Principles. These outline the challenges businesses face in reducing the carbon intensity of energy suppliers, and list six factors that would speed corporate adoption, such as access to longer-term, fixed-price renewable energy, improved choice in renewable energy procurement options, and cost competitiveness between traditional and renewable energy rates. Business travel, commuting, and auto fleet HP provides low-impact travel choices for all our employees, through collaboration with our travel providers, planning tools, and employee incentive programs. Our vehicle rental vendors provide U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) SmartWay®-certified models when available. For major events, we offer organized rides in large cars, vans, or shuttles. During 2016, 71% of HP employee room nights were spent at preferred hotels that meet LEED®, ISO 14001, or Nordic Swan environmental standards. To decrease employee need to travel, we encourage the use of virtual collaboration tools. Employee business travel and commuting generated 60,000 and 200,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions respectively in 2016. See Data for more detail. To reduce the impacts of local travel to and from HP offices, we support car sharing and use of electric and more efficient vehicles. At our Palo Alto, California, United States, headquarters we offer a Zipcar vehicle share option. At that location as well as our site in New York, New York, United States, we also offer a pretax commuter benefits program. In two countries, we provide 35 electric vehicle charging stations for employee use, and we are exploring deploying stations at sites globally in the coming years. Our transportation fleet generated 31,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2016. See Data for more detail. To support HP’s GHG emissions reduction goal from operations, we plan to reduce GHG emissions from HP owned or leased auto fleet vehicles by 10% by 2025, compared to 2015. In Europe, we reduced fleet average GHG emissions from 120 g CO2e/ km in 2015 to 117 g CO2e/km in 2016. By consolidating to a new fleet management service across EMEA, HP will reduce costs and improve transparency across our fleet. Moving forward, we will strengthen our policy around fleet car selection to offer more fuel-efficient baseline vehicles. 36 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Waste Reduce, reuse, and recycle Although our facilities around the world do not generate large amounts of waste, we employ a global policy of “reduce, reuse, and recycle” that supports our shift toward a circular economy. In 2016, HP generated 27,800 tonnes of nonhazardous waste, down 1% compared to 2015. The company achieved a 90.1% landfill diversion rate for nonhazardous waste globally. The company generated 5,560 tonnes of hazardous waste during the year. The main hazardous waste we generate is liquid from ink manufacturing facilities. These manufacturing sites prioritize waste management options with low environmental impacts and only use disposal as a last resort. (Although ink manufacturing is a source of hazardous waste, HP ink cartridges used by customers and in our offices can be recycled, and are considered nonhazardous in many of our major markets.) We reuse electronic equipment when appropriate, and when necessary, recycle it responsibly through the same programs we offer our customers. See Product repair, reuse, and recycling for details. HP launched the Zero Waste certification process in 2017 for our site in Palo Alto, California, United States, through Green Business Certification Inc. and the United States Green Building Council. The site diverts more than 90% of its waste from landfill annually. In 2017, we are reviewing the potential to certify additional sites globally. Nonhazardous waste, Nonhazardous Hazardous waste, 2015–2016 waste composition, 2016* 2016 tonnes percentage of total tonnes [set 2] 13. Nonhazardous waste, 2015-2016* [set 2] 15. Hazardous waste, 2011-2015* 30,000 100% 6.0% Incineration 1,590 1,600 9.9% Asia Pacific Landfill Americas 22,500 75% Europe, Middle East,31.7% and Africa and Japan Landfill diversion rate Paper 15,000 50% y c le d 7,500 25% 21.0% rr ec Other o d Re use 9.1% Pallets 0 0 3.3% 14.9% 2,370 2015 2016 Metals Europe, Middle East, and Africa Packaging 4.1% materials Electronic Americas equipment Europe, Middle East, and Africa Asia Pacific and Japan Landfill diversion rate * HP sites report nonhazardous waste volumes and disposition based on information provided by our See Data for more detail. waste disposal vendors. For sites unable to directly track nonhazardous waste, we estimate volumes and disposition using intensity factors based on similar operations. 37 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Water consumption, Water 2015–2016 thousand cubic meters Conserving water, especially where it matters most 4,000 Although our operations are not water intensive, we do all we can to reduce our consumption, especially in water-stressed locations. In 2016, HP consumed 3,224,000 3,000 cubic meters of water, mainly for use in buildings, cooling, landscaping, and production of high-purity water for manufacturing. Water use decreased globally by 1% compared to 2015. At our four largest consuming sites in water-stressed areas, consumption 2,000 decreased by 1% year over year. HP recycled and/or reused 75,000 cubic meters of water globally in 2016. 1,000 Through 2016, potable water consumption at HP sites globally decreased by 3% compared to 2015.2 To drive continued progress, we have established a new goal to reduce potable 0 water consumption in global operations by 15% by 2025, compared to 2015. 2015 2016 To reduce and recycle water used at our facilities, we employ smart building practices, Americas Europe, Middle East, and Africa sustainable landscaping, infrastructure upgrades, and gray water reuse, among other Asia Pacific and Japan approaches. Key 2016 highlights included: • Introduced sustainable landscaping features at our Boise, Idaho, and Palo Alto, See Data for more detail. California, United States, sites. We replaced non-indigenous turf grass with native species and converted to drip-irrigation, reducing water use and costs. Each year, the Boise project will save enough water to fill 33 Olympic-size swimming pools. • Implemented innovative process updates to the deionized water system in Singapore Water consumption to reduce the amount of rejected water. These enhancements will save the equivalent by source, 2016* of 35 Olympic-size swimming pools of water annually. percentage of total • Installed smart meters to reduce water waste and avoid potential water damage to [set 2] 17. Water consumption by source, 2015* [cubic meters] buildings at HP sites in Barcelona, Spain; Bucharest, Romania; Milan, Italy; and Sofia, 23% 0% Bulgaria. This technology provides real-time consumption data, which we use to Tanker water*** Wastewater from identify leaks, conduct predictive analytics to adjust supply, and foresee and prevent another organization** 0% Well water any irregularities. In 2017, we are exploring adding smart water meters in Boise, Idaho and Corvallis, Oregon, United States; Singapore; and Beijing, China. HP uses the WBCSD Global Water Tool to assess water scarcity and identify facilities in water-stressed locations for priority attention. See our available CDP water submissions. 77% Wastewater Municipal water Wastewater is not a significant environmental aspect of HP’s operations. Our six imaging and printing product-manufacturing facilities generate process effluents that are * D irect use of surface water and rainwater is insignificant and not included in data reported. Well pretreated, strictly monitored, and discharged under government-issued permits to water is about 0.1% of total so is not visible on the municipal wastewater plants for further treatment. We implement procedures to prevent graph. ** N eWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in unauthorized discharges of chemicals to our facility wastewater systems and ensure that manufacturing operations in Singapore. these sites do not discharge wastewater directly to surface water or to groundwater. *** Tanker water is well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. 38 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Products and solutions Creating technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere Making products that improve people’s lives has been our driving purpose since HP began. From transforming education and ensuring customer privacy and security to advancing healthcare, our computing and printing products enhance the lives of millions of people worldwide, every day. Our priorities Improve product sustainability Deliver service models that Develop disruptive through design increase value and reduce sustainability solutions • Use less material, increase recycled and environmental impacts • Drive the analog-to-digital printing recyclable content, and use materials with • Develop and expand service-based transformation lower environmental impact business models to more customers with • Enable local, faster, and more efficient • Reduce the energy required to more products manufacturing and prototyping through manufacture and use HP products • Customize offerings to meet diverse 3D printing • Increase product durability, repairability, customer needs • Embed sustainability further into and upgradability • Increase product longevity through R&D agenda support and repair services 2016 highlights Up to 56% 57% HP Jet Fusion 3D less material used in HP Elite x3 than the reduction in materials consumption products it replaces1 per printed page on average through 4200/3200 HP Instant Ink 2 prints high-quality parts up to 10 times faster3 and at a lower cost4 than current 3D print systems on the market Our goals Product GHG emissions intensity Paper and paper-based product packaging 25% Zero deforestation Reduce the GHG emissions intensity of HP’s product portfolio Ensure that all HP brand paper and paper-based product packaging 6 by 25% by 2020, compared to 20105 will be derived from certified and recycled sources by 2020 39 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Manufacturing and customer use of our products account for 53% of our carbon footprint. For this reason, product design is the best way to improve our environmental performance and that of our customers. We work to improve the performance of each new generation of products while using less material and decreasing energy consumption, and have set a goal to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of HP’s product portfolio by 25% by 2020, compared to 2010. By reinventing the way we design, produce, and deliver our products, we are working to decouple our growth from consumption and transition toward a low-carbon, resource-efficient circular economy. HP product portfolio Industry-leading, sustainable innovation From ultra-light notebooks to digital presses and 3D printers, our product portfolio combines innovation, performance, craftsmanship—and sustainability. • From tablets to laptops to workstations, our personal systems products enable customers to achieve their goals sustainably while providing the security, durability, and energy and materials efficiency they expect and depend on. • As the global leader in desktop and enterprise printing, we continue to redefine the marketplace, delivering sustainable next-generation solutions and service-based models to meet the needs of our customers globally. HP Elite x3. • Our commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions are driving the analog-to-digital revolution, transforming our customers’ supply chains and better matching supply with demand across the 2D printing and publishing industries, as well as other commercial and industrial sectors such as packaging and labeling. • With the launch of HP Jet Fusion 3D 4200/3200, our first 3D printing product, HP is driving broader adoption of this disruptive technology that streamlines the prototyping process, digitizes traditional supply chains, improves the economics of short-run manufacturing, and avoids waste associated with overproduction. Designing for the circular economy Ongoing innovation for society and the environment Materials recovery and reuse Our Design for the Environment (DfE) program establishes the approach, tools, and processes that guide product design teams and environmental product stewards to drive Reuse/ ongoing improvement. refurbishment HP uses formal management systems and rigorous frameworks in our product design Parts Product-as-a-service processes. Product design and development operations for our HP LaserJet Enterprise Solutions, HP Inkjet Printing Systems, and Personal Systems product groups are ISO Maintenance/ Products upgrade model 14001 certified. This demonstrates that our entire design process across these product areas adheres to the environmental management systems standard. We audit our Services design and related compliance activities, benchmark against industry best practices, and, where appropriate, seek external environmental certification for our products. User 40 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP Design for the Environment focus areas Materials innovation see Materials End-of-service options HP DfE Energy eﬀiciency see Product repair, reuse, and recyling see Energy eﬀiciency Durability and repairability Product-as-a-service see Personal systems, see HP Managed Print Services, HP Instant Ink, A3 Multifunction printers HP Indigo, and PC Services Our DfE program is an important driver of business value. In 2016, customers with sustainable purchasing criteria (including criteria related to eco-labels) represented a total of more than $14 billion of existing and potential business revenue. Longer-lasting products benefit customers and the environment Innovation in IT is moving at lightning speed. Customers often feel compelled to purchase the latest technology rather than upgrade their current PCs, printers, or tablets. HP gives customers more options by designing devices that are easier than ever to repair and upgrade, which extends their useful lives while keeping costs down. We provide free service manuals for most products, supplemented with service options and warranties. HP Care Pack Central offers comprehensive options for extended warranties and repair services for PCs and printer products. Customers can use iFixit to learn how to repair a wide range of HP products, and HP Customer Self Repair Services Media Library provides easy-to-access tutorials and instructions on how to repair our devices easily and keep them running optimally. With HP Part Surfer customers can simply replace and upgrade missing or damaged PC and printer parts. Customers can access diagnosis and repair services from certified technicians through our worldwide database of authorized support providers. For more on how we help customers make our products last longer, see Personal systems, Desktop and enterprise printing, and Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions. Design for the future Research and development (R&D) is a key driver of our business success and our promise to customers to invent and reinvent technology that can change the world. In 2016, we spent $1.2 billion on ongoing product development and creating the transformative and disruptive technologies of the future. We invest in areas where we can make the greatest impact, and integrate sustainability into our research agenda. Taking into account global socioeconomic, demographic, environmental, and technological trends, we work to predict and shape tomorrow’s markets. 41 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report We use a portfolio approach to balance risk, reward, and timeline. Research geared toward improvements that have an impact on our existing business units represents the majority of our efforts, and has the highest chance of success. We describe numerous examples throughout this report, such as HP JetIntelligence toner cartridge technology, which substantially reduces GHG emissions, and HP Sure Start, which helps protect printers from cyberattacks. We also focus on emerging technologies that will likely become a new business if successful, as happened with 3D printing. Fundamental research, which is high-risk and has the longest timeframe, has the potential to address unmet human needs and launch markets that do not yet exist, unleashing great value for customers and society. For example, our HP Life Sciences Research Group aims to significantly advance Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy (SERS), a technique that identifies molecules through the unique signature of the scattered light detected when lasers are shined on them. If successful, this work could improve the detection of protein adulteration in milk and infant formula products. Learn more. Our innovations in human presence detection and recognition software could be HP Labs. used to limit access to IT systems with sensitive information to only those who need it, protecting privacy in healthcare, education, and other areas. This technology may also enhance room and building occupancy detection for optimum lighting and temperature control, improving comfort, productivity, and environmental performance. Learn more. HP technology: Contributions to healthcare Through our core businesses, HP is enabling improvements in healthcare. HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps hospitals and health providers digitize and streamline workflows and document intensive processes, such as admissions and medical records, saving time and money and improving patient outcomes. Our integrated devices also ensure the security of sensitive patient information, and compliance with related regulations. Finally, MPS helps healthcare providers and hospitals conserve resources by optimizing printer fleet size and reducing paper use. We have deep expertise in several technology areas which are urgently needed in the healthcare industry: microfluidics,7 measurement, commercial mobility, and computing. As the world’s largest microfluidics company we have the know-how, scale, and leverage from our print business to apply that technology to healthcare purposes. For example, the HP D300e Digital Dispenser advances drug discovery, genomics, and proteomics research by using microfluidics for highly reliable dispensing of small molecules and biomolecules for sample testing, replacing less efficient serial sample dilution processes. This analog-to-digital shift accelerates drug discovery and time to market, while increasing efficiency, reducing errors, and decreasing health risks. The HP D300e Digital Dispenser reduces time per experiment fourfold and decreases waste related to sample materials by 90%, compared to serial dilution processes. HP D300e Digital Dispenser. Moving forward, HP researchers are exploring new ways to use microfluidics to make biochemical testing and diagnosis faster, cheaper, and more easily conducted in the field. This has the potential to benefit industries including healthcare, defense, food safety, drug safety, and environmental protection, all of which rely on chemical analyses that are now typically undertaken on large, expensive machines in highly centralized locations. 42 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Life cycle assessment HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to quantify the environmental characteristics and impacts of our products and solutions. We also conduct product carbon footprints (PCF), a subset of LCA, to advance our work to reduce product greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. HP follows universal LCA standards set by ISO 14040/14044 and ISO 14025. For PCFs, we use International Electrotechnical Commission Technical Report 62921, a streamlined methodology for assessing the carbon footprint of computer and display products. We continually update our LCA and PCF tools to ensure that they provide the most current and accurate information possible. For more information about our LCAs and PCFs, see Desktop and enterprise printing, Commercial and industrial graphics printing portfolio, and Personal systems. Communicating product safety and environmental performance information All HP products undergo evaluations and testing to ensure that they meet all HP safety standards. To address legal requirements, HP provides country-of-origin information, required product content information, and information regarding safe use and end-of-service management for all of our products. Product compliance declarations and certifications are available online, along with safety data sheets for ink, toner, and batteries. HP also shares information publicly on the environmental performance of our products so customers can make informed purchasing decisions and reduce their own environmental impacts. We communicate this through: • ECO declarations: An industry standard for providing environmental information about products and product families. In 2016, HP provided ECO declarations for product groups representing 93% of revenue. • Eco-labels: Third-party standards that recognize environmentally preferable products, including EPEAT®, ENERGY STAR®, China State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), Blue Angel, and TCO. Eco-label certification helps validate product environmental performance and is often critical to qualifying products for government procurement. A large percentage of our products meet these voluntary standards across our personal systems and printing portfolios. • HP Carbon Footprint Calculator: A web-based tool our customers can use to calculate and compare energy use, GHG emissions, and costs for more than 10,000 products (from HP and other manufacturers), including printers, PCs, and displays. Materials Getting the most value from the materials used in our products In 2016, we used more than 900,000 tonnes of materials in our products and packaging.8 This is one of the main contributors to our environmental performance, including HP’s carbon and water footprints. To reduce these impacts and save money, we create 43 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report products that deliver more performance for customers with less material. We also work to drive responsible sourcing of the raw materials used to make our products, and we respect the health of the people who make and use them. To drive progress toward a circular economy, we are developing a healthy materials cycle—where plastics, metals, and other durable materials are used over and over without being “downcycled” into lower-grade uses, eventually becoming waste. We look for viable alternatives to substances of concern in our products and work to use more recycled content in each new generation of HP products. To extend product life and recover product materials, we offer a range of repair, reuse, and recycling programs globally. We also focus on responsible paper management and innovative packaging solutions. In January 2017, we made publicly available the HP materials and chemical management policy, which guides how we specify materials and chemicals for use in products, packaging, and manufacturing processes. The policy, which HP has followed for many years, applies to all HP employees and businesses worldwide, and extends to suppliers as well. Materials management Materials management is a central focus of our product sustainability efforts. We follow HP materials a four-pronged strategy to reduce related impacts across the value chain (see graphic). management HP materials strategy management strategy Reduce materials of concern HP proactively identifies and evaluates the materials used in our products and throughout Reduce our supply chain. We prioritize materials for restriction by assessing published lists of Recycle materials substances of concern, customer preferences, new or upcoming legal requirements, materials of concern and sound scientific analysis that reveals a potential impact to human health or the environment. Beyond our own operations, we work with and guide our suppliers on replacing substances of concern with environmentally preferable alternatives. We also Increase Reduce focus on the responsible sourcing of materials, including paper and metals. recycled materials content usage We provide this information to customers, workers, communities, and other stakeholders so they can make informed decisions and reduce their own environmental impacts, subject to the need to protect confidential information for legitimate business needs and innovation. In January 2017, we published HP Product Material Content Information, which contains material content information and breakdowns for typical HP personal systems and printer products. HP also makes available ECO declarations, Recycle materials an industry Reduce standard materials for providing product environmental information (including about of concern substances of concern) for product groups representing 93% of revenue. In 2016, HP participated in the Chemical Footprint Project (CFP), measuring and reporting the total amount of substances of concern in our products in order to establish a Reduce materials usage Increase baseline recycled and content goals for improvement. The CFP provides a standard set quantitative benchmark for companies to evaluate progress toward reducing substances of concern. Our current efforts to phase out substances of concern mainly focus on phthalates, brominated flame retardants (BFRs), and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). All personal systems and inkjet printer products launched in 2016 have eliminated the phthalates bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP), butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP), and diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP).9 In addition, 75% of personal systems product groups sold in 2016 were classified as low halogen,10 including all HP Elite Desktops, 44 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report All-in-Ones, notebooks, thin clients, and workstations. All HP disk drives, application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), and memory modules are also classified as low halogen. HP has also reduced PVC usage by shortening power cords and we can provide PVCfree power cords for PCs and printers in many countries worldwide, depending on the product. These initiatives have reduced PVC usage by a total of more than 7,000 tonnes since 2011. HP will continue to advance these product improvements for our personal systems and printers. HP works closely with suppliers on reducing potential substances of concern. We restrict substances of concern used in product and manufacturing processes through the HP General Specification for the Environment (GSE). Our monitoring and capability-building programs support suppliers in evaluating substances and ensuring proper protection for workers who manufacture and assemble our products. See Supply chain responsibility to learn more. See a timeline of proactive materials restriction and substitution in products since the early 1990s. HP seeks to use materials that reduce the risk of human health and environmental impacts without sacrificing performance or quality. When exploring alternatives, we follow the National Academies of Science publication “A Framework to Guide Selection of Chemical Alternatives” and incorporate the GreenScreen® For Safer Chemicals methodology. In 2016, we expanded our use of GreenScreen® to assess alternatives for chemicals used in our printing inks as well as our hardware products. We share preferred alternatives with our suppliers through procurement guidance documents. Industry leadership HP works with industry, governments, and nongovernmental organizations to achieve consistent standards and legislation as well as improved approaches to materials use in the IT sector. In 2016, activities included: • Joining Green America’s Clean Electronics Production Network. The multi-stakeholder initiative is working to move the electronics industry toward zero exposure to hazardous substances in the manufacturing process. This work involves creating case studies for priority substances that include preferred alternatives, a pilot program for more comprehensive monitoring of worker exposure, and a common standard for reporting substances used. For more information see Supply chain responsibility. • Advancing sustainable materials use as a member of the Business-NGO Working Group (BizNGO). Working with BizNGO, HP has contributed to the development of the Chemical Footprint Project, as well as other initiatives. • Co-leading a working group to revise the IEEE 1680.1 standard for the environmental assessment of personal computer products. The group focused on evaluating performance criteria aimed to reduce the environmental impact of electronic products, including the reduction or elimination of substances of concern. 45 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Reduce materials usage The less material we use in our products, the smaller our environmental footprint. Both the extraction of raw materials used in our personal systems and printers, and their manufacturing, contribute significantly to HP’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, so we work continually to reduce the volume of materials in new products. Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal systems and printers, 2014–2016* tonnes/$ millions of net revenue Personal systems Printers 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Metal 4.5 3.6 3.0 14.7 15.4 17.6 Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 28.0 30.9 33.8 Wires/cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.5 PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 1.7 1.7 2.0 LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 45 48 54 * Personal systems data is based on individual products that are representative of the HP product portfolio for those years and does not include accessories sold separately. Printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data is based on fiscal year for 2016 and calendar year for 2014 and 2015. Net revenue data is based on HP’s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. We measure progress using product materials use intensity, which is the volume of materials shipped per unit of net revenue. In 2016, materials use intensity remained the same for personal systems, compared to 2015. Our ongoing shift to smaller form factor devices (see Personal systems) was offset by the introduction of several significantly larger consumer and business displays and gaming products (hence the increase in LCDs). Materials use intensity in printers increased by 12% over the same period, because decreases in print revenue outpaced reductions in printer material volumes shipped. Recycle materials and increase recycled content We are both a supplier and user of recovered materials, incorporating increasing amounts of recycled and recyclable content into new HP products. In doing so, we are accelerating the development of recovered materials markets around the world, which is essential to progress toward a circular economy. We offer a wide range of services related to product repair, reuse, and recycling. Learn more. HP is an industry leader in closed loop recycling. We use a variety of plastics recycled from the HP Planet Partners program to manufacture new HP ink and toner cartridges. Through 2016, we manufactured more than 3.4 billion HP ink and toner cartridges using more than 88,900 tonnes of recycled content material. This has kept 735 million cartridges, 70 million apparel hangers, and 3.7 billion postconsumer plastic bottles out of landfills, instead upcycling these materials for continued use. Today, more than 80% of our ink cartridges contain 45–70% recycled content, and 100% of HP toner cartridges contain 10–33% recycled content. In 2016, HP used 9,000 tonnes of recycled plastics in HP toner and ink cartridges. 46 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Recycled plastic used in HP toner and ink cartridges, cumulative tonnes 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ink Toner We also use recycled content in personal systems and printing products when feasible. In 2016: • 47% of new commercial HP desktop products contained greater than 10% postconsumer recycled (PCR) plastic content, up from 33% in 2014. • 70% of HP commercial displays contained more than 10% PCR plastics, and 26% contained more than 40% PCR plastics. • We launched three inkjet printers that contained more than 5% PCR plastics. All models of our PageWide fleet now contain post-consumer recycled content plastic of more than 5%. Paper HP paper HP paper impacts, impacts, 2016 2016 tonnes tonnes As the global market leader in digital printing, HP takes seriously its responsibility to reduce related environmental impacts, including paper use by our customers. 2,820,000 Use of paper represents as little as 13% of the GHG emissions of a home desktop printer and as much as 93% of the emissions of a PageWide Press across their respective life cycles. We help our customers print more sustainably by sourcing the paper we sell responsibly, facilitating more efficient paper use, and collaborating across the paper industry to encourage best practices. In our own operations, we apply these same principles through our recently updated Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. This defines how we buy, sell, and use paper and paper-based packaging, and states our 230,000 100,000* commitment to source from suppliers that demonstrate responsible forestry practices. Paper use in HP printer and Paper-based HP printers copier paper packaging Our zero deforestation commitment sold use for HP products Healthy, well-managed forests play a critical role in absorbing carbon dioxide and * This is significantly higher than the amount reported last supporting biodiversity and local livelihoods. To help protect forests, in 2016 HP set a year due to the addition of LaserJet supplies. Does not goal to achieve zero deforestation associated with HP brand paper and paper-based include packaging for commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation for any products. product packaging11 by 2020. 47 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report We will achieve this goal by sourcing only certified and recycled fiber. To ensure full traceability, HP uses Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®)-certified fiber where available. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certification or relevant national certification schemes that comply with our paper policy can be used in regions where they are recognized to not accept forest conversion, are endorsed by competent independent stakeholders, and ensure a reliable guarantee of responsible sources. We work with WWF’s Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) and our suppliers to determine the source of virgin fiber and to increase the amount of certified fiber where possible. HP reports progress annually to the WWF GFTN and CDP forests program. During 2016, we achieved this goal for HP brand paper, as noted in the table. We also surveyed our paper-based packaging suppliers to establish a baseline for the percentage of certified and recycled fiber. In 2017, we will set interim goals and work with our suppliers to increase these percentages. Fiber sourcing, 2016 FSC-certified All certified Recycled fiber Total (% of total) (% of total) (% of total) (tonnes) Paper products Greater than 100% * ** 230,000 55% Packaging *** 8% 12% 26% 100,000 **** * Less than 2% of paper by tonnage is not labeled as certified, but is made from certified fiber. ** Recycled fiber for paper products is included in the FSC-certified value. *** Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. **** Total tonnes for packaging does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, or documentation for any products. In some geographies, sourcing certified or recycled fiber can be challenging. To improve regional availability and traceability of certified and sustainably sourced fiber, in 2016 we: • Joined the FSC Brand Awareness Campaign to increase consumer awareness about forestry certification and help customers make more responsible choices. HP received an FSC Leadership Award in “Uncommon Partnership” for our efforts. FORESTS • Continued working with other companies as part of GFTN to promote responsible During the year, HP was one production and sourcing of forest products. of eight companies—and the • Continued collaboration with WWF’s China Sustainable Paper Alliance, which promotes only one in the information the development of responsibly sourced paper products in the Chinese market. technology sector—named to CDP’s inaugural “Forest A List.” Customer printing The paper used by our customers in HP products represents about 17% of our carbon footprint and 26% of our water footprint. We help our customers print more responsibly by: • Labeling all HP FSC-certified paper products to inform purchasing decisions. • Defaulting print fleets to auto-duplex printing, including many LaserJet products released in 2015 and later. • Designing products to optimize paper use, through duplexing and other features. • Reducing paper waste by 25% or more using HP Managed Print Services. • Improving the recyclability of paper by developing solutions for paper de-inking, which separates inks from paper fibers. 48 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Packaging Packaging innovation offers a prime opportunity to reduce our use of materials beyond our products, advancing our customers’ sustainability performance and our own. We design packaging solutions that use less material, optimize shipping densities, and contain more recycled and recyclable content. This saves money and reduces GHG emissions, improving our footprint and that of our customers. To drive ongoing progress, we require 100% of HP packaging materials to be recyclable.12 In 2016, we committed to procuring all paper-based product packaging from certified and recycled sources by 2020. See Paper for more detail and progress. We work to balance environmental impact with product protection, legal compliance, customer expectations, and cost. We follow six principles which are underpinned by HP’s General Specification for the Environment and our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy. • Ensure that substances of concern are not used in HP packaging • Reduce packaging material use in each new product • Design packaging for reuse, where feasible • Increase the use of recycled content • Replace hard-to-recycle materials • Ensure the use of sustainably sourced materials In 2016, packaging innovations for printing and personal systems products by HP and its suppliers produced the following environmental and cost benefits: • 3,400 tonnes of packaging materials reduced • 14,700 tonnes of recycled content plastics and wood packaging used • 8,600 tonnes of CO2e emissions avoided • $12 million saved HP environmental packaging strategy Deliver our industry’s most efficient and sustainable packaging designs Focus Reduce material Optimize shipping Utilize recycled C0e reductions areas usage densities materials Full compliance with HP’s General Specification for the Environment and With Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy Use Using Remove Reduce Reuse Recycle Replace sustainable principles materials 49 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 2016 highlights in packaging innovation* Optimize Utilize Reduce Packaging innovation shipping recycled Summary of benefits material densities materials Notebooks: Worked with our suppliers to x Avoided 2,700 tonnes of CO2e emissions manufacture a high-performance carton material Reduced packaging weight for HP Notebook products by instead of importing kraft liner (a paper-based 1,100 tonnes material used in packaging). Notebooks: Optimized notebook packaging size x x Avoided 2,200 tonnes of CO2e emissions to complement new product designs, such as Improved shipping density by 15% integrated batteries. Desktops: Used a lightweight foam pallet and reconx x x Avoided 360 tonnes of CO2e emissions figured packaging and pallet configuration for ocean and rail shipments HP Inkjet: Redesigned packaging cushion with lower x x Avoided 350 tonnes of CO2e emissions density material to reduce weight Reduced total packaging weight by up to 18% for certain products HP LaserJet: Reduced the package size for the HP x x Avoided 530 tonnes of CO2e emissions LaserJet Pro M477 printer by 33% ** Eliminated the need for the equivalent of 370 shipping containers HP LaserJet supplies: Changed from air bag cushion x x Eliminates demand for 1,900 tonnes for virgin plastic over the system to readily recycled thermoformed cushion, life of the program which contains 90% recycled content * Avoidance, reductions, and savings data is based on comparisons of current and prior generations of packaging, either for the same or comparable products. Savings and reductions may relate to the fabrication phase of the packaging life cycle (including materials extraction and processing) as well as product transportation. All savings are for fiscal year 2016 (November 2015–October 2016) unless otherwise indicated. Some estimates of benefits were calculated using production forecast data. ** Launched in late 2015. Ongoing programs Several ongoing initiatives continued to deliver environmental and financial savings. • Recycled pallets: Continued collaboration with North American suppliers on a recycled pallet program through which we have avoided the use of 691,000 new pallets, saving 38.2 million board feet of lumber since 2012. • Non-heat-treated pallets: Sourced more than 493,000 pallets made of domestic, non-heat-treated timber for North American shipments, avoiding 439 tonnes of CO2e emissions in 2016. Pallets sourced internationally are often heat treated to reduce the risk of transferring insect species between locations. Vendor and industry collaboration HP works with vendors to increase the amount of packaging made of recycled and sustainably harvested fiber that we purchase. We also provide relevant suppliers with detailed guidelines on environmentally responsible packaging design. For information about how we source paper-based products and packaging, see Paper. To support sustainable packaging across our industry, we participate in the IEEE 1680.1 Committee (in support of EPEAT registration for PCs). This forum establishes product and packaging-related environmental requirements for the selection and procurement of computing products. 50 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Energy efficiency Reducing our footprint, and that of our customers By engineering more energy-efficient products, we improve environmental performance while helping customers do meaningful work, accomplish their goals, and save money. We continue to make strong progress in this area. Since 2010, the energy consumption of our personal systems products dropped by 34%,13 on average. During that timeframe, we have reduced energy consumption of our HP LaserJet portfolio by 56%, on average,14 and the energy consumption of our HP inkjet portfolio by 20%, on average.15 ENERGY STAR® Key advances during 2016 included: Excellence Award – • Smaller desktop PCs: We continue to shift our personal systems portfolio toward Product Design smaller systems that are more efficient without compromising performance, such In 2016, HP was recognized as the HP Elite Slice Business PC and HP EliteDesk 800 mini models. See Personal by the U.S. Environmental systems. Protection Agency for driving • Advanced printer technologies: HP PageWide technology uses substantially less significant advancements in energy by utilizing a stationary printhead and moving only the paper, while printing product efficiency at faster speeds than standard inkjet printers, which move both paper and printhead. See Desktop and enterprise printing. • Digital web presses: On-demand printing with our digital web presses enables users to print what they need, when they need it, lowering total energy use compared with analog systems. See Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions. • Product-as-a-service models: Service models optimize workflows, helping customers better manage energy usage. HP Managed Print Services, for example, can help customers reduce their printing-related energy use by up to 40%. The energy consumed by our products during use is one of the largest contributors to our carbon and water footprints, so we’ve established multiple metrics to assess progress. • Product GHG emissions intensity describes the performance of our portfolio, taking into account changes to product mix and business growth. This metric measures GHG emissions during product lifetime use, per unit for personal systems and per printed page for printers. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue. • Our product use carbon and water footprints measure overall environmental impacts related to customer use of HP products in absolute terms, taking into account shipped volumes. For personal systems, this includes the GHG emissions and water use associated with energy consumption throughout the lifetime use of a product. For printers, it includes the GHG emissions and water use associated with consumption of energy as well as paper and supplies during lifetime use of the product. Product GHG emissions intensity In 2016, we set a goal to reduce the GHG emissions intensity of our product portfolio by 25% by 2020, compared to 2010.16 Through the end of the year, we achieved a 19% decrease, building on a 17% reduction through 2015. An ongoing shift in our personal systems product mix to smaller, more energy-efficient devices contributed to an ongoing decrease in the energy consumption of those products. This was complemented by adding commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions to the calculations, since those products have very low GHG emissions intensity per printed page. JetIntelligence 51 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report and other recent energy efficiency features in our printer portfolio also had a beneficial impact. These positive factors were counteracted to an extent by a shift in sales to higher end (and more feature and energy intensive) HP LaserJet products. Product use carbon and water footprints In 2016, 53% of our overall carbon footprint resulted from the energy, paper, and ink and toner cartridges that customers consume during product use, of which 62% was due to electricity consumption. Absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from personal systems product use fell by 10% compared to 2015, reflecting a continued shift to smaller and less energy-intensive desktops, notebooks, and tablets. In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product use footprint calculations. As a result, reported GHG emissions related to printing rose by 11% compared to 2015. Not including those products, printing-related GHG emissions increased by 1% over that period, due to a shift toward more energyand feature-intensive products and more accurate assumptions about the use of duplexing (a smaller percentage than previously assumed). Overall GHG emissions from product use across our portfolio increased by 1% year over year. Without the addition of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, there would have been a 4% decrease overall. GHG emissions from product use* tonnes CO2e 2015 2016 Personal systems 9,100,000 8,200,000 Desktop and enterprise printers (energy) 3,600,000 3,600,000 Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions (energy) Not available 250,000 Printing consumables for desktop and enterprise printers (paper 6,400,000 6,500,000 and ink/toner cartridges) Printing consumables for commercial and industrial graphics Not available 790,000 printing solutions (paper and other supplies) Total 19,100,000 19,300,000 * Segments for 2016 do not add up to total due to rounding. Product use represented 75% of our water footprint, due to the considerable amounts of cooling water required during electricity generation as well as water use related to paper production. The 8% decrease in personal systems-related consumption in 2016 compared to 2015 is due to corresponding reductions in energy use. The inclusion in 2016 of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions to our footprint led to a 12% increase in overall printing-related water consumption compared to the prior year. Not including those products, printing-related consumption decreased by 1%, partly due to an updated conversion factor published by the International Energy Agency in 2016 which had a favorable effect. Overall water consumption related to product use increased by 2%, and would have decreased by 4% excluding the addition of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions. 52 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Water consumption related to product use* cubic meters Product group 2015 2016 Personal systems 76,400,000 70,000,000 Desktop and enterprise printers (energy) 30,500,000 31,100,000 Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions (energy) Not 2,200,000 available Printing consumables for desktop and enterprise printers (paper) 46,800,000 45,800,000 Printing consumables for commercial and industrial graphics printing Not 7,200,000 solutions (paper) available Total 153,700,000 156,300,000 * Total water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the values reported on pages 23 and 70, due to rounding. Innovation in 2016 Personal systems The most innovative portfolio in our company’s history HP is a global leader in personal systems. We continue to deliver breakthrough productivity solutions by listening to and responding to the needs of our customers, both commercial and home users. Personal systems accounted for 42% of HP’s product use carbon footprint in 2016. We design our products to be increasingly energy efficient, durable, and easy to repair. Our designers and engineers strive to incorporate less material and more recycled content into each new generation. Beyond design innovation, we now offer business customers subscription-based services that enable them to upgrade to more energyefficient hardware and software every two to three years. We also extend the life of our personal systems through refurbishment programs, keeping products, components, and materials in use for longer. Our personal systems portfolio includes more ENERGY STAR certifications and EPEAT and EPEAT Gold registrations than any other manufacturer. HP Elite Slice HP Z2 Mini G3 HP Z1 G3 AiO HP Spectre 13 HP Elite x3 Workstation Workstation 53 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Sustainable product design A focus on creative product design and materials innovation, as well as making our products more durable and easy to repair, improves the environmental performance of our personal systems. In 2016, we continued to shift our portfolio toward more materialsand energy-efficient products that drive better value for customers. The ongoing transition to smaller desktop products, such as our HP EliteDesk 800 mini models, has significantly reduced materials use and customer energy needs, and related GHG emissions, compared with the older ultra-slim desktop towers (USDT). The HP Elite Slice business PC, which is in turn up to 70% lighter than the EliteDesk 800 G2 Small Form Factor (SFF) PC, pushes this trend another big step forward. In 2016, we continued to ship more desktop mini models compared to USDTs, reducing plastic shipped per unit by more than 26%, and metal by over 16% compared to Three form factors of the EliteDesk 800 G1 series: the Tower, USDT, and SFF. the prior year. HP notebooks, a growing business segment, are more energy efficient than desktop computers, and we continue to reduce material use per unit produced. Notebooks shipped in 2016 contained on average 10% less metal and 4% less overall material per unit than in calendar year 2015. See details about the materials intensity of our highvolume personal systems. To drive progress toward a closed loop circular economy, we increasingly use post-consumer recycled (PCR) plastic content in our products. In 2016, 47% of new commercial desktop products contained greater than 10% PCR plastic content, compared to 33% in 2014. In addition, 37% of commercial displays are made with at least 40% PCR plastic content. Since 2010, the energy consumption of our personal systems products dropped by 34%,17 on average. New products are advancing continuous improvement, such as the HP Elite Slice, which is up to 50% more energy efficient than the EliteDesk 800 G2 Small Form Factor PC. The HP Z2 Mini G3 Workstation is up to 52% more energy efficient than the EliteDesk 800 G2 Small Form Factor PC and up to 72% more energy efficient than the HP Z240 Small Form Factor Workstation. Demonstrating HP’s commitment to energy efficiency, every commercial desktop and all-in-one with an internal power supply launched since the summer of 2016 is at least 80 PLUS BRONZE certified. HP Spectre 13, the world's thinnest laptop. Product reliability and repairability is a critical aspect of sustainable design. To deliver the highest possible quality, all HP Elite and Pro notebooks, Elite and Pro 2-in-1 laptops, mobile workstations, and Elite desktop PCs undergo multiple tests and are designed to pass the MIL-STD-810G standard, which includes harsh drops and exposure to high temperatures. To promote serviceability and longevity, we provide free service manuals for most products and a comprehensive range of service options and product warranties. The HP Elite x2 1012 G1 Tablet, HP Z1 Workstation, and HP Z820 Workstation have all received perfect iFixit scores for repairability. The HP Elite X3 is IP67 rated for durability, meaning it is completely dust resistant and maintains functionality after being submerged in water for up to 30 minutes. 54 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP Elite x3: Delivering performance and materials efficiency In 2016, we launched the transformative HP Elite x3. The 3-in-1 device delivers the functionality, versatility, and power of a desktop PC, tablet, and mobile device, rolled up into one fully integrated system. This new category of product is tailored to meet the dynamic needs and diverse work styles of our ever-evolving business customers. With cross-platform capabilities and seamless connectivity, the HP Elite x3 eliminates the need to own or carry several devices, and uses up to 56% less material. We help our customers extend the life of HP Elite x3 products through standard and HP Elite x3. enhanced warranty support, damage repair, and device replacement services. An enhanced device diagnostics process identifies and replaces failed components and refurbishes products to enable continued use. Learn more about how we help customers keep our products lasting longer. Product carbon footprints Sustainable innovation requires a comprehensive grasp of product environmental performance. HP uses product carbon footprints (PCF), a subset of life cycle assessment, to understand and reduce the climate impact of our personal systems products. We conduct PCFs on all HP commercial desktops, notebooks, tablets, workstations, thin clients, all-inone computers, and displays. These analyses help us prioritize issues to address, such as energy consumption during product use and the environmental impact of manufacturing activities. In 2016, products covered by PCF analysis comprised 99% of HP’s personal systems product revenue. HP works closely with peer companies, suppliers, and academia on consistent PCF methodologies. We are part of a multi-stakeholder effort led by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Materials Systems Laboratory that established the Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA)—a universal set of carbon footprint methodologies and tools for personal systems. In 2016, we added a PAIA tool for our thin client products. We have now developed tools that cover all personal system products.18 HP also leads a group that developed eco-label criteria to reduce personal systems-related GHG emissions, as part of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 1680.1 standard for computers and displays. Sustainable design and certification In our efforts to help customers make informed purchasing decisions, we communicate environmental performance of our personal systems products through eco-label declarations. Our personal systems portfolio meets requirements for a broad range of eco-label certifications around the world (see table). More HP personal systems products are independently certified through ENERGY STAR and registered to EPEAT than any other major manufacturer. In 2016, 97 of our business display models were certified to the latest ENERGY STAR 7.0 standard before the required implementation date of July 1 of that year, and 4 models qualified for the ENERGY STAR Most Efficient products list. All HP EliteDesk and HP EliteBook products exceed ENERGY STAR 6.1 performance requirements by at least 10% and 30%, respectively. 55 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Eco-labels across our personal systems portfolio % models, for products shipped in 2016* EPEAT® identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR® China SEPA TCO 7.0 or 6.1 certified recognizes energy saving recognizes various EPEAT® (all EPEAT® Gold EPEAT® Silver EPEAT® Bronze recognizes products with and environmentally ergonomic and categories) registered registered registered superior energy efficiency preferable models environmental features related to visual displays 89% 50% 39% 0% 91% 72% 43% * EPEAT® data is for models worldwide, based on U.S. registration. ENERGY STAR® data is worldwide. China SEPA data applies only to products registered in China. TCO data is for displays and all-in-ones registered in Europe. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2016. HP collaborates in developing, updating, contributing to, and advocating for standards that promote sustainable and energy-efficient technology. In 2016, this included leading a working group to refresh the EPEAT standards for PCs. HP also works closely with TCO to refresh product standards. Product-as-a-service Our expanding product-as-a-service offerings for personal systems provide our customers with the latest HP technology while reducing capital costs. These solutions can enhance customer productivity while gaining greater value from the materials used to manufacture our products and accelerating the transition to a circular economy. HP Device as a Service (DaaS) and HP Subscription Services are reinventing workplace solutions for our customers. These offerings each provide a complete solution that combines a full portfolio of personal systems products and IT and life cycle management services, offered on a per-seat, per-month basis. Business customers are able to upgrade their products every two to three years, to the latest and most efficient models, while avoiding the up-front costs of purchasing. When customers are finished with their products, HP manages all hardware and software migration and decommissioning, which includes refurbishing or responsibly disposing of old products. Historically, approximately 90% of returned products have retained value and are reused. HP Proactive Intelligence provides predictive support to customers, anticipating potential issues before they occur to keep businesses running without interruption. HP Touchpoint Manager, which comes installed in our entire Elite portfolio, is a cloudbased IT management system that enables customers to track and troubleshoot device security and health issues, keeping their devices functional and productive. Desktop and enterprise printing The global leader in environmentally responsible printing solutions HP is a leader in eco-label-certified desktop and enterprise printing products, with devices from all categories meeting the highest standards available. We design products that help our customers, from home users to global organizations, do more while using less energy and materials. We also design printer accessories and supplies to use less raw material and incorporate increasing amounts of recycled content. In 2016, desktop and enterprise printing accounted for 52% of HP’s product use carbon footprint. Continuous innovation 56 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report across our printing portfolio ensures that each new generation of printers uses materials effectively and is more energy efficient than the last. This, combined with our productas-a-service offerings, supports our transition to a circular economy, an important driver of HP’s long-term business success. HP LaserJet HP PageWide HP OfficeJet Pro HP LaserJet HP LaserJet Enterprise M506dn Enterprise Color 7740 Wide Format MFP M436n Managed MFP Flow MFP 586z All-in-One 82560dn New A3 Multifunction printers (MFP): Reinventing copying for our customers—and the planet In 2017, HP’s next generation of energy-efficient multifunction printers (MFPs) will bring transformative innovation to our desktop and enterprise printing offerings. The A3 portfolio (including the two printers pictured above at right) will include 52 new HP PageWide and LaserJet products, each designed to be modular, customizable, highly serviceable, secure, and capable of delivering greater value and stronger environmental performance for customers. HP’s A3 portfolio delivers a breakthrough ecosystem of devices and tools that will lower product service costs and enhance customer experience. Modular design improves serviceability and enables less waste with common parts, components, and paper handling accessories, while simplifying manufacturing. Most components can be accessed without a lengthy disassembly process. Based on their unique needs, customers can configure their own device, and we make it easier for them to replace specific components without needing to return the entire device. In addition, minimizing the number of unique configurations and accessories helps to reduce manufacturing inventories and associated waste. A3 printers are designed to be reliable and durable. They use high-capacity HP ink and toner supplies with an increased page yield that extends the life of consumables and decreases production waste. HP LaserJet A3 printers use high-capacity toner supplies with an increased page yield and a two-part cartridge design that extends the life of consumables and decreases production waste. These printers are optimized by HP Smart Device Services, a cloud-based technology that remotely monitors the printer’s health. This maximizes uptime and reduces trips required to maintain, service, and repair systems, as well as the corresponding transportation footprint. Read more about our new A3 MFP printer portfolio. 57 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report To continually improve our products’ environmental performance, we have to know them inside and out. HP uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to quantify the environmental impacts of our printing products and solutions. These assessments help us identify the life cycle phases, processes, components, and materials with the largest environmental impacts, and explore and prioritize opportunities for improvement. In 2016, HP completed or updated 25 LCAs, including 3 HP LaserJet printers, 18 HP inkjet products, and 4 scanners. 100% of the company’s desktop and enterprise printing portfolio has been analyzed using LCA, taking into account prior assessments. Sustainable design and certification HP communicates product environmental performance to customers through eco-label declarations, enabling them to make informed decisions that reduce environmental impact. Most of our printing products meet the requirements for national, regional, and global ecolabels including EPEAT®, ENERGY STAR®, China SEPA, and Blue Angel. Eco-labels across our printing portfolio % models, for products shipped in 2016* EPEAT® identifies high-performance, environmentally preferable products ENERGY STAR® China SEPA Blue Angel 2.0 certified recognizes recognizes criteria in product recognizes products energy saving and design, energy consumption, EPEAT® EPEAT® EPEAT® EPEAT® with superior energy environmentally chemical emissions, noise, (all categories) Gold registered Silver registered Bronze registered efficiency preferable models recyclable design, and takeback programs displays 68% 1% 45% 22% 95% 94% 41% * EPEAT® data is for models registered in the United States. ENERGY STAR® data is worldwide. China SEPA data applies only to products registered in China. Blue Angel applies only to products registered in Germany. All data is for models shipped anytime during fiscal year 2016. The following examples highlight our progress toward continually improving the sustainability of our desktop and enterprise printing products: • HP PageWide Pro and HP PageWide Enterprise business printers: By avoiding the use of a fuser element in the printing process, HP PageWide technology consumes significantly less energy than conventional laser printing technology. The stationary printhead delivers four colors of ink onto a moving page, a process which requires much less energy than traditional technologies. Every model has default duplex printing and meets strict particle release criteria to ensure indoor air quality and approval for cleanroom use.19 According to a third-party analysis, these printers reduce energy consumption by up to 71%, generate up to 95%20 less supplies and packaging waste than comparable laser printers, and can reduce the carbon footprint of printing by up to 80%.21 In 2016, HP launched the PageWide Enterprise Color Flow MFP 586z, registered EPEAT Gold in the United States. This model has 5% post-consumer recycled content and features packaging that is 90% recyclable.22 Overall, 100% of HP’s PageWide fleet contains at least 4% post-consumer recycled content plastic. • Inkjet portfolio: Since 2010, HP has reduced energy consumption of our HP inkjet portfolio by 20% on average,23 while adding new features such as Wi-Fi. Given the dramatic improvements over the last decade and the very low level of energy use for these products currently, we anticipate that opportunities for further innovation 58 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report in energy efficiency may be limited. In 2016, HP launched three inkjet printers—HP OfficeJet Pro 7740 Wide Format All-in-One Printer, HP OfficeJet 200 Mobile Printer, and HP OfficeJet 250 Mobile All-in-One Printer—with more than 5% post-consumer recycled content plastic. • HP LaserJet portfolio: Since 2010, HP has reduced energy consumption of our HP LaserJet portfolio by 56%, on average.24 Nearly all EPEAT Gold registered LaserJet products feature packaging that is at least 90% recyclable.25 Due largely to HP JetIntelligence toner cartridge technology, the latest models, including the HP LaserJet Enterprise M506dn, consume up to 42%26 less energy during use than the prior generation. Furthermore, HP toner cartridges with HP JetIntelligence contribute up to 55%27 less CO2 emissions than the products they replace. 11. Raising the bar on energy eﬀiciency Raising the bar on energy efficiency 2016 2008 1993 1984 HP LaserJet II HP LaserJet 4p HP LaserJet HP LaserJet Pro P1006 M201dw Annual energy cost: $56 Annual energy cost: $13 Annual energy cost: $3 Annual energy cost: <$1 586 kWh/year 100 kWh/year 27 kWh/year 10 kWh/year 8 pages per minute (ppm) 12 ppm 27 ppm 26 ppm Instant-on technology Auto-on/Auto-oﬀ Energy eﬀicient toner Auto duplexing Printing supplies We manufacture ink and toner cartridges and print media to use materials effectively, to be highly recyclable, and to perform in other areas such as contributions to indoor air quality (IAQ).28 These efforts improve our footprint and that of our customers while demonstrating leadership across the industry. Highlights include our closed loop ink cartridge recycling program and progress toward our zero deforestation goal related to HP paper and packaging. Product-as-a-service Our product-as-a-service printing solutions provide customers with the up-to-date technology they need, when they need it. This model, a growing area of business for HP, also helps keep products, components, and materials operating at a high level for as long as possible, furthering our transition to a circular economy. HP Managed Print Services (MPS) helps clients of all sizes optimize, manage, and improve their printer fleets and digital workflows. Our experts provide environmental assessments 59 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report and consulting, tailored to an organization’s printing practices and preferences. By combining hardware, supplies, software, and services, we help clients reduce costs and enhance security and workflow management while improving resource use and accelerating progress toward a circular economy. Benefits to our MPS customers include: • Reductions in printing-related energy usage of up to 40% • Decreases in imaging and printing costs of up to 30% • Reductions in paper waste of 25% or more In 2016, 57% of HP MPS office print technology that ended its first service life was remarketed to a second customer. Preparation for remarketing includes auditing, testing, and secure data cleansing. Equipment deemed no longer functional is recycled in a responsible manner in accordance with HP policies. Read more about HP Managed Print Services. Principal Financial Services: building on success with HP MPS When Principal Financial Services first implemented HP MPS in 2008, the global financial services firm was looking to cut costs, consolidate and optimize its printing fleet, reduce paper usage, save space, and enhance performance. With HP’s help, the company has reduced the number of single-function printers by 68%, cut print volume in half, and dramatically changed user behavior. Duplex printing, for example, has increased from 16% to 32%, saving one million pieces of paper in the most recent year alone. Principal Financial Services continues its work with HP to boost document security, further reduce waste, simplify scanning, and help deliver a new office “blueprint” for the future. The company has deployed HP Access Control and HP Capture and Route to deliver greater office printer flexibility, increase security for confidential documents, and reduce year-overyear printing by more than four million pages. Read more about HP MPS at Principal Financial Services and how other customers are benefiting from this service offering. HP Instant Ink helps home users and microbusinesses in six countries around the world remain productive by ensuring that they never run out of ink.29 The service anticipates when ink is running low and sends more straight to our customers’ doors. Our customers also save money—up to 50% on ink,30 while decreasing their environmental footprint. With prepaid envelopes that make cartridge return and recycling easy, Instant Ink customers return cartridges at a significantly higher rate than those who purchase ink in conventional ways. Additionally, Instant Ink cartridges have a higher capacity and use less packaging materials per page printed than conventional models, which helps reduce materials consumption by 57% on average per printed page. These efforts help reduce the carbon footprint of ink purchase and disposal by 84%, decrease energy use by 86%, and lower water usage by 89%.31 Read about our service-based personal systems offerings. 60 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions Driving the digital printing revolution The shift in the printing and publishing industries from analog to digital production offers tremendous benefits for customers and the environment. From commercial printing for brochures and magazines to rigid and flexible packaging, HP is leading this cross-sectoral transformation. Through efficient, on-demand, highly upgradeable web presses, we help customers personalize products and messages while reducing waste, cost, and environmental impact. HP provides service-based offerings and comprehensive repair, reuse, recycling, and end-of-service solutions that accelerate our transition toward the circular economy. View a video about the HP PageWide Web Press T400 series. HP Latex 570 HP DesignJet T1100 HP PageWide C500 HP Indigo 30000 HP PageWideXL HP’s digital press solutions Shifting to digital solutions in the printing, publishing, packaging, and labeling sectors, and in new markets such as food packaging, increases business value for our customers. Products made with HP’s digital presses benefit from greater customization, production runs tailored to seasonal demand, and a shorter delivery time to market. Digital printing also delivers environmental and cost benefits by eliminating steps involved in analog printing that produce waste, such as plate production and makeready. The technology also enables customers to better match supply and demand, reducing costly overruns and saving paper. In addition, digital files can be sent to presses closer to the end user, reducing transportation costs and environmental impacts. We offer upgradeability, refurbishment, reuse, and recycling solutions to further extend the already very long useful life of presses and provide responsible disposal options when needed. Indigo digital presses enable efficient on-demand printing for various food and pharmaceutical applications including labels and shrink sleeves (such as plastic sleeve labels for soda bottles), flexible packaging, and folding cartons, as well as commercial marketing and publishing needs. Designed with sustainability in mind, these presses lower customers’ costs and environmental impacts compared with analog presses, especially for short production runs. A 2016 HP-funded third-party LCA found that GHG emissions associated with printing a flexible package on the HP Indigo 20000 press equaled 20% of the emissions associated with the rotogravure analog print process, and total water consumption decreased by about half compared to the CI Flexo analog print process.32 HP Indigo also offsets GHG emissions from the press manufacturing process.33 HP designs press parts and supplies for reuse and recycling, and runs free take-back programs for presses, parts, and supplies. In 2016, we recovered more than 90,000 Indigo binary ink developers (BIDs) for refurbishment and resale, representing about two-thirds of total BIDs sold. Through our refurbishment program, we also received numerous presses for remanufacture or parts recycling. 61 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP Indigo’s product-as-a-service printing solution provides customers with the up-todate technology they need, when they need it. The click-charge business model includes consumables used during printing in a cost-per-print fee. This provides us an incentive to deliver consumables in the most resource-efficient way possible, reducing waste and supporting the circular economy. Through this model, HP Indigo helps customers efficiently manage their use of supplies and provides long-term support for high-value presses. Indigo’s regenerated imaging oil (RIO) system reduces maintenance and enables customers to use what was previously considered to be waste oil from the press, reducing waste oil by 20–50% on average. HP Indigo Printcare provides troubleshooting and diagnostics tools to maintain quality, productivity, and profitability and to help keep presses running as long as possible. HP PageWide web presses provide digital on-demand printing solutions for publications, direct mail, and high-volume commercial applications (such as brochures and marketing collateral), as well as paper-based packaging for a wide range of sectors such as food and pharmaceuticals. By printing cost-effective, short-run jobs the presses minimize raw materials and energy use, and eliminate waste from setup and changeover processes. The modular web presses allow customers to upgrade as their needs evolve, rather than buy new models. For example, our latest inkjet printhead technology High Definition Nozzle Architecture (HDNA) works with most older web presses. Printheads for HP PageWide web presses can also be returned and recycled at no cost through HP Planet Partners. In 2016, we expanded our portfolio, unveiling the HP PageWide C500 Press, a flexible post-corrugated-print solution for corrugated packaging and displays that uses a new version of HP’s water-based pigment inks. We also launched the HP PageWide T1100S Web Press and HP PageWide T400S Web Press for preprint corrugated packaging. These products use HP PageWide technology—with water-based HP inks and pretreatment fluids—to print different jobs, with varying image sizes and run lengths, simultaneously, whether printing on a web or corrugated boxes. Water-based inks for a lighter footprint HP designs printing press supplies with environmental criteria and customer and enduser health and safety in mind. Innovations such as HP PageWide technology designed for the C500 Press and T100S and T400S Web—with water-based HP pigment inks and pretreatment fluids—help customers comply with U.S. and European food packaging safety regulations and guidelines. These inks and fluids are non-flammable and noncombustible,34 contain no intentionally added hazardous air pollutants,35 and produce low levels of volatile organic compound emissions.36 HP PageWide Web Press Inks have achieved UL ECOLOGO® Sustainable Product Certification, meeting a range of human health and environmental criteria. The HP PageWide Web Press T1100S and HP PageWide C500 Press expanded our use of water-based inks to preprint packaging. HP Latex water-based ink technology, used in signage and decoration applications, employs innovative binder and ink formulation for leading health and safety performance, providing high potential for application across sectors. These inks are UL ECOLOGO® and UL GREENGUARD GOLD Certified, and meet AgBB criteria.37 Low-emitting prints with HP Latex inks can be used in indoor spaces for which solvent-based inks cannot, such as healthcare settings, hospitality, or retail. All HP DesignJet, HP PageWide XL, and HP Latex large-format printers use water-based inks. Learn more about the environmental certifications and eco-labels for HP Latex Printing Technology. 62 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Customer health and safety HP’s long leadership in sustainability and transparency regarding the environmental, health, and safety (EHS) performance of our graphics printing products and supplies builds trust with customers and opens up new market opportunites. This is relevant to print operators, since our water-based inks offer a healthier work environment,38 and increasingly to end customers, especially as we expand further into decoration and food packaging applications. We demonstrate our ongoing commitment to customers through transparent communications about product performance. Our presses and inks meet a range of eco-labels, including EPEAT, UL ECOLOGO®, Intertek Green Leaf Mark, and GREENGUARD GOLD, depending on the product. HP provides customers with the information necessary to assess their own operations, including press emissions (both indoor and outdoor) and food packaging requirements. We work closely with customers’ regulatory teams, and where necessary provide a Statement of Composition to enable downstream users to perform assessments on the final package. HP engages with brands and industry associations regarding regulatory trends and is a member of strategic industry associations supporting best practice for digital technologies. For example, we belong to the European Printing Ink Association (EuPIA), which provides guidance to industry on the safe manufacturing, use, and handling of printing inks, including for food packaging. 3D printing Poised to disrupt manufacturing and enable the circular economy From the automotive, healthcare, and aerospace sectors to consumer goods and advanced manufacturing, 3D printing (also known as additive manufacturing) is poised to revolutionize industry and commerce. 3D printing is ushering in what is being called the “fourth industrial revolution,” whereby mass digitization will reinvent how we design, manufacture, distribute, and maintain products. HP is at the heart of this transformation. We launched our first commercial 3D printing solution in 2016, and are working to deliver the speed, quality, reliability, and cost improvements necessary for scalable production and widespread adoption. Watch a video Introducing the HP Jet Fusion This disruptive technology, which has the potential to enable local, faster, and more 3D printing solution. efficient manufacturing and prototyping than traditional processes, is a critical enabler of the circular economy. Key sustainability benefits include: • Reduced environmental impact: 3D printing has the potential to reduce waste in manufacturing and distribution processes by enabling perfect matching of supply and demand and improving the cost-effectiveness of shorter production runs (analogous to enhancements HP has achieved by digitizing commercial print production and enabling the analog-to-digital shift). Streamlined prototyping processes also support less wasteful and more rapid iteration in product design and development. Additionally, 3D printing will significantly reduce the amount of material needed to make some finished parts by realizing complex shapes or redesigning complex assemblies into a single part, in some cases using a single material. These features can save money, decrease energy and resource consumption, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and simplify materials capture at end of life. • Reinvention of traditional supply chains: 3D printing has the ability to transform entire industry value chains—from design and manufacturing to distribution and service. With digital inventories and on-demand production, companies can print what they need, when and where they need it, reducing the need for inventories and 63 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report transportation and packaging. 3D printing produces replacement parts locally and on-demand, which can extend the useful life of products for customers through just-in-time, localized delivery models. For example, in a traditional supply chain, a replacement part for an automobile might need to be shipped cross-country, or even overseas, to fulfill an order or repair, taking several days. With 3D printing, a customer will be able to pick up a replacement part locally, avoiding storage, excess transportation, and waiting. • Transformation of economies and societies: 3D printing can reduce barriers to market entry, expanding opportunities for emerging economies and small businesses, and accelerating adoption for new commercial users in industries such as automotive, healthcare, aerospace, consumer goods, and advanced manufacturing. HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solution In 2016, HP launched its first commercial 3D printing solution, HP Jet Fusion 3D 4200/3200. Our advanced HP Multi Jet Fusion technology enables the printing of highquality parts up to 10 times faster39 and at a lower cost40 than other 3D print systems currently on the market. HP Jet Fusion 3D printers help customers simplify workflows and reduce prototyping costs. Similar to our digital graphic printing solutions but in the world of 3D, HP Jet Fusion enables on-demand, short-run printing, reducing wasterelated costs and overall environmental impact. To demonstrate the cost, efficiency, design optimization, and environmental benefits Jet Fusion 3D printing solution. of this product, HP plans to manufacture up to 50% of the custom plastic parts for our existing 3D printers using HP Multi Jet Fusion technologies. Open platform collaboration To accelerate the adoption of commercial 3D printing, HP works closely with manufacturers and other industry partners, and introduced strategies for open materials and common software. Through HP’s Multi Jet Fusion Open Platform, we work with partners to advance printer materials innovation and drive down related costs. We also helped found the 3FM Consortium, which established an industry-wide 3D printing file format standard. The HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solution was the first 3D printer fully compliant with the standard. BMW Group: Applying HP 3D printing in car manufacturing and development BMW Group has a track record of applying additive manufacturing processes to produce prototypes or custom parts that can be built into select designs for its premium “We see major potential vehicles. Looking for new technologies to shorten car development times and improve in our partnership with HP to manufacturing efficiencies, the company was a natural fit as an early collaborator in investigate this new kind developing HP’s Multi Jet Fusion technology. of 3D printing technology at With more than 25 years of experience in the field of additive manufacturing, the an early stage.” BMW Group was one of the initial companies to test our 3D printing solution. Besides Jens Ertel, Head of BMW Group prototyping, BMW Group plans to use the technology also for serialized part production Additive Manufacturing Center and personalization. To build on this collaboration, HP and BMW Group are conducting a life cycle assessment that will compare 3D manufacturing with traditional injection molding for the production of automobile parts. 64 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Product repair, reuse, and recycling Helping customers get the most from our products The rapid pace of innovation and obsolescence in electronic products is increasing the urgency for a circular economy in which used products and materials are repurposed and kept in use as long as possible. Since the launch of our industry-leading Planet Partners return and recycling program, more than a quarter century ago, HP has driven this transformation in our industry. We design products for longevity, provide customers with guidance on how to maintain them, and provide comprehensive repair, refurbishment, reuse, and recycling programs. Increasingly, we use the materials we recapture from recycling to create new HP products through our closed loop programs. In 2016, we built on our long-standing commitment and set a new goal to recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and supplies by 2025. HP has long been committed to the responsible processing of used electronics. During 2017, to promote transparency and progress social and environmental standards in the electronics industry supply chain, we published a detailed list of our global recycling Our priorities Repair, remarket, and reuse hardware Recycle hardware and supplies • Provide repair services and sell replacement parts and • Expand closed loop recycling processes and reuse materials components to extend product life in new HP products • Remarket new and nearly new returned hardware for reuse • Break down products and recover materials • Ensure responsible processing of equipment for reuse • Ensure responsible recycling through third-party audits through third-party audits • Collaborate with partners and governments to advance responsible recycling regulations 2016 highlights 5.05 million 1.25 million 102,800 17,100 units of hardware repaired units of hardware remarketed tonnes of hardware recycled tonnes of ink and toner cartridges recycled Our goals 1.2 million tonnes Recycle 1.2 million tonnes of hardware and supplies by 2025, since the beginning of 2016. 65 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report vendor sites, a first in the industry. This reflects our confidence in HP’s vendor network and addresses customer and stakeholder expectations about disclosure in this area. We hope that our leadership in this area will encourage other IT companies to do the same. To improve regulation and management of e-waste across the sector, we collaborate with governments and industry stakeholders. See Government relations for more detail. Customer programs Recovering value for HP and our customers globally HP offers comprehensive take-back programs in 73 countries and territories worldwide through a global network of reuse and recycling vendors. We commission third-party audits to monitor vendor conformance with our high standards and ensure that returned items are processed appropriately. To protect customer privacy, HP and its partners follow strict protocols to ensure that returned products complete comprehensive datacleansing processes. HP global take-back programs* Program Description Progress in 2016 • HP provides repair and replacement services for computing and printing products. 5.05 million units of hardware repaired • We remarket returned and refurbished computing and printing products. 1.25 million Hardware repair, • Through our HP Indigo reconditioning program, we refurbish units returned by customers. million units of hardware remarketing, and reuse** • We follow strict processes outlined in our hardware reuse standard remarketed to protect user data and meet environmental requirements. • HP recycles returned products that cannot be repaired or reused. In Europe, the European Recycling Platform provides take-back and 102,800 tonnes recycling services for our products. In the United States, hardware of hardware recycled products can be dropped off for recycling at more than 1,600 Hardware Staples locations. U.S. customers can use the HP Consumer Buyback Program to exchange equipment for money or purchase credits. 14% overall recycling rate of recycling In Asia Pacific, HP participates in several producer responsibility organizations, such as the Australia and New Zealand Recycling relevant HP hardware Platform, Cartridges 4 Planet Ark (Australia), the Vietnamese sales worldwide Available in 62 countries and territories Recycling Platform, and the Ink Satogaeri Program (Japan). • If the equipment cannot be economically repaired or reused, we recycle it responsibly. We also provide pickup and recycling services to commercial customers. • Home users and commercial customers can return used HP ink and toner cartridges to more than 16,500 free, authorized drop-off 15,400 tonnes collection sites around the world. In most countries, we also offer free of HP LaserJet toner pickup and mail-back options. All customers can go to our website for cartridges recycled country-specific recycling instructions in their local language. HP ink and toner • We now recycle toner material, collected in North America and 1,700 tonnes cartridge recycling Australia, for reuse as colorant in the manufacturing of products for home users. In 2016, HP recycled 80% of the toner material that it of HP ink cartridges recycled Available in 62 countries and territories received, 20% was treated in a waste-to-energy process, 0% went to landfill, and 0% was incinerated. * Information in this table is as of October 31, 2016. ** Availability of reuse offerings varies by location. View a full list of reuse and recycling programs by country. See Data for more detail. 66 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Vendor audits We hold our reuse and recycling partners to high standards HP requires our specialist reuse and recycling vendors to follow environmentally responsible processing techniques and comply fully with relevant regulations. Vendors must also attain third-party certification (R2, e-Stewards, or WEEELABEX), where applicable. We contract Environmental Resources Management (ERM) to audit our vendors for conformance with the following policies and vendor standards: • Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy • HP Supplier Code of Conduct • Reuse and Recycling Standards Audits assess vendors’ environmental, health, and safety practices and performance and ensure that there is no “leakage” of materials to facilities outside our approved vendor network. Nonconforming vendors must submit corrective action plans within 30 days and address those items within 90 days. In extreme cases, we will cease business with vendors that lack sufficient transparency or are unwilling to make the changes we require. Through ERM, HP audited 43 vendor facilities in 23 countries during 2016. This included repeat audits of 33 vendors to evaluate their efforts to improve performance. The most common categories of major nonconformance were health and safety (18%) and subvendor management and audits (17%). Other issue areas included environment, management systems, site security and controls, data destruction, and approved dispositions of processed materials. Findings for data destruction were limited gaps in processes, not breaches of data security. Because over one third of major nonconformances occurred at sites audited for the first time, HP’s engagement brought best practices, enabling immediate performance improvements. HP has closed investigations of 86% of the major nonconformances identified in 2016, and we will continue to work closely with vendors to resolve the others as swiftly as possible. All sites with major nonconformances must be reaudited the following year to determine whether improvements are sustained. Read a statement from ERM. 67 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Data Our footprint Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations) * 2015 2016 GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO2e] 403,000 383,700 Americas 173,400 164,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 98,600 88,400 Asia Pacific and Japan 131,000 131,200 GHG emissions intensity *** [tonnes CO 2 e/$ million of net revenue] 7.8 8.0 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Scope 1 Scope 1 emissions, by region 68,700 66,000 Americas 54,100 50,500 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 13,500 14,400 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,100 1,100 Scope 1 emissions, by type Natural gas 28,600 28,000 Americas 21,300 21,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,900 5,800 Asia Pacific and Japan 400 500 Diesel/gas/oil**** 100 0 Americas 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 100 0 Transportation fleet† 32,700 31,000 Americas 26,400 23,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,000 7,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 Refrigerants (hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs)) 4,400 4,300 Americas 3,500 2,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 600 1,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 300 300 Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) 2,900 2,700 Americas 2,900 2,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 Scope 2 (Market-Based Method)†† Scope 2 emissions, by region 334,300 317,700 Americas 119,300 113,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85,100 74,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 129,900 130,100 Scope 2 emissions, by type 334,300 317,700 Purchased electricity for operations 334,300 317,700 68 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations) * 2015 2016 Americas 119,300 113,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85,100 74,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 129,900 130,100 District cooling and heating (purchased) for operations 0 0 Americas 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 Scope 2 (Location-Based Method) Scope 2 emissions, by region 372,900 352,400 Americas 143,700 128,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 99,300 93,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 129,900 130,100 Scope 2 emissions, by type 372,900 352,400 Purchased electricity for operations 372,900 352,400 Americas 143,700 128,700 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 99,300 93,600 Asia Pacific and Japan 129,900 130,100 District cooling and heating (purchased) for operations 0 0 Americas 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 Scope 3 36,250,000 35,860,000 Materials extraction through manufacturing (category 1; also see Greenhouse gas emissions on page 25) 15,300,000 14,700,000 Capital goods (category 2) 200,000 200,000 Upstream energy production (category 3)^ 100,000 100,000 Transport (categories 4 and 9; also see Product transportation on page 28)^^ 1,300,000 1,300,000 Waste generated in operations (category 5) De minimis^^^ De minimis Business travel (category 6)‡ 50,000 60,000 Employee commuting (category 7) 200,000 200,000 Upstream leased assets ‡‡ (category 8) De minimis De minimis Processing of sold products (category 10) De minimis De minimis Product use (category 11)‡‡‡, ‡‡‡‡ 19,100,000 19,300,000 Product end of service (category 12) De minimis De minimis Buildings leased to others (category 13) De minimis De minimis Franchises (category 14) Not applicable Not applicable Investments (category 15) De minimis De minimis * To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in the HP carbon accounting manual. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. ** Total includes HP’s reported values for Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based method emissions in table. *** Emissions-intensity value was calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. **** HP does not estimate or extrapolate diesel use for nonreporting sites. 69 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Carbon footprint (Scopes 1–3, including from operations) * 2015 2016 † CO e emissions associated with CH4 and N20 account for less than 1% of total CO2e emissions in this category. 2 †† Data in this section uses the market-based method. The company did not obtain supplier-specific emission rates other than the emission rate for the Palo Alto, California, United States, site due to the availability and feasibility of acquiring the data. ^ Scope 2 GHG emissions used to calculate this category were determined using the location-based method. ^^ T hese figures are based on product life cycle assessment-based estimates. They use a combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. This data may differ from data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracts to deliver our products, as presented on pages 28 and 70. ^^^ De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. ‡ HP’s global travel agency provides values which take into account the type of aircraft, passenger load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trip. This data also includes rail travel carrier and distance traveled. Although these values fall below our quantitative reporting threshold of less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions and could be reported as de minimis, we choose to report this category due to our ability to directly track this data, our level of influence over these emissions, and stakeholder expectations in this category ‡‡ All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. ‡‡‡ Total GHG emissions from product use differ by less than 1% from values reported on page 52, due to rounding. ‡‡‡‡ In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our product use footprint calculations. Overall GHG emissions from product use across our portfolio increased by 1% year over year. Without the addition of commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, there would have been a 4% decrease overall. Water footprint * 2015 2016 Water consumed by HP suppliers in their operations** [cubic meters] 13,900,000 12,600,000 Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used by HP suppliers [cubic meters] 34,800,000 31,800,000 Water consumption in HP operations [cubic meters] 3,260,000 3,224,000 Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used in HP operations [cubic meters] 3,400,000 3,200,000 Water consumption associated with the generation of electricity used by HP products [cubic meters] 106,900,000 103,300,000 *** Water consumption associated with the manufacturing of paper used by HP customers with HP products [cubic meters] 46,800,000 52,900,000 **** * Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. ** This metric reports the amount of water consumed by HP’s multi-tier supply chain, and not the amount withdrawn by first-tier suppliers as reported in Supply chain environmental impact on page 30. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, water consumption is inherently lower. *** In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our footprint calculations. Consumption in this category decreased by 3% including those products and 5% without them. **** In 2016, we added commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, which use large amounts of paper, to our footprint calculations. Consumption in this category increased by 13% including those products and decreased 2% without them. Supply chain environmental impact 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 First-tier production supplier and product transportation-related GHG emissions 95.0 70.1 71.8 74.6 intensity * [tonnes CO2e/$ million of HP net revenue] Production supplier GHG emissions** Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions [tonnes CO2e] 4,900,000 2,700,000 2,900,000 3,000,000 Scope 3 emissions***,**** [tonnes CO2e] 15,800,000 14,600,000 9,800,000 Production suppliers with GHG emissions reduction-related goals [% of spend] 68% 95% 93% Production suppliers that reported using renewable energy **** [% of spend] 28% 10% 47% Product transportation GHG emissions† [tonnes CO2e] Total 1,430,000 1,200,000 1,260,000 1,280,000 1,200,000 Road (includes rail) 350,000 350,000 330,000 330,000 350,000 Ocean 150,000 250,000 230,000 200,000 150,000 Air 930,000 600,000 700,000 750,000 700,000 Nonproduction supplier Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions†† [tonnes CO 2 e] 240,000 Production supplier nonhazardous waste generation †††,**** [tonnes] 91,000 123,000 105,000 Production supplier hazardous waste generation †††,**** [tonnes] 31,000 45,000 48,000 70 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 Production suppliers with waste-related goals [% of spend] 58% 59% 57% Production supplier water withdrawal for use †††† [cubic meters] 26,000,000 40,000,000 44,000,000 Production suppliers with water withdrawal-related goals [% of spend] 59% 74% 80% * Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The year 2015 is the most recent for which data is available. Data reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. ** Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP’s business compared to their total revenue. Taking into account the separation of HewlettPackard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2015 is the most recent for which data is available. Data reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected represented 95% of HP spend. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/ faq. This data differs from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates for materials extraction through manufacturing presented on pages 22 and 69, which are based on a different calculation methodology and use a combination of HP-specific and industry data. *** Suppliers may not report all Scope 3 categories, although the number of categories reported by many suppliers has increased over the last few years. We believe that variation in this data reflects inconsistent reporting practices more than changes in actual performance. **** We believe that variation in this data reflects inconsistent reporting practices more than changes in actual performance. † The figures for product transportation GHG emissions are based on data reported by product transportation suppliers that HP contracted to deliver products (for years prior to 2016, before the split of Hewlett-Packard Company, calculations are adjusted to reflect emissions attributable to HP’s current business units). They may differ from the product life cycle assessment-based estimates presented on pages 22 and 69 which are based on a different calculation methodology, use a combination of HP-specific and industry data, and include additional upstream and downstream transportation related to the company’s products, as well as retail and storage. †† Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, the calculation uses spend associated with the business units that are now part of HP Inc. In cases where spend cannot be disaggregated, 2016 spend is used as an estimate. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2015 is the most recent for which data is available. Data reflects extrapolation to 100% of strategic nonproduction suppliers. Data collected represented 28% of supplier spend. ††† Waste data is estimated based on suppliers’ waste data and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. Taking into account the separation of HewlettPackard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2015 is the most recent for which data is available. Data reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected represented 60% of supplier spend for nonhazardous waste and 50% for hazardous waste, compared to 52% and 52% the prior year. We believe that variation in this data reflects inconsistent reporting practices more than changes in actual performance. †††† This metric reports the amount of water withdrawn by suppliers, not the amount consumed by our multi-tier supply chain as reported in our water footprint on pages 23 and 70. Because water withdrawn can also be returned, this footprint is inherently larger. Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Withdrawal is estimated based on suppliers’ reported water withdrawal and their dollar volume of HP business compared to their total revenue. Taking into account the separation of HewlettPackard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2015 is the most recent for which data is available. Data reflects extrapolation to 100% of first-tier production suppliers. Data collected represented 72% of supplier spend, compared to 73% the prior year. Operations* 2015 2016 Energy use [million kWh] 931 879 Energy intensity ** [thousand kWh/$ million of net revenue] 18.1 18.2 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) *** [million kWh] 161 157 Natural gas [million kWh] 157 154 Americas 117 119 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 38 32 Asia Pacific and Japan 2 3 Electricity (generated on-site) 4 3 Renewable 3 2 Diesel/gas/oil/LPG **** 1 1 Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) [million kWh] 770 722 Electricity (purchased) 770 722 Americas 352 316 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 198 187 Asia Pacific and Japan 220 219 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy † 93 75 Voluntary purchases of no/low-carbon energy 0 0 71 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 2015 2016 Supplier-specific renewable energy 33 28 District cooling and heating (purchased) 0 0 Americas 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 28,100 27,800 Americas 16,000 15,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 7,400 8,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 4,700 3,900 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [% of total produced] Global 90.9% 90.1% Americas 91.6% 91.2% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 85.5% 85.4% Asia Pacific and Japan 97.2% 95.1% Hazardous waste †† [tonnes] 5,560 Americas 1,600 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,370 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,590 Water consumption, by region [cubic meters] 3,260,000 3,224,000 Americas 1,640,000 1,615,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 306,000 285,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,314,000 1,324,000 Water consumption, by source ††† [cubic meters] 3,260,000 3,224,000 Municipal water 2,548,000 2,473,000 Wastewater from another organization†††† (NeWater) 703,000 747,000 Tanker water‡ 9,000 0 Well water 0 4,000 Reused treated sewage treatment plant water‡‡ [cubic meters] 20,000 75,000 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions ‡‡‡ [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 194 128 Americas 120 16 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0 33 Asia Pacific and Japan 73 80 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. *** Fuel consumption from HP’s transportation fleet is not included in the Direct energy use in operations figures. **** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term on-site energy generation. † Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, excluding renewable energy provided by default in the power grid. †† Accounting for the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, it was not feasible to include hazardous waste data specific to HP Inc. for 2015. ††† Water consumption includes municipal water, wastewater from another organization, tanker water, and well water. Direct use of surface water and rainwater are insignificant and not included in data reported. Water consumption does not include reused treated sewage treatment plant water. Water consumption is referred to as “Direct consumption” in the Operations segment of HP’s water footprint on page 23. †††† NeWater is ultra-purified wastewater used in manufacturing operations in Singapore. ‡ Tanker water is well water that is delivered to the site by tanker truck. ‡‡ This water is used for landscaping and toilets. ‡‡‡ We calculate ODS emissions by tracking sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage, and apply an intensity factor based on those actual quantities for nonreporting sites. This approach and the relatively small number of sites reporting data each year can result in significant variations in data that do not necessarily reflect changes in actual performance. 72 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Products and solutions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Recycled plastic used in HP toner and ink cartridges, cumulative [tonnes] 53,755 62,163 71,749 80,468 89,478 Ink 32,304 37,512 43,798 50,080 55,597 Toner 21,451 24,651 27,951 30,388 33,881 Estimated materials use intensity for HP high-volume personal systems and printers* [tonnes/$ millions of net revenue] Personal systems Metal 4.5 3.6 3.0 Plastic 1.9 1.5 1.6 Wires/cables 0.8 0.6 0.6 PCAs 0.7 0.6 0.6 LCDs 1.4 1.2 1.8 Batteries 0.3 0.2 0.1 Total 9.4 7.7 7.7 Printers Metal 14.7 15.4 17.6 Plastic 28.0 30.9 33.8 Wires/cables 0.4 0.4 0.5 PCAs 1.7 1.7 2.0 LCDs 0.0 0.0 0.0 Batteries 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 45 48 54 GHG emissions from product use ** [tonnes CO 2 e] Personal systems 9,100,000 8,200,000 Desktop and enterprise printers (energy) 3,600,000 3,600,000 Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions (energy) Not available 250,000 Printing consumables for desktop and enterprise printers (paper and ink/toner 6,400,000 6,500,000 cartridges) Printing consumables for commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions Not available 790,000 (paper and other supplies) Total 19,100,000 19,300,000 Water consumption related to product use *** [cubic meters] Personal systems 76,400,000 70,000,000 Desktop and enterprise printers (energy) 30,500,000 31,100,000 Commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions (energy) Not available 2,200,000 Printing consumables for desktop and enterprise printers (paper) 46,800,000 45,800,000 Printing consumables for commercial and industrial graphics printing Not available 7,200,000 solutions (paper) Total 153,700,000 156,300,000 * Personal systems data is based on individual products that are representative of the HP product portfolio for those years and does not include accessories sold separately. Printer values are based on individual product data. Estimates for printer volumes do not include graphic arts, industrial, web press printers, scanners, or ink or toner cartridges. Product data is based on fiscal year for 2016 and calendar year for 2014 and 2015. Net revenue data is based on HP’s fiscal year. In some cases, segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Segments for 2016 do not add up to total due to rounding. *** Total water consumption related to product use differs by less than 1% from the values reported on pages 23 and 70, due to rounding. 73 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Product repair, reuse, and recycling* 2016 Total recycling of hardware and supplies [tonnes, approximate] 119,900 Electronic equipment repaired [units] 5,050,000 Electronic equipment returned before use and remarketed [units] 1,250,000 Number of countries and territories with HP return and recycling programs 73 Total recycling, by region [tonnes] Americas 48,800 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 59,200 Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 Total recycling, by type [tonnes] Hardware 102,800 HP toner cartridges** 15,400 HP ink cartridges** 1,700 HP toner cartridge recycling HP LaserJet market covered by program [%] 92% Composition [%] Materials recycled into new products 80.9% Materials used for energy recovery 16.8% Reuse of components 2.3% Material in storage—pending processing 0.0% Incineration 0.0% Landfill 0.0% HP ink cartridge recycling HP ink market covered by program [%] 91% Composition [%] Materials recovered for recycling 77.9% Materials used for energy recovery 21.6% Reuse of components 0.0% Material in storage—pending processing 0.4% Incineration 0.0% Landfill 0.0% * 2016 is HP’s new baseline for this data, following the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015. Totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing, with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. HP LaserJet toner and ink cartridge recycling data is for calendar year. The remaining data is based on the HP fiscal year. Although for HP supplies we report the composition of recovered materials, we cannot provide this data for hardware because we do not have operational control over all recycling processes and so do not have access to this information. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. Although we do not include data prior to 2016 in the Product repair, reuse, and recycling section, the vast majority of product hardware recycling data, and all toner and ink cartridge recycling data, reported in past years was associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. Through 2015, Hewlett-Packard Company reported 1,497,500 tonnes of cumulative computer hardware and supplies recycling combined. ** Includes cartridges returned by customers only. 74 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability SOC Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Society We’re using our technology, innovation, and scale to create a more just and inclusive society. 75 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Supply chain responsibility Manufacturing products with integrity Every 60 seconds, HP delivers 102 PCs, 63 printers, and 983 consumables to customers all over the world.1 Meeting our customers’ needs would not be possible without a dynamic, sustainable, and resilient supply chain. Hundreds of production suppliers, thousands of nonproduction suppliers, 2 and workers around the world bring HP’s diverse and vast product line to life. Our principles We believe that every person Our commitment extends We use our global reach to deserves to be treated with beyond the factory floor. drive lasting improvements. dignity and respect. We engage extensively with workers to We are transparent about the challenges We insist that workers in our supply promote wellness and enhance their skills, in our supply chain and we rally businesses chain have fair treatment, safe working empowering them to become leaders in and governments to build resilience conditions, and freely chosen employment. their community. and respect for human rights and the environment. 2016 highlights 98% 1st 25% of factories reporting monthly data met place ranking in NGO Know the Chain’s increase in average supplier performance student worker guidelines inaugural benchmark of ICT companies’ in social and environmental responsibility efforts to protect workers in their supply (SER) Scorecard chains from forced labor Our goals Supplier engagement Capability building 2X 500,000 Double factory participation in our supply chain sustainability Develop skills and improve well-being of 500,000 factory workers by programs by 2025, compared to 2015 2025, since the beginning of 2015 For more than a decade, HP has demonstrated industry leadership by developing innovative ways to strengthen social and environmental conditions in our supplier factories. Our products are engineered with integrity and high regard for every person 76 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report who has a hand in bringing them to market. We work proactively to protect and empower workers, source minerals responsibly, promote inclusion and transparency, and drive lasting improvements across our supplier base. The year 2016 marked the first of HP as a new company. We now operate with a slightly smaller supply chain, more integrated internal sustainability governance, and improved visibility to risks and challenges. In 2017, we set goals to increase supplier participation in our programs and continue to improve workers’ skills and well-being. Increasing supply chain transparency Meeting stakeholder expectations for responsible sourcing At HP, we recognize the clear business benefits of sustainable manufacturing. Sustainability is embedded into HP’s business model, and driven by people at all levels of the company. With increasing stakeholder interest in supply chain issues, HP’s focus on external transparency is more important than ever. Customers care about where and how their products are made, and want to understand how we manage and address supply chain issues. In 2016, customers with sustainable purchasing criteria (including criteria related to eco-labels) represented a total of more than $14 billion of existing and potential business revenue. Factory worker wearing personal protective equipment at a supplier factory. Many HP customers now include detailed requirements related to social and environmental responsibility (SER) in their supplier contracts, just as we have done with our own suppliers for years. In 2016, we developed new tools to support our regional sales teams in addressing customer requests related to supply chain responsibility. Around the world, regulations are also impacting corporate supply chain approaches, adding compliance requirements to previously voluntary SER efforts. We see value in all industries adopting high SER standards and welcome the opportunity for open dialogue with governments and other businesses to address the most challenging supply chain issues, including human rights and forced labor. In addition to regulatory engagement, HP lends its supplier SER expertise to NGOs and other stakeholders. HP is a founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a consortium of companies driving improvements in global supply chains through collaboration and shared tools. In 2016, we participated in working groups focused on vulnerable workers, chemical management, and the validated audit process (VAP), where we engage with other companies to share best practices and review, align, and continually improve industry policies and processes. Driving sustainable factories We assess suppliers to make tangible improvements We monitor supplier SER performance through audits, focused assessments, and monthly key performance indicator (KPI) tracking designed to identify risks related to labor, health and safety, environment, ethics, and management systems as outlined in the HP Supplier Code of Conduct. Based on supplier results, we address risks and drive improvement through targeted capability building, remediation, and industry collaboration. Additionally, our supplier SER scorecard integrates main aspects of supplier 77 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report social and environmental performance into a single performance score to be used in procurement negotiations with suppliers. Collectively, these tools drive improvement in suppliers’ social and environmental performance and create an impact on and beyond the factory floor. To increase impact and elevate SER practices in more supplier factories, we have set a goal to double factory participation in our supply chain sustainability programs by 2025, compared to 2015. Our supply chain is expansive, and we are committed to increasing both the number of suppliers that participate in our programs and the depth of their engagement. To have the greatest impact, we match suppliers with programs that best meet their SER needs. Below is a list of our diverse portfolio of sustainability programs. Monitoring and performance Description 2016 progress* improvement tools Audits • HP participates in the EICC Validated Audit Program (VAP), • HP conducted 155 audits of production and nonproducwhich uses independent external auditors and separate tion suppliers in 2016 third-party quality control for added credibility • 89% of audits were third party certified EICC VAP • On-site audits provide the broadest and deepest • See detailed findings below measurement of conformance with the HP Supplier Code of Conduct and establish whether a supplier has systems to maintain and improve performance. Focused assessments In addition to comprehensive audits, we target specific risks HP conducted 29 focused assessments in 2016: through focused assessments. • 6 Student Worker Assessments in China • 6 Foreign Migrant Worker Assessments in Malaysia, Taiwan,and Thailand • 10 Health and Safety Assessments in China • 7 new suppliers in China onboarded See labor and health and safety findings in the Zero-tolerance (immediate action required) findings section below Labor KPI program • High-risk suppliers report weekly metrics which we share • Student worker conformance ,^: 98% ** with company procurement managers monthly and senior • Worker hours conformance , : 89% *** ^ executives quarterly. • Day of rest conformance ,^: 96% **** • Tracks 46 indicators from 44 final assembly suppliers and • Added foreign migrant worker conformance to supplier key commodity suppliers with significant risk related to reporting requirements, and revamped reports for more foreign migrant workers, student workers, working hours, effective communication with and escalation to upper overtime, and day of rest. management. SER scorecard • Covers final assembly suppliers and key commodity groups. • Supplier SER scores increased by 25% on average since • Measures supplier performance and sets expectations on a they joined the program. In 2016, the average score range of SER factors that includes audit scores, product and increased by 14% compared to 2015. material compliance, mineral sourcing, labor management, • All power supply and hard drive suppliers reached the and environmental management. top level “Preferred” status in 2016 after diligent training • The SER scorecard influences suppliers’ overall perforand follow-up by procurement managers. mance score, which also covers quality, supply, and cost. • See results by supplier group on the next page. Poor SER performance by a commodity supplier can decrease their overall score by as much as 50%. Capability building In partnership with local and international NGOs and other During 2016, 45,700 supplier employees participated stakeholders, we work with suppliers to improve key areas in 14 projects in 5 countries. See more detail about our of SER performance, such as worker empowerment and SER programs online. management system development. * Metrics apply to participating suppliers for each program. ** Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees. *** Suppliers’ employees working fewer than 60 hours per week on average. **** Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek. ^ Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program and audit results. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. More information about our monitoring and performance improvement tools, as well as our management system and risk framework, can be found in Supply chain responsibility: Our approach. 78 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP’s procurement team delivers SER results HP’s procurement team is at the center of our efforts to build a sustainable supply chain. Through ongoing relationships with suppliers, these employees are uniquely positioned to convey how our SER requirements benefit suppliers’ business. In recent years, procurement team members have embraced the opportunity to integrate sustainability into business reviews and day-to-day engagement with suppliers. Procurement managers collaborate closely with suppliers to educate them about our SER expectations, provide guidance on improvements, and to remediate outstanding issues. By combining passion for sustainability with robust internal management systems and incentives, SER becomes Workers take a break. second nature for our suppliers. Senior HP executives also underscore the importance of SER in communications both with suppliers and our employees, and HP management globally has helped motivate a cultural shift toward valuing SER in the procurement process. This has translated into significant gains in supplier SER performance. By 2016, two commodity groups, Power and Hard Disk Drives (HDD), had achieved average scores in the top status level (“Preferred”), with one HDD supplier scoring 100%. When procurement managers have accountability for sustainability we see a clear outcome: significant improvement in supplier practices. Average scores by supplier group SER scorecard results 100 Preferred > 85 Acceptable 65-85 90 Concern < 65 80 Hard drives Printers 70 Personal systems Memory 60 Optical drives Power supplies 50 Keyboards/mice 40 Cables Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Batteries Combating forced labor Our industry-first standard protects migrant workers In search of economic opportunity, foreign migrant workers often face unfair treatment in the workplace and are vulnerable to exploitation and human trafficking. HP’s Foreign Migrant Worker Standard, an IT industry first, seeks to protect this vulnerable population in our supply chain. We determined that requiring direct employment, reinforcing the A worker packages a newly repaired PC in a rights of workers to retain their passports and personal documentation, and prohibiting Singapore facility. 79 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report any worker-paid recruitment fees were proactive actions that we could take to reduce forced labor or trafficking conditions. In 2015 and 2016, we performed detailed assessments of high-risk production suppliers. Examples of findings from our in-depth assessments include the withholding of passports and/or school certificates, as well as lack of policies and structures to ensure proper management while hiring from labor agencies. All violations to our code found in 2016 have either been fully addressed or are undergoing verification of corrective action. It is unfair for any worker to have to pay to get a job. At HP, we are working with suppliers “Workers in global supply to return fees withheld from workers, including the Malaysian government’s foreign worker levy. Although EICC guidelines and local law allow this fee, we believe workers chains deserve fair treatment. should not be burdened with the expense and our supplier facilities should absorb the They should not have to pay to costs. In 2016, we encouraged the “employer pays principle” in the Leadership Group for work. Collaboration among Responsible Recruitment, where we outlined six steps to eradicate worker fees in the leading companies on this issue next decade with other member companies. is critical to inspire and achieve In 2016, HP also worked with the NGO ELEVATE to pilot a “workplace of choice” program the scale and momentum in two Malaysian supplier factories. Our aim is to explore different grievance mechanism needed to advance the options in order to strengthen existing platforms for workers to voice their questions and concerns. responsible recruitment of migrant workers globally.” In 2016, the NGO Know the Chain ranked HP first in its inaugural benchmark of information and communications technology companies’ efforts to protect workers in their supply Stuart Pann, HP Chief Supply Chain Officer chains from forced labor. We were also featured in a study by HULT International Business School and the Ethical Trading Initiative on corporate leadership in addressing modern slavery. View HP’s full statement in response to the UK Modern Slavery Act. Empowering and protecting workers We support the most vulnerable people in our supply chain HP seeks to protect and empower all workers who make our products both on and beyond the factory floor. Working with nonprofit partners, we conduct capability building and well-being programs that support workers’ safety, work/life balance, health, and financial security. We pay particular attention to vulnerable groups including women and students as well as foreign migrant workers. HP is committed to further developing the skills and improving the well-being of 500,000 workers by 2025, since the beginning of 2015, with a focus on vulnerable workers. During Manager documenting inventory information in a 2016, 45,700 supplier employees participated in 14 projects in 5 countries. This brings the packaging facility. total to 123,700 since the beginning of 2015. Women’s rights are human rights 16,800 Women trained and educated in Extensive research has shown that when women are healthy, educated, and can participate in the economy, their families, children, and communities benefit. Women make up a substantial part of our suppliers’ workforce, so supporting their well-being 2016 through worker well-being also contributes directly to our business success. programs In 2016, HP joined our customer Diageo, a UK beverage company, to empower more than 4,000 women in four of our supplier factories in China and Malaysia. Female workers took part in different leadership training programs that improved their ability to navigate stressful work situations (42% of participants); manage their time (29%); communicate 80 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report effectively with colleagues, leaders, and family members (27%); and improve decision making (22%). Nearly 190 women received additional training as peer educators to foster a cycle of peer education and mentorship in their communities. Wang Xia, a supervisor of quality control who took part in the program at Sunrex Suzhou, an HP keyboard supplier in China, describes her experience: “I manage 30-plus staff. Being in middle management [means] you need to deal with both your manager and your team. You need to have good communication skills, work independently, and give clear instructions to help [your team] get things done. As managers, we found the training very useful. Sometimes our work is very stressful due to the timely response needed, so our dialogue with others may be too blunt and Wang Xia speaking at the Women’s Leadership Training direct. The training allowed us to put ourselves in other worker’s shoes, and [helped] us at a Sunrex factory in China. frame questions or requests in a positive and encouraging way, This makes teams more harmonized and effective. I am proud of the team spirit of my department.” Engaging students and temporary workers In 2016, HP hosted two large supplier forums in China to reinforce our expectations for treatment of student and juvenile employees. New Chinese regulations coupled with strengthened EICC requirements supported our deepening supplier engagement on young workers’ rights and helped us to better manage the requirement in our suppliers’ work environments. The HP Supplier Code of Conduct and our industry-leading Student and Dispatch Worker Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China lay out our expectations and requirements for employing and managing these groups. We conduct student worker assessments or audits at high-risk supplier sites. In 2016, supplier conformance to our student worker requirements averaged 98%, up from 91% the previous year (see Data for more detail). In 2016 we collaborated with Disney, an HP customer, and the Center for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR-CSR) to sponsor a worker training system through WeChat, China’s largest social media platform. By scanning QR codes in posters around our supplier facilities, over 600 workers accessed educational videos, quizzes, and games about communicating with management, work/life balance, and skills development. Also with the CCR-CSR, we held training workshops at six Malaysian supplier factories where workers and managers discussed creating a more inclusive environment for migrant laborers through effective communication and awareness of Employees in a facility in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, worker rights. working through a conflict resolution scenario in a workshop with CCR-CSR. Promoting health and safety We are working toward cleaner electronics manufacturing From operating heavy machinery to handling chemicals, we have policies in place so that every factory employee can live and work in a clean, hygienic, and safe environment. HP analyzes information from our supplier monitoring tools and from our worker and stakeholder engagement to identify and address health and safety risks. In 2016, we supplemented our auditing with 10 on-site health and safety assessments. All identified nonconformances from those assessments have since been resolved. 81 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Manufacturing process substances We take a science-based approach to assessing the potential human health and environmental impacts of substances used in making HP products. The HP Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to employ robust management systems to catalog and evaluate process chemicals, eliminate or manage hazardous substances, and provide workers with protective equipment and training. Suppliers must also follow the chemical use restrictions of the HP General Specification for the Environment. We provide guidance regarding suitable alternatives through our alternative materials assessment program. For more information, see Materials. HP is a founder and design team member of the Clean Electronics Production Network’s (CEPN) Green America program, whose goal is zero exposure of workers to chemicals in electronics manufacturing processes. In 2016, we worked with CEPN on a framework to reduce and mitigate worker exposure to manufacturing process chemicals, and will continue working with stakeholders to protect worker health. Audit results Identifying risk and using data to drive change Audits measure conformance with the HP Supplier Code of Conduct and are an SER audits and important part of our system for driving sustained improvements in our suppliers’ SER assessments, 2016 performance. HP uses the Validated Audit Process (VAP), a collaborative approach that reduces the burden on partners in our supply chain from multiple requests for SER audits. The VAP meets the need for a high-quality, consistent, and cost-effective standard industry assessment of labor, ethics, health, safety, and environmental Initial audits 58 practices based on the EICC code of conduct and relevant laws and regulations. In 2016, Follow-up audits 67 we conducted 184 audits and assessments of final assembly and component suppliers. Full reaudits 30 Health and safety assessments 10 Zero-tolerance findings (immediate action required) Onboarding assessments 7 Zero-tolerance findings (immediate action required) are the most serious type of Vulnerable worker group (student 12 and foreign worker) assessments supplier nonconformance. These findings include child labor, forced labor, severe forms of discrimination, health and safety issues posing immediate danger to life or Allegation investigations 3 risk of serious injury, and perceived violation of environmental laws posing serious and immediate harm to the community. We take such findings very seriously, and require suppliers to cease all related practices and report corrective actions taken within 30 days of the original audit. We follow up closely to ensure that all required corrective actions are completed, and visit sites to confirm resolution. Zero tolerance items do not necessarily involve termination of the supplier and we will work with suppliers as appropriate to improve their performance and worker conditions in these areas. In 2016, our audits identified four zero-tolerance findings at supplier sites, including: • Two findings related to emergency preparedness at two commodities suppliers, including blocked/locked emergency exits. • One finding related to withholding foreign migrant workers’ passports and one related to workers paying employment fees, at the same commodity supplier. All of these findings have been resolved through immediate action and follow-up. We expect to see our engagement with these suppliers lead to long-term improvement in working conditions and overall SER performance. 82 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Detailed findings Most common types of major nonconformance, 2016* HP Supplier Code of Conduct provision 0 10 20 30 40 50 Number of factories Working hours Emergency preparedness Occupational safety Occupational injury and illness Hazardous substances Dormitory and canteen * Data is from audits of production suppliers; data from assessments is not included. Audit data does not necessarily represent the same supplier sites as the previous year. Almost two-thirds of the major nonconformances uncovered in our audits of production Distribution of major suppliers in 2016 continued to center on labor and health and safety. While many nonconformances by section suppliers have achieved mature SER management systems, gaps in documentation, of HP Supplier monitoring systems, and processes can lead to nonconformances. Many of these issues are relatively straightforward to resolve, such as a poorly lit exit sign or spacing Code of Conduct, 2016* percentage of total between factory lines. Other issues are more challenging, such as the lack of robust systems to track, monitor, limit, and report workers’ time, which can fluctuate depending 17% on demand and seasonal changes in production needs. To help address these issues, Management systems 27% Labor suppliers have improved their planning for fluctuations in labor demands, especially in peak seasons to accommodate natural employee turnover during times such as Chinese 6% Ethics New Year. Recent significant changes related to supplier audits included: 14% • Production suppliers in the 2015 and 2016 audit cycle were evaluated based on Environmental the most recent EICC VAP audit protocol (5.0), amended in 2015 to drive ongoing 36% Health and safety improvement by facilities and more effectively assess major risk areas. • Environment, health, and safety (EHS) experts assisted on selected audits requiring * Data is from audits; data from assessments is not technical expertise. included. Audit data does not necessarily represent the same supplier sites as the previous year. • Critical documents such as permits were reviewed in advance of audits. • New provisions were added in areas such as health and safety communication, storm water management, and energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Auditors often find nonconformances in these areas until suppliers increase their familiarity with the elevated standards. • Updated guidance was also provided on 19 major code revisions. 83 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Labor Labor Labor rates of major nonconformances Excessive working hours3 remains the biggest single labor challenge in our supply chain Environmental Labor (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) Environmental workers since(rates often of major work long hours nonconformances to audited) earn more money and suppliers lack effective of sites of sites audited (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) Freely chosen employment management systems to prevent workers Environmental permits and reporting from taking on 14% more shifts. However, among suppliers systems Freely chosen employment management 17% systems 17% in our Environmental KPI program, 89%and permits ofreporting workers related to 14%HP production met working hours Pollution requirements. prevention and resource reduction VAP audits measure working hours 2% in an entire supplier facility, whereas Presence of forced labor 5% Pollution prevention and resource reduction 2% Presence of forced labor 5% KPI suppliers are evaluated only on HP production lines. HP will continue to work closely Hazardous substances 35% Young worker protection management systems 3% with suppliers to reduce cases of nonconformance. Hazardous substances 35% Young worker protection management systems 3% Wastewater and solid waste 8% Presence of child labor 0% Major nonconformances Wastewater and solid waste related to nondiscrimination 8% management systems rose from 11% in Presence of child labor 0% 2015 to Air 23% in 2016. This is due primarily to the9% emissions recent inclusion of religious accommodation Working hours 63% Air emissions 9% Working hours 63% in the EICC Code. Many suppliers consequently lacked policies to ensure this protection. Storm water management 31% Wages and benefits 31% Wages and benefits 31% In the Storm past water management few years, HP has worked to improve 31% management systems regarding Energy vulnerable consumption and GHG emissions worker groups and we have collaborated 9% with suppliers to understand Humane treatment 2% Energy consumption and GHG emissions 9% Humane treatment 2% and implement related guidance. As a result, major nonconformance rates in young Nondiscrimination management systems 23% Nondiscrimination management systems 23% worker protection management systems decreased from 18% in 2014 to 3% in 2016. Presence of discriminatory practices 6% Also during Ethics that period, rates for freely chosen employment management systems Presence of discriminatory practices 6% Ethics (rates decreased of major24% from nonconformances to 17%. of sites audited) (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) Freedom of association 12% Business integrity 8% Freedom of association 12% Business integrity 8% Health and safety No improper advantage 3% No improper advantage 3% Due to elevated code expectations and the addition of new suppliers, rates of major Health and safety Disclosure of information nonconformance increased in occupational safety Disclosure of information 5% 5% and occupational injury and illness Healthrates of major nonconformances and safety compared to 2015. Intellectual property For occupational safety, our 2% auditors found issues such as missing Health (rates and safety of major of sites auditedof sites audited) nonconformances Intellectual property 2% (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) handrails or faulty equipment maintenance procedures. For occupational injury and Occupational safety 45% Fair business, advertising, and competition 11% Occupational safety 45% illness,Fair major nonconformances business, advertising, and competition 11% to injury and illness permits and first related primarily Emergency preparedness 58% aid response Protection reporting. of identity We worked with these 6%suppliers to better manage and report Emergency preparedness 58% Protection of identity 6% worker injuries and illness. Occupational injury and illness 38% Responsible sourcing of minerals 12% Occupational injury and illness 38% Responsible Emergency preparedness also remains a key12% sourcing of minerals challenge, with a 58% rate of major 26% Privacy 6% 47% in 2015. Most of these findings Industrial hygiene nonconformance Privacy by audited suppliers, up from 6% Industrial hygiene 26% related to inadequate exit signs and/or exit lighting Nonretaliation 5% and installation of the wrong type of Physically demanding work 12% Physically demanding work 12% Nonretaliation doors for an emergency exit, reflecting updated guidance in these areas in the EICC VAP 5% Machine safeguarding 11% audit protocol. We anticipate that performance will improve as suppliers become more Machine safeguarding 11% familiar with those changes. Dormitory and canteen 35% Dormitory and canteen 35% During 2017, we are working with two large suppliers in China and Social Accountability Health and safety communication 6% Health and safety communication 6% International (SAI) to use SAI’s TenSquared capability building program to target chemical management Management system and fire evacuation challenges over a 100-day period. Through Management this program, (rates workers of major system and managers nonconformances will of sites use root cause analysis to collectively tackle audited) Environmental health (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) and safety Company issues repeatedly found in5% commitment their factory. Environmental rates of major nonconformances Company commitment 5% ted) of sites auditedof sites audited) (rates of major nonconformances Management accountability and responsibility 14% Environmental permits and reporting 14% Environmental Management accountability and responsibility 14% 17% Legal and customer requirements 11% In 2016, Legalourandsuppliers’ hazardous substances11% customer requirements audit performance improved, with major Pollution prevention and resource reduction 2% 5% nonconformance Risk assessmentrates and riskdropping management to 35% from 23% 41% in 2014. It is crucial that suppliers Risk assessment and risk management 23% Hazardous substances 35% properly label and store all hazardous substances in their facilities. We understand the 3% Performance objectives with implementation impactplanthat and measures Performance objectivessubstances hazardous may have with implementation 17%on worker health and we are working to Wastewater and solid waste 8% 0% andand clarifyplan measures guidance in this area in strengthen 17%the EICC VAP protocol. Training 6% Air emissions 9% 63% Major Training nonconformance rates in storm water management 6% increased from 14% last year Storm water management 31% to 31% in 2016. This was largely due to the recent introduction to our program of several Communication 8% 31% Communication 8% commodity suppliers that are unfamiliar with this guidance. We will focus on this area, Worker feedback and participation 6% 2% Energy consumption and GHG emissions 9% since effective Worker feedbackstorm andwater management is essential participation 6% to improving factory resilience and addressing risks related Audits and assessments to climate change and 17% extreme weather events. 23% 84 HP 2016 Sustainability Report Audits and assessments 17% www.hp.com/sustainability Corrective action process 5% 6% Ethics Corrective action process 5% Air emissions Storm water management 9% 31% 63% 31% Energywater Storm management consumption and GHG emissions 31% 9% Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 31% 2% Energy consumption and GHG emissions 9% 2% 23% Supplier major nonconformance rates in energy consumption and GHG emissions 23% 6% Ethics Ethics (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) increased to 9% in 2016, compared to 5% the prior year. These related to incomplete 6% 12% Ethicsrates of major nonconformances tracking of energy and GHG emissions data, a new code requirement in 2015. We will Business integrity 8% of sites audited of sites audited) (rates of major nonconformances use our updated supply chain GHG emissions intensity reduction goal to drive improved 12% Business integrity No improper advantage 8% 3% management practices in this area across our supplier base. No improper Disclosure ofadvantage information 3% 5% Ethics Disclosure Intellectualofproperty information 5% 2% ted) Ethics continued to comprise the smallest proportion of major nonconformances, at 45% Intellectual property Fair business, advertising, and competition 2% 11% 6% of the total in 2016. We insist that HP suppliers uphold the highest standards of ted) integrity in all business interactions. We do not tolerate bribery, corruption, extortion, or 45% 58% Fair business, Protection advertising, and competition of identity 11% 6% embezzlement, and we require our suppliers to hold those same expectations for their 58% 38% Protection Responsible of sourcing identity of minerals 6% 12% suppliers. In each ethics category, we require supplies to prove they have monitoring and enforcement procedures in place. 38% 26% Responsible Privacy sourcing of minerals 12% 6% 26% 12% Privacy Nonretaliation 6% 5% Management systems 12% 11% Nonretaliation 5% Management systems major nonconformances remained low for most provisions in 2016, indicating relatively strong implementation of SER systems and controls. HP 11% 35% continues to work with suppliers and external partners such as Social Accountability 35% International to improve SER management systems. 6% Management systems rates of system Management major nonconformances Many HP suppliers have monitoring policies in place for their own suppliers, which 6% of sites auditedof sites audited) (rates of major nonconformances is in line with our expectations. However, 29% of suppliers audited in 2016 did not Management system demonstrate a commitment to assuring the SER performance of their suppliers, leading Company commitment 5% (rates of major nonconformances of sites audited) to nonconformances in the supplier responsibility category. In 2017, we will train first-tier Company Management commitment accountability and responsibility 5% 14% suppliers to more effectively communicate their own SER expectations to their suppliers, Management accountability and responsibility 14% using guidance from the EICC VAP audit protocol. Legal and customer requirements 11% Legal and customer Risk assessment andrequirements risk management 11% 23% Risk assessment Performance plan and measures and riskwith objectives management implementation 23% 17% Responsible minerals Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures Training 17% 6% Driving progress on conflict-free sourcing Training Communication 6% 8% HP shares global concern over the need for responsible mineral sourcing. Any possibility that the sourcing of materials used in our products might be connected to human rights Communication Worker feedback and participation 8% 6% abuses and armed violence is unacceptable. To ensure that our products are made Worker feedback Audits and and participation assessments 6% 17% responsibly, in ways that protect workers and communities, we have adopted industryleading policies and monitoring practices. Audits and action Corrective assessments process 17% 5% Eradicating any connections between our products and armed conflict requires action Corrective actionand Documentation process records 5% 5% across a complex, multilayered, global supply chain. We are broadening our approach beyond conflict minerals, to include additional minerals of concern and locations. Documentation and records Supplier responsibility 5% 29% Expanding markets for responsibly sourced minerals is also a priority for HP and our Supplier responsibility 29% industry. We collaborate with peers, across industries, and with intermediary supply chain actors to improve global supply chain practices and ensure that conflict-free minerals are widely available. Conflict minerals “Conflict minerals” refers to the mineral precursors of the metals tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) as identified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rule on conflict mineral disclosure. Revenue from mining these minerals has been widely linked to funding for groups engaged in extreme violence and human rights atrocities. HP 85 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report continues to work toward a conflict-free supply chain through rigorous management, supply chain engagement, and industry collaboration. A multi-actor supply chain We have the most influence over our direct suppliers, but in the case of trace and precious minerals we must work to affect the practices of those much deeper in the supply chain. HP is an end user of 3TG metals and typically between four and 10 supply chain stages exist between us and the smelters that purchase and process the ore into metals. While conflict minerals are rarely used in large volumes in any one product or by one company, 3TG metals are found in relatively small amounts in virtually all HP electronic products. For this reason, it is important for the IT industry to collectively engage the entire supply chain in efforts to eradicate minerals that may have directly or indirectly supported armed groups. Conceptualization Conceptualization of HP’s supplyof HP’s 3TG supply chain chain Mines, exporters, Smelters Sub-tier 3TG Direct 3TG HP traders, etc. 311 suppliers suppliers Eliminating conflict-related risks from our supply chain The greatest risk of conflict minerals entering our supply chain is through smelter ore purchasing practices. HP counters this risk by creating demand for our suppliers to use smelters that participate in the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). We aim for our suppliers to source 3TG for HP products only from smelters that comply with CFSI’s Conflict-Free Smelter Program (CFSP), which requires a third-party sourcing audit. However, our relatively small use of these metals decreases our influence, so we need all of industry to demand conflict-free 3TG. We will continue to work with our suppliers and across the industry to drive demand for conflict-free sourcing and require our suppliers to work toward removal of smelters that do not participate in a conflict-free audit scheme from our supply chain. We promote conflict-free minerals in our supply chain by: • Encouraging smelters that purchase and process mineral ores to undergo third-party sourcing audits. • Urging our production suppliers of electronic goods containing 3TG (“3TG suppliers”) to require their smelters to undergo third-party sourcing audits. • Supporting multi-stakeholder collaboration to establish secure, conflict-free sources of 3TG ores from the DRC. 86 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Status of all supplier-reported Suppliers 3TG smelters* HP sets clear expectations of 3TG suppliers in our Supply Chain Social and Environmental 350 Responsibility Policy, HP’s General Specification for the Environment, and the HP 300 Supplier Code of Conduct. We assess these suppliers’ responses to the CFSI’s Conflict 250 Minerals Reporting Template, which gives companies a common data format for sharing information about 3TG sources with business partners and suppliers up and down their 200 supply chain. We request corrective action from suppliers where needed, and provide 150 them with training materials. If any 3TG supplier reports sourcing from a smelter that 100 triggers one of our potential risk indicators, we work with the supplier to establish whether unverified material is potentially used in HP products. When we identify a risk of 50 this occurring, we request the supplier to remove the smelter from our supply chain. 0 2015 2016 During calendar year2015 2016, HP obtained 2016 acceptable responses from 3TG production suppliers representing more than 98% of our 3TG production procurement spend. Unknown 25 31  elieved to source recycled/ B 19 20 Smelters scrap or from outside the covered countries To identify and disclose these smelters and refiners, between January and December 2016 HP surveyed suppliers which contributed material, components, or manufacturing Compliant or in process** 243 260 for products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was identified in at least * As of March 2017. one of the CFSP reporting templates we received. ** S melters or refiners listed by CFSI as currently in the process of becoming CFSP-compliant and/or smelters or refiners compliant with assessment programs: Performance CFSI’s CFSP, Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC) Chain-of-Custody Certification Program, or Our suppliers reported a total of 311 3TG facilities in 2016, of which 260 are compliant the London Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA) Responsible Gold Programme. with, or in process to become compliant with, an independent assessment program. Of the remaining 3TG facilities that are not participating, we have reason to believe that 20 facilities are sourcing from outside the Covered Countries or are exclusively providing conflict minerals from recycled or scrap sources, leaving 31 3TG facilities with unknown status. All the reported tantalum smelters in our supply chain comply with CFSP, whether or not they source from the DRC and nine neighboring countries identified in the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) conflict minerals rule. Progress toward DRC Conflict-Free Type of facility Total Progress toward DRC Conflict-Free * Percentage Tantalum 44 44 100% Tin 82 75 91% Tungsten 46 41 89% Gold 139 120 86% Total 311 280 90% * Percentage of total 3TG facilities reported to HP that were either Conflict-Free Smelter Program compliant or in process to become compliant, and/or that we reasonably believe exclusively source conflict minerals from recycled or scrap sources or from outside of the Covered Countries (as of April 2017). 87 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report SEC conflicts minerals report In May 2017, HP filed its Conflict Minerals Report and Form SD with the U.S. SEC disclosing HP’s due diligence efforts and results with respect to necessary conflict minerals contained in HP products. Development International recognized HP’s 2016 submission as tied for the best in all sectors, due to its quality and thoroughness. See HP’s SEC Conflict Minerals Report. Other regions and minerals HP is committed to responsibly sourcing all minerals used in our products, and supporting the workers and communities that deliver those products for us. Learning from our experience related to conflict minerals sourcing from the DRC, we will expand our monitoring and supplier engagement activities to 3TG minerals from all regions, as well as other minerals linked to social and human rights risks. This expanded approach is due in part to the EU Conflict Minerals Regulation, formally approved in 2017, which covers EU imports of 3TG minerals from all regions of the world. This broadens the scope of mineral regulations beyond the DRC and surrounding countries as covered by the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act. The regulation will require all large EU 3TG metal importers and smelters within the EU to conduct due diligence and become “responsible importers” consistent with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance. Although HP is not within the scope of this regulation, we are aligning our policy and approach and preparing to support our customers’ requirements consistent with this regulation. Beyond 3TG, in 2016 we expanded due diligence to include cobalt, which has been linked to human rights abuses, labor issues, and exploitation. HP is working with others in our supply chain to address child labor risks in the cobalt supply chain through the Responsible Cobalt Initiative. See Human rights for more information. Multi-stakeholder initiatives Sourcing minerals responsibly requires collaboration among many stakeholders globally. HP works with businesses, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), government agencies, and our extensive network of production suppliers to meet this challenge. We often advocate for leadership on this issue in various external forums. In 2016, our global program manager presented at the UN Forum for Business and Human Rights on HP’s approach to conflict minerals sourcing and the lessons that can be applied to similar supply chains. Through CFSI, we helped to develop and share trainings, templates, and white papers to build the capabilities of the IT industry and beyond. We also expanded our collaborative efforts beyond DRC conflict minerals, joining the Responsible Cobalt Initiative, the Responsible Raw Materials Initiative, and the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals. Other prominent joint initiatives in which we played an active role included IDH’s Indonesian Tin Working Group, Kemet Partnership for Social and Economic Sustainability, Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, Responsible Minerals Multi-Stakeholder Network, and Solutions for Hope project. 88 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Supplier diversity Promoting diversity through our purchasing decisions At HP, diversity is a business imperative. We invest in improving representation by minorities and women within our supply chain and encourage diversity in suppliers’ own workforces. Just like our employees, diverse suppliers bring unique experiences and perspectives that strengthen our business, support innovation in our supply chain, and enhance local economies. Leading industry initiatives This year, we launched two leading initiatives to improve the diversity of suppliers’ own workforces. We supported a resolution by the American Bar Association urging legal service providers to expand opportunities for diverse attorneys. Our chief legal officer (CLO) and her counterparts at several other companies asked the CLOs of every Fortune 1000 company to standardize the collection of diversity data from legal service providers, to better support purchasing decisions that advance diversity. Further, in early 2017, we informed our outside law firms that they would be subject to a “diversity holdback” of up to 10% of fees if they fail to meet or exceed our diverse staffing requirements. #FREETHEBID In 2016, we also gave every advertising and PR agency we work with one year to increase minority and female representation in creative leadership and key strategy HP is one of five companies, and positions that serve HP. We will reevaluate our relationship with companies that do not the only one in IT, to work with meet this requirement. To help our agencies succeed, we are collaborating with them on FreeTheBid.com and pledge to give a voice to women in a benchmark diversity scorecard. advertising Small and diverse suppliers HP encourages small businesses and companies owned by women, minorities, veterans, aboriginal or indigenous people, and lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBTQ) individuals to compete for our business. Our Global Supplier Diversity Office oversees our programs to recruit, onboard, and support diverse suppliers. In 2016, HP had supplier diversity programs and partnerships in South Africa and the United States. To grow our business with small, diverse suppliers, HP is developing a supplier development program in the United States. Through this program, HP will provide opportunities such as business management training, business matchmaking, community engagement events, and collaborative initiatives with larger HP suppliers. We will work with the National Minority Supplier Development Council and Women’s Business Enterprise National Council to support these efforts. We are also assessing requirements in Australia, Canada, Ireland, South Africa, and the UK to better position HP to support supplier diversity in those countries in the coming years. In 2016, HP’s U.S. spend with small businesses was $1.065 billion. Spend on U.S.-based minority-owned and women-owned businesses totaled $349 million during the year.4 See Data for more detail. Moving forward, HP will focus on driving more business to small and diverse suppliers in the United States, as well as businesses that support black empowerment in South Africa. 89 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Employees Our people drive HP’s reinvention, every day Every day, HP’s 49,000 employees1 collaborate to shape the company and bring our vision to life. In 2016, in our first year as a new company, our employees’ expertise, passion, and energy have helped to redefine HP’s culture and reaffirm our purpose. We are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace that attracts exceptional talent, and to supporting our employees to succeed at all levels. Together, we are moving forward, renewed and reinvigorated to create the breakthrough technologies that will continue to improve the lives of everyone, everywhere. Our priorities Reinvent the standard Reinvent our culture Implement talent and for diversity • Connect employees at all levels to our leadership programs • Be the industry leader vision, strategy, and culture, so we can • Build a talent and leadership pipeline that deliver sustainable business results supports diversity and inclusion • Drive our strategy to Belong, Innovate, and Grow • Strengthen employee pride in HP • Develop leadership aligned with our innovation and solutions culture for all levels of employees • Embed the value of diversity internally and externally • Drive improvement in employee • Reinforce innovation, risk-taking, and engagement through global and local continuous development • Foster cultural competence and inclusion programs and forums at all levels 2016 highlights Most diverse 4,600+ 1.1 million board of directors among U.S. technology employees contributed over 54,800 hours training hours completed by employees, an companies of volunteer time in 33 countries, valued at average of 21 hours per employee $1.4 million 90 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Diversity and inclusion Diversity is a cornerstone of innovation As we pursue our mission—to engineer experiences that amaze—each HP employee brings unique experiences and perspectives to bear on HP’s capabilities and expertise. This helps us “HP Inc. creates technology for design and deliver products and services that are valued by our customers globally. everyone, everywhere, making diversity and inclusion a vital HP’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is deep and unwavering and our approach is broad, encompassing our employees, suppliers, partners, and communities. HP has part of who we are. Diversity long been one of the most transparent technology companies and a recognized industry and inclusion matters not only leader in diversity and inclusion. Strong policies guide our actions, and we continue to in the communities where we innovate new ways to increase diversity, foster inclusion, and impact business results. HP live and work, but also to the is dedicated to driving progress from the boardroom to our operations worldwide. bottom line of our business. We aim to make HP the destination for women and underrepresented groups in Dion Weisler, President and Chief technology. It’s a priority for HP—both within our company and among our partners. To Executive Officer, HP Inc. make a lasting impact, we are reinventing the standard for diversity. This shapes how our employees at all levels impact industry norms, partner with each other, make hiring and promotion decisions, and serve their communities. Our leadership HP’s commitment to diversity begins at the highest level, with our Board of Directors. Our board includes five women and five minority members with three underrepresented minorities—the most diverse board among U.S. technology companies.2 Our chief diversity officer leads efforts to advance our diversity and inclusion (D&I) strategy and to strengthen our diverse culture, above and beyond our rigorous diversity and inclusion policies. HP’s new Global Diversity Advisory Board (see below) provides additional vision, support, and employee engagement. In 2016, we launched the first HP Global Diversity Advisory Board (GDAB) to drive strategic initiatives across the company and increased accountability at all levels. This board of executive members brings perspectives from a range of organizations, roles, and geographies. Its initial priority was to understand unique regional and business conditions and establish plans to address diversity and inclusion needs locally. Our Belong, Innovate, and Grow strategy In 2016, we introduced our global Belong, Innovate, and Grow (BIG) strategy to support an inclusive culture, leverage diversity of thought and perspectives to fuel innovation, and impact our bottom line by embedding diversity and inclusion across the company. Highlights from 2016 included: • Raising gender equity in management: During the year, we increased representation of women in top marketing positions at HP to 50%. • Improving diversity in our marketing partnerships and diversifying legal service providers: See Supplier diversity for details. HP leaders (Anneliese Olson, Mithra Vankipuram, Kim Rivera, Lesley Slaton Brown, and Antonio Lucio) take • Growing a diverse talent pipeline: Strong relationships with organizations such as the part in HP’s International Women’s Week activities. ACM Richard Tapia Celebration of Diversity in Computing, BreakLine, GSVlabs Women’s Reboot, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME), Out & Equal, and The Consortium help us target diverse recruitment. • Demonstrating the business benefits of strong D&I policies and programs: Indicators included employee retention and engagement. 91 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report To foster an inclusive workplace, HP’s global standards are often higher than local legal requirements. We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment under any circumstance. Employees can report suspected breaches to their manager, the next level of management, Human Resources, or the Ethics and Compliance Office. Training employees at all levels We foster a respectful, open, and inclusive work culture by equipping employees with the tools and language they need to recognize their own implicit biases and respond in productive ways. In 2016, we launched our Unconscious Bias: Unleashing Innovation training program. Twenty-two instructors were certified globally to facilitate team sessions, and more than 500 employees completed the program. In 2017, training will continue for human resources personnel and HP managers globally. We also trained six facilitators to collaborate with HP business leaders to heighten cultural competency in our offices worldwide. More than 2,000 HP employees used our cultural competency training and online resources in the past year. Standing up for diversity In early 2017, we were among more than 120 mostly technology companies that signed an amicus brief opposing a U.S. executive order on immigration. In doing so, we demonstrated support for the contributions of immigrants to the United States, and for all HP employees and their families as a force of innovation. When four U.S. states—Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, and Tennessee—passed legislation in 2016 discriminating against the LGBTQ community, HP spoke out in opposition. In North Carolina, we also opposed HB2, a law that forces transgender people to deny, disclaim, and conceal their gender identity, particularly by using singlesex restroom facilities on state or local government property. We joined nearly 200 companies in signing a Human Rights Campaign letter opposing laws that eliminate existing municipal nondiscrimination protections for LGBTQ people. Such efforts run counter to our values and diminish a state’s ability to attract businesses. Sharing our culture and skills with communities HP’s Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) foster a positive, collaborative work environment by bringing together people with shared interests and experiences. Seventy-six active chapters focus on women, veterans, people with disabilities, generations, and Pan Asian, African American, Hispanic, and LGBTQ employees. Our global network of ERGs also engages colleagues and communities on diversity and inclusion. In 2016, 29,000 employees across 19 countries participated in 600 ERG activities. For example: HP Pride event in Boise, Idaho, United States. • Attending recruiting events with national partners including the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, National Black Engineers, and the American Indian Science and Engineering Society. • HP employees around the world volunteered their time to support Hour of Code activities in local communities, advancing science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education for girls and underrepresented minorities. 92 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report • Promoting our inaugural International Women’s Week, celebrating HP women’s contributions at site events around the world and through webcasts and employee profiles. • Participating in pride parades, the AIDS Walk San Francisco, the Lavender Law Conference & Career Fair, and the San Diego Hillcrest Youth Center’s Rainbow Prom for LGBTQ teens. • Honoring our U.S. employees with awareness campaigns, events, speakers, and panels for Black History Month, National Hispanic Heritage Month, and Native American Heritage Month. Women in IT We engage our communities to further STEM education for girls and minorities through our partnerships with Anita Borg Institute, Black Women and Girls in Computing, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering (NACME), the National Center for Women and Information Technology (NCWIT), ReBoot Career Accelerator for Women, and the Silicon Valley Young Women’s Leadership Summit. Recognition $500,000 Committed in scholarships to the In 2016, we received recognition as a Best Company by Working Mother magazine in the United States (for the 26th consecutive year) and in India and Mexico (on the inaugural lists in those countries). HP was ranked as a Top Company for Women Technologists University of Houston for top students by Anita Borg Institute, and earned a perfect score of 100 from both the Human Rights who are the first in their families to Campaign Corporate Equality Index and the Disability Equality Index. attend college Workforce demographics View detailed HP employee demographics data from 2016. To view breakdowns of the HP U.S. workforce by gender, ethnicity, and job category, see the company’s 2016 U.S. EEO-1 form. Engaging employees Helping our people thrive at work and in our communities Our business depends on innovation, and innovation requires teamwork. To engage and inspire our talented professionals, we offer employees the opportunity to build lasting and fulfilling careers and to make meaningful connections with each other and our communities. We regularly collect employee feedback to improve the employee experience and strengthen our culture. We bring our culture to life by drawing on our past as a groundbreaking technology company and embracing a spirit of reinvention as we look to the future. Our culture is united by our vision, mission, and values, and embodied in the results we pursue. 93 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Create technology that makes life better Our vision for everyone, everywhere Our mission Engineer experiences that amaze • Enthusiasm, agility, • Results through teamwork and ownership • Meaningful innovation Our values • Uncompromising integrity • Focus on customers, partners, • Trust and respect and the communities we serve Employee insight survey We regularly collect employee feedback so we can improve the employee experience. In 2016, we launched our new, companywide Voice, Insight, Action process, through which employees take a survey to provide input on their HP experience. Globally, 90% of employees participated. Results help managers understand trends and priorities and develop global plans to address survey insights. We then provide companywide quarterly updates on progress. Our objective for 2017 is to achieve a 5% year-over-year improvement in employee engagement. We plan to advance the following engagement areas through 2018: • Improving the way we work: Enhance tools and processes that increase employee productivity and effectiveness. • Developing our people: Bolster learning and development programs that further career paths. • Building our future: Drive employee alignment with HP’s strategy as they shape our culture, deliver on our mission, and achieve our vision. Recognition In 2016, 79% of employees were recognized for making a positive business impact and 51% were acknowledged by a colleague for demonstrating strong teamwork and workplace values. During the year, we launched the EZ Thanks app in 12 languages, allowing HP employees to recognize colleagues from mobile devices. We’ll continue to ensure that our recognition tools and programs are strategically aligned with HP’s reinvention journey and that they reinforce our values, behaviors, and actions. Community involvement Volunteerism is a cornerstone of HP’s strong reputation as an employer and corporate citizen, helping us attract and retain great people and strengthen relationships with our HP employee Mary Kate Howard demonstrated a local communities. A global network of nearly 70 sustainability innovation leads helps desktop teardown for underrepresented youth drive our volunteering strategy. They meet monthly to coordinate a wide range of group in Houston, Texas, United States. volunteering opportunities across the company. 94 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report In 2016, we launched the Time Off Community Support Grant program. Individuals can apply for a week of paid time off to volunteer in addition to the four hours of paid time off available to all employees monthly. Nine employees participated in this new program, supporting efforts such as the Nyaka AIDS Orphans Project in Uganda, the Street to School organization in Pakistan, and an initiative to help WWF-Canada identify opportunities to grow its volunteering program. Combined with other volunteering opportunities, more than 4,600 employees contributed over 54,800 hours in 33 countries during the year. HP employee volunteers from Lima, Peru, used bubbles When employees volunteer their expertise and skills, they bring added value to nonprofit as a fun way to teach STEM concepts to girls ages 8-11 organizations while developing professionally. Eleven percent of the hours volunteered at the Mini Academy of Science & Technology after school program. globally in 2016 were skills-based, in areas such as education, youth development, and animal welfare. In 2017, we are working to increase employee involvement in volunteering, particularly during the Global Month of Service. $1.4 Employees also donated $1.13 million in cash to qualifying organizations during 2016 through our HP Inspires Giving program. The HP Foundation contributed $1.02 million in matching funds. Moving forward, we’ll continue to expand the program’s reach and million participation globally. of value in HP employee Helping teach the next generation how to code volunteering contributed in Understanding technology provides students with valuable educational and professional 20163 pathways. HP employees volunteer with two computer science organizations that reach underserved communities, particularly young women, and help HP identify future possible talent. In 2016, more than 1,000 HP volunteers, from 27 sites, participated in Hour of Code in 140 schools and communities around the globe, teaching 17,000 underserved K-12 students valuable computer science skills. HP also sponsors CodeWars, a global competition that challenges high school teams from around the world to tackle 20 programming problems in just three hours. In 2016, HP volunteers supported 1,650 students in Spain, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and the United States in the competition. Talent development Building a pipeline of engaged leaders Our continued success relies on developing and maintaining a strong pipeline of diverse, talented, and informed leaders. To help our employees learn and grow, we provide face-to-face and virtual training, trainee programs, mentoring, and coaching. In 2016, employees completed over 1 million training hours in learning and development, an average of 21 hours per person. We also offer engaging digital and mobile channels that support learning and development. Our new state-of-the-art social learning platform, HP Brain Candy, aggregates educational articles, videos, and courses from across the web into a central portal, available to all employees anytime. Learning can be self-directed or follow a set curriculum track. Employees can share, follow, and comment on content, and join communities with curated content. As of November 2016, 40% of employees were active on Brain Candy, engaging with 40,000 content items including 900 business and technology courses. 95 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report In 2016, we shifted our performance review process to include frequent, consistent, and engaging conversations between employees and managers. Our aim is to advance employees’ skills faster than in traditional annual review cycles. As a part of this process, managers focus on what employees accomplished and how they reached those achievements, to reinforce positive habits. With support from human resources, leaders now provide rewards based on their judgment, rather than a rating system. In 2016, 97% of eligible employees received performance input. Compensation and benefits Attracting and retaining top talent Rewarding employees’ hard work drives engagement and performance. HP sets salaries, bonuses, and other incentives that are performance-based and market-competitive. We complete at least one annual performance review cycle for pay and benefits globally. See Talent development for information about performance reviews. Employees are eligible for a range of benefits everywhere we operate. In 2016, depending on location, these included: • Retirement and savings plans • Increased debt assistance for student loans • Time off Two flexible personal days off in addition to HP’s standard holiday schedule Parental leave up to four weeks Adoption leave up to eight weeks • Health and wellness plans • Income-protection insurance covering risks from injury or illness • Flexible working arrangements • Employee stock purchasing plan Wellness Taking a holistic approach to employee wellness The physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our employees is vital to HP’s success. Program highlights from 2016 included: • Physical health: Working in teams, 15,000 employees around the world walked nearly 5 billion steps in our annual Global Wellness Challenge. A third of participants lost weight and 94% indicated they would take part again. HP received the MarCom Platinum Award for marketing the campaign. Our Power of Prevention program provided on-site cancer prevention screenings and early detection, as well as online support services. During the year, employees from 42 countries participated and through the program we provided more than 4,700 skin cancer screenings in the United States alone. • Stress management and emotional resilience: To help employees manage stress we launched our Reset. Rethink. Resilient. online electronic campaign and resources. 96 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report • Financial wellness: In summer 2016, we hosted a virtual Q&A with an expert panel of financial advisors and investors attended by 1,470 employees. In recognition of our efforts in this area, we received the Health Leadership for Business Excellence Award from the nonprofit National Business Group on Health. In 2017, we will roll out a comprehensive online well-being platform with healthy habit tracking tools and fun challenges to help motivate our employees and families to make positive changes. Health and safety A safe and healthy workplace, by design HP’s offices, production facilities, warehouses, and labs are designed to keep employees safe, healthy, and productive. We focus on the challenges most relevant to our business operations—slips, trips, and falls, and ergonomic issues. Improving our best practice environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management processes is an ongoing effort. In 2016, we maintained ISO 14001 certification across our facilities. Every HP site follows our global Environment, Health, and Safety Policy and management system. The latter aligns with two leading standards: • ANZI Z10, American National Standards Institute • ILO-OSH 2001, International Labour Organization All HP facilities employ EHS personnel, and a Global EHS team provides oversight. We monitor changes in EHS legislation and standardize how we assess risk and meet legal requirements everywhere we operate. Our high-tech manufacturing facilities in Corvallis, Oregon, United States; Leixlip, Ireland; Singapore; and Kiryat Gat, Israel, carry the greatest health and safety risks and are a focus for the EHS team. Engaging employees about relevant policies, processes, and regulatory compliance issues is central to our EHS strategy. In 2016, over 2,900 employees, including managers, participated in 158 instructor-led trainings, and more than 13,600 employees enrolled in 85 web-based trainings on EHS. We also notified employees on 18 different health advisories, including Zika, Ebola, and measles. We use a health and safety data-collection and tracking system to monitor injury trends regionally and globally, and to report on our performance. Across our operations, we maintained low accident and injury rates in 2016, with a global lost workday case rate of 0.16 and a recordable incidence rate of 0.22. The top three categories of workrelated injuries at HP related to slips, trips, and falls (34% of lost workdays), automobile accidents (26%), and struck by/against/cut by incidents (22%). We perform accident investigations and take preventative action to prevent future occurrences. View Data for more detail. 97 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Communities Empowering people everywhere to thrive Technology can open doors to abundant opportunity. But for a large portion of society, participating in a rapidly evolving and connected world remains out of reach. Ensuring that people have access to computing and can optimize its potential is essential to building an inclusive economy where everyone can thrive. Our priorities Accelerate economic Advance quality learning and Assist organizations and opportunities digital literacy communities in need • Enable people at all levels to build skills to • Reinvent the classroom to engage • Respond to disasters when they strike improve their employability students, empower educators, and build • Share time and skills to build community • Provide free, self-paced online business vibrant communities resilience and technology skills courses • Deliver connected learning solutions to • Apply resources to advance the causes • Innovate ways of doing business to open people who are displaced, isolated, or our people care about most new market opportunities and drive living in underserved communities inclusion • Advise on national human capital • Empower employees to make loans to development strategies enabled by micro-entrepreneurs technology • Help people develop relevant skills to participate in the digital economy 2016 highlights 1,250+ 60 $675,000 jobs generated based on skills gained in schools in 11 countries received state-ofspent on disaster relief and preparedness the first three years of the Mashrou3i the-art HP Learning Studios project in Tunisia1 Total HP social investments in 2016 equaled $4.38 million in value2 View Data for more detail. Our goal 100 million Enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025, since the beginning of 2015 98 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP uses its expertise and resources to create meaningful and measurable economic, educational, and social outcomes globally. We invest in programs and provide technology solutions that meet students where they are, and take them where they want to go. We bring quality learning and digital literacy to people of all levels and abilities, to improve their skills and employability. When natural disasters destabilize communities, we work with partners to speed recovery and reconnect vital networks. Complementing company and HP Foundation3 giving, our employees donate time, expertise, and money to support the communities where we live and work. HP has set bold goals for its business and community investment initiatives related to education. To scale and better understand our impact, we work with nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and public and private sector partners around the world. Entrepreneurship Accelerate economic opportunities In low-income, displaced, and often remote communities, many people lack the technology and training to access the benefits of the global economy. By reinventing job-skills training, and providing educational opportunities, HP helps students, the unemployed, small businesses, and would-be entrepreneurs gain practical business and IT skills and connect to new economic opportunities. HP LIFE 631,000+ HP LIFE users across 200 countries To bridge the “digital divide” we provide core business and IT skills free of charge for start-ups, students, and small businesses through HP LIFE (Learning Initiative for Entrepreneurs), a global e-learning program of the HP Foundation. HP LIFE is available and territories since 2012 in seven languages and offers 27 e-learning courses with 24/7 access, ranging from marketing to finance and operations basics. Our target is to empower another 1 million aspiring entrepreneurs by enrolling them in HP LIFE between 2015 and 2025, contributing to our overall goal to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025. During 2016, 53,000 people enrolled in the program. The HP Foundation partners with organizations such as Indiana University, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to bring HP LIFE to underserved communities, helping would-be entrepreneurs unlock their potential. These initiatives employ local educators in face-toface skills training in low and middle income countries. Tunisia HP LIFE students at International Medical Corps In 2016, we completed the first three-year phase of the Mashrou3i skills and job creation Livelihoods Center for refugees in Turkey. project, a partnership with the USAID, UNIDO, and the Italian Development Cooperation. We provided free access to computing and printing, and more than 13,000 users enrolled in HP LIFE courses, resulting in the creation of more than 1,250 jobs and 160 startup businesses.4 In January 2017, we launched the second phase of this public-private partnership extending the project for another five years and covering 14 vulnerable governorates of Tunisia. A combined $14 million will be invested by USAID, UNIDO, the Italian Development Cooperation, and the HP Foundation to support the program and provide direct support to aspiring and existing entrepreneurs through training courses, business coaching, and technical assistance. 99 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Myanmar As Myanmar’s economy becomes more open, we are helping provide physical learning centers where small business owners can develop entrepreneurship and IT skills, and business school educators can enhance their capabilities. Funding for the ADEPT (Advancement and Development through Entrepreneurship Programs and Training) program comes from HP, USAID, Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business, BSR, and VinaCapital’s Lotus Impact fund. In 2016, five new learning centers opened, each equipped with HP technology and HP LIFE. Through October 2016, more than 2,800 students, entrepreneurs, aspiring entrepreneurs, job seekers, and small business owners attended the 13 HP LIFE centers nationwide. To build on HP LIFE’s global success, we will launch new partnerships in 2017 that further the program’s reach and draw on employee expertise to update and expand course offerings. Sustainable opportunities in Haiti In 2016, HP committed to improve conditions at the Truitier landfill in Haiti over a threeyear period. In partnership with Thread International, Timberland, Team Tassy, and ACOP (Association des Collecteurs des Objets en Plastique), we are driving progress toward a more circular and inclusive economy. More than 300 children currently collect recyclable materials from the Truitier landfill. These children and their families are exposed daily to hazardous working conditions. This joint initiative aims to improve the lives of the children by providing them with A collector gathers and sorts bottles for recycling educational opportunities, including more than 200 scholarships, as well as full access in Haiti. to medical care and health and safety trainings. Additionally, commitment partners will provide job training for the adult family members of the children who are also working in the landfill, and will invest over $150,000 in entrepreneurs, microenterprises, and/or small-to-medium enterprises in targeted neighborhoods. As part of this commitment, HP is purchasing recycled plastic made with raw materials collected in Haiti, for use in our closed loop ink cartridge recycling program. By opening a new market opportunity, generating a steady revenue stream, and partnering to improve conditions for workers, HP is helping to create jobs and bring dignity to the collectors of recyclables in Haiti—all while creating sustainable ink cartridges. Matter to a Million About 2.5 billion people in developing countries, many of whom dream of opening a small business, lack access to mainstream banking services. Kiva is a nonprofit microlender that connects low-income entrepreneurs to capital to buy business essentials such as tools, supplies, and livestock. Through Matter to a Million, a global engagement program, the HP Foundation provides each HP employee a $25 credit annually to loan to Kiva borrowers. In 2016, 46% of HP employees took part, generating more than 45,300 loans totaling $1.1 million. 100 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Education Advance quality learning and digital inclusion A quality education opens doors to new ideas and better opportunities. HP is improving access to quality education and lifelong learning for all in the classroom and beyond, serving communities that need the most support. We deliver flexible, connected learning solutions and help educators implement IT in ways that can transform education. More than 9.5 million students and adult learners have benefited from HP’s efforts to improve the quality of learning and digital literacy since the beginning of 2015, with the aim to enable better learning outcomes for 100 million people by 2025. Reinvent the Classroom with HP Learning Studios Improving education outcomes starts by reinventing the classroom in ways that engage students, empower educators, and build strong and vibrant communities. HP is driving innovative, experiential learning at 60 schools in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United States, and seven countries in Europe. HP’s Reinvent the Classroom is a multimillion-dollar initiative that provides immersive, technology-driven learning experiences for students across five continents in partnership with Microsoft and nonprofit Digital Promise. HP Sprout Pro. Schools or community sites receive an HP Learning Studio that engages students in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), design thinking, and social entrepreneurship. Learning Studios are outfitted with HP’s innovative solutions, including the Sprout Pro, PageWide printer, and HP Education Edition PCs, as well as a Dremel 3D printer. Teacher-training resources, including content and curriculum, supplement the technology to develop students’ inquiry, collaboration, and critical thinking skills. HP also created a global community for teachers to exchange best practices, lesson plans, and student work. Based on interim research about students’ experience in the program: “Education is a core market • 75% reported that they kept working on assignments beyond what was required, tried for our technology, but it’s also solving a problem more than once, and/or kept working on a tough problem until they solved it. vital to powering the next • 69% reported choosing to collaborate with classmates they do not usually work with generation of inventors, and helping classmates brainstorm. leaders, and future employees. • 66% reported setting goals, seeking feedback, and taking risks. The opportunities provided • 54% reported increased confidence in their “making” abilities, such as creating digital by a quality education should 3D models and assembling objects without instructions. not be limited by location HP is also providing six HP Learning Studios in the Middle East to empower young refugees. or circumstance—everyone, everywhere deserves the right to learn and achieve Delivering quality education for all their potential.” The potential for technology to deliver quality learning and transform education outcomes for students is substantial. HP’s National Education Technology Assessment Gus Schmedlen, HP Vice President of Worldwide Education (NETA) framework enables governments globally to understand and evaluate the impact of reform on educational outcomes. 101 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Through NETA, HP provides consulting support to ministries of education, finance, and economic development. Through 2016, our education solutions team has prepared several nationwide education technology readiness assessments and guidance reports for countries including Ecuador, Hungary, Indonesia, Oman, Peru, Rwanda, and the United States, reaching over 100,000 stakeholders. To conduct these assessments, HP education experts embed in schools, along with qualified nonprofit third-party observers. We then produce recommendations that help shape educational systems and improve outcomes in these countries. Underpinning our recommendations is the HP Learning, Economic, and Social Index (LESI). A proprietary, transnational benchmark, LESI tracks over 35,000 data points across educational, economic, and social domains. HP’s macro-evaluation and hyperlocal insights provide a powerful, actionable assessment of a nation’s human capital development potential. HP World on Wheels Remote regions of emerging countries are often left behind in the connected global economy. Providing people with access to learning that boosts economic opportunity and employability requires technology combined with innovative thinking. In November 2016, HP committed to build and deploy 48 mobile, self-contained, Internet-enabled digital inclusion and learning labs to help bridge this gap in rural India. The HP World on Wheels program will support digital literacy, provide education programming and entrepreneurship training, and connect students, entrepreneurs, and community members to government programs. Each 20-seat mobile learning lab is equipped with HP computers and printers, Students participate in HP World on Wheels program. software suites, and e-learning tools, and is powered by high-efficiency solar panels and battery packs that store enough energy to sustain the lab, even on cloudy or rainy days. The program supports the Indian government’s Digital India initiative and aims to reach 6,400 Indian villages and impact more than 15 million people over the next six years. Empowering young refugees HP has long been committed to helping displaced individuals improve their lives through “The refugee community is full technology, including by funding and providing technology to dozens of Community Technology Access centers run by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in of untapped potential, but is refugee camps across 26 countries. challenged with growing those In 2016, we were among the first 15 companies to answer the White House Call to Action talents and skills due to lack of to aid refugees in the United States and abroad through new, meaningful commitments access to technology and the that have a lasting impact. HP will empower youth and adult refugees by providing digital world. HP is empowering access to learning and skills that improve their employment prospects. As part of refugees to build a better, more our commitment, we will provide refugee youth in the Middle East with tools to learn prosperous life through access business and IT skills in partnership with Digital Promise, the Global Business Coalition for Education, Intel, and Microsoft. to quality education and employment opportunities.” Committed technology will include six state-of-the-art Learning Studios powered by HP Education Edition PCs and a suite of software designed for the needs of displaced Nate Hurst, Chief Sustainability and Social Impact Officer, HP students. Adults will develop skills through HP LIFE’s (a global e-learning program of the HP Foundation) innovative curriculum and teacher training services. 102 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report During 2016, we also supported refugees by providing HP technology and HP LIFE training resources to the International Medical Corps’ Livelihoods Center in Istanbul, Turkey. In addition, we sponsor the Girls Truth Seekers Education Project, which enables Syrian refugee girls living in countries that border their homeland to attend virtual, online English classes and connect with Girl Scouts based in the Washington D.C. area. This program is a partnership with the Global Alliance Institute and Girl Scouts Nation’s Capital. Disaster recovery and volunteerism Assist organizations and communities in need When disasters strike, we are there to assist. HP, our employees, and the HP Foundation together provide financial support for affected communities, working with expert partners including the American Red Cross and the Silicon Valley Community Foundation. In 2016, the HP Foundation provided $425,000 to assist with disaster relief and recovery efforts related to earthquakes, flooding, terrorist attack, and other emergencies in France, Italy, Romania, the United States, and other locations. We also funded $250,000 in disaster preparedness initiatives. See Data for more detail. With a reach spanning many countries around the world, our employees volunteer their time and skills to strengthen communities where we live and work. From teaching young women to code in the United States, to supporting AIDS orphans in Uganda, more than 4,600 employees contributed over 54,800 hours to local efforts in 2016. See Engaging employees for more detail. 103 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Data Supply chain responsibility* 2016 Suppliers publishing sustainability reports using the GRI framework [% of production supplier spend] 86% Capability building Number of capability-building programs 14 Workers and managers reached through capability-building programs** 45,700 Workers’ rights Suppliers’ employees working fewer than 60 hours per week on average *** [%] 89% Suppliers’ employees receiving at least one day of rest each seven-day workweek*** [%] 96% Suppliers in China with student workers representing 20% or less of total employees*** [%] 98% Zero-tolerance audit findings (immediate action required) related to the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: freedom 2 of association; forced, bonded, or indentured labor; child labor; or discrimination† Zero-tolerance audit findings (immediate action required) related to occupational safety, emergency preparedness, or industrial hygiene† 2 Workers at sites audited†† [total] 96,400 SER audits and assessments conducted [total] Initial audits 58 Follow-up audits 67 Full reaudits 30 Assessments 29 Rates of major nonconformance of sites audited (see below) * Data in this table is specific to production suppliers, except SER audits conducted, which also includes 23 initial audits and 9 follow-up audits of nonproduction suppliers. The results of those audits are not included in the nonconformance data in this section or in the total number of workers at sites audited. ** With the exception of train-the-trainer programs, HP only accounts for workers and managers directly reached by our capability-building programs. Number of workers and managers reached each year depends on the programs executed; some programs address issues broadly across suppliers and workers; other programs focus more narrowly on individual supplier sites or specific vulnerable worker groups. *** Based on production-line workers at final assembly and select commodity sites participating in the HP KPI program. We continue to expand the list of suppliers in the KPI program based on business risk, country risk, and identified nonconformances. † See page 82 for detail. †† Number of workers as of the date of the site visit per the production and nonproduction initial supplier audit reports. Rates of major nonconformance of sites audited, 2016* HP Supplier Code of Conduct category/provision Global Greater China Asia Pacific Americas Labor Freely chosen employment management systems 17% 17% 20% 15% Presence of forced labor 5% 3% 7% 8% Young worker protection management systems 3% 6% 0% 0% Presence of child labor 0% 0% 0% 0% Working hours 63% 81% 40% 46% Wages and benefits 31% 44% 20% 8% Humane treatment 2% 0% 7% 0% Nondiscrimination management systems 23% 22% 27% 15% Presence of discriminatory practices 6% 6% 13% 0% Freedom of association 13% 14% 13% 8% Health and safety Occupational safety 45% 58% 20% 38% Emergency preparedness 58% 67% 33% 69% Occupational injury and illness 38% 47% 20% 38% Industrial hygiene 26% 33% 20% 15% Physically demanding work 12% 11% 13% 15% 104 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Rates of major nonconformance of sites audited, 2016* HP Supplier Code of Conduct category/provision Global Greater China Asia Pacific Americas Machine safeguarding 11% 14% 7% 8% Dormitory and canteen 35% 36% 27% 46% Health and safety communication 6% 6% 7% 8% Environmental Environmental permits and reporting 14% 19% 7% 8% Pollution prevention and resource reduction 2% 0% 0% 8% Hazardous substances 35% 39% 27% 38% Wastewater and solid waste 8% 14% 0% 0% Air emissions 9% 11% 0% 15% Storm water management 31% 36% 20% 31% Energy consumption and GHG emissions 9% 8% 0% 23% Ethics Business integrity 8% 3% 7% 23% No improper advantage 3% 0% 0% 15% Disclosure of information 5% 3% 0% 15% Intellectual property 2% 3% 0% 0% Fair business, advertising, and competition 11% 8% 13% 15% Protection of identity 6% 3% 7% 15% Responsible sourcing of minerals 12% 14% 0% 23% Privacy 6% 0% 7% 23% Nonretaliation 5% 0% 7% 15% Management system Company commitment 5% 3% 0% 15% Management accountability and responsibility 14% 8% 7% 38% Legal and customer requirements 11% 8% 0% 31% Risk assessment and risk management 23% 17% 7% 62% Performance objectives with implementation plan and measures 17% 19% 0% 31% Training 6% 6% 7% 8% Communication 8% 0% 13% 23% Worker feedback and participation 6% 3% 7% 15% Audits and assessments 17% 8% 13% 46% Corrective action process 5% 3% 7% 8% Documentation and records 5% 6% 0% 8% Supplier responsibility 29% 22% 20% 62% * Data is from audits of production suppliers; data from assessments is not included. Audit data does not necessarily represent the same supplier sites as the previous year. Results from a single audit in Europe are included in the global totals. HP’s spend with U.S. diverse suppliers * [$ million] 2016 Small businesses $1,065 Minority-owned businesses** $190 Women-owned businesses** $159 Veteran-owned businesses, service disabled veteran-owned $53 businesses, HUBZone businesses, and others*** * Figures are for purchases in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Europe, and Asia from U.S.-based businesses. ** Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. These categories include all sizes of businesses. *** Includes all sizes of business in these categories. 105 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Employees 2016 Employees (regular full time and part Men Women Total time) by region and gender, 2016* Women employees [% of total] Americas 12,531 6,472 19,012 Americas 34.0% Asia Pacific and Japan 11,090 7,417 18,525 Asia Pacific and Japan 40.0% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,856 4,192 11,076 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 37.8% Total 30,477 18,081 48,613 Worldwide 37.2% * In some cases, the total does not equal the sum of the segments because the gender Women managers [% of total] of some employees is uncategorized. Americas 30.4% Asia Pacific and Japan 24.2% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.0% World workforce by age group, 2016* % of total* Worldwide 28.0% 30 and under 20.4% Global new hires, by gender * [% of total] 31–50 62.5% Female 40.9% 51 and over 16.3% * Sum of age groups does not equal 100% because the age of some employees is Male 58.2% uncategorized. U.S. new hires, by race ** [% of total] White 48.0% All minorities 26.8% Black 5.3% Hispanic 6.3% Asian 10.7% Native American 0.7% * Sum of “Female” and “Male” does not equal 100% due to a small number of new hires that did not declare a gender. ** Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” because some people do not declare or do not fall into these categories. For the purpose of this table, those who did not declare were not included in the analysis nor placed into a default classification. Employees (regular full time and part time) by employment type and gender, 2016* Women % Men % Total Full time Executives 75 25.9% 215 74.1% 290 Directors 265 27.5% 698 72.4% 964 Managers 1,212 27.9% 3,130 72.1% 4,343 Professionals 11,411 36.0% 20,226 63.9% 31,674 Other 4,699 43.3% 6,141 56.6% 10,856 Subtotal 17,662 36.7% 30,410 63.2% 48,127 Part time Executives 0 0% 0 0% 0 Directors 4 100% 0 0% 4 Managers 16 84.2% 3 15.8% 19 Professionals 354 85.3% 61 14.7% 415 Other 45 93.8% 3 6.3% 48 Subtotal 419 86.2% 67 13.8% 486 Total Total 18,081 37.2% 30,477 62.8% 48,558 * In some cases, the total does not equal the sum of the segments because the gender of some employees is uncategorized. 106 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 2016 2016 Lost workday case rate, 2016* Leading causes of lost workdays (% of total) Global 0.16 Slips, trips, and falls 34% Americas 0.12 Automobile accidents 26% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.36 Struck by/against/cut by 22% Asia Pacific and Japan 0.06 Ergonomics—materials handling 11% Recordable incidence rate, 2016** Overexertion—not materials handling 3% Global 0.22 Leading causes of recordable incidents (with and without lost time) (% of total) Americas 0.23 Struck by/against/cut by 35% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.43 Slips, trips, and falls 27% Asia Pacific and Japan 0.07 Automobile accidents 13% Ergonomics—materials handling 11% Ergonomics—office environment 6% * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definitions for recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2016 for the “Other Information Services”–NAICS #519 industry was 0.16. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in Australia, China, India, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. ** Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around the world and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2016 for the “Other Information Services”–NAICS #519 industry was 0.22. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, and the United States. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents in Australia, China, India, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Communities Total social investment spend 2016 Disaster preparedness and relief, 2016* Social investment * [$ million] $4.38 Description of event Location Partners Amount Cash $1.06 Disaster Responder American Red Cross $250,000 Grant Products** $1.91 Earthquake Italy Silicon Valley $100,000 Services*** $1.41 Community Foundation Social investment [% of net earnings] 0.2% Flooding Louisiana, American Red Cross $100,000 U.S. employee participation in Cash Matching Program United States [number of employees] Fire Romania Romanian Red Cross $50,000 Cash Matching Program 2,800 Shooting Paris, France Assistance $50,000 Contributions to Cash Matching Program [$ million] PubliqueParis U.S. employee contributions to Cash Matching Program $1.13 Hospital HP Foundation contributions to Cash Matching Program $1.02 Flooding Texas, United American Red Cross $50,000 States * Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP, plus Cyclone Fiji International $25,000 the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data excludes investments in some Federation of Red of the initiatives described in the Communities section, such as HP Reinvent the Cross Classroom, HP Learning Studios, and HP National Education Technology Assessment. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but Earthquake Ecuador American Red Cross $25,000 includes HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. Earthquake Japan Silicon Valley $25,000 ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer Community would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on Foundation the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Total $675,000 *** Services include the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. * The totals shown in this table represent the total donation per disaster, to the nearest $1,000, and may span multiple fiscal years. Figures include employee donations as well as matched funds and grants from the HP Foundation. 107 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability INT Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Integrity HP is committed to always acting with integrity, fairness, and accountability, which are fundamental to an inclusive society and a thriving business. 108 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Corporate ethics Reaffirming customer and stakeholder trust, every day We work every day to uphold our reputation for integrity and ethical leadership. As a result, our employees are proud to work at HP, and customers, partners, and suppliers want to do business with us. 99.74% Everyone at HP is expected to meet the highest ethical standards and to treat others with integrity, respect, and fairness. Our Standards of Business Conduct (SBC), updated in 2016 using simpler, clearer language, outlines expected employee behaviors, and is of HP employees, including senior executives, completed supported by comprehensive training and communication, additional targeted policies, ethics training in 2016 and robust governance at every level. HP is committed to complying with all applicable laws and regulations everywhere we operate. Beyond our own operations, we use our scale and influence to encourage and support ethical conduct by our suppliers, partners, and the broader IT industry. Read more in Supply chain responsibility and Human rights. Goals 2016 goals Status Continue to improve the amenities screening and approval process and related training. Achieved Develop, implement, and enhance controls tailored to HP’s corruption risks. Achieved Continue to improve and enhance U.S. public sector business controls. Achieved Maintain greater than 99% completion rate of annual SBC training among active HP Achieved employees and the Board of Directors. (99.74%) Streamline the SBC investigations process to increase speed and transparency. Achieved Tailor ethics communications and tools to align with HP’s culture and ensure that our values Achieved are carried forward and upheld. 2017 goals Maintain greater than 99% completion rate of annual SBC training among active HP employees and the Board of Directors. 109 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Governance Clear lines of authority and oversight HP’s Ethics and Compliance Office, within Global Legal Affairs, manages ethical issues across our global operations. The following graphic illustrates governance of ethics and compliance at HP. 7. Ethics and compliance governance structure Board of Directors The 12-member Board is responsible for overseeing ethics and compliance at HP. The board is chaired by Meg Whitman, who served as President and Chief Executive Oﬀicer of Hewlett-Packard Company prior to separation, and a substantial majority of members are independent directors. BoD Audit Committee BoD Nominating, Governance and Ethics and Provides nonexecutive input and guidance Social Responsibility Committee (NGSR) Compliance Committee to the Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice. Responsible for overseeing our sustainability initiatives Composed of HP executives, provides under the pillars of environment, society, and integrity. oversight and guidance on the design and implementation of our ethics NGSR Committee members discuss the value of and compliance program. sustainability to HP in this video. Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice (within Global Legal Aﬀairs) Manages ethical issues across our global operations. Specific responsibilities include oversight of the SBC, coordination of the company’s Compliance Assessment Program, management of anti-corruption and privacy, and the design and management of processes that prevent, mitigate, and remediate all related business impacts. Ethics, Investigations, and Communications/Training Team Oversees programs to inform and support employees on and investigate topics related to our ethics policies and SBC. See HP’s Governance page for more information about the board’s composition, its committees and respective charters, our company bylaws, and our Corporate Governance Guidelines. 110 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Reporting ethics concerns Open-door approach We make it easy for stakeholders anywhere, including employees, customers, business Items reported to HP global partners, and suppliers, to ask questions or report an ethics concern without fear of SBC team or other compliance retaliation. Reporting avenues include email, an internal online form, a global 24-hour toll-free hotline with translation, mail, or in person. We offer anonymous reporting functions, 2016 Percentage of total options where allowed by law. Employees can also reach out to their supervisor or more senior managers, seek advice from internal ethics and compliance experts, or consult local SBC teams or SBC liaisons at any time. Learn more. Total number of reported items in 2016: 342 Investigating concerns 2016 Human resources 24% Suspected violations of our SBC damage the trust of customers and other stakeholders. We take all alleged violations seriously, respond quickly, and take disciplinary or remedial Fraud 12% actions when appropriate. Representatives from our legal, controllership, and human Conflicts of interest 11% resources teams conduct local investigations. In cases where allegations are escalated, a Misuse of assets 11% dedicated team in Global Legal Affairs takes over. Workplace security and theft 8% In 2016, HP launched a new investigation process, which improved our capability to Anti-corruption * 7% perform investigation-related functions in-house. We also enhanced our global case Financial and public reporting 4% management system, so that we can spot potential trends in ethics violations and Competition 2% determine whether and where additional controls may be necessary. These initiatives enabled us to improve our investigation time. Moving forward, we will continue to further Confidentiality 2% increase our ability to analyze data in-house. Customer relationships 2% Sales channel violations 2% Ethics training Other 15% * The Anti-corruption category is broadly defined and includes allegations of commercial bribery, kickbacks, and Global Business Amenities Policy violations, as well as alleged corruption related to foreign public Maintaining an ethical culture requires everyone’s officials. participation All employees and board members complete an annual SBC training course which covers key policies and procedures, ethics, and high-risk issues. Frontline employees and select partners in higher-risk countries also receive online and in-person training and guidance from our Ethics and Compliance Office and members of the Global Legal Affairs team. In 2016, we shortened the training, and used interactive case studies to make the content more relevant and impactful. We achieved a 99.74% participation rate, despite reducing the training window from 18 to five weeks. Each quarter, we celebrate “Ethics Champions” who demonstrate ethical leadership or model HP values. In 2016, six employees won recognition for their standout contributions, including reporting suspected misconduct and demonstrating a deep understanding of ethics policies in interactions with customers and suppliers. 111 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Anti-corruption We actively protect ourselves from corruption risk Corruption presents a significant risk for the IT industry. It disrupts fair competition, threatens customer trust, and undermines HP values. We are vigilant in combating corruption and do not tolerate corrupt behavior of any kind, including bribery and kickbacks. Our Anti-corruption compliance program requires HP employees, business partners, and suppliers to follow all applicable national laws and regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. In addition, suppliers must comply with our rigorous internal standards, including our Anti-corruption Policy and Global Business Amenities Policy. In 2016, we improved the functionality of our online Amenities Approval Tool, which streamlines approvals for providing or receiving business amenities such as meals, travel, entertainment, or gifts. Risk assessment and audits Anticipating potential corruption risks across our global operations helps HP to operate safely and securely and protect our reputation. We use both internal data and Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index to detect high-risk regions, assess risks related to third-party business partners, and then alert relevant employees. We benchmark our approach against peer companies to identify best practices in areas including operational procedures, employee education, and supplier and partner training and monitoring. HP conducts regular audits focused on potential corruption risks, including audits of our own operations. In 2016, we assessed corruption-related risks for the company. We also conducted risk assessments of third parties including sales intermediaries or “agents,” suppliers, lobbyists, and channel reseller partners. These assessments used an improved due diligence questionnaire, focusing on organizations with high-risk profiles. We will continue to enhance our third-party screening program to ensure consistent and comprehensive review. Anti-corruption training Anti-corruption content is central to the annual SBC refresher training course for all employees. We also provide specialist training to staff in sensitive jobs. For example, in 2016: • More than 27,000 employees worldwide received specialist training and there were an additional 41 live (face-to-face and virtual) sessions. • Over 2,000 employees completed training tailored to the unique requirements of conducting business with the U.S. government. In addition, we communicate globally year-round to reinforce compliance policies, controls, and training. This is intensified around critical business times. 112 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Privacy Protecting customers and employees in an online world HP’s business success depends on our commitment to respecting the privacy of our customers and employees, and we give top priority to protecting the personal data entrusted to us, while providing market-leading technologies, products, and solutions that ensure high levels of security. Our commitment to maintaining internal standards and policies that go beyond legal minimums to protect privacy and help to block cyberattacks gives our customers the confidence to share information with HP and to use our technology. We understand that customers want clear and transparent information from us. In 2016, we published a new Privacy Statement with simpler, more customer-friendly language along with an illustrated data collection and use matrix to provide customers with information about what we collect, how we use it, and why. Over the last year, we introduced the industry’s most secure PCs with the world’s only integrated privacy screens, designed to combat visual hacking. Management and oversight Our commitment is backed up by clear strategy, standards, and engagement We collect and use personal data to manage our customers’ relationships with HP and to better serve our customers by personalizing their experience and interactions with us. In order to safeguard this data we have rigorous controls, standards, policies, and procedures as well as training for employees who handle personal data. Our commitment to customer privacy is outlined in our Privacy Policy online. • We only collect personal data to support reasonable business requirements, and do not sell, rent, or lease the personal data that we collect. • We give people notice and choice about the type of personal data we collect and its intended uses, and we do not use that data for other purposes. • We strive to ensure that all applicable personal data is accurate, complete, and current, and we give people reasonable access so they can review and correct it, as needed. • We protect personal data against unauthorized use or disclosure, and apply additional protection for sensitive data. 113 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report • We do not transfer personal data to others unless they promise to give the data the equivalent level of protection that HP provides. • We address complaints or disputes regarding personal data promptly and courteously. The HP Privacy Accountability Framework is our companywide approach for assessing and managing risks associated with collecting and handling personal data. The Framework goes beyond minimum legal requirements, ensures transparent practices, and takes into account our company values, ethical considerations, and contractual agreements. Our executive-level HP Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) provides oversight and leadership for HP businesses and global functions entrusted with protecting privacy and personal data. The PDPB is part of an integrated privacy program that enables us to manage privacy and data protection risks efficiently and effectively. In 2016, the PDPB began driving HP’s compliance program for implementing the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Privacy training is a key part of our mandatory Standards of Business Conduct (SBC) annual refresher course, completed by 99.74% of active employees in 2016. We will implement privacy trainings during 2017 for all relevant employees based on materials developed by International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP). Global compliance in privacy HP complies with and provides input on privacy laws and regulations worldwide. We Substantiated complaints track the number of substantiated complaints of third parties about customer privacy regarding breaches of and data, as shown in the table. customer privacy and losses of customer data at HP* Global standards and regulatory involvement 2016 The secure movement of data is essential to our business, and we advocate for mechanisms Substantiated complaints from outside 5 that enable us to easily and securely move data while maintaining our privacy standards. parties (including customers) Our privacy and government relations teams work with governments around the world Substantiated complaints from 0 to provide input for robust and globally interoperable privacy regulations. For more regulatory or other official bodies information, see Government relations. * Breaches of customer privacy cover any noncompliance with existing legal regulations and In developing our privacy policies and standards, we consider global principles and voluntary standards regarding the protection of frameworks. These include the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development customer privacy related to data for which HP is the data controller. Substantiated complaints are written (OECD) Guidelines on the Protection of Privacy and Transborder Flows, the EU Directive statements by regulatory or similar official bodies addressed to the organization that identify breaches 95/46/EC, the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Privacy Framework, and the of customer privacy, or complaints lodged with the Madrid Resolution on International Privacy Standards. We also monitor development of new organization that have been recognized as legitimate by the organization. regulatory instruments, such as the GDPR. Based on our existing systems and capabilities we are well positioned to comply with GDPR, which will become the global standard for HP. In 2016, we received EU-U.S. Privacy Shield Certification from the U.S. Department of Commerce, which certifies our compliance with EU data protection requirements when transferring personal data from the European Union to the United States. Although joining the Privacy Shield is voluntary, the commitment is enforceable under U.S. law. We are in the process of updating our binding corporate rules (BCRs) with the EU, which allows us to continue moving data we control with minimal disruption. HP remains among fewer than 100 companies worldwide recognized by EU data protection authorities for our binding corporate rules. The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) of 21 economies implements the Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) System, which provides privacy protections for transfers of personal data across the region. HP’s privacy practices comply with the APEC CBPR System, including transparency, accountability, and choice regarding the collection and use of personal information. 114 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Cybersecurity In our industry, hostile attempts to acquire personal and financial information are constant. HP’s responsibility is to block these attempts, and we do so through robust internal controls and external partnerships. Our Cybersecurity Organization provides and maintains the guidance, governance, processes, resources, and vendor relationships necessary to identify unwanted access, security threats, and cyberattacks, and shield our customer and employee information. HP’s IT partners and vendors deliver the technology to protect customer and employee information. Everyone at HP has a role in information security, and we are committed to working across all business groups and global functions to ensure that each person is doing their part. In 2016, we refreshed our information security policies and standards to be more actionable and tailored to a range of roles. Our internal Cybersecurity Policy Suite provides a framework for the organization, governance, and implementation of information security across the company and informs employees about regulatory requirements, emerging threats, and new security practices, among other items. When incidents do occur, the Cybersecurity Organization responds swiftly and regularly reports related activities to the relevant leadership. In 2016, we enhanced our understanding of the techniques used by hostile actors, and improved existing security measures. This included a formal initiative to revamp our Incident Response Plan and associated processes. Across our global operations, HP did not experience any cybersecurity events that required disclosure. Contacting our Privacy Office Customer feedback is very important to us. Please contact our Privacy Office with questions or comments about how we collect and use customer data, or about our new Privacy Statement. We do our best to respond to customer queries and resolve complaints in a timely and appropriate way. Product security We design privacy and security into all of our products and solutions As cyberattacks become increasingly prevalent and sophisticated, security breaches are a growing concern for our customers. In response, we are continually evolving HP products to offer higher levels of protection that anticipate ever-changing attack tactics. Our product designers consider security at each stage of the design process. In 2016, HP launched a Product Security Council to help oversee this portfolio-wide effort. Made up of cross-functional business leaders from across the company, the Council will focus on developing appropriate security standards across all HP products through our Secure Development Life Cycle guidelines. From design through customer use, refurbishment, and recycling, each product will incorporate the Privacy by Design approach. When issues do arise, we investigate reported security vulnerabilities affecting HP products and services. Our Supply Chain Security Group ensures that HP products are built to resist even the toughest attacks. We employ cybersecurity specialists and ethical hackers, and build in 115 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report supply chain controls to prevent the inclusion of product “backdoors” and the insertion of counterfeit product components and parts. These safeguards include a cybersecurity architecture review, penetration testing, scanning using industry solutions, and development of a supplier product cybersecurity standard that contractually holds all suppliers to requirements to mitigate the risks of counterfeits, malware, and tampering. Printers HP continues to produce the world’s most secure printers.1 All enterprise LaserJet and PageWide products introduced since spring 2015 include the following industry-leading security features that defend network entry points and guard against intrusions: • HP Sure Start: enables detection of and self-healing recovery from malicious BIOS attacks. • Whitelisting: allows only known firmware to be loaded and executed on these printers. • Run-time Intrusion Detection: provides in-device memory monitoring for malicious attacks. We also offer customers HP JetAdvantage Security Manager, an industry-leading printer security compliance solution. With this technology, a company’s IT staff can effectively establish and maintain custom security policies. Upon reboot, the HP Instant-On Security feature checks and resets any impacted settings automatically to bring devices into compliance with the organization’s policy. HP JetAdvantage Security Manager also offers auto-discovery of devices to make it easier to find and add printers to manage. In late 2016, we announced our redesign of HP Managed Print Services, now known as HP Secure MPS, to help protect corporate print environments against cyberattacks. By adding a range of implementation and professional services, and preconfiguring devices with more secure settings, HP Secure MPS helps companies improve their security profile while outsourcing printing and saving IT resources. Personal systems In 2016, we unveiled a comprehensive set of security solutions in our Elite PCs, focused on protecting not only the device, but also the user’s identity and data—making them the world’s most secure and manageable PCs. 2 Our Basic Input/Output System (BIOS) security has protected our PCs since 2006. We build our Elite line of PCs with HP Sure Start Gen3, which can detect and recover from an advanced persistent attack on the BIOS in less than a minute. Today’s cyberthreats strike on many fronts. To better protect the user’s identity, we have developed HP Multi-Factor Authenticate. Integrating Intel’s Authenticate technology, this combines credentials such as a password and fingerprint to make user login a million times more secure. In 2016, we also launched HP Sure View, the world’s only PC integrated privacy screen, 3 which makes it harder for unauthorized people to steal private data by peering over the shoulders of unsuspecting users. To help customers protect against malware attacks HP EliteBook 1040 with Sure View in Privacy Mode. in a web browsing session, in early 2017 we announced HP Sure Click, developed in partnership with Bromium. To allow IT admins the tools they need to enforce security policies, we created the HP Manageability Integration Kit, the world’s first management toolkit certified for Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager. Until now, this was mostly a manual process. 116 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Human rights Treating everyone, everywhere with dignity and respect With our brand comes a promise—that HP products are engineered and manufactured with integrity and respect for the people who help make them. Respecting human rights is a core value at HP, shaping how we do business worldwide. We work closely with our suppliers to protect and empower their workers and improve labor standards (see Supply chain responsibility), so that workers and communities in our supply chain can thrive. In our own operations, we promote a welcoming, diverse, and inclusive culture (see Employees) and do not tolerate discrimination of any kind. We consider privacy a human right, and prioritize protecting customer information (see Privacy). Respecting human rights We actively monitor and manage human rights risks across our business We take an uncompromising stance on respecting the fundamental rights and freedoms to which all people, everywhere are entitled. HP upholds these rights across our business, in line with the United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the UN Global Compact. We embed human rights policies and practices across our business, guided by the HP Sustainability Policy. HP embraces this responsibility, conducting due diligence and human rights risk assessments on our business activities that might impact rights. We closely monitor human rights risks and activities that raise potential concerns, and swiftly address problems that arise. In 2016, we evaluated all nine relevant corporate functions against the appropriate UN UDHR rights. We identified salient risks (those which are severe in potential impact, reasonably likely to occur, and difficult to remediate) in four of those functions: Supply Chain Responsibility, Global Indirect Procurement, Human Resources, and Technical Regulations. For Human Resources and Technical Regulations, we found effective monitoring and grievance mechanisms in place, and remediation available to human rights holders. The table that follows summarizes the salient risks identified, grouped by phase of our value chain, and describes our risk mitigation approach. 117 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report HP is committed to communicating openly and honestly about the human rights issues facing our business and industry. We believe this fosters productive dialogue on solutions and builds trust among our key stakeholders. Results of 2016 human rights risk assessment Value chain phase Salient risks Risk mitigation tactics Supply chain Right to life: Unsafe working conditions at supplier sites We evaluate relevant suppliers using a preliminary risk assessment. (Supply chain responsibility, Based on various factors, we then prioritize suppliers for assessment Right to work: Labor conditions that are not consistent global indirect procurement) questionnaires, capability building, and on-site audits or assessments. with the HP Supplier Code of Conduct See Supply chain responsibility for more detail. Supply chain Right to life: Conflict and forced labor associated with raw We conduct due diligence; help increase demand for responsibly (Supply chain responsibility, material extraction sourced minerals; maintain responsible sourcing programs; and global indirect procurement) participate in multi-stakeholder organizations that promote wide adoption of responsible sourcing. See Responsible minerals for more detail. Operations Right to work: Workforce reduction programs We focus on business growth and providing employee support and (Human resources) severance when reduction programs are required. Products and solutions Right to life: Unsafe or malfunctioning products We employ rigorous design standards, product testing, certification (Technical regulations) programs, and auditing. Human Rights Council and culture In 2017, we will establish a companywide Human Rights Council to further strengthen our efforts. Chaired by the head of the Human Rights Office, its members will include senior management from Ethics and Investigations, Human Resources, Privacy, Supply Chain Responsibility, and Global Indirect Procurement. The Council will meet periodically to discuss strategy and coordinate due diligence and risk mitigation. Open communication is part of our culture. It is important that anyone with a concern can speak up without fear of retaliation, using their preferred method of communication. We offer multiple channels convenient for employees and other stakeholders, such as business partners and customers, to ask questions or report a concern to HP. We also provide stakeholders with information about HP’s programs related to specific human rights issues such as combating forced labor and human trafficking (see our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement). Cobalt sourcing and child labor risks #1 HP’s ranking on Know the The use of child and forced labor is unacceptable to HP. In January 2016, it was reported that cobalt processed by Huayou Cobalt for use in lithium-ion batteries in electronics and automotive components may have been mined using child labor in the Democratic Chain’s ICT Benchmark Findings Republic of the Congo. In response, we undertook several actions. We investigated the Report on the transparency allegations, conducted due diligence of our battery-related suppliers to understand of efforts to eradicate forced labor from our industry’s their sources of cobalt, and agreed on a course of action with those suppliers to supply chain demand third-party validation of their smelters. Similar to our work related to conflict minerals, we are leading industry organizations to develop tools and programs (including the Responsible Cobalt Initiative and the Responsible Raw Materials Initiative) that support responsible sourcing and increase the influence that manufacturers have over smelters. For more information, see our report on responsible cobalt. 118 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Technology and human rights IT is reinventing how we live and work, and improves the lives of people everywhere. However, such technology can also be used for unintended purposes or in contexts that may affect human rights. To avoid the misuse of our products and solutions, HP abides by all relevant sanctions, restrictions, and embargoes imposed by national governments or international organizations in its business operations worldwide. When we identify a potential risk of human rights impacts from our business relationships, we conduct thorough human rights due diligence. When others make allegations linking our business to adverse human rights consequences, we investigate the claims in line with our HP Sustainability Policy. Wherever we can exert influence to mitigate alleged human rights impacts we do so. Partnering on human rights Amplifying our influence on the industry and beyond Given our global reach, HP’s influence in supporting the dignity and well-being of people across our business—from supply chain workers to employees and customers— touches communities worldwide. To expand our reach, we actively promote respect for human rights in public forums, working with a wide range of stakeholders, including governments, NGOs, and other businesses. In 2016, we took part in many prominent and influential national and global initiatives including: • Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative • Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) • Global Business Initiative on Human Rights • Leadership Group for Responsible Recruiting • Responsible Cobalt Initiative • Responsible Raw Materials Initiative • Social Accountability International Advisory Board (TenSquared program to improve worker health and safety) • UN Annual Forum on Business and Human Rights • U.S. Stakeholder Advisory Board on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises 119 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Government relations Advocating for public policies that drive progress Technology’s transformative potential is limitless. HP advocates for public policies that enable our business to grow by unleashing this potential—in ways that create jobs, spur growth, and promote innovation and sustainability. We work to remove barriers to, and accelerate development of, revolutionary technologies that can blend the physical and digital worlds, transform manufacturing through advances such as 3D printing, expand access to key services including healthcare and education, and protect privacy. The broad policy agenda we support includes intellectual property rights; market access; security, privacy, and data protection; social responsibility; environmental sustainability; and taxation and economic incentives. Our in-house Government Relations team leads our engagement with policy makers, regulators, trade associations, and peer companies. After Hewlett-Packard Company separated into two companies on November 1, 2015, we briefed more than 300 government officials worldwide on HP’s agenda and priorities. Our advocacy work complies with all applicable national and international laws, as well as our own Standards of Business Conduct. 3D printing As technology develops, we anticipate limitless uses for 3D printing. In the decades ahead, medicine, vital organs, and even food may be created with this revolutionary technology. 3D printing has the potential to reduce manufacturing costs, GHG emissions, energy use, and resource consumption by better matching supply and demand. HP is at the forefront to advance 3D printing and bring its transformative benefits to all of society. Working with a coalition of technology providers and customers, and the World Customs Organization, our main aim is to ensure that 3D printing systems remain duty and regulation free during this crucial early stage of development, to foster further innovation and commercial application. In 2016, HP held several briefings for Congressional staff and members on 3D printing end point security. Learn more. 120 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Policy priorities Focusing on the issues that matter most to HP and our customers Intellectual property rights Intellectual property (IP) protection is essential to innovation. Each year, HP invests significant resources to develop cutting-edge technology products and drive the next waves of innovation. In our highly competitive industry, safeguarding our IP, including over 18,000 patents, is a business imperative. We support strong protection of IP rights in every market, including through our leading anti-counterfeiting program. We promote reform and phasing out of copyright levies systems and replacement by alternative means of compensation. We also encourage patent reform measures to protect against frivolous litigation, unwarranted product exclusion, and excessive licensing fees unrelated to patent value. Learn more. Market access Open international trade is essential to delivering on our vision to create technology that makes life better for everyone, everywhere. HP supports the opening of markets through trade agreements and other measures that reduce and eliminate duties and non-tariff barriers on IT products and services. Trade agreements should provide strong protection and enforcement of IP rights, encourage regulatory transparency and convergence, and facilitate trade and easy movement of items through customs. Agreements should also address emerging non-tariff barriers affecting the high-tech sector. HP urges all parties to support and implement the expansion of the Information Technology Agreement to eliminate duties on the additional 201 technology product categories as quickly as possible. As a next step, 3D printing systems and accessories should be considered for duty-free treatment under the next Information Technology Agreement periodic product review to provide coverage for new innovations in this field. Government procurement policies should be based on objective criteria and include internationally recognized quality standards to ensure fair competition and access to the best technologies globally. Policies should also emphasize sourcing legitimate products and preventing counterfeits or illegal and infringing products, including clone print cartridges, from being sold to government agencies. Preferences for remanufactured/ refilled print cartridges over original manufacturers' cartridges do not take into account quality, total value, and overall life cycle environmental performance. Learn more. Security, privacy, and data protection HP recognizes the fundamental importance of privacy, security, and data protection. As our world becomes ever more connected, cyberattacks target critical and personal data with increasing frequency and sophistication. We design our devices with embedded cyber-resilience, offering leading-edge features that enhance security to protect our customers’ sensitive information. In addition to these security measures, we aim to 121 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report provide the highest levels of privacy and data protection, surpassing legal minimums for safeguarding personal information through stringent global policies, procedures, and controls. Read more in Privacy. Even as overall awareness of cyberthreats has grown, risks at the device level (e.g., computers and printers) are often overlooked. We encourage both the public and private sectors to consider device security as part of overall cyber risk assessments. Public sector procurement practices can mitigate device security risks by developing robust purchasing criteria that explicitly require device security, especially for critical applications. Any cybersecurity legislation and regulations for commercial products should align with global standards. Geographic restrictions and country-specific technical standards are ineffective approaches to cybersecurity policies. Our privacy and government relations teams work with governments around the world to support robust and globally interoperable privacy and data protection regulations. We advocate for accountability-based requirements for both the public and private sectors. In 2016, HP made progress on a range of regional privacy standards. In Europe, we are closely following the EU Article 29 Working Party implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, and will provide comments and feedback to ensure that requirements align to the daily realities of implementing a successful privacy and data protection program. Learn more. Social responsibility Through our actions and investments, we strengthen our communities, enable the development of society at large, and act with integrity and respect for human rights around the world. HP collaborates with governments, other companies, and nongovernmental organizations to protect the rights of workers everywhere. We are committed to doing our part to uphold human rights, as demonstrated by our supply chain responsibility program, which respects the rights of workers, including migrant workers. This risk-based program combines rigorous auditing with collaborative capability-building initiatives, targeting both production and nonproduction suppliers. We protect worker health and safety in the manufacturing process, including by responsibly managing process chemicals. HP is an industry leader in working to eliminate conflict minerals from our electronics supply chain. The possibility that the manufacturing of our products might be connected to the funding of armed conflict is unacceptable to HP, and we continue working to ensure that tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold used in our supply chain are conflict-free. We will continue our leadership role on this issue, building on nearly a decade of engagement. We strongly support retaining the U.S. conflict minerals reporting framework at the Securities and Exchange Commission, since it has become an economic driver for smelters to responsibly source minerals in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries. Eliminating this requirement would result in the collapse of hundreds of mine-level traceability systems in that region and reverse the industry’s conflict-free momentum. In early 2017, we were among more than 120 mostly technology companies that signed an amicus brief opposing a U.S. executive order on immigration. In doing so, we demonstrated support for the contributions of immigrants to the United States, and for all HP employees and their families as a force of innovation. Learn more. 122 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Environmental sustainability Our commitment to sustainability is a powerful force for innovation in our business, pushing the boundaries of energy efficiency and alternative energy use, sustainable design, and responsible product life cycle management. HP advocates for prioritizing energy efficiency in government procurement, addressing climate change, promoting responsible and consistent materials and chemical use policies, and propelling the circular economy and responsible product repair, reuse, and recycling. We believe that delivering the economic and social benefits of technology to billions more people must be done sustainably. This requires a profound shift from a traditional, linear production model of “take, make, dispose,” to a more materialsand energyefficient, circular and low-carbon economy. HP designs products that last long, are easy to repair and upgrade, and demonstrate high recyclability to continually recover and reuse materials. We are accelerating toward a circular approach across our value chain, reflected in our print supplies closed loop recycling programs, our use of recycled content in hardware, product-as-a-service offerings such as HP Managed Print Services, HP Instant Ink, and HP Device as a Service, innovative packaging designs, and HP product repair, reuse, and recycling options. Connecting our circular economy strategy to resource efficiency is critical to business success, so we design our products and services following the principles of energy efficiency, materials innovation, and design for recyclability. HP is dedicated to reducing the environmental and human health impacts of materials and chemicals throughout our supply chain. We support the goal to restrict substances of concern and responsibly manage chemicals. At the same time, the long-term roadmap for doing so must be established and stabilized so that material restrictions do not constrain the circular economy. Equally important, chemicals can be identified and encouraged as substitutes using tools such as the Green Screen™ for Safer Chemicals, so that producers are not forced to switch from one problematic chemical to another. We promote regulatory frameworks that support efforts to extend our products’ lives through repair and reuse. Transitioning purchasing from a transactional model to a service model will tighten the linkage between product design and value recovery at end of service. We also encourage responsible legislation on collection and recycling of used electronics that takes into account shared responsibilities, measurement of waste flows, workable flow systems, harmonized recycling standards, and fair allocation of obligations. HP does not allow the export of electronic waste from developed to developing countries, and engages with governments worldwide to help improve national and international legislation governing the movement of electronic waste, such as the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste and Their Disposal. We strongly support the updated language in the Technical Guidelines that recognizes the appropriate movement of nonworking products between countries to allow for proper repair or responsible recycling. Climate change is one of the most significant and urgent issues facing business and society today. The science is clear, the impacts are serious, and the need to act is essential. At HP, we see this not only as our responsibility, but vital to the longevity of our business. HP is working to ensure that our business is resilient, innovating to mitigate the effects of climate change and adapting to an evolving global business and regulatory environment. HP supports the Paris Climate Agreement as originally adopted by consensus in December 2015, participation in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and other global efforts to address climate change. We encourage actions by all countries to enact policies to mitigate climate change and help transition to a low-carbon economy that are guided by technologically and economically feasible targets based on the best 123 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report available science. We support market-based approaches that provide transparency and accountability, promote innovative technologies to lower carbon footprints (such as the Internet of Things and 3D printing), and encourage renewable energy sources. The historic 2015 Paris Climate Conference (COP21) highlighted the leading role business can play to address climate change. In the lead-up to COP21, we signed on to the following public statements and initiatives supporting strong climate action and outcomes: White House-led American Business Act on Climate Pledge, Business Backs Low-Carbon USA, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions Business Statement Applauding The Paris Climate Agreement, and We Mean Business. After the U.S. presidential election, HP was among more than 360 businesses and investors endorsing an open letter urging President-elect Donald Trump to honor the U.S. commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement (that number has since grown to more than 1,000). The letter called for the continuation of U.S. low-carbon policies, and investment in the low-carbon economy at home and abroad, to help keep global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius. Moreover, HP and the other companies signing on to the letter reaffirmed our dedication to upholding our own commitments in this area. HP has a long legacy of environmental leadership and a demonstrated commitment to climate action that is recognized by three consecutive years on the CDP Climate A List and five consecutive years on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. Learn more. Taxation and economic incentives We advocate for tax policies and economic incentives that encourage innovation, growth, and job creation worldwide. Domestically, we support U.S. federal tax reform. Internationally, we monitor and engage on tax reform proposals through the Group of Twenty (G20) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. With the elections of 2016 completed, the opportunity for genuine tax reform is greater than any time in recent history. During the second part of the year, we worked to educate Congressional tax committees on HP’s interests in this area. Learn more. Political engagement Advancing our agenda in a transparent, legal, and ethical manner In 2016, HP established a political action committee to support its policy commitments in the United States and participate, under the law, in U.S. Congressional elections. We will support candidates for public office who advocate for innovation and competition in our industry. All political engagement, including contributions to candidates for public office, will be conducted in a transparent, legal, and ethical manner and in accordance with HP’s Standards of Business Conduct. In addition, our U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct guides ethical business interactions with federal, state, and local officials. HP did not make any contributions to U.S. federal, state, or local candidates, political memberships/sponsorships, or other ballot measure campaigns during 2016. In the future, HP will disclose all corporate and political contributions. Learn more on our Government Relations website. 124 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Policies and standards Sustainability Human rights • Sustainability Policy • Global Human Rights Policy Accessibility Privacy • Accessibility Policy • Global Master Privacy Policy • Privacy Statement Corporate ethics • Anti-corruption Policy Supply chain responsibility • Contingent Worker Code of Conduct • Student and Dispatch Worker Standard • Corporate Governance Guidelines for Supplier Facilities in the People’s • Global Business Amenities Policy Republic of China (PRC) • Partner Code of Conduct • Supplier Code of Conduct • Standards of Business Conduct • Supply Chain Foreign Migrant Worker Standard • U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct • Supply Chain Social and Environmental Employees Responsibility Policy • Harassment-free Work Environment Policy • Nondiscrimination Policy • Open Door Policy Environment • Climate Change Policy • Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy • Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy • Export of Electronic Waste to Developing Countries Policy • General Specification for the Environment (GSE) • Hardware Recycling Standard • Hardware Reuse Standard • Materials and Chemical Management Policy • Printing Supplies Recycling Policy 125 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability ABT Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report About this report 126 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Overview This report includes performance data from HP through FY2016 (which ended October 31, 2016), unless stated otherwise. The document also describes HP’s sustainability policies and programs moving forward. HP reports yearly on its social and environmental progress, following the standard Hewlett-Packard Company met each year since 2001. This document provides in-depth information to stakeholders including customers, industry analysts, socially responsible investors, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), employees, sustainability specialists, governments, and others. To guide our disclosure, we consider external standards and frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, and the UN Sustainable Development Goals, as well as reporting trends and strong practices. Our sustainability website and customer brief provide summary information for readers seeking a higher-level overview of our approach and performance, and in some areas, additional detail. Previous reports are available on our website. Scope, dates, and measures • The information in this report is current as of the date of its initial publication. This report has not been updated to reflect any changes that may have occurred after such date, including any changes to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update this report to reflect any such changes. • The information in this report covers HP operations but does not cover joint ventures. • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends October 31, 2016, unless stated otherwise. • All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars. • “Tonnes” refers to metric tons. Metrics and goals The metrics in this report are HP data, unless stated otherwise. Collecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is complex, and the process can vary by issue, business unit, function, and geography. As a result, it can be difficult to define and implement metrics for the entire company. We continue to standardize our measurement systems and metrics. Data is rounded to reflect the appropriate level of certainty. Reporting performance beyond our immediate operations can also be challenging. For example, we must make assumptions when estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, product energy consumption and resulting GHG emissions, and the percentage of HP products sold that are recycled. Where appropriate, we describe the context for performance data to help readers understand any limitations and draw appropriate conclusions. Forward-looking content reflects approaches, goals, and priorities established by the HP teams responsible for implementing them. These goals and priorities were set in consultation with internal, and in some cases external, stakeholders and take into account leading corporate practices. 127 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Your feedback Your comments and suggestions are important to us. Please provide any feedback on HP’s Sustainability Report, performance, or website using our online form. Forward-looking statements This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of net revenue, margins, expenses, effective tax rates, net earnings, net earnings per share, cash flows, benefit plan funding, deferred taxes, share repurchases, foreign currency exchange rates, or other financial items; any projections of the amount, timing, or impact of cost savings or restructuring and other charges; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including the execution of the restructuring plans and any resulting cost savings, net revenue, or profitability improvements; any statements concerning the expected development, performance, market share, or competitive performance relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims, or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief, including with respect to the timing and expected benefits of acquisitions and other business combination and investment transactions; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need to address the many challenges facing HP’s businesses; the competitive pressures faced by HP’s businesses; risks associated with executing HP’s strategy; the impact of macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution of HP’s products and the delivery of HP’s services effectively; the protection of HP’s intellectual property assets, including intellectual property licensed from third parties; risks associated with HP’s international operations; the development and transition of new products and services and the enhancement of existing products and services to meet customer needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers, clients, and partners; the hiring and retention of key employees; integration and other risks associated with business combination and investment transactions; the results of the restructuring plans, including estimates and assumptions related to the cost (including any possible disruption of HP’s business) and the anticipated benefits of the restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims, and disputes; and other risks that are described in HP’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2016, and HP’s other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. HP’s Investor Relations website contains a significant amount of information about HP, including financial and other information for investors. HP encourages investors to visit its website from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. 128 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report External verification Obtaining assurance helps demonstrate that the information provided in our Sustainability Report describes our performance accurately and completely. In 2016, HP engaged external assurance provider Ernst & Young LLP (EY) to perform an independent review of selected key performance indicators in our 2016 Sustainability Report. This process was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. For a full listing of the indicators within the scope of EY’s review, please see the Independent accountants’ review report. In addition, the following data in this report received external assurance during the year: Product repair, reuse, and recycling: Through ERM, HP audited 43 vendor facilities in 23 countries during 2016. This included repeat audits of 33 vendors to evaluate their efforts to improve performance. Learn more in Vendor audits. Supply chain responsibility: HP engages third-party audit firms to conduct verification audits of our suppliers’ social and environmental responsibility performance against HP Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. 129 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Independent accountants’ review report Ernst & Young LLP To the Board of Directors and Management of HP Inc. 303 Almaden Blvd San Jose, CA 95110 United States of America We have reviewed the sustainability performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) Tel: +1 (408) 947-5500 included in Appendix A and as presented in the HP Inc. (“HP”) 2016 Sustainability www.ey.com Report (the Report ) for the year ended October 31, 2016, unless otherwise stated, in accordance with HP’s criteria set forth in Appendix A (the “Criteria”). We did not review all information included in the Report. We did not review the narrative sections of the Report, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter. HP’s management is responsible for the Subject Matter included in Appendix A and as also presented in the Report, based on the Criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Subject Matter based on our review. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about whether any material modifications should be made to the Subject Matter in order for it to be in accordance with the Criteria. A review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible for the Subject Matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter, is in accordance with the Criteria, in all material respects, in order to express an opinion. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. A review also does not provide assurance that we became aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. We believe that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion. As described in Note 1, non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the sustainability performance indicators included in Appendix A for the year ended October 31, 2016, unless otherwise stated, in order for it to be in accordance with the relevant Criteria. June 14, 2017 San Jose, California 130 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Appendix A: HP Inc. (HP) schedule of subject matter and criteria Indicator name Unit Reported value1 Criteria Scope 1 greenhouse gas Tonnes of carbon dioxide 66,000 World Resources Institute (“WRI”) / (“GHG”) emissions 2 equivalents (tCO2e) World Business Council for Sustainable Development’s (“WBCSD”) The Scope 2 GHG emissions tCO2e 352,400 Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate (location-based-method)2 Accounting and Reporting Standard and HP’s Carbon Accounting Manual Scope 2 GHG emissions tCO2e 317,700 (market-based-method)2 Scope 3 GHG emissions 2 tCO2e 35,860,000 WRI/WBCSD’s The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard and HP’s Carbon Accounting Manual Scope 1 energy consumption Million kWh 157 Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) G4, EN3 and HP management definitions disclosed in the FY16 Sustainability Report Scope 2 energy consumption Million kWh 722 GRI G4, EN3 and HP management definitions disclosed in the FY16 Sustainability Report Voluntary purchases of Million kWh 75 GRI G4, EN3 and HP management renewable energy definitions disclosed in the FY16 Sustainability Report Direct water consumption 3 Cubic meters 3,224,000 GRI G4, EN8 and HP management definitions disclosed in the FY16 Sustainability Report4 Conflict minerals disclosure5 N/A Qualitative assertion To identify and disclose these smelters and refiners, HP management definitions disclosed in between January and December 2016 HP surveyed the FY16 Sustainability Report suppliers which contributed material, components, or manufacturing for products containing 3TG. Each smelter or refiner reported was identified in at least one of the CFSP reporting templates we received. Note 1: Non-financial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. 131 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report United Nations Global Compact index HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve human rights, labor conditions, the environment, and anti-corruption controls. This table links to the sections of this report that address the Global Compact’s 10 principles. “To promote higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, we endorse the United Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure of sustainability policies and practices.” — Dion Weisler, President and Chief Executive Officer, HP Inc. Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Supply chain responsibility human rights; and Employees Privacy Human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Supply chain responsibility Human rights Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of Supply chain responsibility the right to collective bargaining; Human rights Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Supply chain responsibility Human rights Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Supply chain responsibility Human rights Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Supply chain responsibility Diversity and inclusion Human rights Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Materials Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Supply chain environmental impact Operations Products and solutions Product repair, reuse, and recycling Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Circular economy Supply chain environmental impact Operations Products and solutions Product repair, reuse, and recycling Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Supply chain responsibility Anti-corruption 132 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Material issues Environment The following table summarizes issues determined to meet the materiality threshold for this report. Society Integrity Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report High importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success L abor practices Maintaining labor standards in working hours and Nondiscrimination Supply chain (firstand secondSupply chain in supply chain conditions, wages and benefits, wage changes, labor Freedom of tier suppliers) responsibility shortages, health and safety, and humane treatment of Association and Human rights workers employed in the supply chain, including efforts to Collective Bargaining avoid slavery and forced labor. Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Privacy Collecting, capturing, analyzing, using, storing, transferring Customer Privacy HP operations (employees) Privacy and sharing information in a manner that upholds the Products and solutions Government relations right to privacy, during both commercial and government (customers, clients, and partners) relationships; this includes ensuring that product functionality and default/factory hardware settings protect privacy. Product energy Increasing the energy efficiency of HP products and services, Energy Products and solutions Our footprint efficiency and enabling customers to reduce their energy use. Products and solutions: Energy efficiency Innovation in 2016 Product Managing the environmental and health and safety Materials Supply chain Circular economy life cycle impacts of HP products through the entire product Energy HP operations Our footprint management life cycle, from production of raw materials, through Products and Products and solutions Supply chain engineering design and manufacturing, to use, Services environmental impact maintenance, reuse, recycling, and disposal. Customer Health and Products and solutions Safety Product and Service Innovation in 2016 Labeling Product repair, reuse, and recycling Social Providing IT solutions that improve access to health, Indirect Economic Projects conducted in numerous Communities application finance, food, government services, education, information, Impacts locations globally (beyond HP’s Privacy of IT markets, etc., while duly considering ethics in the social controlled operations) applications of big data. Medium importance to sustainable development, high importance to HP’s business success Anti-corruption Working against bribery, corruption, and extortion (e.g., Anti-corruption Supply chain Supply chain price fixing, abuse of monopoly positions, predatory HP operations responsibility pricing, etc.). Products and solutions Anti-corruption (interactions with partners and customers globally) Data and Ensuring that information collected, captured, analyzed, No GRI-specific Supply chain Privacy product used, stored, transferred, and shared is protected from Aspects HP operations Government relations security unwanted parties and unauthorized access, such as Products and solutions security threats and cyberattacks. Diversity and Working to ensure that the company workforce reflects its Diversity and Equal HP operations Diversity and inclusion inclusion global business and customers. Opportunity Products and solutions Human rights (customers, clients, and partners) Ethical Promoting high standards of ethics in business behavior Anti-competitive Supply chain (interactions with Corporate ethics behavior and with all third parties with whom HP does business, Behavior suppliers, business partners, and HP 2016 10-K business including in joint ventures and with business partners, Compliance contractors) (Note 15: Litigation partnerships suppliers, and distributors. HP operations (sales and and Contingencies; this marketing) information is as of the end of FY16) Transparency, Providing clear and comparable business and Overall report Supply chain GRI index accountability, sustainability information in an accessible manner. HP operations and reporting Products and solutions High importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success Energy and GHG Improving energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions in Energy Supply chain (firstand secondOur footprint emissions in HP’s supply chain. tier suppliers, Scope 3 emissions) Supply chain Emissions supply chain environmental impact I T as a Designing products and services that enable customers Energy Products and solutions Products and solutions sustainability and entire industries to manage and reduce their Products and solution environmental impacts. Services 133 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Issue Description GRI G4 Aspect(s) Aspect boundary Location in report Responsible Responsibly sourcing paper products for internal use and Materials Supply chain Paper paper sourcing sale to customers. Responsible Working to ensure the responsible sourcing of minerals used No GRI-specific Supply chain (sub-tier suppliers Responsible minerals sourcing of in HP products (e.g., conflict minerals from the Democratic Aspects in high-risk areas such as the minerals Republic of the Congo). Democratic Republic of the Congo; there are multiple tiers between HP and smelters who trade with exporters) Supply Implementing and enforcing codes and standards that Supplier Supply chain (firstand secondSupply chain chain codes, set a baseline for supplier social and environmental Environmental tier suppliers) environmental impact standards, and responsibility (SER) and improving HP suppliers’ SER Assessment We ask that first-tier suppliers engagement performance through engagement and transparency. Supplier Assessment communicate our Electronic for Labor Practices Industry Citizenship Coalition Supplier Human Code of Conduct to their Rights Assessment suppliers, thereby propagating the requirements to our sub-tier Supplier suppliers. Assessments for Impact on Society U  se of Managing use of materials and substances of concern, Materials Supply chain Materials substances and using alternative materials that reduce the risk of Products and Products and solutions of concern in human health and environmental impacts, while meeting Services products performance and cost criteria.  aste and W Responsibly managing and disposing of hazardous and Effluents and Waste Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Supply chain hazardous nonhazardous waste within HP’s supply chain. environmental impact materials in supply chain  ater in supply W Conserving water in HP’s supply chain. Water Supply chain (first-tier suppliers) Supply chain chain environmental impact Medium importance to sustainable development, medium importance to HP’s business success Board Ensuring HP board diversity, independent oversight, and No GRI-specific HP operations Sustainability strategy structure and sustainability governance. Aspects Corporate ethics independence Governance HP 2017 Proxy Statement Circular Developing business models and design criteria that Materials Supply chain Circular economy economy support easy product reuse, disaggregation, and Products and HP operations Products and solutions disassembly, to enable product and component reuse at Services Products and solutions end of service and to avoid waste. Product repair, reuse, and recycling Environmental Addressing the environmental impacts of HP’s operations, Energy HP operations Operations impact of such as GHG emissions, energy use, nonhazardous and Emissions operations hazardous waste generation, and water consumption. Effluents and Waste Water Intellectual Ensuring appropriate protection of HP’s intellectual No GRI-specific Supply chain Government relations property propery rights. Aspects HP operations protection Products and solutions Packaging Working to decrease the environmental impact of HP Materials Products and solutions Packaging packaging by reducing material use, optimizing shipping densities, and utilizing recycled and recyclable materials. Product Managing and reducing fuel use and environmental impacts Transport Supply chain Supply chain transportation from product transportation and logistics. Products and solutions environmental impact Emissions P  ublic policy Influencing public policy development through direct Public Policy HP operations Government relations engagement engagement and through multi-stakeholder associations or initiatives. Responsible Working to ensure that marketing and communication of Marketing HP operations GRI index marketing products and services is honest, transparent, and fair. Communications Products and solutions 134 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Global Reporting Initiative index We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines when preparing this report. HP self-declares this report to the Core In Accordance level. GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker Letter from President and CEO Dion Weisler of the organization Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization HP overview G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services HP overview, HP 2016 10-K G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters HP overview G4-6 Number of countries where organization HP 2016 10-K, map of HP supplier sites operates, names of countries where organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to this report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form HP overview G4-8 Markets served HP overview, HP 2016 10-K G4-9 Scale of the organization HP overview, Operations, HP 2016 10-K G4-10 Employee demographics Diversity and inclusion, Society: Data A portion of the organization’s work is performed by individuals other than HP employees or other workers supervised by HP, including workers employed or supervised by contractors. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by HP follows its Sustainability Policy (which incldes information related to collective bargaining agreements human rights) and its Standards of Business Conduct . The percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is managed at a local level. HP considers this percentage on a consolidated level not relevant. G4-12 Description of organization’s supply chain Supply chain responsibility, Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period HP overview, Supply chain responsibility, HP 2016 10-K regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Materials principle is addressed by the organization G4-15 Circular economy, Our footprint, Externally Circular economy, Our footprint, Supply chain environmental impact, developed economic, environmental, and social Operations,Products and solutions, Supply chain responsibility, Supply charters, principles, or other initiatives to which chain responsibility: Our approach, Privacy, Human rights, Government the organization subscribes or which it endorses relations, United Nations Global Compact index, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, GRI index G4-16 List of memberships of associations and Affiliations and memberships national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization is involved Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s HP 2016 10-K consolidated financial statements or equivalent Differences in entities covered in different parts of the report are noted in documents those sections. G4-18 Process for defining report content and Aspect Materiality boundaries G4-19 Identified material Aspects Materiality G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Materiality Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Materiality Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information Included in relevant sections as appropriate. provided in previous reports 135 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting The HP 2015 Sustainability Report included performance data from Hewlettperiods in Scope and Aspect Boundaries Packard Company through FY2015, unless stated otherwise. This report includes performance data from HP Inc. through FY2016, unless stated otherwise. In some cases, data associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. is included for years prior to 2016. Aspect Boundaries are similar to those disclosed in the 2015 report. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the Stakeholder engagement organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of Stakeholder engagement stakeholders with whom to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement The frequency of stakeholder engagement varies by type of engagement and by stakeholder group, as described throughout this report. G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through Stakeholder engagement stakeholder engagement, and organization’s response Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report June 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding report About this report G4-32 GRI index GRI index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to External verification seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees of Sustainability governance, Governance highest governing body G4-37 Processes for consultation between Sustainability governance stakeholders and board on economic, environmental, and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body HP board of directors, HP board committee composition and its committees G4-39 Whether chair of the highest governance body is Governance also an executive officer G4-40 Nomination and selection process for the Corporate governance guidelines highest governance body and its committees G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to Corporate governance guidelines ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided and managed G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the Sustainability governance identification and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s Sustainability governance review of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to Contacting the board the highest governance body G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest HP 2016 10-K governance body and senior executives and relation to economic, environmental, and social objectives Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards, and Supply chain responsibility, Employees, Corporate ethics, Human rights, norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Policies and standards codes of ethics 136 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking Corporate ethics advice on ethical and lawful behavior G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting Corporate ethics concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior Specific Standard Disclosures Category: Economic Aspect: Economic Performance * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2016 10-K G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Supplier diversity, Communities, HP 2016 10-K G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and HP’s most recent CDP submission opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit HP 2016 10-K plan obligations Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain environmental impact, Products and solutions, Supply chain responsibility, Communities G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including Supply chain environmental impact, Products and solutions, Supply chain the extent of impacts responsibility, Communities Aspect: Procurement Practices* G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supplier diversity G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Supplier diversity significant locations of operation Category: Environmental Material Aspect: Materials G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Materials G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Materials input materials Material Aspect: Energy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach EHS management and compliance, Operations: Energy efficiency, Renewable energy, Products and solutions: Energy efficiency G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Operations: Energy efficiency, Renewable energy, See EY's Independent accountants’ review report on page 130 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Supply chain environmental impact: Greenhouse gas emissions, Products and solutions: Energy efficiency G4-EN5 Energy intensity Operations: Energy efficiency, Environment: Data G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Operations: Energy efficiency G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products Products and solutions and services Material Aspect: Water G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our footprint, Supply chain environmental impact: Water, EHS management and compliance, Operations: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Supply chain environmental impact: Water, Operations: Water, See EY's Independent Environment: Data accountants’ review report on page 130 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled Operations: Water and reused Aspect: Biodiversity * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Paper G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Paper products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 137 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Material Aspect: Emissions G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Our footprint, EHS management and compliance, Operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, HP carbon accounting manual G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environment: Data, HP carbon See EY's Independent (Scope 1) accounting manual, CDP Climate Change submission accountants’ review report on page 130 G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environment: Data, HP carbon See EY's Independent accounting manual, CDP Climate Change submission accountants’ review report on page 130 G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) Our footprint, Environment: Data, HP carbon accounting manual, CDP See EY's Independent Climate Change submission accountants’ review report on page 130 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Operations: Greenhouse gas emissions, Environment: Data G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions Operations: Energy efficiency, CDP Climate Change submission G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Environment: Data Material Aspect: Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach EHS management and compliance, Waste and recycling G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste method G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our EHS management system to help prevent unplanned releases at our facilities. In 2016, we experienced no significant unplanned releases. Material Aspect: Products and Services G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Circular economy G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental Our footprint, Products and solutions, HP carbon accounting manual impacts of products and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging Product repair, reuse, and recycling materials that are reclaimed by category Material Aspect: Transport G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Business travel, commuting, and auto fleet, Product transportation G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of Business travel, commuting, and auto fleet, Product transportation transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supply chain responsibility: Our approach using environmental criteria Category: Social Subcategory: Labor Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compensation and benefits G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Compensation and benefits are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety * G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Health and safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health and safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Material Aspect: Training and Education G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Talent development G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee Talent development by gender, and by employee category 138 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and Talent development lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular Talent development performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Diversity and inclusion G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and Diversity and inclusion, HP board of directors breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supply chain responsibility: Our approach using labor practices criteria Subcategory: Human Rights Material Aspect: Nondiscrimination G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Society: Data, HP discloses the rates of nonconformance in supplier sites corrective actions taken audited, but not the absolute numbers. Presenting this information in this manner provides additional context for the reader. Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which Supply chain responsibility, Society: Data, Capability building the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility, Society: Data, Capability building significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having Supply chain responsibility, Society: Data, Capability building significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Material Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supply chain responsibility: Our approach using human rights criteria Subcategory: Society Material Aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Corporate ethics G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations Anti-corruption assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption Corporate ethics, Anti-corruption policies and procedures 139 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report GRI guideline Disclosure title Location Assurance scope Material Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Government relations G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country Government relations and recipient/beneficiary Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2016 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of FY16) G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive HP 2016 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices the end of FY16) and their outcomes Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP 2016 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of the end of FY16) G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and HP 2016 10-K (Note 15: Litigation and Contingencies; this information is as of total number of nonmonetary sanctions for the end of FY16) noncompliance with laws and regulations Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply chain responsibility: Our approach G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened Supply chain responsibility: Our approach using criteria for impacts on society Subcategory: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Communicating product safety and environmental performance information, Materials G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service Communicating product safety and environmental performance information categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Communicating product safety and environmental performance information G4-PR3 Type of product and service information Communicating product safety and environmental performance information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach HP is committed to responsible marketing and providing consumers and businesses accurate, relevant information. Our Standards of Business Conduct and corporate guidelines set expectations regarding the company’s advertising practices. These resources require that advertisements and marketing collateral be fair, factual, and complete. HP requires that advertising claims must be formally substantiated with current factual data before publishing. HP sells its products in compliance with laws in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Training is available for employees in relevant parts of our business as well as for agencies that act on HP’s behalf, including on aspects of responsible marketing such as proper claims, substantiation, necessary advertising disclosures, and endorsement of HP products by third parties. G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance HP does not consider this metric to be highly applicable to the information with regulations and voluntary codes concerning technology industry, given the lack of strict regulations and voluntary industry marketing communications, including codes in this area compared to many other industries. Further, the information advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by is not currently available, and HP believes that this information will not be type of outcomes feasible to provide in the foreseeable future. Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints Privacy regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data * Although this GRI G4 Aspect was not determined to be material in HP’s materiality assessment, we recognize that it is relevant to some stakeholders and we provide information about HP’s programs and performance in this area. 140 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Endnotes Introduction Executive summary 1 In this report, “we”, “us”, “our”, “company”, “HP”, and “HP Inc.” refer to HP Inc. 2 Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 3 Through December 2015 (the most recent year data is available). Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 4 Compared with non-subscription purchase of the same HP Ink cartridges. Based on a 2017 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. Analysis includes the CO2 equivalent associated with customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and it includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from six years of customer data in the United States. Reductions in materials consumption, carbon footprint, energy use, and water usage are average values. 5 As of January 2017. 6 As of June 2017. 7 Based on currently available, in-market PCs, as of August 1, 2016, having physically embedded, hardware-based privacy screen. Available on select HP EliteBooks only. HP overview 1 In this report, “we”, “us”, “our”, “company”, “HP” and “HP Inc.” refer to HP Inc. Sustainability strategy 1 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 2 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 3 HP product GHG emissions intensity measures GHG emissions during product lifetime use per unit for personal systems and per printed page for printers based on anticipated lifetime usage. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, and workstations; and HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, and Scitex printers, and scanners. 4 Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. Environment Circular economy 1 Research indicates the circular economy can help close half the emissions gap between Paris Climate Accord country commitments and the 1.5°C pathway, by 2030. 2 Based on internal testing, HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solution average printing time is up to 10 times faster than FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Testing variables: Part Quantity: 1 full build chamber of parts from HP Jet Fusion 3D at 20% of packing density versus same number of parts on above-mentioned competitive devices; Part size: 30 g; Layer thickness: 0.1mm/0.004 inches. Fast cooling module available in 2017 with some models will further accelerate production time. 3 Based on internal testing and public data, HP Jet Fusion 3D average printing cost per part is half the cost of comparable FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Cost analysis based on: standard solution configuration price, supplies price, and maintenance costs recommended by manufacturer. Cost criteria: printing 1-2 build chambers per day/5 days per week over 1 year of 30-gram parts at 10% packing density using the powder reusability ratio recommended by manufacturer. 4 Energy claim and packaging waste claim based on testing comparisons of major competitors in default modes by Buyers Lab Inc., May 2016. Learn more. Our footprint 1 Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years relates to supply chain, operations, and products and solutions associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 2 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 141 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 3 HP product GHG emissions intensity measures GHG emissions during product lifetime use per unit for personal systems and per printed page for printers based on anticipated usage. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, thin clients, displays, mobile computing devices, and workstations; and HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, and Scitex printers, PageWide presses and scanners. Through 2016, progress against this goal equaled a 19% decrease. 4 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 5 “Potable water” consumption includes municipal water and well water. Supply chain environmental impact 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers,” “product transportation suppliers,” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our SER audits, assessments, KPI program, SER Scorecard, and capability building initiatives. Learn more in Supply chain responsibility. “Product transportation suppliers” provide services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts. 2 Through December 2015 (the most recent year data is available). 3 Intensity is calculated as the portion of first-tier production and product transportation suppliers’ reported GHG emissions attributable to HP divided by HP’s annual revenue. This method normalizes performance based on business productivity. Intensity is reported as a three-year rolling average to decrease the impact of variance year over year and highlight longer-term trends. Production supplier GHG emissions include Scope 1 and Scope 2. 4 This continues a goal from before the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, extending the goal to 2025. Includes data from suppliers associated with HP Inc. and HP Inc. pre-separation business units. 5 Taking into account the separation of Hewlett-Packard Company on November 1, 2015, calculation for all years uses HP revenue and spend associated with the business units that are now a part of HP Inc. 6 In the name of this program, “Zero Waste” refers to zero waste to landfill. Operations 1 This report includes Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions data from HP’s operations, transportation fleet, and employee business travel, calculated according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and World Resources Institute (WRI). See the HP 2016 carbon footprint for more details and an overview of emissions across the value chain. • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operations and from fuel used by HP’s transportation fleet. • Scope 2 emissions are primarily from purchased electricity used in HP’s operational real estate. • Scope 3 emissions reported in this section result from employee business travel by commercial airline and rail and from commuting. Data in this section for 2015 and 2016 uses the market-based method. In the data summary, we also include 2015 and 2016 data using the location-based method. 2 “Potable water” consumption includes municipal water and well water. Products and solutions 1 Comparisons made: x3, desk dock, and lap dock to EliteDesk 800 G2 Desktop Mini 35W, UltraSlim Docking Station, EliteBook Folio G1, and iPhone 6s Plus; x3, desk dock, and lap dock to UltraSlim Docking Station, EliteBook 820 G3, and iPhone 6s Plus; x3 and lap dock to EliteBook 820 G3; x3 and desk dock to EliteDesk 800 G2 DM 35W. Displays not included in any comparisons, since they would presumably be the same in either scenario. Product weights compared do not include any external accessories. 2 Compared with non-subscription purchase of the same HP Ink cartridges. Based on a 2017 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. Analysis includes the CO2 equivalent associated with customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and it includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from six years of customer data in the United States. Reductions in materials consumption, carbon footprint, energy use, and water usage are average values. 3 Based on internal testing, HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solution average printing time is up to 10 times faster than FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Testing variables: Part Quantity: 1 full build chamber of parts from HP Jet Fusion 3D at 20% of packing density versus same number of parts on above-mentioned competitive devices; Part size: 30 g; Layer thickness: 0.1mm/0.004 inches. Fast cooling module available in 2017 with some models will further accelerate production time. 4 Based on internal testing and public data, HP Jet Fusion 3D average printing cost per part is half the cost of comparable FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Cost analysis based on: standard solution configuration price, supplies price, and maintenance costs recommended by manufacturer. Cost criteria: printing 1-2 build chambers per day/5 days per week over 1 year of 30-gram parts at 10% packing density using the powder reusability ratio recommended by manufacturer. 5 HP product GHG emissions intensity measures GHG emissions during product lifetime use per unit for personal systems and per printed page for printers based on anticipated lifetime usage. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, and workstations; and HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, and Scitex printers, and scanners. 6 Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 7 Microfluidics is the ability to precisely place and manipulate fluids at a very small scale. 8 This number does not include commercial and industrial graphics printing solutions, packaging for those solutions, personal systems accessories sold separately, or documentation for any products. 9 This does not include external components, mainly cables and external power supplies. 10 The low-halogen standard = <900 ppm chlorine, <900 ppm bromine, <1,500 ppm chlorine + bromine in any homogeneous material in the products. 142 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report 11 Packaging is the box that comes with the product and all paper (including packaging and materials) inside the box. 12 HP GSE Requirement. While HP's packaging is 100% recyclable, some materials may not be recycled in specific locations since recycling infrastructure varies by geography. 13 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2016 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, AIOs, workstations, thin clients, and displays. 14 The average energy consumption (based on ENERGY STAR® program’s Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC)) of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2015 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include HP LaserJet. 15 The average energy consumption (based on sleep mode power) of newly introduced HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2015 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include HP inkjet printers. Excluding PageWide inkjet printers and large format printers. 16 HP product GHG emissions intensity measures GHG emissions during product lifetime use per unit for personal systems and per printed page for printers based on anticipated lifetime usage. These values are then weighted by contribution of personal systems and printing products to overall revenue in the current year. These emissions represent more than 99% of HP product units shipped each year, including notebooks, tablets, desktops, mobile computing devices, and workstations; and HP inkjet, LaserJet, DesignJet, Indigo, and Scitex printers, and scanners. 17 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2016 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume personal systems product lines include notebook and desktop computers, tablets, AIOs, workstations, thin clients, and displays 18 Does not include all retail point-of-sale products and phablets. 19 Based on HP internal testing using ISO 14644-1:1999, Cleanrooms and associated controlled environments – Part 1: Classification or air cleanliness, International Organization for Standardization (ISO), 1999. (3) CLEAN ROOM EVALUATION for HP, HP PageWide Pro 477dw MFP. 20 Energy claim and packaging waste claim based on testing comparisons of major competitors in default modes by Buyers Lab Inc., May 2016. Learn more. 21 Based on internal life cycle assessment vs. HP LaserJet printers, August 2016. 22 As defined per IEEE 1680.2 criteria 4.8.2.2. 23 The average energy consumption (based on sleep mode power) of newly introduced HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2015 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include HP inkjet printers. Excluding PageWide inkjet printers and large format printers. 24 The average energy consumption (based on ENERGY STAR® program’s Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC)) of HP products was estimated annually between 2010 and 2015 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include HP LaserJet. 25 As defined per IEEE 1680.2 criteria 4.8.2.2. 26 Using the ENERGY STAR® program’s Typical Electricity Consumption (TEC) method, or as reported in energystar.gov as of July 2015. Actual results may vary. HP testing is based on using the default Sleep Timer setting for all products. Default Sleep Timer setting is 0 minutes for the HP LaserJet M506 series. Increasing the Sleep Timer setting longer than the default value can increase TEC. More information about test methodology can be found at: www8.hp.com/h20195/v2/GetDocument. aspx?docname=4AA6-1566ENW. 27 The CO2 reduction was based on a comparison between HP LaserJet Enterprise 506dn and the predecessor product (HP LaserJet Enterprise P3015). CO2 reduction for cartridges is reported per 1,000 pages printed (Kg CO2e/1,000 pages). 28 Only when original HP printing supplies are used can we expect the highest level of IAQ of our printing systems. 29 Based on plan usage, Internet connection to eligible HP printer, valid credit/debit card, email address, and delivery service in your geographic area. 30 Based on monthly subscription cost using only all pages in plan vs. cost per page of most color inkjet printers < $399USD. Share from IDC CYQ1 2016. Standard cartridge CPP from gap intelligence AiO Weekly (IJP Weekly 5/15/16). 31 Compared with non-subscription purchase of the same HP Ink cartridges. Based on a 2017 life cycle assessment (LCA) performed by Four Elements Consulting and commissioned by HP. Analysis includes the CO2 equivalent associated with customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and it includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. Data and assumptions drawn from six years of customer data in the United States. Reductions in materials consumption, carbon footprint, energy use, and water usage are average values. 32 Environmental impact comparison of the printing stage between CI Flexo, Rotogravure, and HP Indigo 20000 press at job size of ~3,000m2 of a coffee pouch made in Europe. 33 See HP Indigo: Environmental Sustainability, page 5 for more detail. 34 HP water-based pigment inks and the bonding agent for HP PageWide Web Presses are not classified as flammable or combustible liquids under the USDOT or international transportation regulations. These materials have been tested per U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Method 1020 and the flashpoint is greater than 110°C. 35 Hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) may be present at extremely low levels (< 0.1%) according to EPA Method 311. 36 Actual results may vary depending on operating conditions. Consult local authorities regarding volatile organic compound (VOC) regulations in your area. 37 UL ECOLOGO® Certification to UL 2801 demonstrates that an ink meets a range of multi-attribute, life cycle-based criteria related to human health and environmental considerations (see ul.com/EL). UL GREENGUARD GOLD Certification to UL 2818 demonstrates that products are certified to UL’s GREENGUARD standards for low chemical emissions into indoor air during product usage. For more information, visit ul.com/gg or greenguard.org. HP WallArt printed on HP PVC-free Wall Paper and other prints on HP PVC-free Wall Paper printed with HP Latex Inks meet AgBB criteria for health-related evaluation of VOC emissions of indoor building products (see umweltbundesamt .de/en/topics/health/commissions-working-groups/committee-for-health-related-evaluation-of-building). 38 Compared to solvent inks. See HP Latex Inks: Health and environmental advantages for details. 39 Based on internal testing, HP Jet Fusion 3D printing solution average printing time is up to 10 times faster than FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Testing variables: Part Quantity: 1 full build chamber of parts from HP Jet Fusion 3D at 20% of packing density versus same number of parts on above-mentioned competitive devices; Part size: 30 g; Layer thickness: 0.1mm/0.004 inches. Fast cooling module available in 2017 with some models will further accelerate production time. 40 Based on internal testing and public data, HP Jet Fusion 3D average printing cost per part is half the cost of comparable FDM and SLS printer solutions from $100,000 USD to $300,000 USD on market as of April 2016. Cost analysis based on: standard solution configuration price, supplies price, and maintenance costs recommended by manufacturer. Cost criteria: printing 1-2 build chambers per day/5 days per week over 1 year of 30-gram parts at 10% packing density using the powder reusability ratio recommended by manufacturer. 143 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability Introduction Environment Society Integrity About this report Society Supply chain responsibility 1 As of April 2017. 2 HP uses the terms “production suppliers,” “product transportation suppliers,” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” provide materials and components for our product manufacturing and also assemble HP products, and are the primary focus of our SER audits, assessments, KPI program, SER Scorecard, and capability building initiatives. “Product transportation suppliers” provide services for the shipping and delivery of HP products. Learn more in Supply chain environmental impact. “Nonproduction suppliers” provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products (such as staffing, telecommunications, and travel). These suppliers are a significant focus of our supplier diversity efforts. 3 As defined in the HP Supplier Code of Conduct: Workweeks are not to exceed the maximum set by local law. Further, a workweek should not be more than 60 hours per week, including overtime, except in emergency or unusual situations. Workers shall be allowed at least one day off every seven days. 4 Suppliers are categorized as minority-owned or women-owned, not both. These categories include all sizes of businesses. Employees 1 As of October 31, 2016. 2 As of June 2017. 3  ourly rate based on type of volunteering: $150/hour for board, service corp, pro bono, and skills based; $23.07/hour for hands-on and undetermined, adjusted using H World Bank data for purchasing power differences across countries. Communities 1 As of January 2017. 2 Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from HP, plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data excludes investments in some of the initiatives described in the Communities section, such as HP Reinvent the Classroom, HP Learning Studios, and HP National Education Technology Assessment. Data excludes contributions to the HP Foundation and employee donations but includes HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the HP Foundation to other organizations. 3 The HP Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)3 organization that funds philanthropic programs for underserved communities where we live and work by supporting technology-related learning, charitable giving, volunteering, and disaster relief. 4 As of January 2017. Integrity Privacy 1 “World’s most secure printing” claim is based on HP review of 2016 published security features of competitive in-class printers. Only HP offers a combination of security features that can monitor to detect and automatically stop an attack then self-validate software integrity in a reboot. For a list of printers, visit: www.hp.com/go/PrintersThatProtect. 2 “World’s most secure and manageable PC” claim is based on HP’s unique and comprehensive security capabilities at no additional cost and HP Manageability Integration Kit’s management of every aspect of a PC including hardware, BIOS, and software management using Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager among vendors with >1M unit annual sales as of November 2016 on HP Elite PCs with 7th Gen Intel® Core® Processors, Intel® integrated graphics, and Intel® WLAN. 3 Based on currently available, in-market PCs, as of August 1, 2016, having physically embedded, hardware-based privacy screen. Available on select HP EliteBooks only. About this report Independent accountants' review report 1 All indicators are reported for the year ended 31 October, 2016 except as otherwise indicated for conflict minerals disclosure. 2 Carbon Accounting Manual is available at http://h20195.www2.hp.com/V2/GetDocument.aspx?docname=c05179524. 3 Direct water consumption for HP operations. 4 Note that Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) water is not included within the scope of water consumption. 5 As noted in the disclosure, this indicator pertains to the calendar year 2016. 144 HP 2016 Sustainability Report www.hp.com/sustainability
