CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Table of Content RTX and CSR 3 RTX – Vision and mission in a knowledge based business environment 4 RTX – Our code of conduct 5 RTX and human rights 6 Design Services 7 RTX and employees’ rights 8 RTX and environment 9 RTX and anti-corruption 10 Business Communications 11 2 | RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 RTX and CSR In line with the societal developments and With a value set taking its offset in the approach that, as a business, RTX influences and impacts people, environthe growth of our company in the past ments and communities across the globe, we constantly years, RTX is committed to be a responsible strive for reducing any potential harm, while at the same business leader in a globalized world. The time maximizing the benefits for our stakeholders. Hereby, way we do it is defined by societal needs it becomes imperative for RTX and our employees that adherence to our stated values and responsible business and our business priorities as well as our conduct is crucial to maintain the continued support from values and commitment to the ten principles our stakeholders while serving as the foundation for our of the UN Global Compact, which we license to operate. believe constitutes a good foundation for In RTX we will continue the focusing on responsible business practices. As a company with a global reach and operation we journey towards a more sustaiare committed to meet our corporate responsibility to Safeguarding the world’s global health and respect commonly accepted human rights throughout our nable business environment. development challenges is a tall order, operations and business relationship as set out in the UN It is crucial that we understand and a successful implementation and Guiding Principles on business and human rights. At the the key risks of our business same time, we expect from our partners that they respect progress calls for close collaboration and and supply chain, and that we internationally recognized human rights as described in the well framed goals by influential stakeholders UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and prioritize the required efforts predominantly being the private sector, encourage them to work with all the Principles of the UN to address these areas. It is an governments and societal organizations. Global Compact. evolving process, which we are committed to report upon on My team and I are personally engaged, and we believe that through consistent focus, appropriate follow-up and an annual basis. evaluation we support the 2030 Agenda as defined in the UN Guiding Principles. PETER RØPKE CEO I hope the report will provide you with some inspiring insight about some of the fundamental principles, which we strive to follow, when we conduct business in RTX. RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 | 3 RTX – Vision and Mission in a knowledge based business VISION MISSION environment Our vision is that customized wireless solutions will lead RTX’s mission is to enable global brands to freely innovate the way. RTX delivers adapted simplicity to users and and launch targeted, unique wireless solutions by market advantage to businesses. providing the specialist knowhow that makes it all possible – wireless wisdom. In order for RTX to maintain its position as an attractive sub-supplier of specialized VALUES wireless development services and advanced – ACHIEVING OUR MISSION – WHEN WORKING TOGETHER IP products, it is essential that the Group’s At RTX, we describe our values as the underlying principles We believe that, because our teams are customer and goal employees have a broad insight into the for how we work and what we offer to our customers. oriented, we work openly and efficiently with integrity and mutual respect in an informal environment. engineering disciplines required to carry We believe the way we work, with our customers, together, and as individuals, has a significant impact on the out high technology development projects performance of our business and the satisfaction of both from definition to delivery of wireless our customers and our employees. Our employees and our actions define our company. communication services and products. – WHEN WORKING INDIVIDUALLY – WHEN WORKING WITH OUR We believe that, because our colleagues are responsible The fact that RTX is able to supply turnkey solutions is CUSTOMERS and proud, we experience high levels of competence, job satisfaction and enjoyment. down to the skills of its employees. We believe that, because our experts are trustworthy and value-adding, we earn long-term partnerships with our customers. The structure of the organization enables prompt integration of additionally skilled employees. As a result of RTX’s location near Aalborg University in Denmark, and its presence in Hong Kong and US, the Group has access to international skillset within development, logistics and quality assurance. An adaptable development organization enables the transfer and recruitment of engineers in technological areas at short notice. 4 | RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 RTX – Our code of conduct RTX is committed to sustainability. RTX has RTX recognizes that establishing the required processes outlined in the Code of Conduct requires both time and therefore formalized and developed our resources, especially in the initial phases, as we are also imcode of conduct based on our mission and 1: plementing similar processes in our operations. The Code vision statements. The code of conduct of Conduct should therefore be understood as a tool for includes respect for universally recognized cooperation and dialogue with our supply chain partners about improving systems to manage adverse impacts on principles on human rights including labour human rights including labour rights, the environment and HUMAN RIGHTS rights, the environment and anti-corruption. anti-corruption. Suppliers are expected to manage adverse impacts on internationally recognized human The aim of this Code is to guide the business relationship rights including labour rights. At RTX we have decided to pay particular attention to our between RTX and our suppliers. In case of non-compliansphere of control. Therefore, it is at the same time very ce, RTX will at first try to support suppliers improve their important to understand RTX’s position in the value chain. management of adverse impacts, while as an ultimate 2: Developing and supplying complex products and modules consequence discontinue the business relation in case of without own production facilities make sourcing of the right repeated breech and non-compliant behaviour. components and products a very important competence for RTX to master. The complete supply chain can be very ENVIRONMENT complex with distant sub suppliers delivering raw PCBs, Suppliers are expected to establish adequate semi­conductors, plastic and metal parts, cables, screws processes to manage all significant, potential and etc., all operated in a global context, to our EMS partners actual impacts on the external environment. for final assembly. During 2016/17, RTX has implemented significant changes in our supply chain setup, and in our selection of suppliers our code of conduct has been an important assessment tool evaluating potential suppliers. More than 75% of our current suppliers have signed our Code of Conduct or have affirmed that they support and have adopted the UN global Compact. Accordingly, we do 3: expect our suppliers to respect internationally recognized CORRUPTION human righs including labour rights as described in the Suppliers to RTX should establish adequate UN Guiding Principles on Business Human Rights, which processes to counter corrupt practices. Such obviously include child labour. processes should support and be in line with the United Nations Convention against corruption. RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 | 5 RTX and human rights At the end of the financial year 2016/17, the RTX Group OBJECTIVE FOR THE PRINCIPLE 1 employed 235 people: 150 in Denmark and 85 outside UNDERREPRESENTED GENDER Europe. We strive to manage the company professionally in all aspects. All employees are offered facilities and working RTX’s staff policy aims to attract and maintain highly qualiconditions reflecting local standards and conditions. RTX fied and motivated employees. With regard to employment assigns great importance to a healthy physical and psychoand recruitment we endeavour to have both male and feRTX supports and respects the logical working environment and we currently carry out male candidates, despite the fact that we operate in a male protection of internationally employee satisfaction surveys in addition to the mandatory dominated working environment. RTX recognizes that the workplace assessments. The satisfaction survey is anocurrent percentage of females in our staff of engineers may proclaimed human rights. nymous. The results are analyzed by management with a be too low to secure a pipeline of future female candidates subsequent summary shared with the employees. Based on for management level in RTX. In our recruitment process these questionnaires, initiatives as well as areas of improveRTX therefore encourages qualified female applicants to PRINCIPLE ment are defined by management and employees in order seek vacancies as they arise. The general split between 2 to constantly improve RTX as a workplace. The survey also male and female employees are 14% female and 86% male. measure engagement and motivation among our employees. In the staff with engineering or technical background the The most recent survey carried out in 2017 showed that RTX split is 6% female and 94% male. employees are highly motivated and committed and the reRTX will make sure that the sponses from the employees showed improvements in their The Board of Directors has defined an ambition that the grading compared with the survey carried out in 2016. female share of board members elected by the Annual company is not complicit in General Meeting should be at least 17% by 2021. In April human rights abuses. The Executive Management in RTX regularly invites all 2013 the Board of Directors adopted policy to ensure a employees to internal employee briefings where an open greater number of female board members elected by the and constructive dialogue is encouraged. We believe that a Annual General Meeting. The objective is to increase the good working environment and a high level of job satisfactidiversity in a male dominated industry, but as of 2016/17 the on results in greater employee satisfaction, higher efficiency Board of Directors consists of 100% males. Within this male levels, lower staff turnover and low absenteeism. dominated industry it has been hard to identify the right female board member possessing the unique competencies Every four years, in accordance with the Danish Compadeemed relevant for the board duties in RTX. In order to nies Act, RTX Group employees elect three members of promote, facilitate and increase the number of women in the Board of Directors. In January 2015 the present three management level positions at RTX, Management has defiemployee representatives were elected to the Board of ned an objective to increase the percentage of females at Directors. The next election will take place in the financial management level as vacancies arise, based on the selection year 2018/19. The employee representatives are elected of candidates with the appropriate skills and to ensure that for a four year period, and they join the Board of Directors the recruitment firms in question identify at least one female following the Annual General Meeting in January 2019. candidate. During 2016/17 there were two vacant positions in the RTX management team but it was not possible to find matching female profiles for the vacant jobs. 6 | RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 DESIGN SERVICES Wireless wisdom is superb audio performance The professional audio industry is constantly searching for robust wireless transmission links that can transfer high-resolution audio signals at super low latency. Recent frequency regulation has driven professional systems towards digital modulation schemes and open ISM bands, putting them in competition for spectrum against widely used technologies and applications, such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth™. To develop a highperformance system that can deliver perfect sound in these environments, you need Wireless Wisdom. With years of experience in ProAudio design, development and manufacturing, RTX has the expertise to deliver incredible sound quality in high-density RF environments, whether they are in the home, the studio or difficult radio environments with high inter-symbol interference. If you need ProAudio with a twist – such as low latency, spectrum-efficient high audio quality, long radio range or low power consumption – we have the expertise you need. We have already created ProAudio transmission systems for many of the world’s leading brands. We can help you, too. RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 | 7 RTX and employees’ rights RTX is involved in promoting the well-­being of our employees RTX has established a coordination committee in NoerPRINCIPLE 3 on an ongoing basis. We want to be an attractive employer resundby. The purpose is to promote the ongoing develfor all employees, irrespective of gender, religion and ethnic opment and efficiency of the company and its continued background. competitiveness, which is in the interests of both management and the employees. The committee comprises six RTX has drawn up policies for senior and disabled emplomembers: two members from the Executive Board and RTX supports freedom of yees, and we have examples of employees who, in recent four members are elected democratically by secret ballot association and recognizes the years, have benefitted from such policies. RTX cooperates by all employees (+ 2 substitutes). with local job centres in their work assessment schemes, right to collective bargaining. traineeships, etc. and in some cases we have offered full-time In 2017, the committee focused on initiatives to exploit positions to individuals following their training period with us. synergy effects from the combined competencies in the PRINCIPLE organization. Furthermore, this year’s employee satisfacFreedom of association applies to all employees in RTX, and RTX complies with collective agreements. tion survey addressed the issue, and the committee will evaluate on an ongoing basis which actions can be taken to ensure mutual benefits from the resources in our organi4 The safety committee in RTX is part of our statutory safety zation. RTX supports the elimina­tion of organization. This committee is responsible for ensuring a good working environment for all employees in the company, Furthermore, the coordination committee has made it all kinds of forced labour. and it consists of both management and employee represenpossible for the employees in the parent company to tatives (safety representatives). donate their company Christmas present to charity and the PRINCIPLE coordination committee also takes decision every year on RTX has achieved the Danish Working Environment Services’ “green smiley” award for its Danish workplace, which recognizes compliance with working environmental regulahow to sponsor local sports or charity activities. RTX conducts yearly salary interviews with the employees 5 tions on a good working environment – both physically and and employee development interviews. RTX supports the effective psychologically. abolition of child labour. Every month, the Executive Management posts a newsletter in order to ensure that all employees obtain knowledge PRINCIPLE of the tactical and strategic development in the Group. The 6 newsletters are aimed to be inspiration and motivation to work aligned towards the common objectives in the Group. RTX supports the elimina­tion of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 | RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 RTX and environment RTX wishes to demonstrate responsibility for the environOne of the advantages of this technology is that it generaPRINCIPLE 7 ment and to reduce our consumption of water, heat and tes energy-saving operations. It also enables an extended electricity. RTX has implemented energy-saving schemes as lifetime for batteries in mobile and wireless units. RTX has ”Wake-on-LAN” because servers, computers and software contributed to the implementation of this technology in play a major role in a development company like RTX. several customer projects during the year under review. In the same way – but with another wireless technology RTX supports a precau­tionary In 2017, RTX has invested in, and installed, more energy namely Bluetooth – RTX expects to take part in major, approach to environmental efficient and high performing servers, which will contribute partly customer-financed projects within Bluetooth Low to a more energy efficient profile. Further, RTX will continue Energy (also known as Bluetooth Smart). Compared to the challenges. optimizing and implementing energy saving actions when classic Bluetooth, the advantage of Bluetooth Low Energy is possible. that this it is able to contribute to significantly lower power consumption while maintaining the communication range. PRINCIPLE The expected benefits are to reduce the energy and at the RTX contributes with test solutions that make it possible for 8 same time improve the indoor climate for the employees in other suppliers to comply with lower power consumption Noerresundby. standards. RTX cooperates with a number of customers who are RTX cooperates with sub-suppliers to reduce material RTX supports initiatives to involved in the development of power-management and consumption and impact on the environment. RTX also enefficient energy-saving radio technologies. RTX’s continuous courages its sub-suppliers to use environmentally acceptapromote greater environmental development of the DECT standard has led to environmenble raw mate­rials and products, and RTX requires them to responsibility. tally friendly and energy-saving improvements to the DECT comply with directives that regulate the environmental-fritechnology known as DECT ULE (Ultra Low Energy). endly production and handling of electronic equipment (RoHS, REACH and WEEE directives). PRINCIPLE 9 RTX supports the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 | 9 RTX and anti-corruption RTX strongly disapproves of corruption in all its forms, PRINCIPLE 10 including extortion and bribery. To support this the Board of Directors introduced a whistleblower policy in 2013 in order to emphasize to employees that RTX wishes to be an open and trustworthy organization, and that the Executive Management encourages everyone to report RTX wishes to work against any serious and sensitive matters relating to any breach of corruption in all its forms, the company’s business ethics and/or relevant legislation. The policy has been implemented and employees have the including extortion and bribery. opportunity to report any unethical conduct to the Board of Directors in RTX. No matters were reported under the whistleblower policy during the financial year 2016/17. 10 | RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS Wireless wisdom is seamless HD audio and so much more More and more people are using wireless products to talk & work on the go. Whether you need to produce a single standard product or want to develop a unique wireless system for large enterprises, RTX has the technology and expertise to make it happen with a short time to market. As an expert provider of wireless solutions to the telecom industry, we have profound knowledge of telecom and VoIP solutions for business. Since pioneering the first digital cordless telephones rolled out in Europe, a standard that was later adopted in America and Japan, we have developed hundreds of unique products for customers that combine excellent RF performance with crisp and clear audio and an intuitive interface. We have offered PABX integrated cordless solutions for many years and have a unique platform for integrating our system into complete solutions. We have worked with a long list of PBX operators and our portfolio covers a wide range, from single base and generic handsets to systems with several thousand simultaneous users and high-end user-specific android-based terminals. From HD-quality enterprise solutions with seamless handover and audio encryption to wireless VoIP solutions with alarm response and messaging built-in, we can deliver finished standard products or design and develop custom systems for specific applications, users and environments. RTX Communication On progress 2016/17 | 11 RTX A/S Stroemmen 6 9400 Noerresundby Denmark www.rtx.dk
