Responsibility Communication on progress 2016 2 I SEMCO MARITIME CONTENT  Semco Maritime 4  Introduction 5  Strategy and stakeholders 6  Human rights 8  Charity 11  Labour 12  Safety 16  Environment 20  Renewable energy 24  Anti-corruption 26  Future focus areas 30 Read the report online here: www.semcomaritime.com/about/ our-company/csr COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 I 3 The 10 principles of the UN global compact  HUMAN RIGHTS  LABOUR  ENVIRONMENT  ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 1 Principle 3 Principle 7 Principle 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold Businesses are asked to Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association support a precautionary against corruption in all its of internationally proand the effective recogapproach to environforms, including extortion claimed human rights. nition of the right to mental challenges. and bribery. collective bargaining. Principle 2 Principle 8 Make sure that they are Principle 4 Undertake initiatives not complicit in human The elimination of all forms to promote greater right abuses. of forced and compulsory environmental labour. responsibility. Principle 5 Principle 9 The effective abolition Encourage the of child labour. development and diffusion of Principle 6 environmentally friendly The elimination of discritechnologies. mination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 I SEMCO MARITIME Semco Maritime An international project engineering company dedicated to the global energy sector. Semco Maritime facilitates the – we make sure our customers and design, fabrication, service and partners in the energy sector experiSERVICES AND SOLUTIONS: maintenance of our customers’ ence safe, cost-efficient operations. assets, providing comprehensive pro• EPCI projects ject management across all phases of We operate within three main • Construction and fabrication energy projects. industries; Oil & Gas, Offshore Wind • Installation and commissioning and Renewables and we challenge • Yard and workshop facilities From turnkey engineering solutions our people to deliver solutions of • Upgrades and refurbs to operation support and delivery of the highest quality, anywhere in the • Maintenance, modification components, systems and solutions world. and servicing • Products, components and technology • Manpower ORGANISATION: • Headquarter Esbjerg, DK • Subsidaries: Norway, UK, Singapore, China, Australia, Central America and the USA. LIABLE MANAGEMENT: • Steen Brødbæk, President and CEO • Jørgen Devantier Gade, President and CFO 3. PARTY CERTIFICATES: • ISO 9001 • ISO 14001 • OHSAS 18001 • ISO 3834-2 • ATEX PQAN Certificate ASSESSMENTS • Achilles • First Point Assessment Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark: Semco Maritime's new domicile was awarded with a Golden DGNB; a stamp of sutainability. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 I 5 Introduction We want to meet all challenges in an environmentally, ethically and socially responsible way. We continue to develop Semco our customers, employees, suppliers, Maritime with a strategic approach the communities and the environto cost-effective and sustainable ments in which we work. models that differentiate us from our competitors, create value for We are all responsible for raising the our customers and keep our focus bar and setting our expectations on Corporate Social Responsibility a little higher, and therefore we (CSR). We see a clear and growing constantly monitor our actions and trend from our customers demanddevelop new initiatives to keep pace ing focus on developing a clear CSR with our ever-changing world. policy. In 2007, Semco Maritime joined Our customers continuously dethe UN Global Compact initiative. mand high quality projects delivered We are committed to aligning at the right time and at the right our operations and strategies cost. Our global presence means with the ten universally accepted many stakeholders and a potentially principles in the areas of human great environmental impact. We rights, labor, the environment strive to meet each new challenge and anti-corruption. Our progress in an environmentally, ethically and within these areas is reported and socially responsible way. published annually. Our vision is clear. We want to be Semco Maritime supports the UN the energy sector’s first choice for Global Compact and we use the ten safe solutions that consistently meet principles as a solid platform for our expectations. This is reflected in our CSR activities and as an incentive for projects and solutions for the global our suppliers. The UN Global Compact energy sector. constitutes a good common frame of reference and core values, which form We have formalised our corporate the basis of cooperation internally values; commitment, responsiveness, in Semco Maritime, as well as with reliability and inspiration in our CSR suppliers and other business partners strategy, which focuses on four areas: around the globe. the community, the environment, people and sustainability. Our CSR Steen Brødbæk, CEO strategy defines how we interact with COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 I 7 Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Social Responsibility starts in the tender phase and conCorporate Social Responsibility (CSR) tinues thoughout the project lifeinitiatives encourage organisations to cycle. Each division uses risk assestake responsibility for their actions. ment tools that match their exact These initiatives range from protecline of business and their type and ting the environment, ensuring good size of projects. working conditions for employees and caring for the local community. Strategy looking towards 2020 Our 2020 strategy »First Choice Our CSR strategy focuses on four Stronger core for value creation« areas: the community, the environaims at consolidating and strengthPOLICY ment, people and sustainability. To ening our position in the coming • CSR Policy, POL-SEMCO-0001 make sure that our business is in years. To reach our goals we must • Global Compact procedure, line with the 10 UN Global compact ensure a safe and motivating workP-SEMCO-0082 principles, we have integrated a ing environment by: CSR Policy and a Global Compact • Quality Risk Management, • Develop competencies troughout ISO 9001 procedure. The objective of Semco the organisation. Maritime is to develop strategic and • Business Management cost-effective sustainability models • Ensure an inspiring and motivating System: a system available to that create differentiation to others working environment all employees which provides and value for customers – we will easy access to all policies, • Always keep our safety promise; challenge and develop what we do procedures, instructions and templates. best in a socially responsible way Business management system CSR in our projects Our business management system helps us ensure that: As part of our project execution, all projects refer to the overall Semco • the quality of products and serMaritime CSR policy and must ensure vices delivered (also by our supplithat our suppliers and subsuppliers ers) meet specified requirements. are also in compliance. For further • our working environment and details about supplier assesment and safety meet statutory requireapproval, please see p. 9-11. ments and own policies and objectives. Project risk management We secure a strong focus on potential • our activities take care of risks in all projects. All risks are rethe environment. gistered, and the probability and • we are an attrative working consequence of each risk is assessed place providing development and mitigated. Risk management opportunities. HUMAN RIGHTS  9 Human rights We incorporate values and attitudes that support a responsible dialogue with our stakeholders and suppliers. We observe the law and wish to code of conduct, as well as the incorporate values and attitudes values upon which it is based. that support a responsible dialogue with our stakeholders (customers, Supplier evaluation owners, end-users, suppliers, We know that our ability to operate employees, national organisations, according to our corporate values grass-root movements and local and standards is directly impacted community). by our suppliers. We therefore work closely with our suppliers to ensure Code of conduct that they understand our polices ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 Our code of conduct is a set of ethiand principles and that they meet cal guidelines that outlines responnot only our expectations but also An improved electronic supplier sibilities and best practices in relathose of our customer. self-assessment form which tion to human rights, labour, the leaves less room for human environment and anti-corruption The procedure for supplier evaluaerror in the assesment of our suppliers, issues. All our employees, partners tion process sets the basis for our and suppliers are obliged to know, relationship with our suppliers. We Introduction of supplier perforunderstand and comply with our found it important to ensure easier mance scorecard AMBITIONS 2017 Further implementation of the electronic supplier selfassesment forms. By end of 2017, we have sucessfully migrated 35% of all supplier approvals into the new electronic approval system. In 2017, we will reduce the number of suppliers. This will enable us to increase focus on our remaining suppliers and on developing long-term supplier relationships. 10 I SEMCO MARITIME and more direct contact between our HSSEQ department will follow our HSSEQ department, procureup with a questionnaire. ment and the suppliers. Business criticality rating is another In 2016, we therefore released a important area when evaluating new and improved and electronic a supplier. The product or service supplier self-assessment form that provided can have a large impact contains general supplier informaon our business or that of our endtion as well as information about customers. Performance reports their CSR approach. We request made continuously from contract suppliers to comply with the prinsigning until delivery are important POLICY ciples described in our code of contools that we use together with on• Code of conduct, duct, Health and Safety (OHAS site audits. POL-SEMCO-0013 18001), Environment Management System (ISO 14001), Quality Risk It is important for us to share and • Health and Safety , OHSAS 18001 Management (ISO9001) and where store our experience with suppliers applicable (ISO 3834-2) Welding and good or bad. In 2016, we therefore • Environment Management heat treatment. If a supplier does implemented a supplier perforsystem, ISO 14001 not have the relevant certificates, mance scorecard; this tool evaluates suppliers on total cost level, delivery • Quality Risk Management, ISO 9001 performance, quality performance, responsiveness, reliability and • Welding and heat technical capability. Suppliers will treatment, ISO 3834-2 be involved in the result of their own scorecard whenever necessary and Semco Maritime will request improvement processes to mitigate unacceptable performance. In 2017, we aim to lower the amount of suppliers used and to keep the supplier base trimmed to secure a high data quality across the organisation. We aim to build strategic long-term relationships with key suppliers of products and services that can influence our cost structure considerable. HUMAN RIGHTS  11 Charity In 2016, we supported various charity and humanitarian projects. Below you will see some of our sponsorships. Familier med kræftramte børn Support to families with children with cancer. The Children’s Cancer Foundation Through employee participation in the SEPE Bike challenge, a 12 hour bike event, Semco Maritime sponsored 6 bikes in support of the Children’s Cancer Foundation (Børnecancerfonden). Røde Kors – the Danish Red Cross The Danish RC is an auxiliary to the Danish government in the fields of humanitarian Hospital clowns assistance, relief work and education, either An initiative with the purpose of spreading joy alone or in co-operation with state bodies or and laughter among children in hospitals. other organisations. Stafet for Livet Community awareness, information and fundraising to support the fight against cancer. Headspace We have an ongoing cooperation with Headspace, which is an organisation that provides advice and guidance to young people with problems. Semco Maritime is part of the business network and continually offers temporary employment contracts for young people who are referred by Headspace. LABOUR  13 Labour We respect the right to collective bargaining and we support diversity and equal opportunities. We do not discriminate, or in any All employees have individual other way make decisions that are contracts, drafted and approved in affected by employee affiliations with accordance with international and trade unions or other associations, nor national legal requirements. We do do we interfere in which trade unions not employ nor support the use of or other associations that might be child labour. formed in the workplace. The purpose of our personnel policy We do not use force, threats or (POL-SEMCO-0011) is to create an disciplinary means to force people attractive workplace where each to work, or withhold identification employee has the opportunity ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 papers or wages from employees to develop both personally and • Job satisfaction survey – to force them to work. To ensure professionally. overall average of 4 out of 5 uniform and professional handling • Sickness absence was of warnings/terminations, and that Equal opportunities brought down from 4,3% in laws and collective agreements are We support diversity and equal 2015 to 3,4% in 2016. complied with, we have a disciplinopportunities. According to our ary procedure (P-SEMCO-0293). Inclusion policy we do not expose • 73% of all employees have had their annual personal development dialogue (PDD) AMBITIONS 2017 • Lower sickness absence in 2017 – goal is 2,9%. We will improve in 2017 by increasing our focus on sickness absence, especially in the departments/locations where the absence is highest. • Improve number of completed Personal Development Dialogue (PDD) meetings – goal is 90%. We will inform about the importance of PDDs and make the PDD tools known and accessible for all managers! 14 I SEMCO MARITIME SICKNESS ABSENCE 2014 2015 2016 Goal 3,2 % 4,3 % 3,4 % 2,9 % any person to discrimination based In order to mimimize long-term sick implementation will also continue in on gender, race, colour, religion, leave and to ensure regular contact 2017. In 2016 we worked with welfare political opinion, sexual orientation, between employee and workplace groups in a few of our divisions. The national extraction, social origin, during sick leave, we have a sick aim is to increase the general job ethnic origin, age or handicap. No leave procedure. In 2016, the level of satisfaction. We believe that wellperson is subject to discrimination in sickness absence was at 3.4%. This being and performance are closely hiring, dismissal, transfer, promotion, is better than 2015, but still too high. linked. wage setting, and setting of working Therefore we continue our focus on conditions or competency developreducing sickness absence in 2017. Job satisfaction ment. All decisions regarding In 2016, we completed a job satisfacemployment, promotion, dismissal, Ultimo 2016, we initiated an analysis tion survey in Semco Maritime. The wages and other working conditions of absence and launched concrete survey included all white collar and are based on relevant and objective actions, which include extended blue collar employees except for criteria. Our inclusion policy ensures written action plans in case of offshore employees. The job satisfacthat both female and male employlong-term sick leave. These action tion survey analysed the knowledge ees at all levels and in all departplans will focus on promoting an and understanding of our strategy, ments are treated equally, and are accelerated and successful return to the satisfaction with management, guaranteed the same opportunities the workplace. This work and further cooperation, work-life balance, etc. and terms of employment with regard to education, salary, allowance, promotion, leave of absence Average results of the job satisfaction survey 5 is best and job content/tasks etc. We believe that difference and diversity 5 foster development and change. It is important to use the resources of each individual optimally to further 4,3 develop the individual and the busi4 4,0 4,1 4,0 ness. This policy applies to all em3,9 3,8 ployees across the organisation. Social counsellor 3 Since 2007, we have had an in-house social counsellor in order to ensure a strong focus on human values. The 2 position handles social inclusion, job satisfaction, job retention by disease and counselling and coaching of the employees and their families. 1 General Management Cooperation Daily work Development Total average LABOUR  15 84% completed the survey and the COMPLETED overall average was 4,0 (on a scale from 1-5, where 5 is best). PDD MEETINGS After the completion of the survey, 90 % job satisfaction workshops have been arranged in all departments. During the workshops, it was 73 % possible to discuss how positive results can be maintained and how the below-average results can be POLICY improved. • Personnel Policy POL-SEMCO-0011 Competency assessment • Inclusion Policy, Each employee and the company POL-SEMCO-0006 have a mutual obligation to develop in order to create results and add 2016 Goal • CSR Policy, value to the company and the POL-SEMCO-0001 individual. To strengthen compewith our current strategy. The • Disciplinary Procedure, tencies within the company and to system focuses on adding funcP-SEMCO-0293 ensure our strategic development, tional competences and rating the competence assessment has been • Sick leave procedure, individual employee competence implemented in Denmark and P-SEMCO-0187 level vs.the required level job in Singapore and roll-out will proceed question. This system also identifies • Competence Assessment, to the remaining global entities. potential competence gaps and P-SEMCO-0199 development needs. Education and training needs are identified in an annual appraisal Registration of competences and (Personal Development Dialogue, ongoing development of employees PDD), and an action plan is preare vital parts of the overall Semco pared for the coming year. We Maritime business strategy. It is in follow our group strategy »First our common interest to map and Choice« and it is important that emkeep track of individual employee ployees can connect their individual competences, previous and current. development plan to the corporate Registration of employee qualificastrategy. We have initiated a comtions and competences also gives petency management and devethe employees greater influence on lopment project to identify the his/her own career development. competencies required to succeed Global safety statistics 2016 LTA per million working hours 6,0 5,0 4,0 3,0 2,0 1,0 0,0 March January February April May June July August September October November December LTAF onshore LTAF total LTAF offshore LTAF: Lost time accident frequency/mio working hours TRI per million working hours (TRI includes LTA, RWI and MTI) 12,0 10,0 8,0 6,0 4,0 2,0 0,0 March April May June July August October January September November December February TRIF onshore TRIF total TRIF offshore TRIF: Total recordable injury frequency/mio working hours LABOUR  17 Safety No compromise means ZERO harm to employees, stakeholders, our assets and the environment. At Semco Maritime we are compotential to become an industry mitted to »no compromise – we leader. Semco Maritime has had care«, which means that our focus strategic plans for these two areas is zero harm to employees and for some years now. stakeholders, to our assets and to the environment. We believe that In 2016 many safety initiatives were incidents can be prevented by a launched with the purpose of proactive approach and by learnstrengthening the areas of safety ing from experience. We believe leadership and safety culture. Some that a continuous focus on safety of them are mentioned below. leadership and a persistent safety ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 approach will enable us to reach our Safety Awareness Courses • TRIF: 6.0 goal of zero accidents while promotSafety Awareness courses for mana• LTAF: 2.5 ing a strong safety culture. gers, offshore employees and blue • Safety culture survey: collars in our workshops. These 3.16 When an organisation has a strong safety awareness courses have the safety culture and demonstrates main purpose of strengthening our strong safety leadership, it has the safety culture and safety behaviour. AMBITIONS 2017 • TRIF: below 5.0 • LTAF: 0 • Safety culture survey: above 3.0 on operational sites SAFETY WALKS IN 2017 • All Managers must perform safety walks and we have set an ambitious goal: Operational managers: 6 safety walks/year Admin. managers: 2 safety walks/year LABOUR  19 SAFETY CULTURE SURVEY SEMCO: 3.16 0 3 5 Action plans to improve Safety culture is good The courses ensure that we have evaluated the following points: a common point of departure on this journey under the tagline »no • Management safety priority compromise – we care«. and ability • Management safety Safety walks empowerment We introduced the concept of »Safety Walks« worldwide in 2015 • Management safety justice and this initiative was further implemented in 2016. The safety • Workers safety commitment POLICY walk is a communication tool for managers to show their commit• Workers safety priority • HSSE Policy ment and dedication towards and risk non-acceptance POL-SEMCO-0019 safety to their employees. A safety • Safety walk • Peer safety communication, P-SEMCO-0297 walk is the starting point for a learning and trust in safety dialogue about safety behaviour ability Semco Maritime is certified and the subject can be anything according to OHSAS 18001 related to safety – both professional • Workers trust in efficacy of and private issues can be discusafety systems sed. As long as the manager acts as a safety ambassador, the purpose If results are above 3 out of 5 the of a safety walk has been fulfilled. safety culture is good but can still From 2017, all managers have a be improved. When results are safety walk objective and therefore below 3 actions plans are made they have to register and docufor the departments in question in ment each safety walk. order to improve the safety culture. Safety culture survey Safety campaigns A worldwide safety culture surSafety campaigns were also an vey was carried out in order to important a part of 2016. Both measure the overall safety culture global and local safety campaigns in Semco Maritime. were rolled out. We also did a successful offshore campaign with The safety culture survey is a quesfocus on employee safety during tionnaire containing 50 questions the off-duty periods. under 7 headlines. All employees evaluate their closest managers and their colleagues. The survey RECYCLING OF WASTE 8% 2% 11 % 54 % 2016 25 % Temporary Special Disposal Combustion Recycling storage treatment ENVIRONMENT  21 Environment We aim to reduce our environmental impact by using resources efficiently and reducing energy consumption. Semco Maritime respects the consumption and ensure an effecenvironment and comply with tive waste management by recycling applicable laws and regulations. as much as possible and maintainHowever, we place higher demands ing an efficient waste separation on ourselves that stipulated by the system. law. This means that we engage in targeted and systematic efforts to In 2016 we see the benefits of the continuously improve our environmajor energy saving project at our mental performance. We underyard facility in Esbjerg. We can see stand »a responsibly approach« as a that the savings have been great. preventive approach. The fact that we moved from three ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 addresses into one new domicile • Savings on energy conWe aim to reduce our environmental has also contributed significantly to sumption/employee: -65 % impact by using resources in the those savings. • Recycling of waste/total most efficient way, reducing energy amount of waste: 79 % AMBITIONS 2017 ENERGY CONSUMPTION • Savings on energy conKWH/EMPLOYEE sumption/employee: -10 % • Savings on heating/ employee: -10 % 3,942 4,0 • Recycling of waste/total 3,716 amount of waste: 80 % 3,0 2,0 2,804 2,804 POLICY 1,275 Semco Maritime is certified 1,0 according to ISO 14001. 1,0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ENVIRONMENT  23 New domicile certificate with the score of 69.7 %. On 21 December 2015, three Semco The building was awarded the Maritime locations moved into one certificate for, among others, the domicile in Esbjerg. When planning indoor climate, space efficiency and the focus on energy, e.g. the use of CO2 NEUTRAL WEBSITE and building the sustainability of the solar cells. We have joined the CO2 neutral new domicile was based on 5 theme website initiative in order areas; to neutralise the emissions DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für • Environmental Quality originating from our website Nachhaltiges Bauen) is one of the and our website users. • Economic Quality world’s leading standards when • Sociocultural / functional quality it comes to the sustainability of RD IC ECOLAB NO buildings. DGNB measures indoor EL • Technical Quality climate, the life cycle of building • Process Quality materials, transport, consumption NORDIC SWAN MARKING of energy and water during and Our stationery is manufactured Golden DGNB certificate after construction, durability, from environmentally friendly availability, etc. materials. At present, all statioThe new Semco Maritime domicile nery and almost all envelopes was awarded with a Golden DGNB carry the Nordic swan-label. FSC® FSC stands for The Forest Stewardship Council and is an international non-profit label for wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that the paper used for your printed material comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no more wood is cut than the forest can regenerate. ISO CERTIFIED Semco Maritime is certified according to ISO 14001. A sustainable new domicile with outstanding indoor climate, space efficiency and focus on low energy consumption. ENVIRONMENT  25 Renewable energy Offshore Wind and Renewable energy is a market that will continue to grow. During the last years, renewable land-based substations. Our dedicatenergy, and especially offshore wind, ed engineering department handles has attracted even more of our atteneverything from specialised studies to tion and has become a very importhe detailed design and specification tant part of our future strategy with a of substations, accommodation dedicated focus. Semco Maritime has modules, seafastening and installadeveloped a strong position as one tion equipment. Our teams have also of the market leaders for offshore handled upgrade and mobilisation of substations and safe communication installation vessels, Tetra communicasolutions for offshore windfarms. tion systems and test equipment for wind turbine manufacturers. We believe that the renewable WE PARTICIPATED IN THE energy market will continue to grow FOLLOWING OFFSHORE With focus on bringing down the cost WIND PROJECTS: and we market Semco Maritime of green energy, our engineers focus as a viable choice for developers of on the functionality of each element • Horns Rev offshore wind farms. for integration into the overall design • Burbo Banks of the wind farm, and our work con• West of Duddon Sands Originally we have provided services tinues to break new ground. • Walney I for the oil and gas industry, but our • Walney II business has increasingly turned • Northwind towards renewable energy (see AN INCREASING • Nordse Ost figure). A logic step, as many of our core competencies from many years SHARE OF TOTAL • Borkum Riffgrund I in the oil and gas business are easily TURNOVER • Anholt • Rødsand B applied to offshore wind. 100 % • Gunfleet Sands We design and engineer electrical • Robin Rigg infrastructure systems for wind • Lillgrund farms, including construction of the • Princess Amalia (Q7) on and offshore substations. • Nysted • London Array We are one of the leading opera• DanTysk tion and maintenance suppliers to • Sandbank wind farms in Denmark, the UK • NordSee One 2016: 30 % and Germany. Our safety and • BlighBank quality-conscious staff operates and/ • Horns rev 3 2015: 26 % or maintains substation modules, • Hornsea offshore accommodation modules, wind turbine foundations and Total turnover ANTI-CORRUPTION  27 Anti-corruption We have always focused on honesty and transparency in everything we do in 2016 we further formalised our efforts. As a signatory to the UN’s Global • By synergizing the necessary Compact since 2007, Semco Mariresources of our CEO, CFO, the time is committed to the highest Legaland the HSEQ departments standards of integrity, honesty, and ensuring the appropriate attenfairness in all internal and external tion to our anti-bribery and corruprelationships, in accordance with tion policy and procedures. all applicable laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, anti• E.g. by capping gifts to € 100 bribery and anti-corruption laws. In other promotions, sponsorships 2016, we decided to further formaand hospitality gestures are relize our efforts to eliminate corrupgulated in each incident based ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2016 tion and bribery by establishing a upon specific criteria in each case. Whistle-blower arrangement formal whistle-blower policy and established and in force. whistle-blower rules. 2. We have Top-level commitment: AMBITIONS 2017 • This means that our CEO and Anti-corruption Ensure full implementation of CFO »own« the anti-bribery policy. Semco Maritime and it’s Group the whistle-blower arrangement Companies (Subsidiaries) employees • By having a Culture and Devethroughout the organisation. lopment internal program and Meaning that everyone knows shall not directly or indirectly accept, how and where to report solicit or offer bribes, kick-backs, the Group General Legal Counsel non-compliant behaviour. facilitation payments or any other proactively sponsoring the policy, unjustified advantages in order to whenever necessary improperly influence or to gain an • By having our Senior Vice-Preunfair business advantage from any sidents annually (via for instance governmental or private legalor any other entity. We have built our the intranet and similar internal anti-bribery and corruption policy’s communication channels)make foundation on our »Prevent Monitor employees aware of the policy/ React« policy on the basis of the procedures. 6 principles of the Bribery Act 2010 (UK) as follows: 3. Risk assessment is made: POLICY • By evaluating as applicable • Code of conduct, 1. We have proportionate the risks associated to our poPOL-SEMCO-0013 procedures: tential and current projects with • Anti-bribery and corruption, regard to the risks inherent with: POL-SEMCO-0016 • By designing and implementing this »anti-bribery policy« and by having (i) geography and (ii) industry • Whistle blower policy and rules actual, suitable and proportionate sector(iii) nature of transaction »anti-bribery procedures« to handle and (iv)scope and nature of the risk-exposures in our markets. necessary partnerships. 28 I SEMCO MARITIME ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION PREVENT MONITOR REACT • By whenever necessary devoting 5. Communication is performed: 6. Monitoring and review: specific resources (Legalas com• By bringing focus on the anti• By having established either a mercial) to identify potentially risk bribery and corruption policy Business Ethics Committee or agreements related to: supply in among others introductory another suitable legal internal (from simple Purchase Order courses for new employees; body to annually review and to full-blown EPC contract with adjudicate on instances related Operation and Maintenance, pur• By making our Code of Conduct to our anti-bribery and corrupchasing, agents and consultants) readily available on our internet tion policy and procedures. site, along with the updated 4. Due diligence is made: version of our Communication on • By regularly modifying, updating Progress (“COP”) report and Global and adding to the anti-bribery • By inserting an anti-bribery Business Manual including the and corruption policy and proclause in internal Contract anti-bribery and corruption policy cedures during reviews and Review Guidelines across Semco and procedures. monitoring conducted by our Maritime’s 5 divisions; HSE&Q Department. • By including a specific set of • By training, through our Contract questions on the anti-bribery and Review Guidelines course, all corruption policy in our HSE&Q Semco Maritime employees inDepartment’s set of internal volved in contract negotiations will auditing rules. be aware of any anti-bribery issues. THE FORMAL WHISTLE-BLOWER POLICY AND RULES The detailed whistle-blower policy is available to all in our Business Management System together with a template for reporting. Any suspicious or noncompliant behavior The reporting person and the or actions/omissions in connection with person being reported are with due any anti-bribery or any other relations consideration to legislative rights and of breach of internal financialand/or other obligations best possible informed about any relevant policies of the SEMCO MARITIME investigation also with due consideration to; (i) Group of Companies or of any external laws, the facts finding process and investigation, (ii) rules codes or otherwise can from December the right as an investigated person to respond 15, 2016 anonymously be reported to the to the investigation and/or the findings/report General Legal Counsel and the Deputy Legal to take due consideration to the investigated Counsels of the SEMCO MARITIME Group of person’s right to protect one’s personal and any Companies. The General Legal Counsel and other interests and (iii) the applicable legislaDeputy Legal Counsels must as applicable tion at all times. minimum cc the CFO (And General Legal Counsel always to Deputy Legal Counsel(s) on any reported incident), the startup of any case and any later process and/or reporting. There can be (severe) employment Reporting to the General Legal Counsel and consequences for a reported person Deputy Legal Counsels can take place by and ultimately a criminal investigation anyone by telephone, e-mail and/or writtenand termination of the employment (As or any oral communication. applicable in each incident). If the report is not anonymous – however the reporting person’s identity can be asked to be kept anonymous by the reporting person. If so, then any reporting shall be kept anonymous with regards to the reporting person’s identity at all times with due consideration to the applicable legislation. The General Legal Counsel shall facilitate to take The reporting person appropriate action on any report within reasonable is secured anonymous and due time to: reporting with due · Investigate (If necessary sided by external legal counsel, acconsideration to the applicable, counting specialists and/or other necessary external resources relevant legislation. The reporor specialists) any report, and ted person is also considered · Bring the legal conclusion of any investigated reporting to a (as fare possible under the hereto formed »board« consisting of and in each incident as applicable legislation and comapplicable: pany policies) duly protected under the employment laws A. The CEO/CFO and rights and obligations against B. The Head of HR employment consequences and as relevant and as decided by the General Legal due to any reported acts/omisCounsel in each incident: C. An external lawyer, external accountant sions. The latter means that D. And/or any other relevant resources the employment laws are duly E. As applicable a Board Member of the Semco Maritime considered throughout any Group of companies’ mother company Semco Mariinvestigation, reporting and/ time in Denmark (The Chairman of the board). to invesor actions/omissions in each tigate, conclude and act on each incident of reporting. incident. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 I 31 Future focus areas We are look ahead to a brighter and greener future within the global energy sector. Safe working conditions Supplier evaluation Continued focus on prevention of We will continue to work closely accidents, concentrated on three iswith our suppliers to meet Semco sues: behaviour, safety and vigilance. Maritime and our customers’ Lost time accident frequency (LTA) expectations in terms of corporate shall be 0. Increased focus on HSE social responsibility, Health & safety, observations in order to strengthen Environmental policy and Quality our focus on preventive activities. process. Our new electronic supplier assesment tool is an important tool. Environmental consumption CONTACT Focus will be on waste disposal CSR reporting and recycled waste and on energy We further increase our focus on CSR consultant savings through optimized producMarianne K. Hansen the CSR reporting while recognising tion machinery. that we are still in a learning process. Tel. +45 7916 6492 Our goal is to be able to determine E-mail: mar@semcomaritime.com Anti-bribery and corruption where our greatest impact lie and Semco Maritime A/S Continued focus on informing about to be able to measure results and, Esbjerg Brygge 30 our anti-bribery and corruption most importantly, progress. We want DK-6700 Esbjerg policy. We will ensure full implemento communicate our progress in an tation of our whistle-blower arrangehonest and open way and continue ment throughout the organisation. to work towards making sure that Everyone will know how and where our COP report is relevant and to report non-compliant behaviour. easy-to-use for our stakeholders. #SemcoNews Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com Dropbox\Marketing\Brochurer\Responsibility COP\COP 2016 190417 subh
