2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Our philosophy  4 A message from Chairman and CEO Jacqueline Hinman  6 Upstanding citizenship  8 Sustainability key performance indicators  9 Our clients  10 Sustainable solutions delivered for clients  12 Delivering sustainable results in operations management  18 Our communities  20 CH2M Foundation and giving  24 STEM education  25 Sustainable communities  25 Our operations  26 Our values  28 Ethics and business conduct  30 Anti-corruption policies and procedures  31 Health, safety and environment  32 Human rights  33 2016 Economic performance  34 Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships  35 Supply chain management  37 Our people  40 Workforce diversity and inclusion  40 Training and development  43 Employee turnover  45 Our planet  46 Environmental responsibility  46 Environmental management  48 Resources and recycling  51 Environmental compliance  54 Carbon footprint and energy use  55 Report profile  62 GRI content index  63 UN Global Compact principles  71 Snapshot  72 2 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Upstanding sustainability and citizenship Our passion for sustainability and corporate citizenship shines through in world-class ways, from improvements in our internal operations to milestones delivered in partnership with our clients that ultimately generate superior, triple-bottom-line results. As one of the first firms in our sector to publish a sustainability report aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), CH2M demonstrates leadership advancing sustainability and upstanding citizenship in measures of ethics, health and safety and environmental, economic and social performance for clients, employees and stakeholders around the globe. This Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report highlights progress achieved as of the calendar year ending December 31, 2016, marking our 12th consecutive year of GRI reporting. ch2m.com 3 Our philosophy At CH2M, it starts with our purpose: laying the foundation for human progress by turning challenge into opportunity. But that’s just the beginning. 4 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 5 A message from Chairman and CEO Jacqueline Hinman As a professional services firm tackling If we zig when others zag or turn a problem upside-down to evaluate it from another angle, it’s because we’re looking for the most complete our clients’ toughest infrastructure and solution that returns value to our clients and stakeholders. natural resource challenges with In 2016, we conducted a thoughtful, outside-in analysis to determine optimism and imagination, we’ve always how we could operate and compete more effectively. We started first and foremost with our unwavering commitment to protect the health approached our work a bit differently, and safety of all stakeholders. We launched a global safety campaign where our management team, our employees and I reaffirmed our driven by our purpose to pave the way dedication to Target Zero. There’s absolutely nothing more important for human progress. than the safety of our people. As a part of our analysis, we reinforced our industry-leading position in sustainability and corporate citizenship. As one of the first firms in our sector to publish a sustainability report, we know our most significant achievements stem from the work we deliver for our clients. That’s why we elevated sustainability and citizenship as an integral part of our 2016 Integrated Summary Annual Report and for the first time, we included aggregate measures of improvement achieved for our top 100 clients, in addition to our internal achievements. Reflecting our record delivering sustainable solutions and exemplary citizenship, CH2M became the first professional services firm ever to be honored with the World Environment Center Gold Medal Award for International Corporate Achievement in Sustainable Development, demonstrating our global leadership in influencing and delivering progressive environmental, social and economic outcomes. Review our 2016 Integrated Summary Annual Report for a complete assessment of the company’s performance and prospects. Sincerely, Jacqueline Hinman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 6 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Panama Canal Expansion project Photo courtesy of Panama Canal Authority table of contents ch2m.com 7 Upstanding citizenship CH2M’s purpose is rooted in sustainability and exemplified by leadership as a corporate citizen. We pave the way for human progress, delivering Sustainability is an expression of better social, environmental and economic outcomes. good corporate citizenship That purpose extends from the way we operate within the firm to the triple-bottom-line solutions Corporate citizenship we deliver for clients. Our Sustainability Policy governs our decisions and actions to deliver is a business approach that sustainable results for our stakeholders, aligned with the United Nations (UN) Sustainable supports affecting the Development Goals, while our corporate governance enables us to achieve our goals. environment, society and the economy in a positive way. CH2M Chairman and CEO Jacqueline Hinman and our board of directors provide governance oversight for the company, including sustainable performance and responsible citizenship, Sustainability supported by diverse business functions that contribute to decision-making, programs and is meeting the needs of the services to advance these aims. present while creating a healthy and vibrant economy, Our board’s Governance and Corporate Citizenship Committee ensures focused engagement in society and environment for setting goals, monitoring performance and reporting results toward the firm’s sustainability and future generations. corporate citizenship goals. What we do We partner with nonprofit organizations, clients and stakeholders around the world to achieve is solve the world’s complex these goals in our client work and citizenship initiatives. Backed by CH2M Foundation grants, infrastructure challenges while corporate giving, client partnerships, employee contributions and volunteerism, our community promoting responsible natural investment programs focus on two overarching objectives: resource use, economic growth and social inclusion. • Advancing sustainable development of communities • Supporting science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education for students and teachers The client-centric business model we established in 2016 serves clients holistically from pursuit to delivery and everything in between. Our model contains three global client sectors: national governments; state and local governments; and the private sector. We work with clients to deliver the better future they envision for their communities, constituents and commercial interests and achieve triple bottom-line performance improvements. 8 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Sustainability key performance indicators Our key performance indicators chart illustrates how we align our business priorities with what our stakeholders and the planet need from us as a proactive corporate citizen. Our highest priorities include topics like ethics, health and safety, environmental compliance and investing in our people (attraction and retention, and training and development). Issues toward the upper right reflect dual importance to CH2M and our stakeholders. CH2M Sustainability Key Performance Indicators | GRI 102-47 Supply chain Health and Community Climate change Economic safety Ethics and and project Diversity and carbon performance anti-corruption partnerships procurement and outreach emissions Enabling Importance to stakeholders and the planet Environmental technologies Water policy and compliance access to water Capacity Training and Worker welfare Client and Attraction building development and human business partner and rights selection retention Sustainable Holistic risk Innovation Client Environmental Operational design and management services management governance construction footprint Sustainable Workforce Succession Wellness Electronic purchasing demographics planning waste and and distribution recycling STEM education Business travel Company water use CH2M Investor Investing in ownership partners our company model Importance to CH2M’s business Sustainability topics: Environmental Economic Social All three topics 019_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 9 Our clients Because we place clients at the center of everything we do, we define and operate our business differently from industry peers. Our best sustainability opportunities come from loyal clients with whom we enjoy long-standing, valued relationships built on mutual trust. Lee Tunnel, Thames Water’s Thames Tideway Tunnel Program Photo courtesy of Thames Water 10 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 11 Sustainable solutions delivered for clients Iconic infrastructure £211 billion 18 million boost for U.K. economy gallons Strengthening London’s of nutrient-laden water kept Heathrow Airport’s standing as out of Chesapeake Bay, Virginia, a sustainable hub airport, while in Alexandria Renew creating 180,000 jobs and Enterprises’ Envision Platinum 10,000 apprenticeships nutrient management facility Heathrow Airport expansion Chesapeake Bay, Virginia 6 million 10% people with mass transit increased capacity Serving a vibrant metropolis Dramatically reducing travel growing by 100,000 people times and increasing London’s each year through the rail capacity through Crossrail’s Metrolinx Rapid Transit high-frequency, high-capacity Program in Toronto railway for London and the South East Metrolinx Rapid Transit Program Crossrail tunnel boring 60% 25 water recycled countries on 4 continents Opened new locks on the Supporting USAID with Panama Canal that feature infrastructure programs water-savings basins recycling for humanitarian relief and up to 60 percent of the water international development used per transit around the world for 40 years Photo courtesy of Panama Canal Authority Panama Canal expansion project 12 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 217 miles of high speed rail Reducing travel time between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore to just 90 minutes Kuala Lumpur-Singapore High Speed Rail 60% power usage reduction Designing an award-winning sustainable runway for the John Glenn Columbus International Airport in Ohio, the first runway in the U.S. to employ high-intensity LED runway edge lights that cut power use by 60 percent Airport runway 70,000 weekday riders by 2020 Boosting transit on the University Link Light Rail in Seattle (opened 6 months ahead of schedule and $200 million under budget) Seattle Link light rail table of contents ch2m.com 13 World-class communities 30 million imperial gallons of desalinated water per day, helping the country meet 85 percent of its water needs through desalination and high-grade reclaimed water in Singapore’s fifth desalination plant Singapore PUB Deep Tunnel Sewerage System 16 million 13,000 acres tons per year of Detroit open space Reducing total wastewater Using advanced analysis and discharge in the Thames River, collaborative funding to convert U.K. by 40 percent unused open space into recreation opportunities, urban farms, sustainable stormwater infrastructure and natural reserves Thames River, London Detroit and Detroit River 16 miles 480 homes of canal protected Adding new vibrancy to By stabilizing a historic landslide Dubai’s ultramodern cityscape, through the award-winning to be used by more than 1 Lyme Regis environmental million people per year improvements project Dubai Water Canal pedestrian bridge ICE South West Awards, Lyme Regis project 14 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report >25 million 250 acres square feet of redeveloped land Dubai’s world-class theme Supporting Denver’s park destination including transformation of the National 15,000 LEGO® models, slated Western Center campus into a to attract 6.7 million visitors year-round destination and and create 4,000 jobs regional asset National Western Center rendering $200,000 5 miles annual savings of restored coastline Achieved operation and Restoring the Rockaway Beach maintenance savings boardwalk in New York City, a through green and vital coastline recreational sustainable remediation at corridor that was destroyed by Travis Air Force Base, Superstorm Sandy California, reducing electrical use by 790,000 kWh and Travis Air Force Base CO2 by 930 tons annually Rockaway Beach boardwalk table of contents ch2m.com 15 Environmental and economic resiliency 4 clients 2,500 named as Utilities foot-long floodwall of the Future Providing flood protection to The Water Environment the Puget Sound, Washington, Federation named Alexandria and Tacoma’s Central Renew, VCS Denmark, Pima Wastewater Treatment Plant County Regional Wastewater Reclamation Department and the City of Fayetteville as forwardAgua Nueva Water Reclamation Facility, thinking and sustainable utilities Tacoma Central Wastewater Treatment Plant Pima County 200-hectare 1 mile demonstration site of enhanced waterfront, Planning an innovative research ecology and urban spaces facility that uses seawater to Providing coastal restoration raise fish and shrimp in the and protection for 110,000 United Arab Emirates New Yorkers, reducing flood risks, facilitating waterfront access and creating enhanced natural areas City of New York coastal resiliency 16 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 50 years 6.5 miles of resilience of East Bay restoration Helping seven Colorado Restoring a healthy, River Basin states address functioning oyster habitat uncertainties from climatewith The Nature related water supply and Conservancy in Florida demand risks Lake Mead, Colorado River basin Oyster bed 1.3 million 5 people and £275 billion key energy and climate of property protected strategy pillars Protecting London from tidal Modeled future climate flooding through the Thames conditions and impacts in Estuary tidal flood risk support of Newmont Mining in management system securing reliable, cost-effective power, minimizing energy use, advancing clean energy policy, Thames barriers reducing carbon footprint and adapting to climate change table of contents ch2m.com 17 Our Clients Singapore Public Utilities Board (PUB) Active, Beautiful, Clean Waters Programme Delivering sustainable results in operations management Our award-winning, CH2M provides operations, maintenance and management services for municipal and industrial site-driven clients’ facilities. Each day, we treat approximately 1.7 billion gallons of water and wastewater, sustainability program ensuring sustainable performance with best management practices that mitigate environmental leverages our employees’ impacts, enhance and protect ecosystems and actively engage with community stakeholders. passion to implement sustainable community projects, Facility Operations Management Successes resource efficiencies and wildlife habitats. Now in the program’s eighth 2016 Since 2009 year, we’re continuously improving our clients’ sustainable performance. • 3,170 hours volunteering • 16,500 hours volunteering • 10.8 million kWh electrical consumption reduced • 70 million kWh electrical • 57,800 gallons fuel consumption reduced consumption reduced • 633 tonnes CO2 emissions reduced • 169,000 gallons • US$1.8 million savings from 2016 to 2017 fuel consumption reduced • 19.6 billion gallons effluent reduced • US$11.8 million saved for • 9,525 tonnes biosolids reused our clients and our company • 72 tonnes material recycled • 75.1 billion gallons effluent • 3,735 gallons oil recycled reused • 2,200 units universal waste recycled • 38,011 tonnes of biosolids and recyclable waste • 8 enhancements to ecosystems diverted from landfills • 8 awards, certifications or recognitions 003_sr17 18 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Northern Treatment Plant, Brighton, Colorado Our clients’ wastewater treatment facilities discharge to a variety of water bodies. Standard National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits require that 85 percent of all Accomplishments in 2016 at 74 biochemical oxygen demand and total suspended solids are removed in the treatment process water resource recovery facilities: to protect water quality in receiving streams. We bring value to our clients and water resources by achieving removals above national standards at the 74 client water resource recovery • 93.9 billion gallons of wastewater facilities we manage throughout North America. In collaboration with our clients, we operate treated treatment plants aligned with their management and budget objectives and deliver global best• 19.6 billion gallons beneficially practice innovations in these local facilities. reused • 97 percent average biochemical oxygen demand process removal Treated Wastewater Discharge & Reuse | GRI 303-3, 306-1 North America • 97 percent average total suspended solids process removal 100% • Treatment averages at 12 percent 14% 12% 25% 21% 19.6 billionreused gallons above the NPDES average 88% Reused 80 86% rdischarged 79% 74.3 billion gallons Discharge 75% 60 40 Note: Data collected from wastewater treatment facilities 20 managed by CH2M Operations Management Services. Includes 74 facilities discharging to a variety of 0 water bodies. 2013 2014 2015 2016 011_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 19 Our communities In 2016, our investments continued to make significant impacts delivering greater social, environmental and economic benefits around the world. 20 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 21 Our communities snapshot Sustainable Communities CH2M & Water For People CH2M & Engineers Without Borders CH2M & Bridges to Prosperity $2.86 million Raised for Water For People since 2003 in 189 employees Have volunteered with Engineers Without 7 footbridges built by 56 CH2M volunteers and community employee giving and CH2M contributions, Borders, and we’ve given $100,000 each year members; 1,440 community members with $2.2 million from employee giving alone since 2013 in charitable support served by 2 bridges built this reporting year Water For People global impact Engineers Without Borders’ Bridges to Prosperity global impact global impact 1.5 million people with access to safe 686 projects in 42 countries: total Nearly 1 million people connected by over water since 2011 projects across the globe 200 footbridges 3,520 communities working toward Expanded to 18 countries across southeast Everyone Forever Asia, Africa and Central and South America 1,500 schools with proper water and Serving around the world sanitation 829,267 people with access to reliable sanitation 9 countries served by Water For People 5 countries visited to build bridges for 4 countries visited Bridges to Prosperity to provide disaster relief for wildfires, earthquakes, tsunamis and floods Bridges to Prosperity locations Water For People locations Major disaster relief locations 22 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report STEM Denver School of Science and Technology Emirates Foundation Let’s Talk Science Denver, Colorado, U.S. UAE Canada 5,000 students served at 12 high schools 3,000 students participated in the Think Science Expo 2,534 youth interactions through CH2M support in remote communities, in partnership 74% graduates attend universities 500 students with Chevron and Shell 100 projects engaged at the Hosted “day in the life of an engineer” with CH2Mers Think Science and bridge-building competition for judging Fair submitting high-school freshmen Social Mobility Foundation The Nature Conservancy/ WB Saul High School U.K. Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S. 65 55 students to design and install a green stormwater pilot project with CH2M engineers and The Nature Conservancy scientists to manage 27,800 potential gallons of runoff at the school students have participated in CH2M’s residential engineering Nearly 80% of students are minorities programme since 2014 Received the US2020 STEM Mentoring 70% of the students are studying Award for Excellence in Public-Private STEM subjects at university Partnerships Polish Children’s Fund Smithsonian Institution Girls Inc. Poland U.S. Denver, Colorado, U.S. 35 students visited CH2M for a “STEM weekend,” 34 science teachers attended Smithsonian’s 30 girls enrolled in Eureka! STEM program giving them tools to develop their math passion six-day science academy in partnership for middle and high school girls with the Dow Foundation 2 days spent with professors 174 program hours per girl from Jagiellonian University 50 local teachers received a day of hands-on training in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, through 10 employees worked with students CH2M, Dow and the Smithsonian Science on a pumping station project Education Center table of contents ch2m.com 23 2016 Rwanda completed bridge build CH2M Foundation and giving CH2M contributes to nonprofit organizations around the world with a focus on two areas of giving and employee engagement: developing sustainable communities and promoting STEM education. We give globally and locally through grants from the CH2M Foundation and through The CH2M Foundation offices and employees who contribute and volunteer for programs in their communities and extends the positive around the world. impact we make on the well-being of people beyond our client work. Philanthropic Contributions | GRI 201-1 Governed by an employee board, our award-winning foundation Corporate giving enables deeper partnerships $1.00M CH2M Foundation giving with clients and communities by engaging employee volunteers. Note: This information represents spending by the In 2016, the CH2M Foundation company codes as charitable contributions in awarded $1 million to CH2M’s accounting system. The figures do not $1.88M strategic partners promoting include contributions made by employees. The CH2M Foundation is a 501(c)3 nonprofit sustainability and STEM organization. education, supporting social, In 2016, corporate giving represents 3% of profit environmental and economic before tax. benefits around the world. 026sr17 24 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report “Our people make a difference in communities around the world through their daily work. The CH2M Foundation reinforces our commitment by focusing on areas of critical importance to our employees, our clients and the communities we serve.” — Ellen Sandberg Executive Director, CH2M Foundation STEM education Sustainable communities The two most critical ingredients for an effective STEM initiative The CH2M Foundation and our employees regularly support three are students and teachers. The magic happens when both are strategic partners to advance sustainable communities. empowered with the tools to succeed. The CH2M Foundation Water For People provides access to clean water for millions each year; supports innovative programs to inspire students and enable teachers Engineers Without Borders USA delivers life-sustaining infrastructure around the world through the following grants, awarded in 2016: and services; and Bridges to Prosperity enables safe passage linking people to education, health care and economic opportunities. The • Dow-CH2M Smithsonian Science Education Academy for Teachers: following are highlights of our support in 2016: A partnership with the Dow Foundation to send teachers to a weeklong academy, heightening their ability to inspire and enlighten • Water For People: Awarded a grant for Nicaragua and raised students in STEM education. $200,000+ in employee donations to support Water For People’s programs to ensure access to clean safe drinking water and sanitation. • Summer Engineering Residential Programme: Through the As of 2016, CH2M employees have raised $2.2 million to support Social Mobility Foundation, introducing high school students to Water For People’s programs. engineering opportunities through hands-on activities, coaching and visits to London’s most iconic infrastructure projects. • Engineers Without Borders USA: Funded a study of a micro-hydro dam in Guatemala and provided support for planning, monitoring, • Green Infrastructure and STEM Education Pilot Project: Working evaluating and learning. Our funding has changed the landscape of with The Nature Conservancy at W.B. Saul High School in what is possible for the organization. Philadelphia to design and construct a green stormwater project; received the US2020 STEM Mentoring Award for Excellence in • Bridges to Prosperity: Funded employee-volunteers to build bridges Public-Private Partnerships. in Nicaragua and Rwanda. Since 2014, 56 employees have built seven footbridges in Panama, Nicaragua, Rwanda, the Philippines and East • STEM Partnerships Program, Denver School of Science and Timor, improving thousands of lives. Technology: Funded development of special partnerships with universities and colleges, internship programs and career events The CH2M Foundation also provided matching funds for employee to ensure DSST high school graduates persist and succeed in their contributions to American Red Cross disaster relief in response to higher education STEM studies. wildfires in Alberta, Canada, and flooding in Louisiana. • Girls Inc. of Metro Denver: Providing funds and volunteers for the 5-year Eureka! STEM program for middle and high school CH2M Foundation goals girls, including a four-week summer program; a Transportation Engineering Week; an internship; and a travel-abroad experience. For the first time, the CH2M Foundation has set the following impact goals for 2017: • Let’s Talk Science Challenge: Supporting the Canada-wide program where 3,300 middle school students engage in team-based study • Inspire 1,000 STEM students and teachers and science competitions. Also working with Chevron and Shell to • Engage 500 employee volunteers support STEM education in remote British Columbia schools. • Involve 50 communities • Think Science Expo, Emirates Foundation: Sponsorship of “Think • Collaborate with 25 key clients Science” Expo where 3,000+ Emirati high school and university students learn to design and build science-based innovations and hear from CH2M volunteers about the role STEM education plays in the world’s infrastructure. • Polish Children’s Fund, STEM Workshops: Supporting underserved, gifted high school students with math and innovation workshops in 2017. table of contents ch2m.com 25 Our operations Our unwavering commitment to integrity and corporate responsibility continued to guide our operations throughout 2016. 26 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report National Western Center Rendering, Denver, Colorado table of contents ch2m.com 27 Our values We are respectful We are collaborative We are entrepreneurial We are compassionate We are positive 28 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 29 Ethics and business conduct as ethics and integrity, accounting and CH2M’s unwavering commitment to ethics, fraud, human resources, safety and security. integrity and corporate responsibility dates We saw more reports related to human back to the firm’s founding, as articulated in resources than any other category (this the Little Yellow Book by co-founder includes bullying, discrimination, retaliation Jim Howland. An affirmation of the firm’s and workforce violence). Of The GuideLine core values, CH2M has published the Little contacts resolved during the year, which Yellow Book in English, Arabic, French, included concerns submitted before 2016, 35 German, Mandarin, Polish, Portuguese, percent were found to be substantiated. In Russian and Spanish. addition, 36 requests for advice were tracked and answered via The GuideLine in 2016. CH2M’s Employee Ethics & Business Conduct A majority of the reports received in 2016 9th consecutive Principles serve as an employee code of related to human resources issues. CH2M’s year recognized by the conduct aligned with the simple and enduring Ethics and Compliance and Human Resources Ethisphere Institute as a philosophies outlined in the Little Yellow Book, teams meet regularly to review the reports, World’s Most Ethical Company® providing values-based guidance about the status of investigations and lessons learned to behaviors expected of all employees. assist employees in making sound decisions. In addition, CH2M’s Anticorruption Compliance CH2M introduced a new, standalone nonGuidance brochure educates employees retaliation policy in 2016 to promote and about compliance protocols to avoid maintain a work environment free from all corruption, while our Supply Chain forms of retaliation. The policy briefly explains Ethics & Business Conduct Principles and prohibited retaliatory behaviors and how Supplement for U.S. Government Work employees and non-employees can recognize detail requirements for our suppliers, and report retaliation. subcontractors and business partners. We regularly survey employees to test their Employee reporting and communications knowledge and familiarity with our ethics We exercise vigilance and transparency, requirements, training and methods of empowering employees to make ethical reporting. Our last survey indicated that over decisions and report concerns without fear 90 percent of employees are familiar with of retribution. Among a variety of training our ethics materials and tools and believe programs and reporting tools, employees and CH2M demonstrates its serious commitment supply chain partners can use The GuideLine to ethics and integrity. The 2017 survey was to seek confidential guidance, discuss conducted in April. concerns or report potential violations of laws or policies. Where allowed by law, individuals More information about our ethics program may report such issues anonymously. can be found on our website. “World’s Most Ethical Companies” and “Ethisphere” names and marks are registered trademarks of Ethisphere LLC. In 2016, we received a slightly lower number of The GuideLine contacts (174) than the rolling 5‑year average of 233 contacts. Contacts are categorized by concern, such 30 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report CH2M Little Yellow Book cover art Anti-corruption policies and procedures More details about our anti-corruption Since 2012, CH2M has qualified for inclusion CH2M operates in more than 90 countries policies and procedures, government in the Covalence global ethics and reputation on five continents, where we support private participation and lobbying activities can analysis service. Using six major international and public clients including the United States be found on our website. treaties as its framework — including the and other national and local governments. UN Global Compact and the Organization Because we do business in some of the Global leadership in ethics for Economic Cooperation and most difficult places on the planet (as rated To promote ethical conduct as our business Development’s Guidelines for Multinational by the global organization Transparency imperative, CH2M also leads by participating Enterprises — Covalence applies 45 criteria International), we have made our antiin global industry groups, including as to track ethical performance among more corruption program a cornerstone of our founding signatory of the World Economic than 500 of the world’s largest companies. Employee Ethics & Business Conduct Principles. Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption In 2016, Covalence ranked CH2M in the top Initiative. We also are active in the UN Global 2 percent of global companies for ethics and We educate and train our employees and Compact Anti-Corruption Working Group, integrity. The firm ended the year ranked No. supply chain partners on how to avoid which is tied to the 10th Principle; 10 overall of 581 companies surveyed, and corruption pitfalls that are common around Ethisphere’s Business Ethics Leadership No. 1 of 31 firms reviewed in the construction the globe. Late in 2016, we partnered with Alliance; and the Construction Industry and materials sector. the Institute of Business Ethics in the Ethics and Compliance Initiative. As a United Kingdom (U.K.) to provide the testament to these proactive measures “Say No” app as an immediate resource to and ethical commitment demonstrated by avoid corruption and reference common our employees, the Ethisphere® Institute questions about ethics. again named CH2M one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2016, marking our ninth Because CH2M sometimes works with political consecutive year on the list. and government relations consultants, our Government Affairs and Legal teams carefully evaluate those engaged to perform lobbying or business development on our behalf, with a zero tolerance policy for corruption. table of contents ch2m.com 31 Rwanda bridge build team safety moment Health, safety and environment To reinforce our Target Zero culture, we behavior-based loss prevention. Some of published the Little Safety Book, a pocketthe courses are mandated for compliance We place the utmost priority on our sized guide that summarizes our vision, with jurisdictional regulations, while others commitment to protect the health and safety philosophy and practices, while raising exceed minimum compliance requirements, of all stakeholders and the quality of our awareness about the most common providing increased development for environment. At CH2M, this is more than just workplace safety hazards. In addition, we employees, who completed 135,484 hours of a goal; it’s a way of work and life for everyone published safety toolkits throughout the year HSE training in 2016. associated with the firm. to foster dialogue about the hazards and actions to avoid them. Each week focused Injury rates Our health, safety and environment on specific topics, including wellness tips, The 2016 employee recordable incident rate (HSE) policy employs a management systems emergency preparedness, materials handling (recordable incidents per 200,000 hours approach to ensure that everyone goes home and safe lifting. In 2016 we performed nearly worked) for CH2M and affiliated companies safely, every day, on every job. We look out 5,000 ergonomics evaluations and addressed was 0.34, which is 51 percent lower than for each other through an intensive, ongoing more than 1,500 concerns, eliminating the U.S. engineering industry average of focus on safety, well-being, security and ergonomic discomforts and injuries while 0.7 (based on 2015 data published by the environmental impacts, in the office, out in enhancing productivity. U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor the field and at home. Statistics for Engineering Services, North American Industry Classification System CH2M’s HSE management system, branded Code 541330). as “Target Zero” for the aim of zero adverse incidents, injuries or environmental impacts, is based on the American National Standard for Recordable Incidents | GRI 403-2 Occupational Health and Safety Management 125 System. Target Zero is embedded in our training and operational protocols to continuously improve our safety performance 100 91 in everything we do. 82 80 74 HSE training 75 In 2016, we intensified our commitment to Our environmental training program Target Zero with a “Safety 2.0” campaign. covers field and construction services, as 50 We chartered a Global Safety Discovery 2013 2014 2015 2016 well as stormwater, chemicals, waste, air, Team of operational supervisors and Note: wetlands and natural and cultural resource frontline advocates to improve our safety Includes incidents for CH2M family of companies. management. All of our project managers record to as strong or better than our best006_sr17 are required to take an environmental performing clients. The team visited work program awareness course and participate sites to observe safety practices and identify in HSE courses throughout the year, ranging improvements, and ultimately strengthened from hazardous waste remediation and critical safety rules. construction site safety, to ergonomics and 32 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report CH2M’s lost-time incident rate, recorded for incidents resulting in days Training away or restricted duty per 200,000 hours worked by employees, Our Worker Welfare Policy — including the U.K. Modern Slavery Act — was 0.15, 63 percent lower than the U.S. industry average of 0.4. is included in our mandated annual ethics training for all global CH2M experienced no occupational fatalities among employees or employees, and we empower employees at all levels to seek guidance subcontractors in 2016. CH2M applies U.S. Occupational Safety and or report concerns on human rights, either directly or through our Health Administration recordkeeping standards in calculating global confidential hotline, without fear of retaliation. Upon joining CH2M, incident rates. new employees receive the Employee Ethics & Business Conduct Principles, which include expectations on fair labor practices, human trafficking and other ethical principles. Furthering our expectations Employee Recordables & Lost Time | GRI 403-2 on human rights and fair labor practices, we distribute Supply Chain Incident rates per 100 employees/work year Ethics & Business Conduct Principles to our suppliers as a companion 0.6 document to our Employee Ethics & Business Conduct Principles. In lost time 0.5 2016 we advanced progress on human rights and worker welfare recordable issues in our industry through the following activities: 0.4 0.36 0.34 0.33 0.30 Recordable incidents • Screening suppliers: Applied new supplier screening procedures, 0.3 0.17 including social criteria, to screen 100 percent of our new suppliers, 0.2 0.14 0.13 0.15 Lost-time incidents aligned with our Worker Welfare Policy. 0.1 • Technology advancement: Successfully piloted a new mobile app 0 to equip more than 100 workers on a major client project in the 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note: Middle East with technology to identify worker welfare concerns. Lost-time incidents are those that involve days away, restricted duty or transfer Developing and applying the app further in 2017, with the goal of to another job. industry-wide adoption. Both recordable and lost-time incident rates are figured as a number of cases per 200,000 hours worked, as specified by industry standards. 200,000 is • Industry collaboration: Hosted a series of high-level roundtables an estimate of the hours worked by 100 employees in a year. to promote collaboration on human rights issues in partnership Includes worldwide recordables and lost-time cases for all CH2M companies. with the Institute for Human Rights and Business. Led founding of 007_sr17 Building Responsibly, a new industry group of major engineering and construction firms that will work to protect the rights and welfare Human rights of workers. In our commitment to maintain the highest levels of health, safety • Public policy engagement: Strategized with government officials and well-being in our work, we prioritize protecting the welfare of in the United States, U.K. and Middle East on ways to improve the workers. Wherever we advise or manage projects, we maintain a zeroconditions of migrant workers in the construction sector. tolerance policy for human trafficking, child labor and forced labor. As program manager and engineering consultant on projects around • Benchmarking: Sharing experiences and insights at international the world, CH2M generally does not engage in construction work or forums focused on ethical supply chain management and worker employ construction labor. However, we hold project subcontractors welfare, including an educational roundtable hosted with Verité and partners to the highest worker welfare standards, and we lead for industry peers focused on the latest Federal Acquisition our industry in defining measures for clients and project supply Regulation for Combating Trafficking in Persons, required for chains to ensure fair and safe labor conditions for migrant workers. In U.S. government contractors. these efforts, we worked with fair labor expert Verité to develop and implement a Worker Welfare Policy championed by our chairman and CEO and our board of directors, to expand our corporate citizenship scope to include worker welfare. table of contents ch2m.com 33 2016 Economic performance Gross revenue Net income attributable to CH2M $5.2B $15M Total CH2M Total assets stockholders’ equity $2.7B $547M 34 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships CH2M’s value chain involves a range of stakeholders — from the Business and joint venture partners regulators, suppliers and subcontractors upstream of our work, to In our work with joint-venture partners, we influence further clients, delivery partners and constituents served downstream — whose consideration of sustainability measures. social, environmental and economic interests must be considered in the work we do. Governments, policy makers and regulators By nature of our work, and in accordance with various statutory and With a purpose rooted in sustainability, we take a systems approach in regulatory requirements ranging from local to national governance our value chain to enable greater triple-bottom-line returns, even when associated with that work, we advocate, provide insights and report on we cannot directly track, measure or take credit for measures beyond risks and opportunities to sustainable performance with the following our operational footprint. This means we often engage in spirited, parties: constructive dialogues and collaborations with partners and clients • Local, state/provincial and national permitting agencies on how to drive sustainable outcomes, particularly in the delivery of complex, large-scale projects and programs with many stakeholders. • Local, state/provincial and national policymaking bodies and advisory committees • National government agencies providing oversight on procurements CH2M Value Chain | GRI 102-46 and contracts Host governments and regulatory agencies • U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Suppliers and subcontractors • National and international trade and customs agents Business and nonprofit partners Business and professional associations CH2M CH2M engages with professional societies and advocacy groups to benchmark best practices. We lend support and technical expertise, and Clients also learn from others to drive continuous improvements, in our 018_sr17 involvement with the following organizations: CH2M’s sustainability and corporate citizenship stakeholders, • Air & Waste Management Association memberships and partnerships include: • American Academy of Environmental Engineers and Scientists Clients • American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Our clients seek to improve their supply chain sustainability and, as • American Council of Engineering Companies dedicated partners with them, we strive for disclosure and transparency • American Institute of Certified Planners in metrics that are important to our customers. Many of CH2M’s projects and clients require or request reporting on sustainability progress as a • American Road & Transportation Builders Association part of the bidding process or as part of supplier sustainability surveys. • American Society of Civil Engineers and other engineering and scientific professional associations Employees • American Society for Engineering Education Employees are actively engaged in sustainability and corporate • American Water Works Association citizenship efforts through local volunteer efforts, our Sustainability Community of Practice, our Environmental Management System (EMS) • Business Roundtable and social media. • Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental Management • Construction Management Association of America Shareholders • Construction Specifications Institute We report on all aspects of company performance, including sustainability and corporate citizenship, to owners of CH2M stock, • Design-Build Institute of America including current and former employees and our minority investment • EFCG, Inc.: Financial and Strategic Advisors to the Architecture, partner Apollo Global Management, LLC. Engineering/Consulting and Construction Industry table of contents ch2m.com 35 Photo courtesy of Water For People • Global Social Investing Council Nonprofit organizations • Institution of Civil Engineers We partner with nonprofits directly and through our CH2M Foundation, which focuses on environmental stewardship, global • Institute of Environmental Management & Assessment access to water and sanitation and STEM education, as described in • Institute of Transportation Engineers detail in “Our communities.” Other nonprofit partnerships, such as • International Project Finance Association corporate networks and compacts that share a mission of creating a • International Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering safer, more abundant world for the next generation, are directly tied to sustainable business: • International Water Association • National Association of Environmental Professionals • Bridges to Prosperity • National Association for Environmental Management • Building Responsibly • National Council for Public-Private Partnerships • Business in the Community • Project Management Institute • Business for Social Responsibility • Society of American Military Engineers • Business Roundtable • Society of Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry • Emirates Foundation • Sustainable Remediation Forum • Engineers Without Borders USA • U.S. Green Building Council, Emirates Green Building Council • GreenBiz Executive Network and European Green Building Council • Humanity United • Value of Water Campaign • IMPACT 2030 • Water Design-Build Council • Institute for Human Rights and Business • Water Environment Federation • Social Mobility Foundation • WTS (Women’s Transportation Seminar) International • The Nature Conservancy • Zofnass Program for Sustainable Infrastructure, Harvard University • UN Global Compact • Water For People • Wildlife Habitat Council • World Environment Center Communities where we live and work We engage with stakeholders in our local communities through in-office environmental education, community cleanups and volunteer projects. Suppliers and subcontractors We drive sustainability into our supply chain by assessing suppliers and subcontractors for their safety, environmental and ethics programs, as 2016 Rwanda bridge build team explained in the “Supply chain management” section that follows. 36 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Supply chain management In our procurement process, CH2M influences supply chain performance management. Our procurement organization distinguishes suppliers to advance sustainable performance For example, we collect information on key between procurement for client projects measures, including efforts to reduce performance indicators associated with (direct procurement) and procurement for environmental impacts by increasing reliance planning, production, products and services internal operations (indirect procurement). on sustainable goods, delivery methods and delivered, energy consumption, carbon and business practices. transportation impacts. We use such metrics, We assist engineers and construction as well as stakeholder surveys and supplier designers in selecting more sustainable We expect our suppliers to endorse CH2M’s scorecards, to evaluate suppliers on their construction materials, equipment and commitment to corporate social responsibility, actual sustainability performance. services on our client projects, in collaboration including fair labor and operating practices, with clients and consideration of budget environmental protection, diversity and We use the United Nations Standard Products constraints. We also implement sustainability supplier development. Our Supply Chain and Services Code to analyze where we screening on long-term, high-value Ethics & Business Conduct Principles are spend our money, identify cost-effective agreements for internal operations such as accepted by every supplier during the vendors and make use of electronic commerce technology, services, paper, office supplies registration and qualification process and capabilities. These are the major categories and furnishings. incorporated into every contract. of our supply chain and the percentage of our total spending. Our centralized supplier qualification and performance management system enables us to consider sustainability attributes in sourcing decisions, contract formation and Main Elements of the CH2M Supply Chain | GRI 102-9 Sequence of Supply | GRI 102-9 Chain Activities Management, Financial, insurance 5% 1 Establish plan business professionals, administrative 17% Transportation, storage, mail 4% 2 Specify requirements Environmental 3% Building, facility construction, Public utilities, public sector related 2% 3 Qualify & select bidders maintenance 18% Industrial cleaning 2% 4 Evaluate proposals Travel, food, lodging, entertainment 2% 5 Establish agreements Engineering, research, Structures, building, construction, technology based 26% manufacturing components, 6 Manage agreement for compliance supplies 2% Other 15% 030_sr17 Information technology broadcasting and telecommunications 2% Distribution, conditioning systems, equipment, components 2% Note: 2016 Spend by United Nations standard products and services code categories. 041sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 37 Procurement for client projects Procurement for internal operations Suppliers and subcontractors provide materials, engineered We actively manage our internal supply chain for environmental, equipment, fabricated products, professional and technical services social and economic sustainability issues. Our EMS focuses on internal and construction services on our projects. Decided at the project operations because we have more control over these company-wide, level, sources may include local, domestic or global suppliers; large or global agreements than specific client contracts. small and disadvantaged business enterprises; and manufacturers, fabricators, distributors and brokers. In a global supply chain consisting of thousands of suppliers, we focus on suppliers that want to work with us to establish meaningful, effective We have suppliers in all regions where we operate, and we have not and industry-relevant sustainability metrics. We segment these had any significant changes in our supply chain in the last several suppliers into four tiers: years as a result of organizational changes or acquisitions. • Tier 1 — Strategic: Long-term, high-volume agreements We use a methodology and toolset to identify and select suppliers • Tier 2 — Preferred: Long-term, but lower-volume agreements and subcontractors with robust sustainability programs: suppliers • Tier 3 — Value Add: Shorter-term, lower-volume agreements with whose products achieve project sustainability targets and infrequently used suppliers subcontractors that will implement acceptable sustainability solutions on our construction sites. The majority of CH2M’s spending • Tier 4 — Tactical: Typically a one-time procurement with no ongoing (86 percent) supports client projects. relationships or expenditures We focus on Tier 1 and 2 agreements because they afford the greatest Procurement Commitments by Region | GRI 102-9 opportunities. In 2016 , we spent $181.2 million with Tier 1 and 2 Percent of total spending for client projects suppliers that have sustainability criteria in their agreements, a decrease of $7 million compared to the previous year. This decrease reflects less 8% 70% spending overall in 2016. 3% 16% Total Spend on Firmwide Indirect | GRI 308-1 Procurement Agreements 1% Tier 1 & 2 2% 200 $0 $0 $6.5 $7.4 150 U.S. Europe Canada Asia Pacific Latin America 100 Middle East, North Africa, India U.S. dollars (millions) 031sr17 50 $158.5 $171.8 $189.1 $181.2 37 37 38 37 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total indirect $329M $272M $337M $323M 032sr17 spend Tier 1 & 2 agreements without sustainability criteria Tier 1 & 2 agreements including sustainability criteria 38 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Business partnerships: local and diverse spending Our Supplier Diversity and Small Business Program succeeds because of We have a long-standing commitment to fostering relationships with our employees’ commitment to providing subcontracting opportunities small and diverse businesses. We partner with local, small and diverse to small and diverse businesses. We recognize these individuals, firms and provide business opportunities, training and mentoring to projects and subcontractors for their dedication in supporting the firm’s help them develop and grow. deliverable requirements and our clients’ socioeconomic initiatives. CH2M pursues subcontracting opportunities with small, disadvantaged, LGBT, minority, veteran-owned and woman-owned enterprises for CH2M’s Supplier Diversity and Small Business our commercial, industrial, U.S. federal and municipal contracts. We Program has maintained the government’s make inquiries with local chambers of commerce and professional highest rating possible — “Outstanding/ organizations to increase diversity in our supplier database and foster Exceptional” for 19 consecutive years. local partnerships where we have active projects. Supporting the local economy is always a high priority, but with so We participate in the SBA’s Small Business Subcontractor of the Year many projects around the world, it is difficult to identify the proportion program to recognize our best small business subcontractors. Since of spending on local suppliers. Numbers and percentages fluctuate 1996, we have nominated 46 subcontractors for this award. We each year because of our acquisitions of other companies, the nature also maintain strong mentor-protégé relationships with minorityand amount of work that can be subcontracted and the fact that some and woman-owned businesses under the U.S. Department of the businesses expand and no longer qualify as small businesses according Defense, Department of Energy, Environmental Protection Agency, to the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Agency for International Development and SBA programs. Supplier & Subcontractor Spending | GRI 204-1 U.S. 2% 59% Total CH2M supplier 9% & subcontractor spending of $1.7 billion 6% 24% Veterans Women Minority Small business Other suppliers & subcontractors Note: Includes spending on client projects, internal operations and miscellaneous categories. 033sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 39 Our people Workforce diversity and inclusion At CH2M, we believe that diversity and inclusion enhance our competitive advantage in the marketplace and make us extraordinary. We are deeply committed to a culture of belonging and respect. Global diversity and inclusion are strategic advantages, supporting our business growth while allowing us to attract, develop, engage and retain the best talent and serve the needs of an increasingly global and diverse customer base. 40 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 41 We track gender globally, and in the United States, we track racial data with hiring and attrition. By understanding our diversity metrics, we can implement outreach strategies to attract, engage and retain women, people of color and individuals of many ages and life experiences. Diversity in Employment and Governance GRI 102-8, 102-22, 405-1 1,646 1,173 12,622 18,005 863 485 683 Region 29% 71% Contract Type 3,849 5,714 13,949 19,663 Average workforce North America Europe 2013-2016 Full-time Part-time Temporary, Flex or Other Middle East, North Africa, India 22,008 Latin America Asia Pacific 24% 9 1.5% .1% 4 .3% 1.2% 4.7% 5% 1 4.6% 12 8.7% Age 28% Board of Demographics Directors (U.S.) 21% 79% 21% <25 26-35 36-45 46-54 55+ Female Male White or Caucasian Hispanic or Latino White or Caucasian Black or African American Asian Black or African-American American Indian or Alaska Native Note: Hawaiian or Pacific Islander Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include Two or More Races Undefined consolidated joint ventures 014_sr17 CH2M’s global female percentage is 33% of our fulland part-time, non-craft population. In 2016, CH2M’s workforce included approximately 3,400 direct-hire craft employees, around 9 percent of which are represented by unions. Most of the employees covered by collective bargaining agreements work for CH2M’s joint ventures, which are created to manage specific projects. Including our joint-venture population, approximately 24 percent are represented by unions. 42 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report CH2M 2016 Network Group Joint Summit Promoting diversity through our network groups “Meeting with these groups showed me that CH2M Our eight employee network groups provide opportunities for isn’t kidding around about equality. This was the CH2Mers to share knowledge and support each other in reaching most pronounced instance I have experienced in my career goals. These groups support our diversity and inclusion working life where my employer has openly and strategy, assist with business development, connect with local communities and encourage leadership development. In September honestly demanded respect and equality for all, by 2016, we gathered 30 employee network group members in Denver all, with no exceptions.” for a joint summit, Growth Through Diversity. Colleagues from — around the world discussed how we can leverage our diversity to Joint Summit attendee drive personal and company success. Training and development We engage, develop and empower employees to advance their careers through experiences on the job supplemented by mentoring, coaching and formal learning. We also conduct succession planning and talent reviews to identify employees for leadership, building a talent pipeline for future needs. We consider both performance and advancement potential to engage and retain our critical talent. CH2M regularly expands our learning and development programs to help employees strengthen their skills and guide their careers. In 2016, we focused on in-depth training with senior sales teams, project managers and emerging leaders. Employees received an average of 17.4 hours of training, a total of 341,553 hours. Our executive team supported this level of investment despite pressure on the company’s financial performance, demonstrating our unwavering commitment to learning. table of contents ch2m.com 43 We offer sustainability training through the HSE curriculum for both EMS ISO 14001 and environmental stewardship. We require EMS Training | GRI 205-2, 404-1, 404-2, 412-2 training for staff members with implementation responsibilities, but it is available to all employees. 350 42,527 Ethics and compliance To share how sustainability applies to our projects and the challenges 300 our clients face, we host sustainability communities of practice, where 135,484 Health, safety and environment subject matter experts share innovations and new ideas. 250 Learning management courses Learning management courses include project Career development 200 management, leadership, business intelligence CH2M aims for 100 percent participation in the firm’s annual and business tools performance management process, which culminates in a formal 150 163,542 review between supervisors and employees. In 2016, 94 percent of employees completed performance evaluations. We also launched 100 MyJourney, a talent management platform that helps employees and leaders establish expectations and develop goals that align to company 50 strategy and support their professional development goals. 0 341,553 17.4 Total Average hours training hours training per employee 013_sr17 Employee Performance & Career Development Reviews | GRI 404-3 5% 6% 3% 3% Full-time Part-time 10,604 5,119 14,528 1,112 95% 94% 97% 97% 15,723 Total Reviewed Not reviewed Note: New hires with 2 months or less of service by the end of the year are removed from counts since they were not eligible to participate in the performance management process. Performance reviews are optional for flex and contract employees. Approximately 18% of these employees voluntarily participated in the performance review process in 2016. 015_sr17 44 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Employee turnover By measuring employee turnover and analyzing exit surveys across the company, we work hard to understand the fluctuations of turnover to better support our employees’ and company’s success. Acquisitions, changing demographics and changes to our target markets and geographies all play a part in turnover. In 2016 our workforce decreased based on project work coming to an end, the company choosing to end operations in certain market sectors or reorganization. Two-thirds of this decrease was attributed to the low oil prices affecting our energy business. While turnover rates in recent years primarily reflect the effects of weak energy markets, retirements and restructuring, our voluntary turnover rate for non-craft, fulland part-time employees declined by 2 percent in 2016, the lowest voluntary turnover rate recorded for this group in 4 years. For the entire workforce population, including craft and temporaryflex employees, we saw a 13 percent voluntary turnover rate for 2016. Employee Turnover | GRI 401-1 By rate and gender By age VOLUNTARY 50 13% 2,502 vol 1,926 14% 40 19% Inv 576 188 10% 30 12% 18% INVOLUNTARY 16% 509 3,247 782 11% 10% 2,464 20 600 423 14% 783 % 17% 10 24% 14% 15% 15% 20% 1,359 4,390 246 691 856 645 809 percent 24% 31% 0 age <25 26-35 35-45 46-54 55+ Note: Percent turnover is calculated by dividing the annual number of losses by the end-of-year active employee headcount for each group. 012_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 45 Our planet Environmental responsibility Our employees infuse CH2M with sustainability-inspired principles, knowledge, technologies, tools and methods needed to achieve better management of our company and better long-term solutions for our clients. Reinforced by our history of environmental services and invigorated by our employees’ passion, we take our environmental responsibility seriously. We believe it is not only the right thing to do, but also sets us apart in the marketplace. With our EMS we monitor resource use such as water, paper and energy and track waste reduction and our carbon footprint. 46 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report table of contents ch2m.com 47 Environmental management CH2M’s environmental performance is managed, monitored and improved through formal EMS programs guided by ISO 14001:2004. Most employees work in offices with EMS programs. Safety & Environmental Management Systems North America Europe Canada and USA Ireland USA Projects Italy Idaho Cleanup Project Poland CH2M Plateau Remediation Romania Company (Washington) United Kingdom CH2M B&W West Valley Asia-Pacific LLC (New York) Australia Sydney, Melbourne, Latin America Brisbane Argentina Hong Kong Buenos Aires, Campana, Bahia Blanca Singapore Mexico Mexico City Middle East, North Africa, India ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001 AS/NZS 4801 ISO 9001 Qatar Certified Certified Certified Certified Doha Conformant Conformant Conformant Conformant United Arab Emirates Certification = Certified Management System Dubai, Sharjah, Abu Dhabi Conformance = Conforms to standard, not a certified system India Additional CH2M offices hold ISO-9001 certified Quality Management Systems Noida, Mumbai, and Hyderabad 002_sr17 Most of our environmental aspects and impacts are managed locally in accordance with local regulations and opportunities. Select programs, like the carbon emissions inventory, 2017 EMS goals: North America offices are managed at a corporate level. Throughout the world, environmental regulatory Internal CH2M footprint compliance is addressed by our firmwide HSE team. • Eliminate single-use disposable plastic by the end of 2018 United States and Canada The ISO-14001 conformant EMS for the United States and Canada, in place since 2005, • Reduce electricity consumption at company manages our environmental footprint in North American offices, including our corporate headquarters by 850 MWh by 2018, headquarters in Denver, Colorado. Using a framework of continual improvement, we set compared to 2016 goals, track and record progress and evaluate performance to manage our impacts. • Reduce CH2M’s Scopes 1 and 2 carbon footprint by 25 percent compared to our 2012 In 2016, we surpassed our paper reduction goal by 26 percent and achieved an all-time baseline by the end of 2017* low in paper consumption. Our headquarters made strides toward reducing electricity consumption by taking the first steps toward implementing a demand response program. * We have made this commitment to reduce our absolute GHG Last year we also set an aggressive goal of removing all single-use disposable plastic from footprint globally. 48 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report our offices by 2018. We rolled out our strategy, responsible delivery of projects. All European 2017 EMS goals: Europe offices analyzed our current single-use purchase offices now report on environmental impacts • Continue reducing carbon emissions trends and evaluated durable goods gaps in associated with their office activities and for office activities through our kitchens. To promote potable water use business travel, and our data accuracy energy-saving opportunities and reduce purchase of single-use plastic continues to improve. where economically viable bottles, we asked employees to pledge to “tap in” and commit to drinking tap water. In the U.K. CH2M continues to focus on • Maintain paper consumption changes needed for the Energy Savings at less than 3,500 sheets In our Operations Management sustainability Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) Regulations per employee per year program, we continued supporting client 2014. Large businesses are required to • Reduce water use to less than 6.4 projects in reducing fuel and energy undertake ESOS assessments every 4 years. cubic meters per employee per year consumption. Our 2016 goals included CH2M’s U.K. operations qualified as a large (following industry and government reducing fuel consumption by 20,000 gallons undertaking on Dec. 31, 2014, and complied good practice benchmarks) and energy consumption by 5 million with the ESOS requirements for the first kilowatt-hours (kWh) on behalf of our clients. compliance period from July 17, 2014, to • Reduce waste and increase We surpassed these goals, achieving a fuel Dec. 5, 2015. office recycling reduction of 57,800 gallons and an energy • Where electricity is procured reduction of an estimated 10.8 million kWh. Our ESOS assessment was incorporated directly by CH2M and within our into the U.K. sustainability program in 2016. control, procure electricity from a Europe Although participants are not required to supply backed by the Renewable The Europe EMS sets goals to decrease implement the identified energy-saving Energy Guarantees of Origin impacts, maintain performance below opportunities, we have begun tracking them recognized benchmarks and improve as part of our continual improvement and • Review use of lease and hire understanding of our environmental impacts active management of energy use across our vehicles, including vehicle selection so we can set future reduction targets. We U.K. business. criteria, with respect to CO2 have ISO 14001-certified EMS programs in emissions and miles per gallon the U.K., Ireland, Poland, Italy and Romania. Our EMS programs keep our employees • Sponsor a graduate development The EMS footprint has grown, and in 2016 we involved in environmental management and project with a sustainability theme added ISO 14001 certification for our Global help them understand how environment Design Production Center in Krakow, Poland. relates to home and work, in the office and on projects. Regular external audits from Our EMS programs are developed around our certifying bodies confirm certification. office activities and environmentally table of contents ch2m.com 49 Additionally, we are audited by other external implementation, we focused only on office • Achieve electricity consumption at a level of parties, such as Achilles Verify, which confirm activities; we have included project delivery less than 2,065 kWh per employee our system’s performance on behalf of our in the second phase, starting in Argentina utility sector customers. In our most recent and Mexico. By the end of 2016, we achieved one of the audit performance from Achilles Verify, we goals by increasing paper recycling from 62 to • Worked with the DISCAR Foundation in continued to achieve a score of 100 percent. 78.5 percent (an increase of 16.5 percent). The Argentina and the MT Corporate recycling paper and electricity consumption goals were company to provide programs for the We continue to measure and report on not achieved. Paper consumption increased disabled to collect recyclable toners and environmental and sustainability measures, by 0.9 percent, from 22.2 to 23.1 kilograms printer cartridges. including reporting to our clients to help per person. Electricity consumption increased them understand their own supply chain • Featured articles about sustainability and the by 14 percent, from 2,065 to 2,399 Kwh per sustainability. In 2016, we again supported environment in newsletters and posters. person. On average, 1 percent of our paper the Environment Agency in its supply chain had recycled content (only in Doha, Qatar). • Shared our EMS evaluation process with sustainability analysis program, using Trucost’s Most MENAI offices have difficulty identifying more clients that are including EMS data collection tool. We also participate in a supplier for recycled paper because the local requirements as an important part of their the Corporate Assessment of Environmental, market lacks high-quality paper with recycled evaluations. Social and Economic Responsibility, a system content. However, the majority of the virgin used by the U.K. government. This online Middle East, North Africa, and India paper purchased across the Middle East is self-assessment measures sustainability (MENAI) certified by the Forest Stewardship Council. performance in the areas of environment, CH2M has EMS programs in four of our socioeconomics, equality and diversity. CH2M Middle Eastern and three Indian offices. As a We established new goals for 2017 to improve will continue to use this self-assessment when result of an external assessment of our EMS our environmental performance: stabilizing required to do so; the results feed into our programs on United Arab Emirates (UAE) paper consumption, increasing purchase of EMS program. and Qatar projects and in regional offices in paper with recycled content, increasing our late 2014, the Middle East EMS program was paper recycling and decreasing electricity Latin America recommended for certification for ISO 9001 consumption in UAE, Qatar and India. Latin America’s EMS began in early 2012 and (Quality), OHSAS 18001 (Health & Safety) and launched the first ISO 14001-certified program ISO 14001 (Environment). In 2015, a thirdin Buenos Aires in 2013. The program has since party surveillance audit resulted in continued expanded to include external ISO 14001:2004 certification. certification in Campana, Argentina; Bahia 2017 EMS goals: MENAI offices Blanca, Argentina; and Mexico City. External In 2016, we set the following goals to improve • Reduce paper consumption by surveillance audits reconfirmed compliance. performance and implement best practices 3 percent per employee* The Sao Paulo, Brazil, office is ISO-9001 across Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah in the • Achieve 5 percent of all purchased certified and compliant with OHSAS 18001. In UAE; Doha in Qatar; and the India offices: paper as recycled content 2016, the Latin America EMS focused on office • Use less than 22.3 kilograms of paper • Increase volume of paper recycled activities and environmentally responsible per employee by 3 percent* delivery of projects, such as: • Purchase 20 percent of all paper with • Reduce electricity consumption • Included environmental aspects of design recycled content by 3 percent* in our training plans. In our first stage of • Increase volume of paper recycled by 5 *as compared to 2016 levels percent as compared to 2015 50 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Resources and recycling Water use We track and report on water consumption for facilities that CH2M owns or operates on behalf of clients. Our ability to monitor and report our own water use depends on office location. In most of our leased space, we do not directly pay water bills or manage facilities, so it is difficult to track consumption, implement conservation measures or quantify results of conservation efforts. We do, however, directly measure water use when we can, such as at our corporate headquarters where we operate our facilities and receive invoices. Corporate headquarters CH2M uses both potable and reclaimed water at our corporate Water use in Europe headquarters. Potable water is used for drinking, washing and building Our objective is to reduce water consumption and monitor both actual cooling. We reuse reclaimed water for landscaping and irrigation absolute reductions and the ratio of water per employee. Our overall to reduce demand on surface water and groundwater supplies and goal is to reduce and maintain water consumption per employee to less decrease costs. We also purchase waterand energy-saving appliances than 6.4 cubic meters per year. for our kitchen areas. Consistent with our commitment toward safe and healthy municipal water systems, we do not offer bottled water We review water consumption at our offices in the U.K. and mainland in vending machines at our corporate headquarters. We have been Europe and wherever possible, record the data. In 2015 we achieved documenting water use on our Denver campus since 2008, and total a water consumption figure below the good practice benchmark of water consumption has remained steady during the last 3 years. 6.4 cubic meters per person per year, and we have seen a 10 percent reduction since 2012. However, a number of factors resulted in increased water consumption in 2016. We will continue to monitor and where possible, reduce our water consumption in 2017. Water Use at Our World Headquarters | GRI 303-1 Coporate headquarters, U.S. Potable Water | GRI 303-1 12 11.7 Use per capita – Europe Nonpotable 5.5 10.0 10 9.7 9.5 9.8 Potable 8.2 4.0 4.1 7.3 7.4 4.1 Note: 7.5 6.9 8 6.0 Cubic meters per person Nonpotable water is reclaimed golf course 6 5.0 6.2 runnoff that is captured, 5.7 5.4 5.7 treated and then stored 4 in ponds for use. 2.5 Millions of gallons Potable water is sourced from 0.0 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 municipal water supply. Data from property Note: 0 management invoices. Includes data recorded for 11 U.K. offices. Wherever 2013 2014 2015 2016 actual data has not been available, water consumption 005_sr17 has been estimated. 009_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 51 Paper consumption United States and Canada We began tracking our paper consumption Impacts Avoided Because we are a service-based business in 2005. Now approximately 90 percent of Impacts avoided through paper reduction that depends on written communications, our paper is purchased through a firmwide white paper represents a significant portion of CH2M’s materials consumption and waste contract. The remaining 10 percent, obtained from a myriad of local suppliers, is not tracked 131 homes powered generated. We have reduced consumption by eliminating excessive and unnecessary for reporting. 184 cars removed from road printed paper, standardizing to double-sided printing and printing-on-demand features. In We establish goals to decrease paper consumption while increasing recycled 7,412 trees saved 2016, we further expanded our on-demand, PIN-based print management system, which content. To date, we have saved 417 tonnes of paper since 2005. Our print management 8,043,302 gallons saved water we began in 2014 in North America. We have system enables PIN-based printing at 100 Note: rolled out PIN-based printing to 45 percent Impacts avoided are estimated from the 417-tonne reduction percent of capable printers, 99.9 percent of of our offices outside of the United States in the United States and Canada (since 2005), estimated using which are configured to print in duplex as a the Environmental Paper Network Calculator, Version 3.2. and Canada, and we increased the number default setting. of printers that default duplex to 96 percent. 008_sr17 In addition to saving paper, the program has In 2016, we set an ambitious goal to been economically valuable, saving equipment further reduce paper consumption by 36 replacement costs and providing flexibility to tonnes. We surpassed that goal, achieving a grow and shrink as our geographies change. 46-tonne reduction. Our recycled content purchases currently exceed 84 percent. We We are seeing clients move away from hard achieved this through paper standardization, copy reports and documents, with an increase communication and close monitoring of in electronic submissions and online file paper purchasing. The actual post-consumer sharing. Our paper reduction is supported recycled content ranges from 30 to by communications to raise employee 100 percent, depending on the paper. Our awareness about decreased costs and waste paper included 43 tonnes of recycled fiber and minimization, because good management of 134 tonnes of virgin fiber. resources makes good business sense. Paper | GRI 301-1, 301-2 Total consumed in U.S. & Canada Reduction over 11 years 2016 700 tonnes tonnes 84% of paper 600 2015 purchased had recycled content 500 417 400 223 300 46 tonnes less 200 177 126% above paper reduction goal 100 0 2005 2016 001_sr17 52 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Europe Recycling and responsible disposal In Europe, offices set their own waste Our goals in Europe are to reduce paper reduction and recycling targets. At our larger Most of our offices have formal recycling consumption and monitor both actual U.K. offices, we work with waste contractors to programs for paper, plastic, aluminum and absolute reductions and paper use per install containers that allow greater segregation glass. In Denver we compost at our campus employee. We use technology to reduce and recycling of waste, including plastics, café, and we recycle pens, plastic bags and paper use and maintain paper consumption paper and cardboard, glass, batteries and comingled paper, aluminum, technology, at a level below the WRAP U.K. good newspapers. Many U.K. offices do not have batteries and light bulbs and ballasts. In practice guidance figure of seven reams of trash bins at each desk and, instead, have addition to recycling paper, we securely shred paper per person, per year (3,500 sheets). waste and recycling hubs at strategic locations. and recycle paper with a shredding vendor. Across the U.K. and mainland Europe, paper We also have a program to promote recovery We recycle and reuse as much furniture and consumption decreased to less than 2,000 and recycling of toner cartridges. Waste paper material from renovations as possible through sheets per employee in 2016. is segregated and recycled wherever possible. donations to Habitat for Humanity, local We also segregate, and securely handle and schools and recycling companies. dispose of, confidential waste in accordance Paper Use Trend | GRI 301-1 with applicable security standards. United Kingdom Each office handles its own packaging and shipping, and if clients request it, we arrange 4,000 Latin American offices have waste diversion packaging and shipping supplies made from 3,208 3,227 programs for electronic devices, plastic, paper, 2,997 2,845 recycled material. We also are working with Sheets of paper per employee 3,000 glass and printer toners. Offices in MENAI our office supplies vendor to request that 2,000 actively recycle paper, cardboard, plastic, 2,000 they stock sustainable packing material. Many metal, glass and electronic waste. offices do not need to purchase shipping 1,000 materials because they reuse what comes in Our electronic waste program, begun in the from other shipments. Our reused materials United States in 2007, has matured to firmwide 0 include large and small bubble wrap, brown 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 application. We recycle large electronics such paper, crumpled paper and cornstarch-based Note: as servers, desktops and laptops, as well as popcorn, which also is water soluble. We also Paper consumption data recorded for 14 U.K. offices. telephony and networking equipment. reuse laptop boxes that already have the 010_sr17 Offices in the United States also recycle smaller custom foam supports. electronics such as compact discs, cords and mobile phones. We reuse and responsibly recycle, avoiding the landfill, incineration and shipping waste to developing countries. Recycling We reduce our risk by removing identifying Waste diverted in 2016 asset tags and securely erasing data, and we tonnes ensure visibility into the chain of custody by Paper, plastic and batteries 55,521 62,397 tonnes working with global vendors who provide end-to-end auditing and reporting. Currently, Compost 6,855 100 percent of offices in the United States and Canada and 90 percent outside of North Equivalent to 955 Electronics 21 Boeing 737 airplanes America recycle electronics. Note: Electronic waste collected globally. Includes recycling data where available: Latin America (paper, plastic, batteries); Europe (confidential paper); United States and Canada (compost, paper, batteries and comingled recycling); MENAI region (paper). Largest data contributor is our corporate headquarters. 004_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 53 Environmental compliance As an industry-leading environmental company, CH2M places a high value on protecting the environment. Through our project delivery system and HSE program, we implement systematic environmental risk management practices in a manner that adds value to our clients, firm, staff and projects, with the ultimate goal of achieving Target Zero. Our commitment to Target Zero and our environmental program starts with leadership. Senior leaders are trained on our environmental program and cascade HSE expectations throughout their organizations. A network of environmental professionals provide tools, training and resources to help projects and operations comply with environmental requirements. Our strong environmental performance is the result of our educated, equipped and empowered employees, who care about achieving Target Zero and protecting the environment. CH2M ’s proprietary online tool, the “Hours and Incident Tracking System” (HITS), reports, tracks and trends spills and near-misses, including those reported by subcontractors. Most of the releases are small in volume and occur on impervious surfaces or within containment systems. In any event, we note root causes and define corrective actions for our project teams. In the event of a significant spill, our environmental managers follow prescribed protocols to investigate and issue corrective measures that incorporate lessons Our environmental performance is learned to educate staff and prevent further incidents. exceptional, especially considering the Significant spills are defined as those that exceed regulatory reporting variety and complexity of the projects thresholds, as established by the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental we deliver. In 2016, CH2M had zero Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). CH2M had no environmental fines or penalties. significant spills in 2016. 54 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Carbon footprint and energy use CH2M calculates emissions based on actual data, where available, and CH2M invests resources to understand, manage and report on our estimates emissions according to standard protocol guidelines where energy use and carbon footprint. In 2011 we completed our first global data are incomplete or unavailable. Conducting an inventory allows greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions inventory to assess our company-wide us to better understand emission sources and refine data collection carbon footprint for Scopes 1 and 2 and selected Scope 3 emissions. We processes. We anticipate continual enhancements as more staff have continued to calculate and document our global carbon emissions become aware of the importance of keeping accurate data records for inventory annually since then. In addition to our global carbon emissions emission sources. inventory, regional operations track and manage their energy use and emissions. Carbon emissions reduction target In 2014, we committed to reduce CH2M’s absolute GHG footprint by Global carbon emissions inventory 25 percent by the end of 2017, including carbon emissions from fuel Using the World Resources Institute and the WBCSD’s GHG Protocol and electricity (Scopes 1 and 2), and to provide accurate, transparent as guidance, we applied the operational control approach in defining and complete information as proofs of our progress. That commitment our reporting boundaries. Operational control refers to the authority to received special recognition from the U.S. Environmental Protection develop and carry out the operating or HSE policies of an operation or Agency. In 2015, the White House invited CH2M to participate in a a facility. Using this approach, our company accounts for 100 percent roundtable on greenhouse gas reductions. At the same time, CH2M of emissions from operations for which we or our subsidiaries have was held up as an example in federal supplier scorecard reporting for operational control (including leased space and vehicles). disclosing emissions and setting an emissions reduction target. Since the baseline year of 2012 (net emissions of 77,701 tonnes), we Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 have continually met our commitments to mitigate or reduce our From sources owned From the generation From sources not carbon footprint each year, regardless of company growth. Our goal is or controlled by a of electricity, heat or owned or directly more aggressive than represented by absolute numbers, since we based company steam purchased by controlled by, but it on 2012 net emissions — after the purchase of offsets and renewable • Vehicles and a company related to, a company energy credits (RECs) — rather than on total emissions before offsets equipment • Purchased • Business travel and RECs. During our baseline year, we mitigated 17 percent of our 2012 • Stationary electricity • Employee combustion carbon footprint, in part by purchasing carbon offsets and RECs. • Purchased heating/ commuting • Wastewater cooling • Contracted solid treatment waste disposal Our target of 25 percent, or 5 percent annually, is based on a 2013 • Purchased steam study by the Carbon Disclosure Project and the World Wildlife Fund • Onsite landfills • Contracted wastewater titled The 3% Solution. The study indicated that, if each company in treatment the U.S. corporate sector were to reduce its carbon footprint by an • Others additional 3 percent each year, our global temperatures would stay below a 2°C increase. 029_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 55 CH2M remains on track to meet our 25 percent carbon emission Carbon Reduction Commitment | GRI 305-5 reduction goal by 2017. Both gross Scope 1 and 2 emissions and net emissions (emissions after the purchase of offsets and RECs) have declined since 2012. Our net emissions, the focus of our carbon Emissions mitigated through Total carbon emissions reduction goal, declined 21 percent from the 2012 baseline. investment in renewable energy and carbon offsets Net carbon emissions Our total carbon emissions have declined each year since 2012, Baseline: Note: as we have consolidated our business’ physical footprint and 2012 net emissions CH2M’s commitment is to implemented direct carbon emissions reduction programs. Because reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 our goal is to sustain net carbon reductions regardless of revenue carbon emissions by 25% by 2017, starting from our growth, we have continued to invest in carbon offsets and RECs 25% baseline year in 2012 in our annual progress toward our 2017 goal, even though our reduction from baseline and regardless of company internal reductions have proven to be much greater than our growth. To stay on track, we pledge to reduce emissions original projections. Our carbon offset and renewable energy by about 5% annually through investments resulted in total emission offsets of 18 percent, 16 reduction projects and percent and 20 percent respectively in the years 2013, 2014 and investment in carbon offsets and renewable energy credits. 2015. In 2016, RECs resulted in a total emission offset of 13 percent 2012 2017 of total emissions. Given substantial reductions in our gross Scope 1 emissions in 2016, offsets were not necessary to achieve our targets 040_sr17 for the year. Carbon Emissions Reduction | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 CH2M global Scope 1 & 2 Scope 1 and 2 Carbon Emissions and Offsets and RECs 105,000 Total Scope 1 Renewable Net Scope 92,983 90,033 86,111 and 2 Carbon Energy 1 and 2 90,000 82,629 Emissions Offsets Purchased Emissions 77,701 73,806 72,124 Year (Tonnes ) (Tonnes) (MWh) (Tonnes) 75,000 66,399 70,271 61,262 2012 92,983 5,285 15,044 77,701 60,000 21% 2013 90,033 7,436 11,819 73,806 45,000 reduction 2014 86,111 4,512 13,574 72,124 30,000 2015 82,629 5,500 16,569 66,399 15,000 2016 70,271 0 12,630 61,262 Tonnes 0 MWh: megawatt hours 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Net emissions are emissions after the purchase of carbon offsets and renewable energy Total carbon emissions Net carbon emissions 039_sr17 56 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 2016 Offsets power consumption location and working down, regardless of grid power intensity for those locations. Carbon mitigation projects To make sure that carbon-reducing programs are implemented globally and achieve our goals, we invest in a diverse portfolio of carbon 2016 emission inventory mitigation projects that align with our business. After purchasing highIn accordance with the World Resources Institute and the WBCSD’s quality offsets in 2016, we found they were not necessary to meet our Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative — A Corporate Accounting and 2016 targets, so they will be reserved for use against our 2017 footprint. Reporting Standard guidance, in 2016 we restated our previously Through our investment we supported the following Verified Carbon reported 2012 through 2015 global carbon emissions to account for Standard projects: methodology/emission factor updates and revised or newly available data records. • The Jucunda REDD+ (reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation) project in Brazil. In addition to preventing the carbon emissions associated with continued rapid deforestation in Carbon Emissions | GRI 305-1, 305-2 the country, the project also has Double Gold level certification for CH2M global community and biodiversity benefits through the Climate, Community and Biodiversity Alliance. Dedicated revenue streams from the carbon 105,000 offsets go to health, income generation, education, communications 92,983 90,033 90,000 86,111 82,629 and environment programs for the local population. 34,975 35,684 75,000 34,268 70,271 31,395 • Methane emission reductions through better landfill gas capture and 60,000 30,593 utilization at the Dalton Whitfield County landfill in Georgia. 58,007 54,349 45,000 51,843 51,234 Renewable energy To address energy use, we purchased 2016 vintage RECs from 30,000 39,678 Green-e certified wind power facilities in the United States and made 15,000 Tonnes investments in green power through Bullfrog Power in Canada. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 REC accounting for net zero power consumption With the 2014 GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance, World Resources Scope 1 Scope 2 Institute and other organizations have abandoned the “avoided 037_sr17 emission” concept that historically has driven REC accounting. As with In 2016, the largest single source of carbon emissions included in our 2014 inventory, consistent with the new guidance, the unbundled our inventory (37 percent of the total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions) REC purchases are now combined with an equal quantity of grid power was employee commuting. The second highest (19 percent) was purchases to yield a “net zero” power consumption. For transparency, purchased electricity. we apply our RECs to reduce net power consumption at our largest area offices in the continental United States, beginning with our largest table of contents ch2m.com 57 Carbon Emissions by Type | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 CH2M global Mobile combustion 17% Purchased electricity We apply three general methods 19% Business travel air to reduce our footprint: 12% • Direct reductions in facilities we Stationary combustion own or operate 8% • Investment in a portfolio of carbon Business travel ground 4% mitigation projects Employee commuting Contracted solid waste disposal • Investment in renewable energy 37% 2% Electricity T&D losses 1% Note: Offsite wastewater treatment, refrigerants and chemical use, and purchased steam represent <0.5% each. 038sr17 Energy use CH2M’s energy use and carbon emissions are managed both globally At our corporate headquarters where we house the most and locally, enabling offices to set reduction goals and manage their employees, we track and report energy use. The entire campus own programs to achieve them. The most significant driver of our is Energy Star-certified and we remodeled the space to increase Scope 1 and 2 emissions ties to leased office space; therefore, our daylighting, improve building automation systems and upgrade carbon footprint historically has tracked with company growth. to efficient lighting fixtures. Likewise, at our facilities on the North However, this correlation does not account for our increased reliance on Slope in Alaska, we have implemented a number of projects to telecommuting. reduce energy use and fuel consumption, with more planned. As a service-based business, we cannot measure actual energy use In 2016, 28 percent of our leased offices (approximately 50 associated with leased offices and telecommuting, but we find value in percent of leased square-footage) were located in buildings understanding opportunities to reduce our footprint. For this reason, certified by Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design we estimate energy consumption for most of our leased office space by (LEED®), Energy Star or BOMA Best. In the United States, we using data published by the U.S. Department of Energy, which provides purchase Energy Star-certified equipment and electronics, and in average energy use for various types of buildings. Including such other parts of the world we purchase equipment that is certified averages in our carbon inventory helps us develop strategies to manage as energy efficient. We regularly assess our energy conservation resources and consumption. practices at our LEED®-certified headquarters. Directly reducing energy use — and measuring the results of those reductions — is most difficult in leased facilities where we lack management control, and the cost of power is not identified separately for the space leased. As a matter of policy, we work with landlords to participate in turn-it-off programs and purchase Energy Star or comparable appliances, electronics and other equipment to reduce emissions associated with energy use, even though we cannot measure the results of doing so. 58 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Corporate headquarters Europe We directly manage our LEEDand Energy Star-certified We recorded energy consumption data at 14 of our offices in the headquarters, enabling us to take steps in managing our U.K. and 12 locations in mainland Europe. Since actual energy environmental footprint. The buildings feature water-efficient consumption data were not available at two of our European offices, fixtures and lighting motion sensors, offer comprehensive recycling usage was estimated for those two locations. We continued to record options and use recycled and local building materials. We track emissions from our car fleet and vehicle rentals. In the U.K. we have energy usage in Energy Star’s Portfolio Manager System. negotiated energy supply contracts under the Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO) scheme for those offices where we In 2016, we set a goal to reduce electricity consumption by 850 MWh procure electricity directly. We have REGO-backed supplies in place at by 2018 through a pilot program that reduces electricity use by our offices in London, Glasgow, Birmingham and Derby. optimizing cooling system performance during peak demand periods. We reduced our electricity usage by 1.8 percent in 2016, while also Our 2016 goals in Europe were to: cutting natural gas consumption by 8.5 percent, primarily reflecting • Establish an ESOS page on the CH2M intranet, review office-specific reduced heating requirements. ESOS assessments and create a tracking document to monitor energy-saving opportunities Energy Use & Carbon Emissions | GRI 302-1, 302-4, • Review electricity supplies to offices where CH2M directly procures Corporate headquarters, U.S. 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 electricity and agree on tariff and metering requirements while considering best environmental options (for example, REGO-backed Electicity use MWh supply and smart metering) 8,635 8,706 • Continue to track European business travel and office-related 8,513 8,175 8,358 carbon emissions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 In the U.K. our total Scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon emissions increased by 5 percent from 2015 to 2016, while our office electricity and natural gas emissions decreased by 3 percent. We also expanded Natural gas use Therms our operations in Poland and opened our Global Design Production 27,806 Center in Krakow in 2016; therefore, we saw an overall increase in 25,236 20,297 Europe carbon emissions. 19,318 18,573 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Carbon emissions tonnes 7,618 7,665 7,470 7,327 7,172 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 022_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 59 Energy Use & Carbon Emissions | GRI 302-1, 302-4, Carbon Emissions | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Europe 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 United Kingdom Electicity use MWh 6,000 5,404 5,437 5,261 5,388 5,112 6,658 6,005 5,877 5,000 2,274 2,456 2,316 2,782 5,600 2,436 4,749 4,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 3,000 3,130 2,982 2,945 2,676 2,606 2,000 Natural gas usage MWh 1,000 2,857 3,112 Tonnes 0 2,661 2,802 2,394 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions Total Scope 3 emissions 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 020_sr17 Carbon emissions tonnes 4,204 4,271 4,086 4,046 3,794 Carbon Emissions | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Mainland Europe 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 3,000 023_sr17 2,499 2,500 2,335 377 1,965 2,041 280 2,000 2,122 2,055 1,654 366 338 1,500 1,654 1,559 1,703 1,000 500 Tonnes 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions Total Scope 3 Emissions 021_sr17 60 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Business travel Europe In 2016, our Europe operations reported a 24 percent increase in total To deliver technical expertise to projects all around the world, we air miles, partially associated with expanded operations in Krakow that balance the benefits of deploying the right person to the job with air required additional support from staff in the U.K. This in turn resulted in travel’s environmental impacts. We continually question whether a 17 percent increase in business travel carbon emissions, while rental we can get the same degree of success using remote methods of car miles remained steady in 2016 compared with 2015. collaboration, such as videoconferencing and virtual meetings. In that spirit, our CEO and executives set the example by conducting quarterly While most of our employees in the U.K. commute by single-occupancy meetings globally via video conferencing. vehicles, top alternative forms of transportation are train/underground, carpooling and bicycling. The Glasgow office achieved the “Cycle We also promote responsible choices through communications, policies Friendly Employer of the Year” award in 2016 from Cycling Scotland. and tools that promote awareness about carbon impacts, and we select The award recognized initiatives such as a dedicated undercover bicycle travel suppliers that employ sustainable business practices. By the end parking area and extra showers. We also provided cycling health checks of 2016, our Global Travel Program covered North America, Europe, for all staff. MENAI and Latin America. The firm’s Asia-Pacific region will join in 2017. We offer employees the chance to lease a bike or purchase safety United States equipment on attractive pretax terms through the U.K. government’s We annually track all miles flown, whether for overhead operations Cycle to Work scheme. We had a 14 percent increase in use of the or client projects. Reservations booked through our travel vendors scheme over the previous year and in 2016, we enrolled 91 employees. encompass more than 90 percent of tickets for U.S. and Canadian employees. In 2016, we realized a decrease in total air travel of 10 percent. We began collecting data on rental car travel in 2011, Carbon Emissions Employee Business Travel | GRI 305-3 and in 2016, we cut ground travel associated with rental cars by 1.2 Europe percent compared to the prior year. All U.S. employees have access to alternative transportation assistance programs, enabling them to use pretax dollars or vouchers to pay for public transit passes or commuter 2,500 biking equipment or repairs. 2,498 2,000 2,031 2,039 Carbon Emissions | GRI 305-3 1,485 1,881 U.S.-based air travel 1,500 25,000 1,000 789 801 801 19,483 734 733 20,000 17,874 9,278 17,257 15,817 500 7,967 6,682 14,290 15,000 6,310 6,303 Tonnes 0 10,000 10,205 9,907 10,576 9,507 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 7,987 5,000 Air Car Tonnes 0 035_sr17 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Overhead emissions Client emissions Note: Flight data are collected from all reservations booked through our primary agent in the U.S., which encompasses more than 80 percent of all tickets issued for U.S-based employees. 036_sr17 table of contents ch2m.com 61 Report profile This 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report focuses on activities and performance from January 1 to December 31, 2016. Historical data for the past 4 years is included in our Snapshot, as appropriate and available, to demonstrate trends. We report our performance on these measures annually, with the most recent report issued in July 2016. As reflected in previous sustainability reports, tracking for some CH2M sustainability metrics extends as far back as 2003. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In some cases, we have adjusted our reporting approach to reflect more accurately CH2M’s business model and operating conventions. In all cases, we respond in the spirit of the GRI indicators to provide a transparent account of our progress, achievements and shortcomings. We selected indicators that apply to our business in meaningful and challenging ways, representing those that reflect effects associated with our operations around the world. For a full explanation of the GRI guidelines, visit www.globalreporting.org. Information on management approach for each topic is incorporated within the report content and on our corporate website, as appropriate. Components of this report are externally assured by ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 compliance audits, including certain elements of our environmental compliance and management performance. Our financial performance data are assured by the firm’s independent auditors, documented in CH2M’s financial reports and public filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and available online at ir.ch2m.com and the SEC Edgar website. We periodically engage third-party verifiers for our GHG inventory but not every year. We intend to obtain verification upon completion of our inventory for the 2017 goal year. No significant restatements of information from previous reports are included in this report. No changes have been made in the nature of our business, the base years reported or the timing of reporting periods. The scope and boundaries are noted for each topic, none of which changed significantly from previous reports. Unless otherwise noted, all monetary references are in U.S. dollars (US$). Throughout the report, “tonne” refers to the measure of metric tons. The following CH2M sustainability reports are available for download: • CH2M Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 2016 • CH2M Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 2015 • CH2M Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report 2014 • CH2M Sustainability Report 2013 • CH2M Sustainability Report 2012 • CH2M Sustainability Report 2011 • CH2M Sustainability Report 2009 • A World of Ingenuity: 2007 Sustainability Report • Engineering a Sustainable Future: 2005 Sustainability Report (2003 and 2004 Reporting Years) 62 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report GRI content index Universal disclosures GRI Standard Disclosure Location GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the organization 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, p. 4 Disclosures 2016 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, p. 4 ch2m.com, What we do 102-3 Location of headquarters Englewood, Colorado United States 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, pp. 1,31 102-4 Location of operations 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, pp. 9,31 ch2m.com, Locations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, p. 1 102-6 Markets served 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, p. 4 2016 Integrated Summary Annual Report, p.19 ch2m.com, What we do 102-7 Scale of the organization 2016 Form 10-K Annual Report, pp. 4-6 Workforce diversity and inclusion 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workforce diversity and inclusion 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain management 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Supply chain management supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach ch2m.com, Sustainability Policy 102-12 External initiatives Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-13 Membership of associations Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker A message from Chairman and CEO Jacqueline Hinman 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of Our values behavior ch2m.com, What guides us 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Ethics and Business Conduct ethics ch2m.com, What guides us, Ethics 102-18 Governance structure Our leadership Corporate Governance ch2m.com, Governance and Corporate Citizenship Committee 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body Workforce diversity and inclusion and its committees Corporate Governance 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Workforce diversity and inclusion table of contents ch2m.com 63 GRI Standard Disclosure Location 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders, memberships and partnerships 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 2016 Integrated Summary Annual Report, p.10 financial statements 2016 Economic performance 102-46 Defining report content and Sustainability key performance indicators topic boundaries Report profile GRI content index 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability key performance indicators 102-48 Restatements of information Report profile 102-49 Changes in reporting Report profile 102-50 Reporting period Report profile 102-51 Date of most recent report Report profile 102-52 Reporting cycle Report profile 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the ch2m.com, Connect with us report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Report profile GRI standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Report profile GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Report profile Approach 2016 boundary GRI content index 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 64 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Material topics The following table lists the material topics, the location where the indicator is described in our report, any omissions and the reporting boundary. Boundaries correspond to: • CH2M firmwide, which includes impacts from CH2M global activities • CH2M regions, which includes specific metrics reported by region, because regions provide metrics for different indicators • CH2M and suppliers, which includes impacts resulting from contracted supplier and subcontractor activities • CH2M and clients, which includes impacts resulting from project work Ethics and human rights GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material ch2m.com, What guides us, None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary Ethics Between CH2M and (Ethics, human rights, Ethics and business conduct suppliers public policy, 103-2 The management approach ch2m.com, What guides us, Our nondiscrimination, child and its components commitment to worker welfare labor, forced or compulsory labor) Human rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for Ethics and business conduct CH2M assesses risks of all global CH2M firmwide 2016 risks related to corruption operations, including certain geographies at greater risk for corruption, as ranked by Transparency International; because of legal protections, however, we cannot disclose our methodology for conducting such assessments or reveal the details of such assessments. 205-2 Communication and training ch2m.com, What guides us, Regional and category breakdowns CH2M firmwide about anti-corruption Ethics for anti-corruption training are not policies and procedures Ethics and business conduct provided because all employees are trained as a condition of Training and development employment. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of ch2m.com, What guides us, To the extent that any such CH2M firmwide corruption and actions taken Ethics incidents might occur at CH2M, we Ethics and business conduct would collect this information internally and, for legal reasons, could not report specifics. GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of discrimination Ethics and business conduct None CH2M firmwide discrimination 2016 and corrective actions taken table of contents ch2m.com 65 GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Ethics and business conduct CH2M is in the process of Between CH2M Compulsory Labor 2016 significant risk for incidents Human rights developing global tracking systems and suppliers of forced or compulsory to respond to this material labor indicator. GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on Human rights None CH2M firmwide Assessment 2016 human rights policies or Training and development procedures GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 New suppliers that were Human rights None CH2M regions Assessment 2016 screened using social criteria Health, safety and environment GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material ch2m.com, What guides us, None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary Safety Between CH2M (occupational health and Health, safety and environment and suppliers 103-2 The management safety) approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in ch2m.com, What guides us, None CH2M firmwide Health and Safety 2016 formal joint management– Safety worker health and safety Health, safety and environment committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of Health, safety and environment We do not report by region or CH2M firmwide injury, occupational gender; CH2M has so few Between CH2M diseases, lost days and incidents, it could be possible to and suppliers absenteeism and number identify individuals, which would of work-related fatalities conflict with our privacy policies and regulations in some countries of operation. 66 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Economic performance and value generated GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material 2016 Integrated Summary None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary Annual Report, p. 10 (Economic performance; 103-2 The management approach Investor Relations CH2M Foundation and and its components 2016 Economic performance giving) 103-3 Evaluation of the CH2M Foundation and giving management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value 2016 Integrated Summary For competitive reasons, CH2M CH2M firmwide Performance 2016 generated and distributed Annual Report, p. 10 chooses to not disclose wages or 2016 Economic performance benefits publicly. Regional reporting was determined not CH2M Foundation and giving to be significant. Community partnerships and outreach GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Our communities None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary CH2M Foundation Between CH2M (supporting communities and clients 103-2 The management globally) approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value CH2M Foundation and giving None CH2M firmwide Performance 2016 generated and distributed Not applicable CH-01 Community partnerships Our communities None CH2M firmwide CH2M Foundation table of contents ch2m.com 67 Supply chain management GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Supply chain management None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary (procurement practices; 103-2 The management supplier environmental approach and its assessment) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on Business partnerships: local and None Between CH2M Practices 2016 local suppliers diverse spending and suppliers CH2M regions GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were Procurement for internal None Between CH2M Environmental Assessment screened using operations and suppliers 2016 environmental criteria Our people GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Our people None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 topic and its boundary ch2m.com, Diversity (employment, training and 103-2 The management ch2m.com, Training and education, diversity and approach and its Development equal opportunity) components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and Employee turnover None CH2M firmwide employee turnover GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training Training and development CH2M currently does not collect CH2M firmwide Education 2016 per year per employee training information by gender and employee category. 404-2 Programs for upgrading Training and development None CH2M firmwide employee skills and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees Career development None CH2M firmwide receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance Workforce diversity and None CH2M firmwide Equal Opportunity 2016 bodies and employees inclusion 68 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Environmental management, compliance, resources and recycling GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Environmental management None CH2M regions Approach 2016 topic and its boundary Environmental compliance between CH2M and (Environmental suppliers, and CH2M 103-2 The management approach Water use management, and clients and its components environmental compliance, Paper consumption materials, water use, 103-3 Evaluation of the Recycling and responsible effluent, recycling and management approach disposal responsible disposal) GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or Paper consumption None CH2M regions volume 301-2 Recycled input materials Paper consumption None CH2M regions used GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Water use None CH2M regions 303-3 Water recycled and reused Delivering sustainable results in None Between CH2M operations management and clients GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality Delivering sustainable results in None Between CH2M Waste 2016 and destination operations management and clients 306-3 Significant spills Environmental compliance Spill locations are not disclosed, to CH2M firmwide protect client confidentiality GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with Environmental compliance None CH2M firmwide Compliance 2016 environmental laws and regulations Not Applicable CH-03 Recycling, waste Recycling and responsible None CH2M firmwide management disposal CH2M regions table of contents ch2m.com 69 Energy and emissions GRI Standard Disclosure Location Omission Boundary GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide Approach 2016 (energy, 103-2 topic and its boundary energy use emissions) The management approach 103-3 and its components Evaluation of the management approach GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide the organization energy use CH2M regions Global carbon emissions inventory Energy use 302-4 Reduction of energy Energy use None CH2M regions consumption GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide emissions energy use 2016 Emission inventory 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide GHG emissions energy use 2016 Emission inventory 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide GHG emissions energy use CH2M regions Business travel 305-5 Reduction of GHG Carbon footprint and None CH2M firmwide emissions energy use Carbon emissions reduction target Energy use 70 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report UN Global Compact principles As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, CH2M is committed to ensuring that our business policies incorporate and support the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. This report serves as our 2016 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress report. CH2M Chairman and CEO Jacque Hinman endorses the CEO Water Mandate to help address the global water crisis. We make it a priority to include transparency, anti-corruption and good corporate governance as a part of our sustainability efforts. For more information about the UN Global Compact and the CEO Water Mandate, visit www.unglobalcompact.org. Number Principles/CH2M commitment 1–5 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; and the effective abolition of child labor. Human rights 6 Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Workforce diversity and inclusion Ethics and business conduct 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Sustainability Policy 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater responsibility. Environmental management 9 Businesses should encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainability Policy 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Ethics and business conduct Certain statements in this Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report may contain “forward-looking statements,” as that term is defined in U.S. Federal and certain foreign securities regulations, including information related to our business strategies and ability to deliver sustainable results for our stakeholders, as well as our ability to achieve triple bottom-line performance improvements. Although CH2M’s management believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, these assumptions are subject to a wide range of economic, business, regulatory, technical, legal, and other unforeseen risks which may cause actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by these forward-looking statements. This communication therefore should be read in conjunction with all the other information included in our most current Prospectus and European Prospectus, which are filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), respectively, and, for our stockholders outside of the U.S. and the European Union, similar documents filed with local securities regulators, where required. You should also read our Annual Report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, which include a list of factors that could cause actual operational and financial results to differ from those expected. All documents required to be filed with the SEC and other regulators are available via the company’s website at www.ch2mstockholder.com and on the SEC’s website. CH2M undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement. table of contents ch2m.com 71 Snapshot | GRI 102-9 Regional commitment on procurement Region 2013 2014 2015 2016 Latin America 1% 1% 1% 1% Middle East, North Africa, India 2% 3% 3% 2% Asia Pacific 5% 5% 8% 16% Canada 5% 6% 2% 3% Europe 7% 8% 9% 8% United States 80% 77% 77% 70% Note: Procurement as a percent of total spending for client projects. Total spend on firmwide indirect procurement agreements | GRI 308-1 US$ in millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 Tier 1 and Tier 2 agreements with sustainability 97% 97% 100% 100% criteria Tier 1 and Tier 2 spend with sustainability criteria $159 $172 $189 $181 Tier 1 and Tier 2 spend $166 $178 $189 $181 Total indirect spend $329 $272 $337 $323 Note: Percentage of suppliers that were screened using sustainability criteria. | GRI 204-1 Supplier and subcontractor spending 2013 2014 2015 2016 Veteran-owned business 1.2% 0.9% 1.5% 1.8% Woman-owned business 4.3% 4% 5.3% 9.4% Minority-business 4.6% 3.7% 8.5% 5.6% Small business 16.3% 14.9% 32.6% 24.0% Other suppliers and subcontractors 73.6% 76.4% 52.2% 59.2% Total supplier and subcontractor spending $3.9 B $1.9 B $1.0 B $1.7 B Note: For spend in the United States. Inclusive of client project spend, indirect procurement spend and miscellaneous non-project categories. Local defined as the site where a project is designed or constructed. 72 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Total philanthropic contributions | GRI 201-1 US$ in millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 CH2M Foundation giving $0.88 $1.03 $1.00 $1.00 Corporate giving $4.68 $4.33 $3.02 $1.88 Total philanthropic contributions $5.56 $5.36 $4.02 $2.88 Note: Represents spending by the company codes as charitable contributions in CH2M’s accounting system. Does not include contributions made by employees. The CH2M Foundation is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization. Economic performance | GRI 201-1 Years ended Dec 30 Dec 25 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (US$ in millions, except per share data) Selected Statement of Operations Data Gross revenue $5,235.9 $5,361.5 $5,413.5 $5,877.8 $6,160.6 Operating (loss) income (240.1) (b) 134.8 (341.6)(d) 192.4 158.8 Net income (loss) attributable to CH2M 15.0 (b) 80.4 (181.5)(d) 118.3 93.0 Net income (loss) attributable to CH2M per common share Basic $0.03 $2.62 $(6.42) $4.00 $2.99 Diluted $0.03 $2.61 $(6.42) $3.96 $2.95 Selected Balance Sheet Data Total assets $2,670.5 $2,861.3 $2,941.3 $3,056.4 $3,114.6 Total debt, including current maturities (a) 497.9 301.7 513.0 391.1 252.3 Total CH2M stockholders’ equity 546.7 (c) 412.2 212.8 (e) 624.4 603.7 (a) Substantially all of our long-term debt relates to our revolving credit facility. (c) The increase in stockholders’ equity primarily relates to the change in Borrowings on this facility are primarily used for working capital needs, required accumulated other comprehensive income due to the Halcrow Pension Scheme pension contributions and funds to repurchase shares on our internal market. benefit restructuring. (b) The operating loss primarily was caused by estimated project losses and costs (d) The primary cause for the operating loss and net loss attributable to CH2M relates to incurred for restructuring activities in 2016. The operating loss was offset by the estimated project losses, impairment charges and costs incurred for restructuring release of a significant tax valuation allowance for an existing deferred tax asset activities in 2014. related to the Halcrow Pension Scheme benefit restructuring as well as project losses (e) The decrease in stockholders’ equity is related to the consolidated net loss incurred attributable to noncontrolling interests resulting in net income attributable to CH2M. in 2014, share repurchases and changes in assumptions that increased pension liabilities that are included in accumulated other comprehensive income. The selected financial data presented above under the captions “Selected Statement of Operations Data” and “Selected Balance Sheet Data” for, and as of the end of, each of the years in the five-year period ended December 30, 2016, are derived from the consolidated financial statements of CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd. and subsidiaries, which consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm. The consolidated financial statements as of December 30, 2016, and December 25, 2015, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 30, 2016, and the report thereon of KPMG LLP, are included in Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preceding information should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. table of contents ch2m.com 73 Water use at corporate headquarters | GRI 303-1 Gallons 2013 2014 2015 2016 Nonpotable 5,518,000 3,971,000 4,074,000 4,071,000 Potable 6,247,000 5,699,000 5,379,000 5,699,000 Total annual water use 11,765,000 9,670,000 9,453,000 9,770,000 Note: Water withdrawn for corporate headquarters in Englewood, Colorado, United States. Potable water is sourced from municipal water supply. Data from property management invoices. | GRI 301-1, 301-2 Paper consumption 2013 2014 2015 2016 Purchase by (percent) Recycled paper 77% 78% 85% 84% Virgin paper 23% 22% 15% 16% Average recycled fiber by weight 32% 32% 30% 29% Purchase by weight (tonnes) Recycled paper fiber 99 79 57 43 Virgin paper fiber 305 236 166 134 Total paper purchased 404 315 223 177 Note: Paper consumption includes primarily white paper for use in copiers and printers. Includes rates of paper purchased in the United States and Canada. | GRI 306-3, 307-1 Environmental compliance 2013 1 2014 2 2015 3 2016 Notice of violations or citations 1 1 0 0 Total environmental fines $1,350 $0 $0 $0 Material spilled (gallons) 807,624 225 310 0 Note: Includes notice of violations, citations, fines and recorded spills captured using a proprietary online tool. Significant spills are defined as those that exceed regulatory reporting thresholds as established by the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Spill locations are not disclosed, to protect client confidentiality. 1 CH2M paid one environmental fine (US$1,350) for operating a portable diesel generator without prior agency approval. We had three significant spills: 807,000 gallons of untreated groundwater contaminated with ammonia (32 milligrams per liter), 604 gallons of 10 percent sodium hypochlorite solution and 20 gallons of untreated groundwater contaminated with K022-listed waste (a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency waste code designating distillation bottom tars from production of phenol/acetone from cumene). 2 We had 3 significant spills: 100 gallons of 12 percent sodium hypochlorite solution, 125 gallons of 12 percent sodium hypochlorite solution and a large, undetermined quantity of creosote-contaminated groundwater. 3 We had two significant spills: 100 gallons of 12 percent sodium hypochlorite solution, and 210 gallons of 40 percent sodium permanganate solution. (1,2,3) Although classified as “significant,” these spills had no critical impact to the environment. 74 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Global carbon emissions | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 Metric tons (tonnes) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Global carbon emissions Scope 1 58,007 54,349 51,843 51,234 39,678 Scope 2 34,975 35,684 34,268 31,395 30,593 Scope 31 29,787 28,775 29,245 27,909 25,735 Gross Scope 1 and 2 emissions 92,983 90,033 86,111 82,629 70,271 Carbon offsets and renewable energy credits Carbon offsets 5,285 7,436 4,512 5,500 0 Renewable energy purchased (MWhs ) 15,044 11,819 13,574 16,569 12,630 Net Scope 1 and 2 emissions 77,701 73,806 72,124 66,399 61,262 Carbon reduction After offsets and RECs 5% 7% 15% 21% Note: Inventory prepared in accordance with the World Resources Institute and the WBCSD’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative—A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition, 2004) guidance. Net emissions are emissions after the purchase of carbon offsets and renewable energy. Baseline for goal is 2012 net emissions of 77,701 metric tons. MWhs: megawatt hours. 1 Scope 3 emission estimates include air business travel, ground business travel, employee commuting, electricity transmission and distribution losses and contracted solid waste. | GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Global carbon emissions by type 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Stationary combustion 8% 7% 7% 8% 8% Mobile combustion 21% 20% 21% 20% 17% Onsite wastewater treatment <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% Refrigerants and chemical use <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% Purchased electricity 17% 18% 18% 17% 19% Employee commuting 37% 36% 36% 36% 37% Business travel ground 3% 3% 3% 3% 4% Business travel air 12% 12% 12% 12% 12% Electricity transportation and distribution losses 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% Offsite wastewater treatment <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% Purchased steam <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% <0.5% Contracted solid waste disposal 2% 2% 2% 2% 2% table of contents ch2m.com 75 Energy use and carbon emissions | GRI 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, Europe 305-2, 305-3, 305-5 Metric tons (tonnes) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy Use Electricity (MWh) 6,005 6,658 5,877 5,600 4,749 Natural gas (MWh) 2,857 3,112 2,661 2,394 2,802 Carbon Emissions Emissions from air travel 1,485 2,031 1,881 2,039 2,498 Emissions from car travel 789 801 801 734 733 United Kingdom Scope 1 719 706 512 479 538 Scope 2 2,411 2,276 2,432 2,197 2,068 Scope 3 1 2,274 2,456 2,316 2,436 2,782 Total carbon emissions (Scope 1,2,3) 5,404 5,437 5,261 5,112 5,388 Source breakdown Emissions from heating sources 548 562 452 413 478 Emissions from electrical sources 2,411 2,276 2,432 2,197 2,068 Mainland Europe Scope 1 601 818 535 620 435 Scope 2 1,053 1,304 1,064 1,083 1,620 Scope 31 0 377 366 338 280 Total carbon emissions (Scope 1,2,3) 1,654 2,499 1,965 2,041 2,335 Source breakdown Emissions from heating sources 266 394 317 336 245 Emissions from electrical sources 1,053 1,304 1,064 1,083 1,620 Note: Inventory prepared in accordance with the World Resources Institute and the WBCSD’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative—A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition, 2004) guidance. CH2M calculates emissions based on actual data, where available, and estimates emissions according to standard protocol guidelines where data are incomplete or unavailable. Energy use data for 2016 is recorded for 14 area offices in the United Kingdom and 12 area offices in Mainland Europe. For two Mainland Europe area offices, actual energy consumption data was not available so usage has been estimated. We continued to record emissions from our company car fleet and from the use of hire vehicles in delivery of our projects. 1 Scope 3 emission estimates include air business travel, ground business travel, employee commuting, electricity transmission and distribution losses, contracted solid waste disposal and offsite wastewater treatment. 76 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report Energy use and carbon emissions | GRI 302-1, 302-4, 305-1, 305-2 Corporate headquarters 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Electricity (MWh) 8,175 8,635 8,706 8,513 8,358 Natural gas (Therms) 19,318 27,806 25,236 20,297 18,573 Carbon emissions (tonnes) 7,172 7,618 7,665 7,470 7,327 Note: Energy use and carbon emissions for our corporate headquarters in Englewood, Colorado, United States. Data from property management invoices. table of contents ch2m.com 77 | GRI 403-2 Health and safety indicators 2013 2014 2015 2016 Recordable incidents 91 82 74 80 Rate of lost-time incidents 0.17 0.14 0.13 0.15 Rate of recordable incidents 0.36 0.33 0.30 0.34 Note: Includes worldwide incidents, recordables and lost time incidents for all CH2M companies. Lost-time cases are those that involve days away, restricted duty, or transfer to another job. Both recordable incident and lost-time rates are figured as a number of cases per 200,000 hours worked as specified by industry standards. 200,000 is an estimate of the hours worked by 100 employees in a year. | GRI 102-8 Total number of employees by region 2013 2014 2015 2016 Asia Pacific 1,128 916 811 683 Europe 3,427 3,221 3,473 3,849 Latin America 1,084 1,273 1,231 863 Middle East, North Africa, India 2,024 2,194 2,173 1,646 North America (United States and Canada) 15,909 15,183 14,319 12,622 Total employees 23,572 22,787 22,007 19,663 Note: Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include consolidated joint ventures. Total number of employees by employment type | GRI 102-8 2013 2014 2015 2016 Full-time 21,709 21,036 20,273 18,005 Part-time 1,185 1,071 1,160 1,173 Temporary, flex, other 678 682 574 485 Total employees 23,572 22,789 22,007 19,663 Note: Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include consolidated joint ventures. | GRI 102-8 Employees by gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 Female 6,401 6,217 6,049 5,714 Male 17,171 16,572 15,958 13,949 Total employees 23,572 22,789 22,007 19,663 Note: Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include consolidated joint ventures. 78 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report | GRI 405-1 Employees by age 2013 2014 2015 2016 <25 1,078 1,098 1,058 1,010 26-35 5,925 5,909 5,552 4,783 36-45 6,196 6,137 5,951 5,542 46-54 5,192 4,998 4,804 4,210 55+ 5,181 4,647 4,642 4,118 Total Employees 23,572 22,789 22,007 19,663 Note: Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include consolidated joint ventures. | GRI 405-1 Employees by demographics 2013 2014 2015 2016 Black or African-American 4.4% 4.2% 4.5% 4.6% American Indian or Alaska Native 1.3% 1.5% 1.4% 1.2% Asian 4.3% 4.3% 4.4% 4.7% Hawaii or Pacific Islander 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% Hispanic or Latino 7.0% 8.3% 8.4% 8.7% White or Caucasian 81.6% 80.1% 79.4% 79.0% Two or more races 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% 1.5% Undefined 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.1% Note: Global employee headcounts exclude unconsolidated joint ventures and include consolidated joint ventures. Demographics data for the United States. | GRI 401-1 Employee turnover 2013 2014 2015 2016 Involuntary turnover 3,129 2,239 2,197 3,247 (13%) (10%) (10%) (17%) Voluntary turnover 3,253 3,237 2,741 2,502 (14%) (14%) (12%) (13%) Total turnover 6,382 5,476 4,938 5,749 (27%) (24%) (22%) (29%) Note: Percent turnover is calculated by dividing the annual number of losses by the end-of-year active employee headcount. table of contents ch2m.com 79 | GRI 401-1 Employee turnover — age 2013 2014 2015 2016 Voluntary <25 304 222 198 188 (28%) (20%) (19%) (19%) 26-35 1104 973 956 782 (19%) (16%) (17%) (16%) 36-45 776 695 663 600 (13%) (11%) (11%) (11%) 46-54 488 449 468 423 (9%) (9%) (10%) (10%) 55+ 581 898 456 509 (11%) (19%) (10%) (12%) Involuntary <25 428 291 320 246 (40%) (27%) (30%) (24%) 26-35 873 499 625 691 (15%) (8%) (11%) (14%) 36-45 676 449 424 856 (11%) (7%) (7%) (15%) 46-54 555 456 383 645 (11%) (9%) (8%) (15%) 55+ 597 544 445 809 (12%) (12%) (10%) (20%) Note: Percent turnover is calculated by dividing the annual number of losses for the age group by the end-of-year active employee headcount in the age group. 80 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report | GRI 401-1 Employee turnover — gender 2013 2014 2015 2016 Voluntary Male 2,540 2,418 2,091 1,926 (15%) (15%) (13%) (14%) Female 713 819 650 576 (11%) (13%) (11%) (10%) Involuntary Male 2,618 1,652 1,676 2,464 (15%) (10%) (11%) (18%) Female 511 587 521 783 (8%) (9%) (9%) (14%) Total Male 5,158 4,070 3,767 4,390 (30%) (25%) (24%) (31%) Female 1,224 1,406 1,171 1,359 (19%) (23%) (19%) (24%) Note: Percent turnover is calculated by dividing the annual number of male/female losses by the end-of-year active male/female employee headcounts. Turnover of employees with undefined gender data is excluded from rates. Employees who received a regular performance | GRI 404-3 and career development review 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total employees receiving 21,325 19,524 19,309 15,723 development reviews (93%) (89%) (91%) (94%) Male 15,272 13,983 13,765 10,604 (92%) (88%) (89%) (95%) Female 6,053 5,541 5,544 5,119 (97%) (91%) (96%) (94%) Full-time 19,777 18,168 17,858 14,528 (94%) (90%) (91%) (97%) Part-time 1,150 1,010 1,112 1,112 (98%) (95%) (97%) (97%) Temporary, flex, other 398 346 339 83 (62%) (53%) (63%) (18%) Note: New hires with 2 months or less of service by the end of the year are removed from counts since they were not eligible to participate in the performance management process. Percentages are within each gender category. Numbers are the actual number of employees recorded by gender. Performance reviews are optional for flex and contract employees. table of contents ch2m.com 81 Employee training hours | GRI 205-2, 404-1, 404-2, 412-2 2013 2014 2015 2016 Ethics and compliance 17,422 13,726 43,637 42,527 Health, safety and environment 58,619 61,400 149,386 135,484 Learning management courses 233,227 217,925 350,542 163,542 Total training hours 309,268 293,051 543,565 341,553 Average training hours per employee 13.1 12.9 16.3 17.4 Note: Training hours by course type Learning management courses include project management, leadership, business intelligence and business tools. 82 2017 Sustainability and Corporate Citizenship Report About CH2M CH2M leads the professional services industry Environmental Infrastructure delivering sustainable solutions benefiting societal, Industry Rankings (ENR) Industry Rankings (ENR) environmental and economic outcomes with #2 Environmental #1 Int’l. Water Treatment the development of infrastructure and industry. Overall & Desalination In this way, CH2Mers make a positive difference #2 Environmental #1 Sewerage and Waste providing consulting, design, engineering and Asset Management #1 Wastewater Treatment management services for clients needing worldPlants #2 Nuclear Liability class solutions in environmental; industrial Services #1 Site Assessment and advanced facilities; transportation; and and Compliance #5 Environmental water markets, from iconic infrastructure to Liability Services #2 Engineering/Design global programs like the Olympic Games. #2 Highways Ranked among the World’s Most Ethical Industrial #2 Marine & Port Industry Rankings (ENR) Facilities Companies and top firms in environmental #1 Semiconductors #2 Water Treatment consulting and program management, CH2M in and Desalination 2016 became the first professional services firm #2 Manufacturing #3 #3 Design Firm in Water honored with the World Environment Center Pipelines Gold Medal Award for International Corporate #5 Chemical Plants #3 Hazardous Waste Achievement in Sustainable Development. #3 Sanitary and Storm #5 Steel and Non-ferrous Sewers Plants Connect with CH2M at www.CH2M.com, #3 Transportation LinkedIn, Twitter and Facebook. #3 Water Supply and Treatment #5 Airports #5 Mass Transit & Rail table of contents ch2m.com 83 Join the upside The CH2M difference Contact us CH2M World Headquarters 9191 South Jamaica Street Englewood, CO 80112-5946 USA +1 303 771 0900 www.CH2M.com Follow us @CH2M © 2017 CH2M HILL CH2M is a registered trademark in the United States and other countries.
