MGTD Communication on Progress Foreign Trade Department 15/1/2017 In 2011,MGTD became signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Such action mirrors our agreement with the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, which relate to human rights, labor practices, the environment and anti-corruption measures. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of Human Rights internationally proclaimed human rights, Principle2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Message from the CEO I am pleased to confirm that MGTD reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Right, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Best Regards, Ali Babaie Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy and Goals Being committed to create an environment in which our employees and business partners respect to the universal declaration of Human Rights and avoiding complicity in human rights abuses is our goal. We have already set up Code of Conduct in order to have a vivid policy and in this way we respect to available international conventions. Implementation To avoid any human rights violation, MGTD has taken the followings: Poll Box: HR manager is the responsible authority to evaluate all comments and to follow them. Special celebrations: For different events, all personnel with their families gather; to know each other better, to have ice break, to have friendly gaps. Special celebrity for Iranian New Year Holiday(Nowruz) Special trainings Each employee shall receive any special training if necessary, regarding to its filed of activity. Costumer valuation We do our best to maintain the best situation with our customers. We dedicated a CSC(Customer Service Center) to receive customers suggestions and complaints in order to present best services. Measurement of Outcomes Each department should provide Business Support department with its 25 days reports. These reports shall be evaluated to be based on human rights as well. Labour Principles Assessment ,Policy and Goals We do our best to create some facilities for the employees: -Special Loans -Free medical Check up -More leaves for new mothers MGTD does not utilize forced or child labour of any kind. The company adheres strictly to country laws governing labour standards. Implementation  All Personnel have governmental insurance for their working life and health  Member of Iranian Organization to arrange its activities based on its rules: http://www.majmavaredat.com/ Measurement of Outcomes We have not been involved in any investigations, legal cases related to contravention of the global compact labour principles. Environmental Principles Assessment ,Policy and Goals We respect to environmental principles and do the best to prevent any pollution to assure protection of human health and the environment. Implementation -We moved to our new office and this office is equipped by LED lights. -Using Fire detector -Saving water:one of our field of activities is in Oral Care.In this regard besides our marketing activities we also encourage people to save water while brushing -Dividing Rubbishes (dry/wet) -Using paper bag instead of plastics for our products Measurement of Outcome Monitoring and evaluation of light and water consumption. Anti-Corruption Principles Assessment ,Policy and Goals We remain committed to implementing to principle of anti-corruption and ensuring its total elimination in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Implementation Finance director continuously looks over the checking system which all daily reports all financial affiars. Such reports are also reviewed by the CEO at the end of each day. Measurement of Outcome MGTD has an agreement with an external audit company to do internal audits for each fiscal year.
