2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 1 producing for the world 2 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 3 Index 6 Message from CEO 8 Information about Yeşim Textile 14 Achievements in 2016 16 Lean Management System 20 Social Compliance 36 Governance in Yeşim 46 Yeşim; the Green Factory 54 Innovative fabric from Yeşim: Comfort Life 58 CSR Activities Report 64 Women Friendly Company Global Compact 90 Information is reproduced by sharing Agreement Yeşim Textile has pledged to conform to the principles of this international Yeşim Textile pledges to agreement on human rights, labor standards, the environment and the conform and to implement struggle against corruption. Yeşim Textile transparently shares the details the principles of the agreement of its work under the Global Compact Agreement in the global network at each and every stage of since 2008. Also, it is in the Board of Managers of Global Compact Turkey production and governance and to since March 2014. Yeşim Textile also was chosen as the co-president for monitor compliance. Global Compact Women’s Empowerment Working Group in 2016. The report briefly explains previous practices within the organization of the company under the Global Compact Agreement and mainly highlights the work carried out in 2016. The information provided in the Global Compact Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. report is supported by statistical data, model practices Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. and photographs. Yeşim Textile aims at diffusing Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to sustainability efforts to all work processes and collective bargaining. making sure that its suppliers and contract manufacturers also adopt these principles. Labor Standards The efforts made by the company to Principle 4 Businesses should effectively eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labor. About the this end and the targets for the year Principle 5 Businesses should effectively abolish child labor. 2017 and subsequent years are Principle 6 Businesses should effectively eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. communicated in the report Report together with the relevant Environment data. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses shall undertake and encourage initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 4 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 5 Our company, the first apparel but throughout Turkey. company in Turkey to sign the United own company, but for Nations Global Compact Principles in companies wishing to In addition, with the 2006, has continued to work on this make efforts in this coordination of Yeşim matter without break since then. While matter. Textile, in November publishing our 8th report this year, we 2016 the Women’s experience the job of being one of the We have achieved Empowerment Bursa leading companies in this regard. a lot of gains in this Platform was established with formation, which we have the cooperation of BUSIAD (Bursa been a part of for many years Industry and Business Association) and whose progress report we and BUIKAD (Bursa Business Women are sharing. We have found the and Administrators Association). opportunity to express our clear The platform aims to bring work approach to sustainability to all carried out for gender equality and our stakeholders, both internal and Journey to women’s empowerment in the world external. Differentiating from our and Turkey to Bursa. By undertaking competitors in this regard has been an active role in this platform, we of the “Women’s Empowerment possible during our cooperation sustainability are working on Bursa becoming one Principles” which we signed in with world famous brands. It has of the women-friendly provinces. 2015. In this guide, the preparation created greater transparency and of which we took part in, the a feeling of confidence, enhancing continues In 2016, we started a new project under the name of “Equality at Home and Work” for the applications of our crèche, celebrating its 28th year this year, was shared. We take great pleasure the reputation of our company. The sustainability vision has developed our relationships with development of a business culture in our experience regarding crèches, all stakeholders in line with its which does not tolerate violence which are of great importance strategy and implementation plan. against women in order to ensure in terms of women being part of Important learning opportunities are gender equality in the workplace. working life, being a role model to provided for all our stakeholders on We were selected as one of 17 pilot companies wishing to move forward these issues with our cooperation. As Yeşim Textile, which break since then. While companies in Turkey by the Sabancı in this matter. Opportunities were created to share sustains competitiveness publishing our 8th report University Corporate Governance our efforts for sustainability outside in the industry by providing this year, we experience the Forum for the “Development and Yeşim Textile, adopting of the report in many places in the best service and quality job of being one of the leading Implementation of Workplace sustainability as a corporate Turkey and the world. products to clients, we continued companies in this regard. Policies Regarding Domestic culture, has also continued to fulfil to closely follow developments in the Violence Against Women Guide” its responsibilities towards nature. Our next goal is to be able to share world during 2016. Within this context, In this formation of which we are a prepared with the cooperation of Our company, which has carried our sustainability efforts with a in parallel with the change process that signatory, we have also been part of TUSIAD and the United Nations out work for many years in order better report each year with the rest the textile and apparel industry is in, we the Global Compact Turkey Executive Population Fund and the Sabancı to reduce energy consumption of the world. We will continue to be started a change project at Yeşim Textile Board since 2014. With our re-election Foundation, and we aimed to raise and ensure the supple of energy, a leader in this matter, in particular with the name Vizyon 2021. to the executive board in 2016, we also awareness of this matter in our earned the right to one of the in a labour intensive industry such undertook another task that we greatly employees with this project. We most important commitments of as textile and garment industry. Within the scope of this project, value. We have not started to carry out also established a committee titled sustainable energy management commenced in order for our company to the systematic work that we have carried “Gender Equality Committee” in in Turkey, the ISO 50001 Energy take correct and confident steps towards out for many years for the empowerment order to give direction to our work in Management System certificate in becoming a global player, we aim to grow of women under Global Compact. this matter, including our managers 2016. two-fold within five years. While carrying Unlike previous years, this year we have and union representatives. Our out this growth, sustainability will again strengthened our leadership role in Turkey future work will be guided by the In short, when considering our be one of our focus points in our business in this field. We began to execute the task “Gender Equality Policy” we have efforts in sustainability, we can say processes as it has been in previous years. of co-chair of the Women’s Empowerment prepared. that 2016 has been an extremely Working Group established under the productive year. We believe that Our company, the first apparel company Global Compact Turkey Network. Thus Another pleasing development including all these efforts in in Turkey to sign the United Nations we began to provide leadership to work for us in 2016 was being shown our annual report this year and Global Compact Principles in 2006, has carried out on this matter not only at our as a model company in the guide sharing it with a wide network is continued to work on this matter without company and immediate surroundings, prepared for the dissemination very important not only for our 6 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 7 With a total operation area of 325 thousand square meters in Bursa, of which 144 thousand are indoor space, Yeşim Textile, which has knitting, dyeing, and confection departments, is one of the leading integrated facilities in the world. Yeşim Our Vision To become the model strategic manufacturing partner to the world’s leading brands in both apparel Textile and home textiles. Our Mission • To be a pioneer in the textile sector, manufacturing topquality products and making significant investments both in qualified people and the latest technology. • To ensure the highest levels of customer satisfaction. • To protect the environment and foster environmental consciousness among staff, suppliers and the public at large. • To fulfill our obligations to the community and always act in a socially responsible manner. • To set an example for other companies by always putting “People first”. Our Values • Achieve mutual & sustainable growth with our key customers and manufacturing partners. • Set the international benchmark for corporate responsibility in textile manufacturing. • Be an industry leader in innovation and implementing new technologies & processes. • Evolve our supply chain providing transparency and trust for our customers. • Continue to partner with our customers to shorten end to end production times. Manufacturing for the internationally renowned brands, Yeşim Textile is in strategic partnership with companies like Nike in apparel and MatheisSchlafgut in home textiles sectors. Yeşim also produces for Zara, Pull&Bear, Bershka, Hugo Boss, Calzedonia, Hurley, Tchibo, Converse, Tommy Hilfiger, Mavi, Uniqlo, Under Armour and Celio brands. 8 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 9 Our certificates and global memberships • SA8000 • OEKO-TEX STeP • ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management System • BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) • Oekotex Standard 100 • GOTS (Global Organic Textile Standard) manifacture from %100 organic cotton • OCS (Organic Content Standard) • BCI (Better Cotton Initiative) • Bluesign • ISO/IEC 27001:2013 (Safety) Exports Revenue 256 Million 260 Million USD USD Capacity of company production Home textile 100.000 units/day Knitting Dyeing Printing 50 tons/day 60 tons/day 100.000 meters/day Apparel 150.000 units/day 10 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 11 Besides being a pioneer in the Turkish textile sector, We were born equal, Yeşim Textile also guiding let’s we live equal the youth, which will become our future. Approximately 200 employee’s children in the 0-6 age group are cared for and educated free of charge in the kindergarten of Yeşim. Yeşim Textile employs 2127 individuals in house and provides employment opportunities to around 10.000 individuals in the aggregate including domestic and international subcontractor. We are working for ‘Equality at home Number and work’. of Female We continue our leading role for gender equality. Employees We have been chosen as one of the 17 pilot companies in Turkey aims to raise an awareness among its employees about the issue with its “Equality at Home 1007 and Work” project prepared by Sabancı University Administration Forum with the cooperation of Number of Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association and the United Nation Population Fund (UNFPA) with Male Employees the support of Sabancı Foundation for “Workplace Policies Development and Application Guide Related 1120 to Domestic Violence aganist women”. As Yeşim Textile, we consider women’s empowerment works as a part of our corporate culture. Yeşim Number of Textile has voluntarily signed in “Women’s Interns Empowerment Principles (WEPs) co-founded by UN Women and UN Global Compact in 2015. In 2016, we have been 50 shown as an example in the WEPs guide for the dissemination of these principles with our kindergarten which celebrated the 28th anniversary and our applications. 12 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 13 Yeşim Textile rewarded by various institutions and organizations according to its 2015 data and performance. Achievements Yeşim Textile took both the in 2016 textile and apparel first prize in the Stars of Export Award Ceremony organized by Uludag Textile and Apparel Exporters’ Association and Uludag Textile Exporters Association within Uludag Exporters’ Union on April. Yeşim Textile CEO Şenol Şankaya received the awards from Science, Industry and Technology Minister Fikri Işık. • Yeşim Textile was 13 in Bursa and it was 133rd in general gradation of “500 biggest Anatolian companies” survey of Ekonomist magazine. • In the research of “the 250 big companies of Bursa” was organized by BTSO according to the data of 2015, Yeşim Textile was declared the 6th biggest exporter in Bursa. In addition, Yeşim took part in the 10 companies that create most employment in Bursa. • Yeşim Textile was 491st in “Turkey’s 500 biggest survey of Capital magazine. • Yeşim Textile ranked 275th in “Turkey’s Largest Companies” list of Fortune magazine. • It held the 71st position in the general gradation and held the 11th position in the sectorial gradation of the “2015 exportation champions” list of Turkish Exporters Assembly and the list contains 1000 company of Turkey. • Yeşim Textile held the 298th position in the “500 Largest Enterprises” list of Istanbul Chamber of Commerce (ISO). • Yeşim Textile ranked 47th in “Woman Manager Friendly Companies in Turkey” list of Capital Magazine and ranked 59th in “Woman Workers Friendly Companies in Turkey” list of Capital Magazine. 14 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 15 Lean thinking aims to generate a production and management model which reduces processes that do not add value, as well as waste, by focusing on value in each process. Kaizen techniques which are continuous improvement with small steps play a very important role and significantly contribute to this process. The extension of management with targets, which is a major lean technique, throughout the workforce and the continuous monitoring of the performance indicators of each individual unit are key factors that contribute to Yeşim Textile’s progress towards is “True North” business results. Lean All our employees have fully adopted the concepts of communication, sharing, team work, team spirit and creating value as part of lean production, which is a human focused management system. This is the major source of Yeşim Textile’s success in lean production. Thinking Yeşim Textile has launched the Lean thinking project, which is one of the most effective production and management models today with respect to efficiency, quality, Human Resources, process improvement and profitability, Sustainability back in 2006, which is currently being The term “sustainability” comes forward in today’s business implemented fully in each and every environment, where companies need to be competitive, work stage of production and management. in a world with limited resources, reduce their environmental footprint, reduce costs and meet customer demand. The road to sustainability goes through being a company, which is lean, green and has empowered workforce. Lean Gains Kaizen works of Yeşim Textile, which is among its sine qua non for continuous improvement, also continued in 2016 with the enthusiasm for the amelioration of the work of employees and the quality of work environment. The number of kaizen in various departments such as apparel, knitting, production, etc. reached 2515 with 12,812 participants as of 2016. In addition, the units and support departments are included in the kaizen studies that have not made any kaizen until 2016. In 2016 using the weekly kaizen calendar, kaizen pioneers were selected by comparing the number of kaizens in each department. By this way, the participation to lean production works and the awareness for being a part of continuous improvement are strived to be increased. 16 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 17 7 Waste Days Continuous Improvement Department continued 7 Waste Days in 2016 that would improve work performing ways and add value to the work done via different applications. The main objective of the organization is to ensure that the employees learn to see the 7 basic wastages, focus on the wastages, see the opportunities and to perform improvement studies. Also the following activities were realized in the scope of “7 Waste Days”. Kaizen evaluation process: Kaizens were requested from all departments regarding the waste issue determined. Kaizen comitee graded the received kaizens and the highest graded kaizens were chosen. Then in 7 Waste Days events held periodically in the conference hall, the presenters to upper management and participants were awarded. Poster works: Poster works were done according to the waste subject determined each month and hang to visible locations within the company in the scope of activity that continued on April in 2016. Slogan competition: Slogans on the determined waste issue were requested from the employees. The slogans were gathered and then the slogans placed in top three were determined by kaizen committee and awarded. The first place slogan was placed on the relevant waste month poster. Stain (%) 20 15 81% Bring your certificate, take away your gift: In order to encourage the participation in kaizen, “Bring your certificate, Improvement take away your gift” activity was begun in 2015 and continued 10 in 2016. In this scope, the ones that would bring ten or more Lean briefing kaizen certificates shall be awarded by Continuous Improvement 5 Continuous Improvement Department, continued Department. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 to increase awareness on lean production of the 0 Lunch with upper management: Lunch events were carried out with the employees of Yeşim, with activities carried out at participation of the kaizen team members, awarded second place in 7 Waste production departments and offices in 2016. The Days and upper management. 34 employees came together in an event outside trainings started in January and continued with Repair (%) of work with upper management during 5 events organized during 2016. lean conversations. The applied trainings performed and lean conversation sessions realized provided 8 6 87% 5S Photograph Contest: The “5S Photograph Contest” was launched in November strengthening of the knowledge and establishing an Improvement 2016 to draw attention to the issue. Within the scope of the competition, employees awareness. The trainings ran for 99 hours in total 4 shared their photographs of the best 5S applications with the Continuous Improvement and 274 people have attended. 2 Department. The photographs were evaluated by the Kaizen Committee and were awarded during the 7 Waste Days held in December. Informing weeks 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The “informing week” series of which the first had been started in December 2012 by Continuous Improvement Department, finished on April in 2nd Quality (%) 2016 within the scope of 7 Waste Days event. In the event that one wastage issue chosen during 6 68% Improvement the month of January and April is examined by all 4 of Yeşim workers, informing was performed on the chosen subject. In the weeks through out the year 2 determined in this scope, it is aimed to raise the 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 awareness via sending informing mails on relevant 0 subjects. In 2016, it was shared informations about over production and stock wastages. Benchmarking Efficiency (%) 31% Improvement 7 Waste sessions Interviews were carried out with experts on kaizen or waste types at Yeşim Textile within the scope Continuous Improvement Department continued 100 of the 7 Waste Days event. Within this scope, Survivor Contestant Ertunga Gemuhluoğlu was a visits to compare lean applications in different 80 guest of Yeşim on 26 January with a session titled “Being physically and mentally Lean”, Yalın companies and sectors and to share information 60 Institute Consultant Can Yükselen on 10 March with a session titled “Lean Life Philosophy”, and with such companies. It was done benchmarking 40 Business Perfection Expert Elif Dörter on 27 April with a session titled “Internal discipline, or Work with Bursalı Towel and IKEA in 2016. 20 discipline?”. Experts shared their knowledge and experiences with Yeşim employees in all sessions. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 18 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 19 Social Compliance Policy Within the scope of SA 8000:2014, our company, which acts with the principle of First Human at every stage of production and management and has signed the Global Compact Agreement, undertakes to Prevent Child Labor Act in accordance with the procedures and principles of employing children and young workers and not employing workers under the age of 18 Prevent Forced and Involuntary Labor Not to employ forced or involuntary labor bound by contract Ensure Occupational Health and Safety Fully comply with the legal requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety and customer social compliance standards and projects, apply technical developments and innovations effectively, provide a healthy and safe work environment for all employees Respect Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Right Respect collective bargaining right of the workers and their right to be a member of authorized unions Prevent Discrimination Recruit our employees based on their compatibilities, not according to their discrimination of race, color, language, ethnic origin, political opinion, marital status, age, pregnancy, disability or gender; as well as applying wages, compensations, benefits and promotions in this direction Discipline / Prevent Abuse and Harassment Respect each employee's personality and honor, not to practice institutional punishment, not to allow verbal, physical, sexual or psychological harassment, mobbing, threat or enforcement Wishes and Complaints Establish the infrastructure necessary for each employee to communicate their wishes and complaints, assess and give feedback in a timely and effective manner to the employees to make them work in a happy environment and not to allow retaliation against employees due to their wishes and complaints Determination of Working Hours Comply with applicable laws and obligations in determination of the working hours, observe volunteerism in overtime and limit weekly overtime working hours in accordance with SA 8000:2014 and customer standards Wages and Payments Make normal and overtime payments settled by laws and collective bargaining agreements, and provide employees with social benefits specified in the collective bargaining agreement, meet minimum standard of living in our region Comply with applicable environmental legislation and customer standards, prevent environmental pollution based on environmental aspects and impact assessment and reduce pollution at source by effective waste management; moreover, protect natural resources and reduce carbon dioxide emission by effective energy management Compliance with Customs Legislation Comply with all applicable local and international legislations on customs; take measures to prevent illegal shipment of our products and other products, which are compatible with these legislations Take Product Safety Measures Ensure non-existence of any undocumented goods (drugs, explosives, illegal biological or chemical substances and smuggled goods), which will infringe the security, in our shipments Relations with Suppliers Take commitments on the compliance of the suppliers with respect to social compliance issues, evaluate them in terms of social compliance, monitor the assessment results with action plans and gradually upgrading the social compliance levels Management System Conduct activities of social compliance and social performance team under a roof of a management system in accordance with the Social applicable laws and regulations, social compliance standards of our customers, corporate code of conduct and SA 8000:2014 Management System Standard, which is applied voluntarily, carry out continuous improvement activities on this issue and review them at periodic intervals, and provide the budget needed for all these works. Şenol Şankaya Compliance CEO Effective Date: 02/08/2004 Revision No: 04 Revision Date: 15/01/2017 20 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 21 Social compliance is an integrated part of our business processes People First Yeşim Textile has a Social Compliance Department under its Directorship Social Compliance and Human Resources which ensures that all expectations regarding social compliance are notified and implemented. “Never forget that your This department conducts audits colleagues and employees both at the main plant and at the suppliers and reports the are human beings just like improvement areas to the yourself, and that it is your respective departments and duty to treat them well...’’ companies and supports. Also, encourages all suppliers with a view to fulfilling expectations This paternal advice rang in the ears regarding social compliance. In addition, of Yeşim Textile’s founder Şükrü it shows the methods achieving the needs Şankaya when he first started the for social compliance. There are activities to business, and remains at the heart need the demands of customers related with of the company’s “People First” social compliance and sustainability. In addition, this department accompanies the customers an vision, its corporate culture and all its auditors during social compliance audits carried policies. out by third party organizations and customers. 22 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 23 Main Strategies / Sub Strategies TRUE NORTH • Customer • Profitability • Speed • Innovation • Competence Yeşim Textile has BUSINESS allocated TRY RESULTS IN YESIM TRACKED BY TARGETS 910.000 from its Emergency • Profitability total Corporate Social situation • Revenue Responsibility budget evacuation drills • Loading Performance of TRY 1.314.385 to In 2016, Yeşim Textile continued doing • Total Lead Time social compliance, emergency situation evacuation drills, MAIN • Competency which is given great importance in the STRATEGIES • Stock occupational health company. The company readied its workforce to Finance, Quality, and safety in 2016. threats with drills made in June and December Loading Performance, 2016. The company has done a fire extinguishing Social Compliance, In 2016 a total of drill in June 2016 and increased awareness. Employee Satisfaction, S I E 35.000 Lead Time, EG hours Corporate Reputation AT We believe that training makes us TR S UB S of training were given better and see trainings as a part of to employees. our job. The Social Compliance – Environment Occupational Health and Safety Board which was founded in 1983, comprising 24 members, convenes regularly on a monthly basis and adopts resolutions and the minutes of these Worker’s health and In 2016, 2007 people meetings are recorded and communicated to the Technic, Personal Trainings for work safety trainings received a total of Development and Leadership relevant departments. Occupational health and safety efforts are based on trainings. 35.000 13.000 22.000 health and Yeşim Textile delivers training in house, to make sure that all its employees hours hours hours of trainings. safety participate in occupational health and safety practices through a system which gives priority to the health of its employees. Social compliance, SA 8000, ergonomics, individual hygiene, basic workplace safety, workplace In 2016 security in activities involving chemicals, emergency, Accident Total accident frequency rates Day Loss Accident frequency for the year 2016 Frequency in 2016 15.000 personal protective rates for the 3,30 1,67 equipment usage and hours first aid trainings’’ of trainings were were given as year 2016 given. 15.000 hours of training in 2016. 24 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 25 Yeşim will oversee itself Yeşim Textile maintained their “bronze” level, passing successfully the Sustainability (Social Compliance) audit organized in the month of August by its customer Nike. With this result, within the framework of the Nike FCO Program, the annual audits of Yeşim Textile will be carried out by the Yeşim Social Compliance team as of 2016. As a sustainable level has been ensured at the last audit carried out by Nike, the Nike teams will carry out inspections every 24 months. Tchibo ‘We Project’ continues The “We Project” project, started by Tchibo in 2014 for all their manufacturers within the scope of a social compliance understanding, continued to contribute to the business methods of the 10 manufacturers of the brand in Turkey in 2016. With the We Project, companies applications in the social compliance field are reviewed, and future efforts in this field are planned. The We Project instructor team visited Yeşim Textile 3 times in 2016, in March, August and December, and provided training to the We Project team at Yeşim regarding social compliance and occupational health and safety. Yeşim is one of the best in MSI Grading BCI yarn production is increasing Yeşim Textile, was evaluated under MSI grading Yeşim Textile is one of the partners of Nike for the production of products in the scope of system that Nike formed under sustainability Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) in the world. Yeşim Textile, in the scope of this partnership heading, with fabrics manufactured for 2014-2015 agreement, will supports nature friendly production and sustainability by purchasing yarn winter season and in this scope chosen as one of the made from Better Cotton (BCI) in will produce for Nike, Zara and Tommy Hilfiger. Yeşim Textile best manufacturer firms of Nike. will gradually increase yarn made from BCI cotton every year, and in 2016 the BCI yarn In the assessment, Yeşim Textile which resides in the used accounted for 40% of total yarn used in production. The company aims to increase “Premium supplier program” to which only specific this percentage to 45% in 2017 for all production. And the company, which commits to use manufacturers participate, RSL, Nike green chemistry, 100% BCI certificated cotton yarn by 2020, is working since 2012 in this area follows all Nike water, Nike energy and sustainable certificates developments closely. programs are evaluated all together. As the result A nonprofit council named “Better Cotton Initiative” (BCI) is a voluntary program enabling of the assessment Yeşim Textile raised the score as millions of farmers around the world to produce cotton in healthier conditions. Collaborating %18 and showed via the highest grades it achieved with cotton supplying chain and relevant stakeholders, the council serves for securing the in all these categories that it manufactures while sustainability of global cotton production environmentally, socially and economically and as protecting the environment. a sharing site where the results of the production quality are kept and shared with relevant customers and that is used for web-based international information and data storage. 26 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 27 Continuous monitoring through protecting the rights of employees, FLA (Fair Labor Organization) by Nike in 2015, fire safety training audits was commenced at Yeşim Textile in 2016. First Scheduled internal audits are conducted at the of all, individuals to be instructors were selected suppliers every year in accordance with the annual from each department, information regarding main plant and supplier audit plan. In case a need the training methodology was provided by Social arises for new suppliers, substantive scheduled or Compliance Manager Aydın Maydaer, who obtained unscheduled audits are conducted at new suppliers the Workplace Fire Safety Facilitator Train the on social compliance, environment, occupational Trainer Certificate following training. This was health and safety, in accordance with the social followed with individuals providing fire safety compliance questionnaire for suppliers and training in 15 minute informative presentations to social compliance manual for suppliers groups of 15 from their own departments. 750 hours upon request by the production of training was offered to 1728 individuals by 15 department. The audit plan is different trainers regarding Emergency Exit Routes prepared on an annual basis in and Electrical Fires during 2016. a way to ensure that the main Social plant, all contract manufacturers, printing and embroidery firms OHS training are audited once every 6 months. Compliance The Worker’s Health and Work Safety training, The audits are conducted by the Social beginning in March every Monday and Friday, Compliance Team of Yeşim, comprising was attended by a total of 1500 employees members who are competent and authorized throughout 2016. The training, offered by Yeşim on this issue. Textile Occupational Safety experts and physicians lasted a full day. While the average score of employees given the training in a 40 Social Compliance at question test prior to the Worker’s Health Yeşim and Work Safety training was 36, the average score following training BSCI (Business Social Compliance increased to 75 points. Initiative) Our Company was subjected The main objective of BSCI to the following social procurement rules is to compliance audits in 2015 6S Inspections ensure specific social Within the scope and environmental SA 8000 Intertek: of sustainable standards on May-December 2016 production at the basis of Yeşim Textile, internationally Indıtex Social Compliance: the Social accepted April 2016 Compliance conventions. By Nike SM&S: Department and signing the BSCI August 2016 Continuous Improvement procurement rules, Department have begun companies undertake Tommy Hilfiger PVH: to work closely together. In to accept the social and March 2016 this scope, in addition to the 5S Social compliance environmental standards audits where the lean is investigated specified in these rules, to activities are followed implement these rules and to take in all production and office areas, in 2015 6S, or an audit where occupational by continuous internal measures in their corporate policies for health and safety as well as environmental compliance with these rules. Yeşim Textile, and external audits awareness matters are investigated was added. signed BSCI Procurement standards in 2011. conducted both at Yeşim The 6S audits cover the inspection of 30 different departments within the company in 2016. Each Textile and suppliers department is audited by the Social Compliance and improvement is Fire safety training and Continuous Improvement departments every Following the Fire Safety Training 4 months, and at other periods the department measured. organized in collaboration with internal auditors carry out internal audits on a an international organization weekly or monthly basis. 28 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 29 Sustainable Yeşim Textile has been entitled to the ISO Step in 50001:2011 Energy Management System certificate with its Energy plant which supports sustainable production. Yeşim Textile, Yeşim Textile will pass an inspection every year which embraces for the document which has validity for three sustainability as years. In accordance with the standards of ISO a corporate culture, 50001, Yeşim has started to work to improve continues to fulfill its responsibilities towards the current energy management system in nature. Yeşim Textile, has been working for order to reduce energy consumption and many years in order to decrease energy reduce energy costs in the forthcoming period. consumption and ensure continuity of energy supply, has been entitled to the ISO 50001 Energy Management System certificate. It is What is ISO 50001: 2011? estimated that if the broad implementation of standard is possible including national and Nowadays, each passing day energy matters international sectors it could affect up to 60% greater, ISO 50001 Energy Management of world energy usage. System, which is based on the principle of efficient use of energy, is an energy The aim of ISO 50001 certificate is to management system that can be applied to all establish an energy management system small and big businesses in every sector and preventing energy waste by forming a can be carried out by itself as well as other framework for energy management of management systems. The ISO 50001 Energy industry plants especially which has surplus Management System is based on the principles energy production. This certificate is given to of establishing energy policies of companies, companies at the end of certain inspections. managing the energy consumption with the Yeşim Textile has been entitled to this aim of their targets and making improvements certificate with inspections carried out in by evaluating the performance of the energy November. With its ISO 50001 certificate management system. Yeşim Textile proved once again that it is sensitive to environment and acted with social responsibility consciousness. 30 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 31 Yeşim Textile Yeşim Textile is the first company in is a leader in The most the ready to wear sector in Turkey to receive the SA8000 certificate and sustainability Yeşim Textile was the first and prestigious social has declared at the highest level that the company will comply only Turkish company as it was awarded the certificate of OEKOTEX STEP (Sustainable Textile compliance with the “Social Responsibility Policy” corresponding to the Production) which is one of the certificate internationally accepted “SA8000 most important commitments Social Compliance Standards”. for sustainable production. Yeşim Textile What is the SA 8000? which has Yeşim Textile, Six subjects to which paying attention in the one of the SA 8000 Standard that is created by the Social which adopted it as audits that start analysis and evaluation most prestigious Accountability International New York (SAI), a principle to carry out of sustainable production conditions are certificates of the world determines the social responsibility against transparent production chemicals and their use, environmental on social compliance the employer, supplier, customer and society. in a way to be trusted by protection, environmental management, social subject, SA 8000 since 2005, SAI is a non profit organization established in public within the framework of responsibility, quality management, health and have completed successfully the audits which volunteering basis, with the aim for developing conditions of sustainable production, safety. Also, there are three scoring processes realized on May and December. Yeşim, being an auditable standard, application and also continues to be approved by for the certificate. 1st level: compliance with the first ready-made garment firm to receive observation. SA 8000 that is the first Social various independent institutions in this the entry level, 2nd level: good implementation SA 8000 in Turkey, have continued the social Management Standard which aims to create regard. In this subject, it is confirmed by with further optimisation potential, 3rd level: compliance studies as they were for the past development universally sustainable and a several independent institutions. Finally, exemplary implementation in the sense of a 11 years and achieved the right to get the certification and controls system in corporate Yeşim Textile was the first best practice example. Yeşim certificate for a fourth time in 2014. Yeşim level, audits the common parameters like child and only Turkish company Textile generally completed Textile, being one of 10 firms labor, working hours, work as it was awarded the at 3rd level all of the audits having this certificate in Turkey, health and safety. SA 8000 certificate of OEKO-TEX and certificate will be valid is maintaining the studies on of which the reasoning is STeP (Sustainable Textile for 3 years. this field at the same speed for based on ISO management Production) which is one years. In the scope of audits system, provides continuous of the most important What is OEKOperformed by the international improvement of the management systems commitments for TEX STeP? independent auditing firm in regard to corporate sustainable production in Intertek, the management 2015. The certificate was It is an independent performance. Certification system that is formed of maintained in 2016. certification system for process consists of 5 not forcing or mandatorily brands, retailers and steps. Through first of The purpose of the OEKOworking, taking required manufacturers which are all, an analysis about TEX STeP certificate is to precautions in work health in the textile chain and social performance and ensure continuous presence and safety, workers choosing aiming at having sustainable transactions, is made and of environmentally friendly their own representative, production conditions in a a performance scanning is production processes, no discrimination among transparent and sustainable performed. The second step, quality management, employees, preventing way to be trusted by public. training required to establish and safety and socially harassment and maltreatment, The dynamic development the management system, appropriate working compliance with the legal regulations in work of the OEKO-TEX STeP emphasize on qualification of the personnel conditions in production hours and payments criteria, was investigated. makes it possible to and guidance like tools being created. After the facilities operating in the textile sector. The Yeşim Textile, with this certificate, not only continuously increase not only environmental third step, pre audit preparations, correction certificate is only given to companies that are within its structure, also in supplier and performances and social responsibilities of phase that is in the forth level, and as last, with good models with integrated works in this area contractor firms, declares that it will ensure certified companies but also efficiency. The the 5th step, certification process, firms gain as a result of carrying out of audits. Thus, it the social compliance conditions. The SA 8000 certificate paves the way for them to reach rights to get the certificate. has proved once again that it is a worldwide certificate, being the first universal ethics the most competitive position in the market. supplier which is environmentally friendly and standard in the world, is currently held by 3 able to respond to the demands of production thousand 764 firms throughout the world. Only and social responsibility. 10 of these are in Turkey. 32 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 33 Yeşim proved its trustworthiness Yeşim Textile, implemented necessary actions in order again to protect the information of its customers and the business environment and prolonged TS ISO IEC 27001 Information Security Management System the certificate after audit in July 2016, which was received initially in 2013. In order to renew this document, which is valid for one year, the company needs to be audited regularly every year. What is ISO/IEC Unprotected systems invites the computer based penetration, sabotage 27001:2013? What does and viruses. Insecurity of information it provide? may cause the leakage, theft and loss of basic information of companies. ISO/IEC 27001:2013 document is Information security management based on the principle of attainability, system shows to your commercial integrality and confidentiality partners and customers that of information and of you take the information determination and security serious. ISO elimination of relevant 27001 enables you risks. The needs of to do business with customers, employees, many organizations commercial partners as it is a precondition, and society as a whole an expectation and a are also included in condition in contract. It the relevant parts. facilitates the exposition Receiving this of the security of your certificate is perceived IT system to the third parties as a strong indicator of without demonstrating your security the importance that procedures to your customers. an institution shows Minimizing the effects of a possible to the security of security violation, it helps the information. development of business continuity of your institution. It decreases the system weakness and the risk about the security, enables the operation of the relevant control mechanism. 34 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 35 Governance in Yeşim The basis of management implementations in Yeşim that started out with the objectives of perpetual development and enhancement of performance is the mentality of “people first” just like all its processes. Adapting the humanitarian and ethic management perception, Yeşim structured all its processes on these values. Yeşim Textile, which determines and taking into consideration development its future strategies within the opportunities, new structuring was carried scope of the corporate development out. In the new organizational structure, the program that it calls “Vision 2021”, has process from the customer placing the order launched many efforts within this scope. to its delivery progresses in line with the lean Yeşim Textile, receiving consultancy services management philosophy according to the from a consultancy company regarding value progress chart. strategy and performance management The basis of the sustainable management for Vision 2021 goals, has continued its is Social Responsibility policy, Environment structuring in the Human Resources field in Occupational Health and Security Policy, this process. Human Resources Management System Yeşim, attempting to establish a lean, Policy that is included in the management corporate, result oriented, efficient and system of Yeşim. SA 8000 certificate, Global sustainable organizational structure, has Compact Contract, ISO 50001, ISO 27001 analysed its business processes within this and OEKO-TEX STeP certificate are the most scope. Within the scope of this project, valuable certificates that Yeşim acquired as the size of all positions in the business the outcome of sustainable works included processes was determined, risks identified, into its work processes. 36 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 37 Visionary Trainings 5 different training programs were implemented in 2016 within the scope of the “Visionary Training” started in order to provide vision and inform Yeşim managers regarding managerial issues. The training carried out by month: April: Başak Yeğin Biçer – Discrimination and participation May: Mehmet Arık – Occupational safety July: Zeki Gürdal Karaoğlu – Nothing about everything ‘HR Listens to You’ meetings August: Güzin Abraş – To ask the right The “HR Listens to You” sessions that are questions started to listen to the wishes and complaints November: Burcu Üzümcüler – of the employees one on one and make The gender of language necessary notifications, continued in 2016 as short meetings. The Human Resources Occupational department meet with employees in groups or individually and listen to their wishes and safety complaints, keeping records of this information. will be included on the Yeşim Academy trainer specialist staff. The “Trainer Training” program, a certified Ministry of Education program, consists of 45 training Leadership program hours training. Participants earned the right Yeşim Textile Occupational safety to a “trainer” certificate by entering a Ministry specialists and Machine Maintenance The “Integrated Leadership Program” organized of Education exam at the end of training department managers received “Explosion by Yeşim Academy in cooperation with the provided by Trainer Zeki Gürdal Karaoğlu. Protection Document Preparation Training”. Altınoran Academy in order to contribute to the Internal trainers will begin to offer training in The first two days of the training, given on professional development of employees began 2017 at Yeşim in their own areas of expertise to 11-12-13 August by trainers from the Ministry in May. The training program, consisting of 6 employees. of Labour and Social Security Training Centre, separate programs, was completed with the passed with technical information, and the final organization of a total of 18 training sessions day passed with technical inspections in the in 3 separate groups. 45 managers received certificates at a ceremony organized at the end English course field. In this training, information was provided regarding the document to be prepared in order of training. The English course implemented by Yeşim to avoid the possibility of an explosion. Textile together with Ukla Academy commenced in October. Employees attending Internal trainers the English course were subject to a proficiency Project management Yeşim Textile launched the “Trainer Training” test prior to the course, and commenced Communication training in classes determined according to their Yeşim employees received Project Management program in September in order to train internal proficiency. Courses will continue within the training, where the methodology of the management trainers. Employees who voluntarily register for this program and receive their certificates company in 2017. preparation and implementation of a training for foremen professional project was offered. The training, A training program covering the titles carried out in July and lasting a total of 3 days, of communication, debate techniques and was held with the participation of a total of 16 conflict management, consisting of a total people from the Uludağ Exporters’ Union. of 10 hours and held over 3 days, was offered to all foreman working in the Textile department in November. Practical examples were exhibited at the end of the training, contributing to the development of communication skills. 38 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 39 Legal working conditions Our employees work under conditions which comply with national and international standards and receive wages according to these standards. The wages of all employees who have worked for Yeşim Textile in excess of 2 months are higher than the minimum wage. Working conditions in compliance with agreement since 1983, when the cooperation the law The provisions of the “Labor Law” with TEKSİF was started. In the scope of these numbered 4857 as ratified by the Council of laws the company does not employ forced Ministers and the provisions of the “Collective workers. All new recruits completing the Bargaining Agreement” which was entered probation period (1-3 months) depending on into by and between the employer and TEKSİF the nature of their position are considered as (The Union of Textile, Knitting and Garment permanent staff. Industry Workers of Turkey”) are applied by Yeşim Textile. The administrative staff (“white The wages are determined on the basis of the collar”) are subjected to the provisions of the minimum wages defined by the Ministry of Labor Law and the workers (“blue collar”) are Labor and Social Security. New recruits are subjected to the provisions of the Collective paid minimum wage for a period of 3 months Bargaining Agreement. following recruitment and then their wages are increased at the rates specified in the When compared to the Labor Code, the Collective Bargaining Agreement. The wages Collective Bargaining Agreement always of all employees who have worked for Yeşim provides more favorable conditions for the Textile in excess of 3 months are higher than workers. Yeşim Textile recruits its employees the minimum wage. in accordance with this collective bargaining 40 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 41 It is not required to be citizen of the The number of people Republic of Turkey to be employed at according to ages Yeşim Textile. 18-25 between years 25-30 between years 30-35 between years 35-40 between years 40-45 between years 45-50 between years 50-55 between years 55-60 between years Yeşim Textile complies with the requirement of employing disabled persons at the rate of 3% pursuant to the Labor Law. 617 1510 A wage policy supported by those employees who are on fast during Ramadan, social benefits Number of • Child allowance for parents, separately for employees are Employees of Yeşim Textile receive the each child, enrolled with a consideration for their efforts not only through trade union wages but also through social benefits. • Holiday allowance for those who take Number of annual leave, employees which • Payment of bonuses every month at the are not enrolled to a trade union Social assistances at Yeşim amount of 5 days wage, Textile • Religious holiday allowance for all employees, • Education grant for all schooled children of employees, • Heating allowance for all employees each • Marriage grant to employees who get month, Yeşim Textile allows married, • Gifts to all employees once a year from the its employees to • Maternity benefits at childbirth, products manufactured by the company, enroll with a trade • Free shuttle service for all employees, union however it is • Funeral grants those who lose their first degree relatives, • Free lunch to all employees every day, not compulsory. • Military service allowance to those who • Provision of 40 kg of food stuff to all leave their jobs for military service, employees quarterly, • Reimbursement of meal ticket fees to • Free of charge kindergarten service. 42 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 43 The kindergarten is staffed by a team of 22 qualified and licensed specialists comprising 1 manager, 2 shift responsibles, 11 teachers and 8 child minders to ensure the health, education and happiness of the children. Yeşim’s kindergarten is open 6 days a week between 07.00-23.00 hours. Not only mothers but also fathers are allowed to bring their children pursuant to the kindergarten regulations. The kindergarten which is provided free of Personal development of the charge to the employee’s children in the 0-6 year old age group is an ultramodern facility children are cared with a capacity of 1000 children, meeting all New courses were added to the curriculum the needs of the children. The kindergarten at of the kindergarten in 2013 with a view to Yeşim provides education to approximately contributing to the personal development of Employees, 200 children currently with the curriculum of the children with different topics. According to private nursery schools aiming at supporting the new educational programme chess, drama, personal and social development of the English and folk dances courses are provided to whose children children. By organizing various social activities the 5 and 6 year old age groups in 2016, too. each month in this aim, it is aimed for them to have fun and learn at the same time. Kindergarten Satisfaction are in the Yeşim kindergarten was an Survey The kindergarten satisfaction survey carried example kindergarten, Two textile company and two nongovernmental organization representatives out regularly to measure satisfaction with the kindergarten was carried out at the end of 2016. According to the results of the are at ease from Jordan visited Yeşim Textile and kindergarten on 15 survey, to which 140 parents responded, it was determined that January in order to see there is a high level of on site work carried satisfaction. 70 percent out to support the of parents responded employment of women to the kindergarten and to get information. satisfaction survey Yeşim Textile Social covering questions Yeşim Textile consider women’s empowerment Compliance and regarding kindergarten works as a part of its corporate culture. Yeşim Textile Human Resources management, teachers, has voluntarily signed in “Women’s Empowerment Director Fatoş staff and kindergarten Principles (WEPs) co-founded by UN Women and UN Global Hüseyinca and services. According to Yeşim Academy Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu responded given to the survey questions, a Compact in 2015. In 2016, it has been shown as an example accompanied the visitors who toured the general satisfaction level of 82 percent was in the WEPs guide for the dissemination of these principles with crèche and made observations. The group achieved. Access to kindergarten management, its kindergarten which celebrated the 28th anniversary and its received detailed information regarding women approach of teachers, cleanliness of applications. participating in work life and the efforts made kindergarten and social activities were found by the company in question. to have the highest level of satisfaction. 44 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 45 Yeşim; Green factory 46 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 47 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY Within the scope of Occupational Health and Safety, our company, which acts with the principle of First Human at every stage of production and management and has signed the Global Compact Agreement, undertakes to The Green Meet the responsibilities and obligations laid down in the National Occupational Health and Safety legislation, comply with the International Occupational Health and Safety standards and fulfill its requirements, Factory Conduct effective studies for creation and dissemination of Occupational Health and Safety culture at every level of our employees, Create healthy and safe working areas for all our employees within the boundaries of the enterprise with a vision of proactive and lean occupational safety, Make existing Occupational Health and Safety conditions better within the framework of continuous improvement and development, Protect all our employees against Emergencies and be always prepared for Emergencies, Measure Occupational Health and Safety performance systematically and provide all necessary support to achieve the specified objectives, Asses Occupational Health and Safety risks, prevent the identified risks by appropriate solution methods, Take all necessary measures to avoid that our employees have any work accidents and Yeşim Textile is committed to Occupational Diseases, preserve the environment at each Ensure that our employees receive regular trainings on all kinds of occupational health and every stage of production through and safety issues they may need, its environmentally friendly sustainable Implement the useful decisions taken in the Occupational Health and Safety Board and Occupational Health and Safety working groups of YEŞİM Tekstil and provide the needed activities, energy friendly projects and budget. recycling efforts. Şenol Şankaya CEO Environmental through performance metrics. These activities are guided via the Global awareness in Compact Agreement, SA 8000, BSCI production (Business Social Compliance Initiative), Oekotex Standard 100, ISO 50001, GOTS, Yeşim Textile has fulfilled its social OEKO-TEX STeP and OCS certificates, responsibilities since the first day of its Bluesign and BCI memberships. incorporation, aiming at carrying out its production activities in line with the Activities causing waste water, hazardous Effective date: 18/08/2016 Revision No: 01 green factory approach with a view to waste and solid waste generation and air acting as a role model for its customers, pollution are monitored through a separate contract manufacturers and suppliers Environmental Management System in and raising public awareness. Yeşim accordance with the regulations issued by has fully integrated the environmental the Ministry of Forestry and Environment projects which have been carried out for of the Republic of Turkey. The primary years in its business processes. These environmental objective of Yeşim is to activities which are carried out with a make sure that each and every project human focus are based on viable and adds value to our employees, stakeholders improvable systematics in accordance with and to the public in general to ensure international standards and monitored sustainability. 48 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 49 Our environment friendly projects Activities for power conservation in 2016 Year of Subject Project Title Implementation Our goal; Energy Changing lightning to LED in offices, exterior lighting and warehouses 2016 to reduce Changing sewing machine motors to actuators (systems that only operate Energy 2016 when started instead of systems that run throught the production periods) Installing actuators to water pums (%25 energy conservation is expected for consumption in Energy 2016 2017) Power conservation via a humid control system to be installed to funnels and Energy 2016 production over fabric (%25-50 energy conservation is expected for 2017) Waste Recycling 100% of nylon bag waste 2016 Implementing the innovation carried on the corino wet slitter machine in Water 2016 three other machines Energy Using energy efficient and high performance dyes 2016 Environmental activities of Activities for power conservation to be implemented in 2017 Yeşim are encouraged and Subject Project Title Year of Implementation monitored by the CEO Şenol A green step forward in Using the last two bath water again for dyeing for dark colours in Jet Dying Şankaya and the entire home textiles Water machinery 2017 senior management team. Energy Pilot solar energy project for office lighting 2017 Yeşim Textile enrolled to the carbon Performance improvement initiative System (CPI₂) with its home textiles Water Reusing wastewater as blanket wash water in printing machines 2017 department in 2014. CPI₂, is an initiative of Energy + Purchasing state of the art new machinery that are energy efficient and European retailers, which aim to become 2017 Water reduce water waste active pioneers to protect the climate. Continuing changing lightning to LED in offices, exterior lighting and This improvement system, which is also Energy 2017 warehouses supported by our customer Tchibo, aims to systematically reduce energy costs and carbon dioxide (CO₂) emissions. In this 2017 targets scope, Yeşim Textile put in its factory data • Recovering more than %10-15 of the water used in the factory, to the online system and received online • Increasing organic fabric production to 30% of the total fabric production, recommendations for improvement in 2016. • Increasing cotton yarn usage, which is produced according to the BCI standards, to 35% of the total The company decreased its carbon dioxide fabric production, emissions as %10 rate by implementing these recommendations. • Increasing recycled fabric production to 5% of the total fabric production. 50 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 51 Online tracking for Yeşim Yeşim Textile participated in the project that was started by Metropolitan Municipality; ‘online monitoring of wastewater’ application in 2013; and the company was again monitored online by Bursa Metropolitan Municipality in 2016, too. The Online monitoring system measures the parameters of water and delivers data in real-time to Bursa Water and Sewerage Administration and Provincial Directorate Yeşim has commissioned of Environment. The parameters include its in house treatment oxygen, conductivity of water, the pH plant in 2000, treating and discharging 6.000 tons of level water, temperature of water and its flow rate. Environmentally water to the nature every day. This plant is one of the first in friendly brands house examples in the textile sector with its capacity and its Water is life, we construction at international standards. appreciate its value Electricity Consumption (Kw) Naturel Gas Consumption (Kw) Electricity Consumption (Kw ) Natural Gas Consumption ( Kw ) 60.000.000 58.750.000 360.000.000 57.500.000 350.000.000 56.250.000 340.000.000 55.000.000 53.750.000 330.000.000 52.500.000 320.000.000 51.250.000 310.000.000 50.000.000 300.000.000 48.750.000 47.500.000 290.000.000 46.250.000 280.000.000 45.000.000 270.000.000 43.750.000 42.500.000 260.000.000 41.250.000 250.000.000 40.000.000 240.000.000 38.750.000 37.500.000 230.000.000 36.250.000 220.000.000 35.000.000 210.000.000 33.750.000 32.500.000 200.000.000 31.250.000 190.000.000 30.000.000 180.000.000 28.750.000 170.000.000 27.500.000 26.250.000 160.000.000 25.000.000 150.000.000 23.750.000 140.000.000 22.500.000 21.250.000 130.000.000 20.000.000 120.000.000 18.750.000 110.000.000 17.500.000 16.250.000 100.000.000 15.000.000 90.000.000 13.750.000 80.000.000 12.500.000 70.000.000 11.250.000 10.000.000 60.000.000 8.750.000 50.000.000 7.500.000 40.000.000 6.250.000 5.000.000 30.000.000 3.750.000 20.000.000 2.500.000 10.000.000 1.250.000 0 0 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 20002000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 Yeşim’s environmentally friendly brands represent Demineralized Water Consumption (m3) Coal Consumption (ton) the production made Demineralized Water Consumption ( m3 ) Coal Consumption ( ton ) in the ‘green factory’ 2.900.000 2.800.000 54.000 2.700.000 52.500 2.600.000 51.000 concept and the vision 2.500.000 49.500 2.400.000 48.000 2.300.000 46.500 2.200.000 45.000 of the company. The 2.100.000 43.500 2.000.000 42.000 1.900.000 40.500 1.800.000 brand Yeşim Organic was 1.700.000 39.000 1.600.000 37.500 1.500.000 36.000 1.400.000 34.500 1.300.000 1.200.000 1.100.000 33.000 31.500 30.000 patented in 2010 and the 1.000.000 brand Yeşim Recycle was 28.500 900.000 27.000 800.000 25.500 700.000 24.000 600.000 patented in 2011. 500.000 22.500 400.000 21.000 300.000 19.500 200.000 18.000 100.000 16.500 0 15.000 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 2004 2004 2005 2005 2006 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 No major defect was found during the environmental audits that were carried out in 2016 and no environmental accident was experience. 52 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 53 An environment friendly, comfortable, Yeşim Textile, which carries out and innovative fabric all its production with the motto “People First”, creates comfort with from Yeşim its innovative fabric, while supporting sustainability with a low carbon footprint. Yeşim Textile, which continuously renews itself based on customer demands and closely monitors the trends in the sector, produced an environment friendly fabric that does not require ironing and dries fast, that is comfortable with its thermal and hygroscopic features, and that does not keep unwanted odors thanks to its lasting antimicrobial characteristics in 2016. This product, which is marketed under the Comfort Life product segment because of its features that gives comfort to the customers of Yeşim, has an optimum level of hygroscopic and thermal features. This fabric is also positioned as an environment friendly product because of its low carbon footprint. This soft and loose fabric can be used as an inner layer in winter and as a t-shirt or dress in the summer and provides its users a light, comfortable, cool and breathable material. Yeşim, which carries out R&D activities related to nano technological fabric since the beginning of the year 2000, is one of the pioneers in Turkey that produces water repellant, non-creasing, breathable intelligent fabric that became an important trend in the textile sector recently. 54 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 55 Environmentally “Green IT” friendly production Yeşim Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavors to consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. • BLADE Servers which require lesser space, energy and air conditioning were started to be used in 2008 to initiate Green • Used vegetal oils collected at canteen and they are given without cost to licensed IT initiatives within the organization of Yeşim. The wastes are recycling companies. • DELL Vostro products with an environmental approach and collected by • Oily rags are collected separately from other wastes at maintenance departments LCD monitors were purchased after 2008 to support the seperating in and are sent to licensed firms. Green IT initiative. the source and • Contaminated barrels, chemical containers, IBC’s are sent to hazardous waste recycled or area (temporarily) from chemical and dye preparing areas. Contaminated barrels, • We have started to dispose of our electronic waste through chemical containers, IBC’s are transported to licensed recycling facilities by licensed certified recycling companies in 2009. disposed of. transporting companies. • In the scope of Green IT initiative, the Active Directory 2012 • Fluorescent lamps are collected in safe containers and separated from other Yeşim Textile aims at reducing the adverse impacts of the products it manufactures on the transition Project reduced power consumption of servers in environment, during their life cycle, to the extent possible. To this end Yeşim Textile 2014. engages in alternative efforts for environmentally friendly products and endeavors to • Activities to reconstruct the system room based on the ISO consume resources to a lesser extent, to recycle and reuse the products. 27001 standards has started in the year 2015. These activities • Used electrical equipment are collected in labeled containers at waste storage area. Applied to a licensed recycling company and the application has accepted. Waste target to reduce energy consumption and the space required. electrical equipment are collected at the hazardous waste storage area. When the waste quota gets full, electrical wastes are sent to the licensed recycling company. • Medical wastes are taken by the licensed vehicle of local waste company. 56 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 57 CSR Activities 58 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 59 Yeşim is aware of its social responsibilities Yeşim Textile meets social compliance requirements regarding production and also carries out social responsibility projects voluntarily. The social responsibility projects mainly address our employees, the environment, education and sports activities. 60 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 61 Clubs are supporting personal development Travel, Fun and Art Club • ‘Modern stress management’ conversation with Professional Coach and Psychological • Adalar trip (15 May 2016) Counselor Şebnem Koral (27 September 2016) • Bowling tournament (27 May 2016) • ‘Families and Family Systems’ conversation • Fujifilm Bursa Street Photography Workshop with Family and Family Systems Therapist (24 December 2016) Meral Yardımcı (5 September 2016) • ‘Conscious awareness’ conversation with Professional Coach and Psychological Fashion Club Counselor Ayça Bolten Ülkü • Fashion conversation with Önder Özkan (9 November 2016) (27 October 2016) • ‘Intrafamilial communication’ conversation • Fashion conversation with Ezra-Tuba Çetin with Family and Couple Counsellor Merve Kılıç (14 December 2016) (16 November 2016) • ‘You have goodness and you are the miracle’ conversation with Project Manager and Futurists Club Instructor Mehtap Akkoyunlu • Futurists Club Bulletins (6 bulletins were (7 December 2016) published in February, April, June, August, September, and December) Innovation and Technology Club • Bulletins of the Innovation and Technology Sports Club Club (6 bulletins were published in January, • Conversation with Ultra Marathon Runner March, May, July, September, Bakiye Duran (12 April 2016) and November) • Şükrü Şankaya Friendship Tournament (May 2016) Environment and Social Responsibility • Table tennis tournament (July 2016) Club • Conversation with Bursaspor Women • Book donation campaign to BUÇAD Volleyball Team (6 December 2016) (June 2016) • Food and apparel donation to Aleppo (December 2016) Positive Thinking Club • LÖSEV (Foundation for Children with • Conversation with Dr. Gülbeniz Akduman Leukemia) Wish Tree (Aralık 2016) entitled ‘Is happiness inside of us?’ Many social activity clubs were established to support (28 January 2016) • individual and social development of Yeşim Textile’s • ‘What to do in our daily lives for a strong Women and Children Club personnel and also to enliven their social lives. In these memory’ with Mega Memory Bursa • Women and Children Club carried out various Representative Özgür Cihan Berk organizations in 2016 with the Uludağ clubs the personnel of Yeşim participate voluntarily and (25 February 2016) Soroptimist Club in the scope of The World of organize various events. Butterfly Project. 62 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 63 Women friendly company Yeşim Textile continues to be a model company in Yeşim Textile constituted “Gender Equality its industry with its works Commitee” and published Gender Equality Policy about gender equality. in the scope of “Equality at home and work” project which started in 2016. 64 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 65 Our works about women’s empowerment WEPs principles lead to Yeşim Textile 1. Establish serve on the Senior Advisory Board of the “Business high-level World Against Domestic Violence Project” carried corporate out by the Sabancı University Corporate Governance leadership for gender Forum in 2016. The goal of the project is to create equality. a support mechanism in the workplace towards violence towards women within the family or • Yeşim Textile, besides it work individuals they are in close relationships with, and towards its female employees, takes to disseminate the best applications, tools and roles in the Board of Directors of Global methods to reduce domestic violence using the Compact Turkey of which it is signer since administrative and organizational abilities of the 2006 and in the Women’s Empowerement business world. Working Group. It shares its works performed Yeşim was chosen as the Equality (UN Women) and United Nations on gender equality in this platform with the other • In October 2016, with the coordination of Yeşim Global Compact (UNGC), and provides members on the working group, thus contributes to Textile, the Women’s Empowerment Bursa Platform best example valuable insight on supporting gender expansion of such works. Yeşim Textile which also was established with the cooperation of BUSIAD Fostering efforts for increasing equality in the private sector, work places, takes the task of communication leadership in the (Bursa Industry and Business Association) and market and in the society. There are seven Women’s Empowerment Working Group, has an BUIKAD (Bursa Business Women and Administrators employment of women and empowerment effective role in publicity of the work of Global Association) in Bursa with the aim of bringing work of women as an essential part of its principles in WEPs. Compact on this field in Turkey. carried out for gender equality and women’s corporate culture, Yeşim Textile joined the “Women’s Empowerment Principles”, a Women’s Empowerment • Yeşim Textile Representative Dilek Cesur, empowerment in the world and Turkey to Bursa. Bursa will act as a pilot province in this collaborative effort between UN Women Principles having an active role in the Women’s regard in 2017. and Global Compact Turkey, in 2015. Yeşim Empowerment Working Group 1. Establish high-level corporate operating under the coordination Textile maintained women empowerment • Shoots were carried out at leadership for gender equality. of TISK and under the Global works in the scope of these principles in Yeşim Textile along with 3 other 2016. 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work Compact Turkey Network, companies with exemplary was selected as co-chair applications in this regard for respect and support human rights In addition, Yeşim was shown as an of the group. a public service announcement and nondiscrimination. exemplary company contributing to the prepared within the scope of employment of women in the Women’s 3. Ensure the health, safety and well• It was shown as an the “More and better jobs for Empowerment Principles Application being of all women and men workers. exemplary company women: women’s empowerment contributing to the employment through decent work in Turkey” Guidelines prepared by the United 4. Promote education, training and of women in the Women’s Nations Gender Equality and Women’s implemented towards women with the professional development for women. Empowerment Principles Application financing of the Swedish International Empowerment Unit (UN WOMEN). Yeşim Guidelines prepared by the United Nations 5. Implement enterprise development, Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) by was shown as an exemplary company Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment the International Labour Organization (ILO) and in the guidelines particularly with the supply chain and marketing practices Unit (UN WOMEN) with a kindergarten which Turkish Employment Agency (ISKUR). kindergarten that has been operational for that empower women. has been in operation for 29 years in particular. 29 years and the systematic efforts made 6. Promote equality through community • Yeşim Textile, standing out with efforts made for many years for the empowerment of • In addition, Yeşim Textile signed the “Management is regarding the empowerment of women, is involved in initiatives and advocacy. women. the Right of Women” declaration by Turkish Quality the TUSIAD Gender Equality Working Group. 7. Measure and publicly report on Association (Kal-Der), has clearly committed to WEPs, which defines the principles for the progress to achieve gender equality. developing gender equality and has held the SA 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work empowerment of women is a joint initiative 8000 certificate supporting gender equality since respect and support human rights and by United Nations Entity for Gender 2005. nondiscrimination. • Yeşim, formally adopting the WEPs principles on • Yeşim Textile has the most prestigious certificate of 5 March 2015, in addition, has also continued to the world on social compliance, SA8000 certificate 66 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 67 since 2005. This document officially matter by Yeşim Textile is the ownership of the SA improvement of the women under the • Yeşim Textile has signed “Management is the Right certifies that there is no discrimination at 8000 certificate that is one the most prestigious umbrella of ‘Yeşim Academy’, “Women and of Women” declaration by Turkey Quality Association the workplace, and the production is made documents on social compliance. Yeşim Textile Children Club” and “The World of Butterfly” project. (Kal-Der) in 2009 and thus committed to improve respectful to human rights. The company earned which owns this certificate since 2005, is the first social gender equality. the right to receive the OEKO-TEX STeP certificate apparel firm in Turkey to receive the certificate and • Yeşim Textile has started the “The World of Butterfly” in 2015, and has certified the work carried out in in 11 years time by continuing social compliance project in November 2013 with the slogan “If a • Also it has the SA 8000 certificate that supports this regarding with another certification system. studies as same and renewed the certificate for woman changes, society changes…” that aims to gender equality since 2005. Also the “Codes of Conduct” of all the firms Yeşim the 4th time and become one of the rarest firms in create awareness in health, rights and personal manufactures for, demand no discrimination in Turkey and in the world to achive that. development, and family subjects for all female staff. • It has a seat in UN Global Compact Turkey board of the workplace and by supervises this by third The project is brought to life in coordination with directors and an efficient also leading role in Women’s party auditing firms, follows and controls this • Yeşim Textile gives salaries over minimal wage to Uludağ Soroptimist Club that is a nongovernmental Empowerment Working Group as a co-president. demand. Yeşim also supports and spreads this its employees due to the requirement of the SA organization working on changes the life and raise the understanding via the social compliance studies 8000 certificate it owns. Everyone that fulfill their status of the women and girls. • It signed WEP’s principles on 5 March 2015. conducted within its structure. third month in Yeşim receives a salary bigger than minimal wage. Also it contributes to their budgets • As it is a sustainable project of a union of a 7. Measure and publicly report on progress • In the business medium both women and men via food packages, shoes, towels it distributes once nongovernmental organization and a private sector to achieve gender equality. are working in same conditions, with same 3 months. company, in the scope of “The World of Butterfly” • Yeşim Textile, with the Global Compact Report opportunities and same rights. No one gets project that leads the sector, with the events it issues regularly since 2008, announces to the financial or spiritual privileges due to being a • There is a nursery that 0-6 years old kids of the realized under three headings “Women and Health”, public opinion its work on social compliance and man and also sometimes positive discrimination employees benefit in Yeşim Textile for 28 years and “Women and Rights”, ”Women and Family”, studies sustainability on the web site of United Nations is done for women to encourage their inclusion in it serves to 200 children. Moreover, The Women and are performed towards raising the awareness of the in both English and Turkish. Yeşim Textile, on its the business life. Also, Yeşim Textile employees are Children Club that is active for 15 years, continues women working and the young girls having their yearly report, gives place to equality understanding, working in conditions determined according to the its events for women uninterruptedly. internship in the company. There are various trainings nondiscrimination and the activities only for women. national and international standards regardless from legal rights of the women to proper consumption of the gender and receive salaries also in same • Besides this club, it conducts various trainings of the food in the scope of the project. • Following the receipt of a 5 thousand Euro grand conditions. Yeşim Textile built a frame work of and social activities for the personal development from the Soroptimist International Action Fund in articles for its principles on the matter via the social and motivation of the employees, thus supporting • Within the scope of the “Equality at home and work” 2015 by the World of Butterfly, in order to fulfil the responsibility policy it established. personal welfare and happiness. project “Gender Equality” trainings were given to 700 commitment a sharing session was held in 2016 where employees at Yeşim Textile in 2016. all work carried out was described. At the meeting • Yeşim Textile was ranked 47 in “Women Manager • Yeşim Textile started a joint health campaing held on 13 May, all work carried out within the scope Friendly Companies” and was ranked 59 in “Women together with Yıldırım Public Health Center and 5. Implement enterprise development, of the project was shared with the public. Employee Friendly Companies” research of Capital KETEM (Cancer Early Diagnosis-Scanning and supply chain and marketing practices magazine. Education Center), and provided that the Yeşim that empower women. • In February, a promotional film was Textile employees have free of charge breast, • Yeşim Textile also pledged to apply the prepared for the World of Butterfly project • Yeşim Textile launches a new project called cervical, and colon cancer tests in 2015. Project was SA8000 criteria in the contractor and a video was prepared including the “Equality at home and work” project in order to maintained during 2016. In the scope of the project, firms it works with. In this regard, opinions of women benefitting from provide gender equality at work place and develop cervical cancer scanning is done to 30-65 years old it also performs required the project. The promotional film a work culture which intolerates violence against women, breast cancer scanning to 40-69 years old arrangements for application and video including opinions women. Yeşim Textile which has been chosen as women and colon cancer scanning to 50-70 years of gender equality criteria in was shared with the public on one of the 17 pilot companies in Turkey aims to old men and women. In 2016 total of 360 women the firms it produces for. It Yeşim Textile’s website, Youtube raise an awareness among its employees about the benefited from this opportunity. performs social compliance and social media in Turkish and issue with its “Equality at Home and Work” project supervision in the firms laying English. prepared by Sabancı University Administration • The Breast Cancer awareness panel led by General within the supply chain, and Forum with the cooperation of Turkish Surgery and Surgical Oncology Specialist Dr. Erol audits nondiscrimination against • Work carried out within the Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association and Aksaz from the Bursa Rotary Club was exhibited women employees, working conditions, scope of the Equality at Home and Work the United Nation Population Fund (UNFPA) with at Yeşim during the month of December. Women wages, social rights, working hours and project and the results of the gender equality the support of Sabancı Foundation for “Workplace watching the information video on the “Touch conditions of pregnant women in these awareness survey was shared with the public by Policies Development and Application Guide Once” increased their awareness regarding breast supervisions. company officials on 1 December on on Olay TV. Related to Domestic Violence aganist women”. cancer by searching out for masses on a model breast following the panel. The panel, located in 6. Promote equality through community • Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director 3. Ensure the health, safety and the Women’s Locker Room for 10 days, contains initiatives and advocacy. Dilek Cesur, undertaking the coordination of the prosperity of all women and men information on the symptoms of breast cancer, and Women’s Empowerment Bursa Platform Project, workers. information on risks and detection. • All the blue collar workers in Yeşim Textile can be shared the work carried out by Yeşim Textile regarding members of unions and can benefit from syndicate • Yeşim Textile is a firm that works to apply the work the matter and their results with the public through 4. Promote education, training and rights regardless of gender. the officials from participant companies and members health and safety rules at top level, rallies all kinds professional development for women. of the press at the platform opening meeting. of financial and spiritual opportunities for the • Yeşim Textile is the first firm in the apparel sector to health and safety of its employees. It has taken • As Yeşim Textile determines the corporate sign the Global Compact in 2006. With this contract high grades in all the audits performed on it by both trainings it conducts according to the personal signed, we share our work on organization, equality public institutions and private auditing firms that needs without a discrimination for women or and advocacy in a wide network. the customers directed to and exhibited exemplary men, it also performs a lot of trainings and work. The guarantee of the works done on this activities towards personel and professional 68 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 69 Introduction movie of The World of Butterfly: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FM9onAd95eQ The opinions of women benefitting from the project: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=37ba8SOKlko volunteer consultancy. The training is carried out at If a woman the TEGV’s building at Hürriyet following mothers dropping their children off at events. Thus mothers changes, are able to make use of the time they wait for their children with training, and gain an important opportunity for their personal development. 20 society Events are performed under three main headings as “Women and Health”, “Women and Law”, and different speakers offered a total of 60 hours training within the scope of the program over 6 months. 102 women participated in this training free changes... “Women and Family/Personal Development”, studies towards raising the awareness of the women of charge. Following the training, a ceremony was organized where certificates were presented to all Women and Children Club has are conducted within the scope of The World of participants on June 4 at the TEGV Bursa Learning Butterfly that has “If a woman changes, society carried out a number of activities changes” slogan. Training courses are organized Unit. The program will continue in 2017. in 2016 in the scope of The World in different subjects like women’s legal rights or proper use of foods. Trainings are also reinforced of Butterfly Project, which was voluntary consultancy of club members to the initiated together with the women of Yeşim. There is a room dedicated to women only for the purpose of carrying out the Uludağ Soroptimist Club in 2013. activities of the World of Butterfly at Yeşim Textile. Women participate in interviews and chats that will receive individual counseling services from the World of the Butterfly is 3 years old The sharing meeting Uludag Soroptimist Club members who are experts in different issues in this room and improve their The World of the Butterfly project realized by The sharing meeting was organized to fulfill personal development. Yeşim Textile Women and Children Club and commitments after received funding of five Uludağ Soroptimist Club together, completed thousand euro which received from European its third year in November. In the scope of the International Soroptimist Action Fund in 2015. project till end of 2016; 83 speakers gave total of The studies from 2013 to now was told at the Introduction movie 153 hours of education. 4099 women attended meeting. Women who benefit from the project, In February, a promotional film was prepared for the to these trainings free of charge. 126 hours of the business community and representatives of World of Butterfly project and a video was prepared volunteer consultancy was given to the female non-governmental organizations also attended including the opinions of women benefitting employees of Yeşim by experts of their respective to the meeting which was realized at Podyum from the project. The promotional film and video fields. 611 women benefited from this free of Park on 13 May. Program started with the including opinions was shared with the public on charge consultancy service. 30 women from exhibition of posters of The World of Butterfly Yeşim Textile’s website, Youtube and social media Yeşim that have dietician support for a year lost project, then the introduction film was shown and in Turkish and English in order to publicize the 170 kg in total. Since the beginning of the project continued with views of women who benefit from project and raise awareness regarding women’s an e-bulletin is issued for 17 times in English and the project and project stakeholders. Program empowerment. Turkish that covers the work performed. ended with cocktail after ballet show of Neriman Ballet School. Program aimed at TEGV mothers continues In the second phase of the “World of Butterfly” project implemented in 2015, the Educational Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV) became involved. In the second phase of the World of Butterfly project, while training and consultancy for women at Yeşim continued, a 6 month new certification program titled “Towards future with my child” began aimed at mothers from TEGV. Within the scope of the certification program, career women members of the Uludağ Soroptimist Club and managers from Yeşim, provide training on many subjects under the titles of health, law, family and personal development to mothers whose children are being educated at the TEGV Bursa Learning Unit. This training is supported with one on one 70 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 71 Activities within the scope of “Towards future with my child” project: Date Subject Speaker 16.January.2016 Conscious mother leader youth Özlem Şenkoyuncu 05.March.2016 Discover your child’s talents Ayça Bolten Ülkü 12.March.2016 What is violence? Tülin Kavasoğlu 19.March.2016 Trip to your inside Gülay Aksaz 26.March.2016 Education and social life of children in computer age Özgür Cihan Berk 02.April.2016 I love, listen and understand my child Özlem Şenkoyuncu 05.April.2016 TEGV anneleri ile tiyatro etkinliği Uludağ Soroptimist Kulübü üyeleri 09.April.2016 Skin health and protection ways Mukaddes Özcan 16.April.2016 Importance of body language for communication Meral Aydın Yıldırım 30.April.2016 What are the dynamics of intra-family communication? İlay Yılmazlar 07.May.2016 First aid Merih Eskicioğlu 14.May.2016 All about eye health Zülfiye Günöven 21.May.2016 Legal aspects of child neglect and abuse Pelin YılmazGamze Pamuk 28.May.2016 Realizing yourself Füsun Aykut 05.November.2016 Towards future with my child new season meeting Dilek Cesur 12.November.2016 Family planning Muammer Durak 19.November.2016 Modern stress management Şebnem Koral 26.November.2016 We are equal Neslihan Aktosun 03.December.2016 Values Ayça Bolten Ülkü 10. December.2016 Equal family, equal society Meral Aydın Yıldırım Effective, successful communication in parent, teacher, student 17.December.2016 Nesrin Turşucular triangle 24.December.2016 Family sequencing and system therapies Meral Yardımcı Trainings given in 2016 under the frame of The World of Butterfly project: Date Subject Speaker 13.January.2016 Social media Selcan Aydın 20.January.2016 28.January.2016 Coffee time meeting Is happiness inside of us? Nalan Kızılaltun Gülbeniz Akduman 51% of The action covers 18.February.2016 Coffee time meeting Aytun Şenten 25.February.2016 08.March.2016 What can be done in everyday life for strong memory Women’s Day Özgür Cihan Berk Buket Uzuner If a woman changes, 4099 15.March.2016 Coffee time meeting Esra Şankaya 06.April.2016 Touch once Cancer week Erol Aksaz society 12.April.2016 19.April.2016 “Courage is alone” Coffee time meeting Bakiye Duran Çiğdem Ersöz Yılmaz changes... Yeşim Textile’s employees women are women 26.April.2016 Time management İlay Yılmazlar A total of Proje kapsamında 17.May.2016 Creating a personal brand Haluk Kayaaslan 02.June.2016 Coffee time meeting Çiğdem Titiz 20.September.2016 Coffee time meeting Özlem Şenkoyuncu 27.September.2016 05.October.2016 Modern stress management Family sequencing and system therapies Effective, successful communication in parent, teacher, Şebnem Koral Meral Yardımcı 126 hours 83 experts 153 hours 18.October.2016 Nesrin Turşucular 611 women received student triangle free of charge met with female of training in three year. advisory services. employees of Yeşim 25.October.2016 Coffee time meeting Tuğba Kocavelioğlu in the scope of the action 27.October.2016 Fashion Önder Özkan Since the start of the 09.November.2016 Conscious awareness Ayça Bolten Ülkü project until the end of 2016 16.November.2016 Family sequencing and system therapies Merve Kılıç 26.November.2016 29.November.2016 Combating Violence Against Women and Solidarity Attention to how you communicate Özce Öztürk Boğa Gamze Demirbaş Çelebi 170 kg. 17 We continue non-stop 07.December.2016 Goodness to you, miracle is you Mehtap Akkoyunlu 14.December.2016 Digital fashion Ezra – Tuba Çetin a Turkish and English In the project in the scope of the e-bulleting was 21.December.2016 Coffee time meeting Seyhan Çiloğlu published eleven times. Healthy Living campaign 30 women, 23.December.2016 “Call Abundance and Bounty’’ Aysun Güven who received free of charge consulting services from a dietitian lost 72 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 73 Equality at home and work and representatives of union within the company. It is aimed to constitute a system which will direct Yeşim Textile, which is one of the companies that the units to give psychologic and legal support to employes a great number of women under one roof employees who are exposed to violence at home in Turkey, launches a new project called “Equality or work place in the studies of this commitee’s at home and work” project in order to provide leadership. Within all these studies Yeşim Textile gender equality at work place and develop a work will cooperate with Mor Salkım Women’s Solidarity culture which intolerates violence against women. Association especially for women who are exposed to Yeşim Textile which has been chosen as one of the violence. 17 pilot companies in Turkey aims to raise an awareness among its employees about Yeşim Textile organized an event on 4th October to the issue with its “Equality at home and sign a protocol about this cooperation and work” project prepared by Sabancı inaugurate “Equality at home and University Administration Forum work” project. Selim Şankaya with the cooperation of Turkish the chairman of Gender Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Equality Comitee, the Association and the United Nation members of comitee as well Population Fund (UNFPA) as the executive managers with the support of Sabancı and employees and the Foundation for “Workplace members of Mor Salkım Policies Development Women’s Solidarity Association and Application Guide attended the opening meeting Related to Domestic of the project. Starting with the Violence aganist speeches of the representatives of Current situation survey women”. Yeşim Textile and Mor Salkım Women’s Solidarity Association, the programme A perception survey was carried out within the scope efforts being carried out at the company. 54 percent Yeşim Academy continued with the signature ceremony in of the Equality at Home and Work project to measure of the respondents participating in the 1100 emploManager Özlem the company’s showrooms and the coctail the perception of employees at Yeşim Textile to violence yee survey were women, while 26.8 percent were men. Şenkoyuncu party. prior to gender equality awareness studies and training. 19.2 percent of respondents did not specify a gender. and Yeşim In accordance with the results of this survey, determiIt was determined that 53.4 percent of survey responTextile Corporate The Mor Salkım Solidarity Association, a nations were made on what subjects should be focused dents were between the ages of 35-44 and that 88.4 Communications Specialist stakeholder of Yeşim Textile, is a solidarity on during training and awareness work carried out percent indicated a marital status of married. The level Meral Aydın Yıldırım attended with institute whose headquarters are in Bursa, within the company and training began accordingly. of education of respondents was determined to be 42.8 others from 17 companies in Turkey the established by women’s rights activists from Bursa Following the completion of all training and awareness percent primary level, 41.9 percent High School/Vocatiseminars given by Sabancı University Institutional in 2012, carrying out work focused on human rights work, the survey will be repeated and the latest situonal School graduate, 15.3 percent university graduate, Administrative Forum about “the concept of gender in the national and international arena. Among the ation will be determined. In this context, the following 75.8 percent blue collar and 24.2 percent white collar. equality”, “types of violence”, “legal framework” aims of the activities of the institution are removing survey results convey the situation prior to any and “training skills”. Representatives assigned as the economical and social barriers in front of women Gender Equality Trainer and gave gender equality due to their gender, and the centuries of oppression trainings to 700 employees in 2016 within the scope against women, carrying out all kinds of work to of the project. Besides to give directions to these ensure the equality of men and women, and removing studies, also a commitee was constituted called as discrimination based on “gender inequality” with “Gender Equality Commitee” in which managers national and international projects. 74 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 75 Equality at Home and Work survey results 22 percent of respondents indicated they had been victims of abuse at least once in their lives. 25 percent of respondents indicated they had been the victim of physical abuse at the hand of their spouse or partner. 27 percent of respondents indicated they had been the victim of psychological abuse. 82 percent of those subject to violence do not share this information with anyone. Of those subject to violence, 89 percent state that should they share this information, they would share with a family member or with their friends. It is noteworthy that of respondents stating that they have never been subject to violence have stated that they have been subject to violence in questions expressing sexual and psychological violence. One of the most important causes of the victim being unable to say no to violence has been stated as “hoping that the violence will not be repeated” and “thinking of the children if married”. While 70 percent of respondents stated law enforcement as where the victim should go, application to the human resources department of the company employing them remained at 5 percent. 50 percent of respondents stated that in the event of being a victim, they would not share this situation with their manager at work. Respondents stated that they have observed an impact on workplace performance among colleagues subject to violence, and that depression, distraction and decline is observed. 87 percent of respondents stated that the household had a common account and that expenditure was carried out in that manner. The line of help on domesticviolence: +90 549 656 96 96 • Social service: 183 Police: 155 • Gendarmerie: 156 Source: bianet.org 76 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 77 Parent School No to violence Principles), Business World Spokesperson SUTEKS, of TÜSİAD, the United Nations Population Fund member companies, NGOs and municipality and International Labour Organization (ILO). At the Yeşim Textile implemented a gender equality program Within the scope of the “Equality at Home and representatives, group chairs were selected. Unlike meeting, companies applying the guide and creating a at Yeşim Kindergarten, which can be used free of Work” project, at an event held at Yeşim Textile with policy aimed at combating domestic violence, shared other working groups within Global Compact Turkey charge only by employees. The program started within the cooperation of Yeşim Academy Manager Özlem the work they had carried out during the development within the scope of Gender Equality work, one male the scope of Equality at Home and Work project was Şenkoyuncu, BU1 Director Gülsüm Ekmekçi and Yeşim process of the company policies under the moderation and one female candidate were proposed to the called Parent School. The Parent School, started in Textile Corporate Communications department, on of United Nations Business World Spokesperson group for chair in line with the recommendation of November, was prepared for teachers, parents and 25 November “Day for the Elimination of Violence Nur Ger. Representing Yeşim Textile, Yeşim Academy children. Within this scope, teachers and parents Against Women”, brochures were distributed to the Global Compact Turkey Executive Board. At the meeting, a vote was held for Yeşim Textile Corporate Manager Özlem Şenkoyuncu, who has received will receive training each month on a different employees including information regarding gender Gender Equality Trainer training, took part in the subject and will carry out experience sharing on child equality, the types of violence and where to apply to Communications Director Dilek Cesur, on the Global panel. development. Mor Salkım Institute Founder and in the event of being a victim of violence. The Yeşim Compact Turkey Executive Committee, and Eczacıbaşı Trainer Burcu Üzümcüler and Institute Psychologist team also participated in the “Paint the world orange” Holding Sustainability and Innovation Coordinator The Business Against Domestic Violence Project, Damla Dedeoğlu offer the training carried out at campaign implemented by the United Nations within Ata Selçuk to be Co Chairman. The proposal was was developed by Sabancı University Corporate Yeşim Crèche. Parents completing the training the scope of the Elimination of Violence Against accepted unanimously. Cesur and Selçuk will hold the Governance Forum in 2013 to create a support program have given a “Parent School” diploma at the Women Days between 25 November and 10 December post together. mechanism in the workplace towards violence towards end of the program. The first session was carried out by wearing orange scarves on their necks all day as women within the family or individuals they are in on 18 November under the title “Communicating with a symbol of support for the campaign against all close relationships with, and to disseminate the best Children”, while the second session was carried out kinds of discrimination and violence. In addition, at Leading companies meet in Istanbul applications, tools and methods to reduce domestic on 5 December under the title of “Gender Equality”. Yeşim Textile, in order to support the “Paint the world violence using the administrative and organizational Yeşim Textile, selected as one of 17 pilot companies abilities of the business world. 2016 was determined Within the program attended by 25 parents, training orange” campaign launched by the United Nations in Turkey by the Sabancı University Corporate as a Pilot application year within the scope of the titled “Gender Equality and Gender Neutral games”, to raise awareness of violence against women all Governance Forum for the “Development and project. The pilot application, including Yeşim Textile, “potty training, gender education, safe touch” and over the world, volunteering employees framed Implementation of Workplace Policies Regarding aims to closely observe the first applications and “communicating through games” have been offered their messages in orange between 25 November-10 Domestic Violence Against Women Guide” prepared improve the guide with results and experiences. to parents and teachers in 2017. The training designed December, sharing and raising awareness of the with the cooperation of TUSIAD and the United The pilot application also covers the support and specifically for children have been offered under the matter through email with all employees and to the Nations Population Fund and the Sabancı Foundation, monitoring of volunteer companies committing to titles of “Safe Touch”, and “anger management and public over social media. attended the “Development and Implementation develop a company policy regarding domestic violence conflict”. of Workplace Policies Regarding Domestic Violence as “pilot companies” during the entire process. The Against Women Guide Promotional Meeting”. The Yesim Textile sharing chairmanship meeting, held on 13 December at Sabancı Center, was project will continue to be expanded in Bursa under the leadership of Yeşim Textile during the pilot process Yeşim Textile, having signed the United Nations Global attended by other pilot company representatives in in 2017. Compact Principles in 2006, has held membership of addition to Yeşim Textile, as well as representatives Global Compact Turkey Executive Board since 2014. Yeşim Textile Representative Dilek Cesur, having an active role in the Women’s Empowerment Working Group operating under the coordination of TISK and under the Global Compact Turkey Network, was selected as co-chair of the group. The final meeting of 2016 of the Women’s Empowerment Working Group was held on 30 November 2016 at the United Nations Turkey HQ. At the meeting attended by UN ILO, UN Population Fund, UN Women’s Empowerment Unit, TÜSİAD, WEPs (UN Women’s Empowerment 78 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 79 Yeşim Textile which gives importance to the personal development of its interns as its employees, prepares youth to the future. A trip to the future • 17 February/Nergis Melek Akıncı/Humans in the future In the scope of the “Intern Development Programme” provided to university students during July – • 30 March/Emre Demiralay/Thinking like Steve Jobs September 2016, Yeşim Textile provided many seminars • 20 April/Meral Aydın Yıldırım/Body language for and conversations related to professional life in order communication to increase interns’ both professional knowledge and also their experiences related to the professional life. In • 25 May/Seda Tezcan Altındere/Social media this scope during the Intern Development Programme management in summer 8 different speakers have given trainings to • 26 October/Meral Aydın Yıldırım/Gender equality interns during 8 weeks. Trainings provided to university interns: • 17 November/Salim Korkmaz/Be good, find good • 20 July/Özlem Şenkoyuncu/Become the leader of your life Erasmus intern • 27 July/Nergis Melek Akıncı/Futurism and the A student from Holland has completed internship in future the Yeşim Textile Sales and Marketing Department in Yeşim • 3 August/Neslin Gazioğlu Özkaya/Lean production and management model the scope of the Erasmus student programme, which is supported by Yeşim Textile. During the internship prepares period of 3 months between April and June the intern • 10 August/Meral Aydın Yıldırım/The importance of had the opportunity to get to know better the business body language for communication processes of Yeşim Textile. youth to • • 17 August/Gülsüm Birinci/I manage my money 24 August/Özlem Şenkoyuncu and Meral Aydın University-Yeşim Cooperation future Yıldırım/Gender equality In the scope of the internship protocol signed with the • 31 August/Salih Kallenci/Workplace safety culture Uludağ University Textile Engineering Department, in the professional life two university students did their internships at Yeşim Yeşim Textile also continues to provide a development Textile throughout the year in 2016. The senior year programme for the high school interns at Yeşim. This textile engineer candidates, with the works they programme aims to contribute to both the personal performed in Yeşim’s Weaving, R&D, and Paint Shop development and also the professional development departments, prepared their thesis and graduated. of students throughout their internship period. Every At the end of the internship period, the students month one personal development seminar is organized will present the assignments they prepared to their for high school interns during their internship. Trainings managers and thus will complete their internship. completed in 2016: Under the same protocol, 6 more textile engineering student had their internships in Yeşim last year. 80 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 81 The name of Şükrü Şankaya lives The mission of Şükrü Şankaya, in education one of the founders of Yeşim Textile, who has given his best efforts to support education, is pursued by the company. Yeşim Textile considers supporting education and sport as a part of its social responsibility. Şükrü Şankaya Primary School Şükrü Şankaya Primary School which was commissioned in 1951 as the only school in the region, was renewed, repaired and modified in 1990 by the late Şükrü Şankaya, the founder of our company upon the suggestion by Bursa Governor’s office. New sections were added to the school in the academic year 2006-2007. All the needs of the school are met by Yeşim Textile since then. About 1500 children received education in this school. Şükrü Şankaya Anatolian High School This school which was erected and donated to Yeşim Sport Club the Ministry of National Education in 1996 by Yeşimspor Club was founded in 2003 with a view to Şükrü Şankaya, is one of the most successful high providing wider possibilities for sporting activities schools in Bursa. Yeşim has later added a computer to the youth of Bursa and training basketball laboratory to the school. The company contributes players for the team. Providing hundreds of children to the needs of the school in every academic year. with the opportunity to engage in sports activities, the club has enjoyed considerable success both at local and national level. Şükrü Şankaya Football School Şükrü Şankaya Football School, which was formed by the Association of Professional Footballers of Bursaspor in 2009, was financially and morally supported; thus hundreds of children are provided opportunities to do sport in professional conditions. In this context, 30 children got benefit from Şükrü Şankaya Football Summer School free of charge due to the private contingent allocated to the children of Yeşim in 2016 summer period. 82 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 83 Yeşim’s carried support to out at Gold BUÇAD Majesty Hotel on December Based on a campaign 24th a team of started by the Environment volunteers from Yeşim and Social Responsibility Club Textile participated, of Yeşim, a donation for books which were selected via a for students of mobile teaching in We support Orhaneli and Keles Villages was made via the Association of Supporting Variety drought. All the presents were given to children on the new year party and also sent to the houses education with of Implementations (BUÇAD). The project aims to present books to children, which and hospital rooms of children with leukaemia. Turkish Education are sorted according to different age groups, to support them in their individual Foundations development. Helping hand to Aleppo Yeşim Textile continued its social Wish Tree Project responsibility activities also in 2016. Yeşim has prepared 20 thousand men’s, In the scope of the “Wish Tree” project women’s and children’s apparel and also every year various presents, which are 1 ton foodstuff via donations thanks to purchased by Yeşim’s employees, are the campaign started by the volunteers donated to LÖSEV (the foundation for of Yeşim Textile and donated them to children with leukaemia) to be given to the Humanitarian Aid Foundation to be children with leukaemia. During the event transferred to the war wearies in Aleppo. Yeşim Textile supports the education were donated in the scope of TEV of successful young people whose Happy Day Flowers campaign and financial situation is not sufficent by other donation activities. the “TEV Şükrü Şankaya Education Scholarship Fund” established in memory of Şükrü Şankaya. TEV Şükrü Şankaya scholarship fund grows every TRY 264.385 of the day total TRY 1.314,385 The cooperation between Yeşim Corporate Social and TEV in the field of social Responsibility budget of responsibility continues steadily since 2006. In 2016 Yeşim Textile was allocated a total of TRY 33.356 to social responsibility activities in 2016. 84 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 85 “Önce İnsan” (People First) which is the corporate publication of Yeşim Textile disseminates the social compliance and social responsibility initiatives to the society. Additionally it publishes information on social responsibility and environment in each issue to raise awareness among its readers on these topics. 2015 2016 Dissemination of the Global Number Number Compact agreement Period of news articles Reach of news articles Reach • The new report was published on the January 6 301.419 17 535.200 corporate web page of Yeşim. www.yesim.com February 6 1.408.163 9 1.425.792 • An article was featured in Yeşim’s March 18 2.509.860 11 493.448 “Önce İnsan” corporate magazine “Önce İnsan” (People First) on the publication of the report. The April 17 746.130 7 134.053 (People First) magazine was published in digital medium at the web site www.onceinsan.com, May June 4 9 355.955 425.538 16 11 937.402 418.902 disseminates the disseminating this information also on the internet. July 5 302.875 8 2.816.396 messages of the • It was sent to all customers, August 6 1.378.061 4 52.776 subcontractors and suppliers as an e-bulletin. September 5 77.976 company • It was shared by the Facebook page of Yeşim, which has around 10.000 October 8 648.702 24 4.162.677 November 21 1.757.336 37 907.598 members. December 22 2.069.451 38 1.324.049 • It was published in the intranet portal to disseminate the relevant information. Total 127 11.981.466 182 13.208.293 In 2015-2016, 309 news articles about Yeşim Textile, SA 8000, social responsibility, social compliance, The World of Butterfly and Global Principles Agreement were published and reached 25.189.759 people. “Önce İnsan” (People First) newsletter which is published only for Yeşim employees raises awareness of our employees in each issue on the environment, social compliance, occupational health and safety page and gives information regarding the developments. 86 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 87 Information is reproduced by sharing Yeşim shares the initiatives it has undertaken the scope of sustainability for a more beautiful world on national and international platforms. Yeşim Textile shares its experiences by participating in the activities of different institutions and organizations, drawing attention with its lean management and social responsibility applications as well as its production. Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Director Dilek Cesur undertook the coordinatorship of project invited all Bursa firms to participate Women’s Empowerment Bursa Platform. Cesur told the aim of establishment of platform and targets in her speech, also gave information about UN Global Compact Turkey Women’s Empowerment Study Group and Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP). Yeşim Textile also is a part of the Gender Equality Work Group, which was established by Association of Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen (TÜSİAD), and works to define the obstacles of women in education, professional life, and equal participation in politics, to create awareness on such topics and to provide suggestions for solutions in order to develop the social structure in Turkey. An active role in Global Compact Yeşim Textile, which was the first company in the Turkish Leader on women issue garment and textile sector to sign the Global Compact, was elected to the Turkish Management Board of Global Under the coordinatorship of Yeşim Textile, organized with Compact in March 2014 and maintained its duty in 2016 co-operation of BUSİAD (Bursa Industry and Business too. Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications Association) and BUİKAD (Bursa Business Women and Director represents the company in the board. With this Administrators Association) Women’s Empowerment duty Yeşim Textile, plays a role in implementing yearly in Business Life Bursa Platform was established. In strategies and activities of Global Compact Turkey. the meeting which was realized in house of BUSİAD, At the same time, the company which was elected representatives of business world and non-governmental as co-president for Global Compact Turkey Women’s organizations were called about participation to common Empowerment and Gender Equality Comittee also has a platform in order to collaborate for gender equality and duty in the Global Compact Women’s Empowerment in women’s empowerment in business life. Turkey where it shares its activities on gender equality Women’s Empowerment Bursa Platform meeting was with other member companies and contributes to constituted with the purpose of carrying studies related disseminate such activities. Yeşim Textile also takes to gender equality and women’s empowerment in Turkey the task of communication leadership in the Women’s and in the World to Bursa was hosted by Bursa Industry Empowerment Working Group and plays an important role and Business Association (BUSİAD). In the first meeting of in disseminating its activities in Turkey. platform, which aims to increase “WomenFriendly Firms” Dilek Cesur, Yeşim Textile Corporate Communications in Bursa and make Bursa pilot city in Turkey, informing Director, has published articles at halklailiskiler.com about study methods and targets were carried out and about the activities of Yeşim Textile and Global Compact road map which will be followed in progressive period was Turkey to contribute to the dissemination of the agenda. evaluated. (All together for gender equality – 16.03.2016, Taking responsibility for a better world – 08.04.2016) 88 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 89 the project and also showed videos of the project and Compliance, participated in the Advisory Committee the clips, where women in the project shared their views. of the 3rd İzmir Workplace Health and Safety Meeting Empower Women portal was established at the beginning and supported the event, which was organized on of 2011 and open for membership from all around the 20-22 October. world; the portal has 11.000 members, over 390,000 • Yeşim Textile was selected one of the 17 pilot visitors and 2.850 publications, which make it a strong companies in Turkey for the “Business against library devoted to strengthening women. Domestic Violence Policy Development and Implementation Guide”, which is prepared by the Corporate Management Forum of Sabancı University, Sharing in the society United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), and • Özlem Şenkoyuncu, Head of Yeşim Academy, has Sabancı Association; in this scope the company made a presentation entitled “How can you have attended the “Publicity Meeting of Business an efficient internship period?”, at the Career Days, Against Domestic Violence Policy Development and organized by Faruk Saraç Design and Occupational Implementation Guide”. Özlem Şenkoyuncu, Head of Higher School on 4-6 May. Yeşim Academy, who had received Gender Equality Training in the scope of the project participated in • Yeşim Textile participated on 5 May to the Faruk Yeşim’s signature in ILO’s public Director of Yeşim has given information to the Kalder Saraç Design and Occupational Higher School’s the meeting on December 13th as a representative of representatives related to the corporate communication the Gender Equality Committee and informed the service ad and social responsibility activities of the company. The Career Days, which was organized on 4-6 May. Özlem audience about the activities at Yeşim related to programme, which started in the morning and ended in Şenkoyuncu, Head of Yeşim Academy, and Sanem A public service ad prepared in the scope of the project Gender Equality. the afternoon was closed with an assessment meeting at Arıyeşil, Manager of Human Resources represented entitled “More and better jobs for women: Women’s the Conference Hall of Yeşim Textile. Yeşim Textile during the event. Şenkoyuncu made a • Dilek Cesur, Corporate Communications Director Empowerment through Decent Work in Turkey”, which presentation to university students on how to have at Yeşim Textile shared Yeşim Textile’s social is carried out by International Labor Organization an efficient internship period, and Arıyeşil shared responsibility projects related to women at the (ILO), Turkis Employment Agency (İŞKUR), and Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), Yeşim received a visit from TÜGİAD information and experiences related to successful job Uludağ University Women Studies Implementation interviews. and Research Centre (UKAM) on December 22nd. shot scenes at Yeşim Textile together with three other Yeşim Textile has received a visit from the members companies, who also had best practices on the topic. The of TÜGİAD’s Bursa Branch on August 3rd. Onur Özkul, • Çiğdem Ersöz Yılmaz, BU 5 Technical Department scenes at Yeşim Textile for the public service ad, which Chairman of Bursa Branch of the Young Businessmen Manager, and Türkü Hazel Köylü, Design Expert, met will be aired on television channels in the days to come, Association of Turkey (TÜGİAD), and other members of with Apparel Production Technology Department was shot on April 1st at the production lines, showrooms, the board of managers have visited Şenol Şankaya, CEO students of Mudanya Dörtçelik Occupational and various locations in the production, in the crèche, and of Yeşim Textile, in his office. In the meeting the projects Technical Education Center on May 6th. Ersöz has laboratory of the company. that will be implemented by TÜGİAD Bursa Branch were given information to the students related to technical discussed and Mr. Şankaya shared his experiences and processes related to ready wear samples and costs, suggestions related to business life. The visitors were and Köylü has shared detailed information related A visit from Kalder taken to a field trip afterwards the meeting. to following trends in the Design Department and preparation process Yeşim Textile, which has been visited by many companies of collections. throughout the year also received a visit from the members of Kayseri and Bursa Quality Association World of Butterfly at the International • On August 16th, Yeşim (Kalder). A group of 33 members have visited Yeşim Textile Textile Corporate in January to see the implementation of lean production, Platform Communications Human Resources and Corporate Communication The World of Butterfly project was covered by the Director Dilek Cesur activities, received a briefing from Fatoş Hüseyinca, Yeşim empowerwomen.org, which is an initiative to provide met with young Textile Social Compliance and Human Resources Director, opportunities to women for learning, sharing, growing people at the Access and Neslin Gazioğlu Özkaya, Lean Office Manager, and providing leadership by getting them together with Alumni Leadership related to the human resources, social compliance and people from all around the world and from international Summit, which was lean production implementations in the company. After organizations, governments, civil society and private organized at Uludağ a field visit Dilek Cesur, Corporate Communications sectors. The news article gave detailed information about Mountain by the • Aydın Maydaer, Head of Social Compliance at Future Stars, US Yeşim Textile and who has the certificate Embassy and TED of Industrial Energy Management met Association. During with a group of young business the 2 hour meeting, managers and university students Cesur informed in the scope of the activities around 150 university of the Textile Research students from all Association and gave a around Turkey about speech entitled “Energy “Gender Equality”, Management in and shared actions Textile Factories taken in the World, in and Dye Turkey and in Yeşim Houses” on Textile. December • Fatoş Hüseyinca, 24th. Director of Human Resources and Social 90 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017 91 Yeşim Tekstil Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Ankara Yolu, Gürsu Kavşağı Kestel/BURSA Tel : (224) 280 86 00 www.yesim.com 92 YEŞİM TEXTILE PROGRESS REPORT 2016 2017
