Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 16 G4-31 CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN 3 LETTER FROM THE CEO 8 KEY FIGURES OF ATRESMEDIA 13 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 15 ATRESMEDIA 33 ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN 70 ATRESMEDIA RADIO 91 ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD 104 ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL 119 ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN 129 ATRESMEDIA CINE 135 HUMAN RESOURCES 140 SOCIETY 159 ENVIRONMENT 184 ANNEXES 196 This report was approved by the Board of Directors of Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. on 22 February 2017. Point of contact for issues concerning the content and process of definition of the Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report: Atresmedia, Corporate Communications Department Av. Isla Graciosa nº 13, San Sebastián de los Reyes CP 28703 (Madrid) comunicacion@atresmedia.com / responsabilidad.corporativa@atresmedia.com Tel: (+34) 91 623 05 00 / Fax: (+34) 91 654 92 04 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 3 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN José Creuheras Atresmedia has once again obtained excellent results in 2016. The signs of recovery that we noticed a few years ago have solidified and, although the market has still not returned to its highest levels, we can confirm that the worst is over. This factor, coupled with the ability of our Organisation to optimise and adapt to its environment, allows us to present an annual performance of which we can feel very proud. These great results are also down to the efforts and talent of an excellent team of professionals and, of course, the support of the Board of Directors and our shareholders. In short, Atresmedia has shown its strength once again this year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 4 The value of any company or project is mainly measured by its ability to If we have managed to attain create effective teams. This principle forms an essential part of the huge a leading position in the amount that I learned from José Manual Lara Bosch and, believe me, I try market, as the main Spanish to apply it as much as possible every day in all of the projects in which I communications group, this is am involved. I am convinced that this is our great asset and the guarantee thanks to the creation of a highly of good management. skilled team. However, it is also thanks to the implementation Therefore, if we have managed to attain a leading position in the market, of a strategy defined many as the main Spanish communications Group, this is thanks to the creation years ago on the basis of of a highly skilled team. However, it is also thanks to the implementation four key principles: quality, of a strategy defined many years ago on the basis of four key principrofessionalism, diversity and a ples: quality, professionalism, diversity and a commitment to the industry. commitment to the industry Four principles that guide our work and that have allowed us to become what we are today. Our position is not the result of one day’s work, but rather comes from a medium and long-term process, very distinct to the short-term approaches which have no place at Atresmedia. So the figures achieved in 2016 are the result of that work, carried out by all of those who form part of this Group, deeply rooted in a strategy designed to look to the future. It has therefore been essential to adapt to the macro-economic environment, search for new business niches to help overcome the crisis and optimise management processes. The results from 2016 are also due to a sustainable and profitable leadership model that combines commercial needs with recognition and higher ratings from the viewers, listeners and advertisers. This proves that it is a valid model in all respects and a leading brand. We have made it clear that with our way of doing things we can become leaders without the need to betray our principles. Each and every one of the divisions forming part of the Atresmedia Group has once again demonstrated the excellence of its operations. Atresmedia Televisión has further strengthened, if possible, a model characterised by quality, prestige and innovation. The leading position of Antena 3, our main brand, in December 2016 and January 2017 clearly shows us that the path that we have chosen is the right one, and that in this business it is indeed possible to combine television, a good image and audience success. This has not been easy, it never is, but it is good to remember that, among other factors, during the past year we have had to face the entry of new operators in both DTT and in the different forms of pay TV, and that the changes in consumer patterns force us to reinvent ourselves every day in order to compete for the leisure time of our audiences. Atresmedia Radio, moreover, has closed a year that can only be described as excellent. Onda Cero faced yet another test of its ability to overcome the greatest challenges. In these circumstances, continuing to be the market’s most profitable broadcaster by listener and managing to achieve the most complete and attractive offer in the sector, with the addition of José Ramón de la Morena, is something that is worth shouting about. The non-conformist spirit of the professionals in our radio business and their constant desire to develop themselves has been bearing fruit for many years and few can boast of having a project that is so solid and with such promising future prospects. Europa FM, meanwhile, continues to provide us with great news year after year. With the arrival at the station of Frank Blanco in the afternoons, we are sure that we have taken another great leap in terms of quality, just like the one we took a few years ago with the signing of Javier Cárdenas, whose success is undeniable. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 5 Atresmedia Publicidad has managed to commercially optimise each and The results from 2016 were every one of the resources of our Group and, thanks to its talent and also due to a sustainable and efforts, it has once again this year become the largest seller of multimedia profitable leadership model that advertising on the Spanish market and the most valued exclusive telecombines commercial needs with vision agent, leading in commercial service and effective advertising. In recognition and higher ratings 2016, Atresmedia Digital has turned us into the leading audiovisual group from the viewers, listeners and on the Internet, establishing ourselves as an unquestionable leader with advertisers an innovative product that respects the Company’s DNA. Atresmedia Diversificación includes the Group’s businesses not linked to traditional advertising. Among its most important successes is the upturn in the number of households subscribing to our three international channels, which now exceeds 45 million across the world and which has positioned us as the leading worldwide operator with the highest number of subscribers after the American ‘majors’. Finally, Atresmedia Cine released twelve films in 2016 which captured 38.4 % of the entire Spanish box office. In fact, the two highest grossing comedies of the year were productions from our Film Division. Those of us who make up Atresmedia are aware that our leading position, achieved and consolidated in recent years throughout all of the business areas in which we are involved, obliges us to go beyond audience results or figures. For society, this Group is synonymous with leadership, with being capable of setting the paths along which current affairs run. Our media channels are positioned among the most credible, which is a source of pride but also an enormous responsibility for us all, aware that we are the ones who set the story that is shared by society and unites it. Everyone at Atresmedia knows that this ability to influence creates a series of obligations for us that we cannot leave ignore and we are certain that diversity is the best way of approaching this. Beyond the challenges that we set ourselves each year as an Organisation, the macro-economic circumstances and their influence on the advertising market and the changes that society is constantly generating, Atresmedia must address the challenges posed by the legal and administrative environment. We have spent many years demanding that the legislators provide greater levels of stability, which in turn provides more security for our business. The second digital dividend is already looming on the horizon and will undoubtedly be one of the key events for the sector in the future, which is why we have been demanding greater levels of understanding from the authorities than were seen with the first dividend. Understanding also when it comes to establishing a schedule that benefits the users and the industry in this transition, and understanding when it comes to setting the keys factors that will result from this process and that to a great extent will determine the evolution of the free-to-air television business. We also expect the Administrations to tackle the regulatory convergence necessary as a result of unstoppable technological convergence. Or, in other words, if the content now travels and is consumed through a wide variety of devices, it seems logical and fair for all operators to have the same rights and obligations. Protecting children, especially, cannot only be confined to the area of free-to-air television. At Atresmedia we are aware of the limits that an activity such as ours must have and know that we have a responsibility to society, not only to establish these limits but also to use the Group’s potential to positively transform our environment. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 6 As part of our general Corporate Responsibility policy, through the ComEveryone at Atresmedia knows promiso Atresmedia brand we continue to run numerous campaigns that this ability to influence against road traffic accidents, encouraging scientific research, protecting creates a series of obligations for intellectual property and culture, respecting the environment and encourus that we cannot leave ignore aging healthy lifestyles. and we are certain that diversity is the best way of approaching We have succeeded in rolling out the Ponle Freno fun-runs to the whole this Spain, with these now taking place in Madrid, Vitoria, Tenerife and Vigo, and Objetivo Bienestar has held its 2nd Conference on well-being. We have also managed to persuade over one hundred thousand people to join the campaign on the use and installation of defibrillators run by Constantes y Vitales and, in connection with this issue, in 2016 Atresmedia became a cardio-protected space with the instillation of eight defibrillators at its facilities. We have also supported other non-profit organisations with donations and the allocation of slots for NGO advertising campaigns. These are valued at around €12 million, which is 49 % more than in 2015. The satisfaction and welfare of its employees is also important to Atresmedia. That is why we seek to offer the best possible balance between their personal and professional lives and to contribute to their training. In 2016 we launched Atresmedia Formación with the aim of contributing to the progress of the audiovisual sector through courses on subjects relating to the world of television, radio, film, communication skills, computing, etc. I must not forget to express my gratitude to the Group’s employees who participated in the Corporate Volunteering Programme, donating more than 2,500 hours of their time to organisations which took them to soup kitchens, accompanying elderly or disabled people and training workshops for unemployed young people. As a way of strengthening our commitment to the General Corporate Responsibility Policy, Atresmedia joined Forética, the leading forum in corporate social responsibility. In this way we have become the first communications group associated with this leading CSR organisation. Within Forética, the Group participated in the Transparency, Good Governance and Integrity Cluster. This is another sign of the importance of these values to Atresmedia. Whilst in 2015 we received “Best Improver” from the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) for our progress in the commitment to climate change, in 2016 we went further in this area by teaming up with the National Geographic Channel for the release of Before the Flood, the documentary produced by Leonardo Di Caprio and Martin Scorsese which was a wake-up call on these issues. Without wanting to boast, I should also mention the recognition that we have received this year as a company. The “RepTrak España 2016” study named us the Audiovisual Group with the best reputation based on the opinion of consumers, who took into consideration our financial strength, capacity for innovation, our leadership position ahead of the competition and our news and entertainment offer. We were also rated the most attractive company to work for in the communications groups sector in the 2016 Ranstad Employer Branding Report. In 2016, Atresmedia has taken great steps to improve transparency and its corporate governance system. Thus, it has increased the presence of independent female board members on the Board of Directors and this now represents 31 %. There has also been an increase in the presence of ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN | 7 independent female members on the Board’s Committees, leading to the We continue to run numerous attainment of the proportion of female board members that the Company campaigns against road had set as a target for 2020 in its Director Selection Policy, which was traffic accidents, encouraging 30 % of the total number of Board members. Together with other corscientific research, protecting porate measures also implemented or improved in 2016 to reinforce the intellectual property and culture, commitment of the Company with best practices in Corporate Governrespecting the environment and ance, I would like to highlight that an independent female board member encouraging healthy lifestyles has also been appointed as Coordinating Director, and has been assigned, in addition to the legally established duties, all of those contained in the recommendations of the Code of Good Governance. Also during 2016, Atresmedia reviewed its observance of the Code in accordance with the Technical guide on good practices for the application of the “comply or explain” principle, issued by the CNMV in July 2016. As a result of this analysis, new measures were approved to improve corporate governance including, among others, modifying the Regulations of the Board of Directors in order to ensure the dedication of the directors to the Company, limiting the number of boards on which any one director can serve; improving its transparency, adding reports to its corporate website that were previously internal; commissioning an external and independent firm to assess the board and its committees; and agreeing for the external auditor, who to date has regularly attended the Audit and Control Committee, to also attend the Board at least once a year. I will finish there. 2016 was yet another excellent year for Atresmedia and 2017 will be the same. We know that our strategic focus, based on a leading, sustainable and profitable model, is correct. We have shown that we know how to adapt better than anyone to the changes in our ecosystem, and that the position achieved is the result of the efforts and talent of the best team of professionals. With these certainties and supported by the trust placed in us, we face the future with the security of knowing that we can achieve any objectives we set for ourselves. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 8 LETTER FROM THE CEO Silvio González 2016 was undoubtedly a complex year but it has ended with a clearly positive balance. It is true that we have emerged from the economic crisis, although recovery is not yet complete, but despite everything our Group has never reached such a high turnover as that obtained this past year. Our continued commitment to management based on quality, professionalism, diversity and support for the audiovisual industry is seen in the market as a benchmark and largely explains why we are capable of exceeding expectations year after year. Knowing how to face challenges from solid foundations, ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 9 without giving in to short-term temptations, defines and differentiates us, Knowing how to face challenges makes us consistent, shields us from adversity and allows us to optimise from solid foundations, all opportunities presented to us. With this formula we have been able without giving in to shortto successfully overcome the worst situations and can always look to the term temptations, defines future from the best position. and differentiates us, makes us consistent, shields us from In recent years Atresmedia has had to deal with a fall of 50 % in advertisadversity and allows us to ing investment; a digital switch off that brought to an end the broadcasts optimise all opportunities of the three leading channels in their genre; the entry of new operators, presented to us in both free-to-air television and in the different pay TV areas; as well as the appearance in society of new trends for consuming audiovisual content. Despite everything, Atresmedia has been able to adapt and achieve more than remarkable results. Our adaptation to environments in constant change is therefore one of our greatest assets. Over these years, the lack of certainty has not paralysed us, rather the opposite. Our activity has been enriched with innovative strategies, new lines of business and improvements in management that, based on the fundamental Our activity has been enriched principles and values of our Company, have made us the greatest genwith innovative strategies, erator of content and the main multi-platform operator in our country. new lines of business and improvements in management, The strong performance of all Atresmedia’s Business Areas, optimised based on the fundamental through an effective commercial policy, has enabled the Group to principles and values increase its net revenue by 5.2 % compared to 2015, reaching €1,021.1 of our Company million which, as I mentioned at the start of this letter, is the highest figure ever obtained by our Company. Our management model, based on the search for maximum efficiency and profitability, has made it possible to achieve an EBITDA of €202 million, a sales margin of 19.8 % and a net profit of €129.1 million, 30.1 % higher than last year. The work of our Commercial Division Atresmedia Publicidad has been key in achieving these figures. This excellent work is reflected in the power ratio (ratio of market share to audience share) which at 1.6 was the highest of all the sellers of television advertising. Once again this year, continuing with the principles of customer focus, innovation, efficiency and profitability, it has been the largest seller of multimedia advertising in the Spanish market with a share of 19 % of the total investment in conventional media. Atresmedia Televisión, our great driving force, has strengthened the leading position of its television model. This shows that a commitment to high quality, innovative and diverse television does have its rewards, and that in television it is possible to combine the highest audience levels with prestige and recognition. Its six channels have positioned this division as the television group that grew the most (27.1 % audience, +0.3 basis points) in an environment of constant fragmentation. The success of our model and its commercial effectiveness, arising from its great social relevance and influence, has also enabled us to obtain an advertising market share above 42 %, establishing ourselves as the leading operator in Spain for viewers and advertisers. Two of its channels, Antena 3 and laSexta, were undisputed leaders in news coverage over an intense year for political, economic and social matters. Both channels obtained an excellent 24.2 % of the audience with the coverage of the general election on 26 June, unseating the public channel as leader and becoming the public’s favourite television channels for keeping them informed throughout the day. The same happened with the coverage of the American election, in which both channels achieved ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 10 a strong figure of 26.6 %, once again surpassing the news coverage of the Antena 3 and laSexta, were public channel. These are two signs of the perfect operation of the two undisputed leaders in the news channels following the merger process and confirm the great business coverage over an intense year and editorial success that has resulted. for political, economic and social matters Antena 3 ended the year as the leader in television with a 13.3 % audience share, which allowed it to start 2017 in the same position and with the best prospects. It was also once again the leading channel in the mornings (13.3 %) and at weekends (12 %) and remained the most viewed channel in the commercial target at prime time, that preferred by the advertisers, with 14.3 %. laSexta celebrated its tenth anniversary established as the third private channel with 7.1 % of the audience compared to the 6.5 % of its direct competitor, something it has achieved for the fourth consecutive year. In 2016 we saw the largest ever distance between the two channels. laSexta was leader in prime time (7.7 %) in its commercial laSexta celebrated its tenth target (8.1 %) and beat its afternoon record (6.8 %). anniversary established as the third private channel with 7.1 % Moreover, the development of our four second generation channels has of the audience compared to the been a great success. The two channels that began broadcasting in 2015 6.5 % of its direct competitor, were leaders in 2016. Mega, aimed at an adult male audience, obtained something it has achieved for the exceptional audience levels, closing the year with 1.8 % and achieving fourth consecutive year 7.4 % as absolute leader during the early hours of the morning. Atreseries, our new high-definition channel, was leader among the new concession themed channels with a 0.8 % audience share, despite the fact that the bank of HD televisions is still smaller than that of traditional ones. Both channels have demonstrated their strength, joining forces with two established brands, Neox and Nova, which achieved annual figures of 2.5 % and 2.2 % respectively. Atresmedia Radio ended 2016 as once again the most profitable radio group in the market per listener. This is an unquestionably outstanding result taking into account the renovation that Onda Cero faced last year in the important morning time slot. We look to 2017 with the belief that we already have the best offer on the market. A diverse, professional and high quality proposal, from morning to night, where we have been strengthened with the addition of José Ramón de la Morena. There is still work to do in order to achieve our maximum potential, but over four million listeners endorse our formula and support the three offers from Atresmedia’s Radio Division. Our generalist station Onda Cero has increased its audience with an average of more than two million listeners according to the last survey and has held third place in its segment. The General Media Survey has also shown that it is the only broadcaster to have grown its audience as the result of a solid brand, satisfactory programming and an outstanding ability to deal with challenges. In terms of annual average audience of Europa FM and Melodía FM, both have proven to be synonymous with success, with almost two million listeners for the first and growth to 286,000 listeners for the second. Atresmedia has also been the leading audiovisual group on the Internet in 2016. Its commitment to the world of multimedia has allowed it to retain its leading position established last year. Atresmedia Digital ended 2016 with a monthly average of over 24 million unique users, 14 % more than in 2015, being a complement to the great content factory that is this Group. Flooxer, our high quality online platform for short videos, has become established with more than one million monthly users. These ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 11 figures confirm the good sense behind the step taken to strengthen the Atresmedia Radio ended 2016 as Group’s multi-platform strategy. To this we must add the leadership of once again the most profitable Atresplayer as the leading platform with more than 4.8 million monthly radio group in the market per users and more than 600 million video playbacks throughout the year. listener. An unquestionably outstanding result taking into Our strategy of seeking new paths for growth in addition to the revenue account the renovation that from traditional advertising has established the Atresmedia DiversificaOnda Cero faced last year ción model. Our three international channels, Antena 3 Internacional, Atreseries and ¡HOLA! TV, have established us as the commercial operator with the most subscribed households, reaching 45 million outside of Spain and being leaders just behind the American ‘majors’. Atresmedia has also continued to encourage entrepreneurship through the Media for Equity model, through which it has holdings in ten companies including some well-known start-ups. In terms of Atresmedia Cine, this area has experienced growth in terms Atresmedia was also the leading of box office success. Our Film Division stands out with twelve films audiovisual group on the released in 2016, which took 38.4 % of the total box office for Spanish Internet in 2016 cinema throughout the year, something which gives us great satisfaction. By law we are required to participate in Spanish film production. However, far from just seeing this as an obligation, it has been an opportunity to explore new paths for our business model with the quality standards that guide us as a Group. In 2016, we have worked more intensely on Compromiso Atresmedia, which brings together the Group’s Corporate Responsibility initiatives Our three international channels, such as Ponle Freno, Objetivo Bienestar, Constantes y Vitales, Hazte Eco Antena 3 Internacional, and Crea Cultura, along with the Fundación Atresmedia initiatives and Atreseries and ¡HOLA! TV, have the Corporate Volunteering Programme through which our employees established us as the commercial devote their time to various social organisations. The Tolerancia Cero operator with the most campaign, in collaboration with the Mutua Madrileña Foundation, broadsubscribed households, reaching cast over 70 reports and pieces on Antena 3 Noticias to raise awareness 45 million outside of Spain and about domestic violence. being leaders just behind the American ‘majors’ Some of this work even affects those who form part of Atresmedia. This year we have converted the Group’s facilities into a cardio-protected space. Along with this, we have increased accessibility to content and platforms, provided more training and more measures for a good worklife balance and complied with the Global Compact, all of which shows our degree of commitment. In 2016 Atresmedia joined Forética, a leading corporate social responsibility organisation, marking a milestone on being the first communications group associated with this forum. The 2016 the Randstad Employer Branding Report named us as the most attractive company to work for in the communications groups sector. We have also created Atresmedia Formación to train the future professionals of the audiovisual industry in order to commit to the advancement and development of the sector. For over ten years Fundación Atresmedia has been promoting projects in favour of children’s welfare, improving education and normalising disability through all the media channels in our multi-platform. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | LETTER FROM THE CEO | 12 Of course, all of this is only part of the path that we still have to travel. Another of our principles is a Our commitment to a positive change in society is based on enhanccommitment to society. Our ing corporate responsibility and dialogue with the groups and forums objective is to generate value dedicated to these areas. It forms part of our DNA, being committed to for our shareholders but also positive change, and we will continue to work to achieve this. to assume our responsibility through the multi-platform In 2016 we have not only met our objectives but also surpassed them. organisation that we manage Atresmedia continues to be a benchmark in business but also in society and we do this through as a result of our diverse and high quality model. Our ability to deal with Compromiso Atresmedia new challenges through hard work, innovation and enthusiasm means that we can look to the future with optimism. KEY FIGURES OF ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | KEY FIGURES OF ATRESMEDIA | 14 The following table shows, by way of executive summary, the main results of Atresmedia grouped into three areas: economic, social and environmental. Economic dimension 2014 2015 2016 Total net revenues (millions of €) 883.2 970.2 1,021.1 Gross operating profit (millions of €) 127.7 165.7 202.0 Net profit (millions of €) 46.8 99.2 129.1 Distributed economic value (millions of €) 657.9 698.1 738.7 Financial support received from Public Administrations (millions of €) 7.4 6.4 7.8 Ratio of advertising efficiency (adults) 1.51 1.54 1.52 Ratio of advertising efficiency (individuals) 1.55 1.58 1.55 Number of advertisers TV 824 858 858 Number of producers 22 30 30 Number of suppliers of goods and services 1,088 1,164 1,245 Average audience share of Antena 3 Televisión (%) 13.6 13.5 12.8 Average audience share of laSexta (%) 7.2 7.4 7.1 Average audience share of Neox (%) 2.6 2.6 2.5 Average audience share of Nova (%) 2.5 2.4 2.2 Average audience share of Mega (%) 0.9 1.8 Average audience share of Atreseries (%) 0.01 0.8 Number of listeners of Onda Cero 2,650,000 2,368,000 1,920,000 Number of listeners of Europa FM 2,078,000 1,954,000 1,947,000 Number of listeners of Melodía FM 255,000 230,000 286,000 Number of unique users of Atresmedia websites (million)* 7.9 9.6 12.2 Number of members of the Board of Directors 13 12 13 Number of independent directors of the Board of Directors 3 3 4 Number of female members of the Board of Directors 2 3 4 Compliance with the Code on Good Governance recommendations** – 48 56 *Source: ComsCore. ** The new Code on Good Governance entered into force in 2015. Therefore, no data are included for 2014. Social dimension 2014 2015 2016 Hours of children’s programming broadcast 1,690 1,696 1,692 Cumulative hours of subtitling 21,327 26,055 36,159 Number of employees 1,806 1,917 2,022 % of women in the workforce 49.9% 49.5% 49.5% Investment in training (€) 348,661 406,095 727,308 Hours of training per employee 22 26 22 Hours of corporate volunteering donated to the community 1,772 2,102 2,533 Foundation income contributed by Atresmedia (€) 300,000 500,000 500,000 Donations to NGOs through Atresmedia programmes 171,809 206,726 164,453 Complaints under the Self-regulation Code 8 2 3 Number of copyadvice requests to Self-control 772 876 1,028 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on TV for NLEs* (€) 3,044,000 3,478,976 9,325,630 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on radio for NLEs* (€) 3,494,228 2,543,913 2,643,127 * NLEs: Non-lucrative Entities. Environmental dimension 2014 2015 2016 Consumption of white paper (kg) 26,844 27,566 26,813 Consumption of printer toner and cartridges (kg) 534 522 1,030 Consumption of fluorescent lights (units) 976 1,725 753 Solid urban waste (tonnes) 308 305 337 Gas consumption (m3) 15,308 13,646 12,365 Consumption of heating oil (litres) 469,696 489,032 481,056 Electricity consumption (kWh) 27,399,791 29,276,341 29,622,523 Water consumption (m3) 56,863 53,755 49,607 Direct GHG emissions (equivalent tonnes of CO2) 1,505 1,562 1,552 Environmental investment (€) 89,490 111,481 120,495 Adherence grade to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 58D 93C C* * In 2016 CDP changed the evaluation method by deleting the numerical grade. HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 16 Atresmedia Televisión reinforces a television model based on quality, innovation and plurality The television model of Atresmedia becomes more significantly in this context, and become the prefered and more solid having quality, innovation and plurality offer for the most attractive public in the highest as its main values. Antena 3 ended 2016 as the leader audience slot. television in December (13.3 %), and started 2017 leading January with 13.3 %. laSexta, that celebrates its Atresmedia Televisión continued to set the stan10th anniversary beats its direct competitor for fourth dard for news. Atresmedia’s television channels consecutive year, with 7.1 % audience share, consolidatonce again led coverage of the general election on ing the third position among private operators. 26 June (24.3 %), the Galician and Basque elections on 25 September (making a total of seven elections Atresmedia closed the year being the tv group with in which laSexta was the number one choice nationthe highest growth, reaching 27.1 % in an environment wide) and the American election (26.6 %). Followwith new free to air and pay operators. Atresmedia ing on from the precedent set the previous year, in lead the commercial target in prime time, the most which it made history with 7-D: el debate decisivo, prefered target for brands, with 31.1 % audience share. with the four-person debate on 13 June, Atresmedia The complementarity and success of its six channels, reached more than 4.6 million followers and had a made Atresmedia the only group capable to grow 25.1 % average audience share. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 17 • Antena 3 ended the year as the leader television in December (13.3 %). It was also leader of the mornings (13.3 %) and first option on the weekends (12.0 %). The channel reached 14.3 % audiece share in the commercial slot with the highest audience. Antena 3 started 2017 leading January with 13.3 %. It was also the best channel in commercial target (13.3 %), in Prime Time (13.7 %), in the morings (13.8 %) and in the weekends. • Antena 3 Noticias faced a deep renewal with success and leads the weekend. Antena 3 saw changes in its newscasts beginning in September with the arrival of Santiago Gonzalez as General Manager of Antena 3 Noticias. The Weekend edition was the undisputed leader on Saturdays and Sundays. To be precise, the first weekend edition led for the fourth consecutive year. Antena 3 Noticias 1, which has been presented by María Rey and Sandra Golpe since September, ended the year with high records. Antena 3 Noticias 2, with Vicente Vallés at the helm, also reached excellent numbers growing month after month. • Velvet and Mar de plástico, the top two premieres for Spanish fiction programmes in the past ten years, ended their runs with record numbers. Velvet said farewell to its viewers with a record high (26.2 %), becoming the mostATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 18 watched fictional series of the season (3,586,000 viewers). It also made history by airing over fifteen minutes of its final episode live. Mar de plástico ended with a season high (20.6 %) and a finale that was the viewers’ choice. • The penalties of the Champions League final between Real Madrid and Atlético de Madrid garnered the highest television ratings of 2016, with 11,642,000 viewers. Last year, the Champions League ended its first season after returning to Atresmedia with a 34.1 % share and an average of 6,354,000 viewers (+0.5 points compared to 2015). • Tu cara me suena once again revolutionised Friday night, ended up its best season ever and was the most watched program of friday nights, being the absolute leader with 23.4% and 3,263,000 viewers. • El hormiguero 3.0 had its strongest year yet. The programme presented by Pablo Motos bet its all-time annual high and became the overall leader in its time slot, with an average of 14.9 % for 2016 and more than 2.7 million TV viewers (+0.5 points compared to 2015). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 19 • Espejo público achieved its all-time annual high with 17.1 %, ending the year as the leader in its slot, with 16.8 % average audience share. In addition, Un café con Susanna grew stronger beginning in September, leading its slot from its premiere, with a 13.8 % share. • Karlos Arguiñano keeps its good reception among viewers. The cooking show achieved a high average audience share, 14.5 % and 517,000 viewers. • La ruleta de la suerte was the unassailable leader yet another year, with a 16.4 % share and almost one million followers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 20 • Amar es para siempre and El secreto de Puente 14 horas, Monday–Friday, was the most-watched Viejo leader fiction series of the afternoon newscast, with a 13.4 % share and almost 1.4 slot. Both series kept solid records with 13.1 % million viewers. and 1,483,000 viewers and 16.7 % (1,687,000 • Al rojo vivo again had its best year ever, the followers) respectively. most watched in its history with almost 700,000 • laSexta consolidated its third place among viewers and a 12.5 % share. The show was the commercial TVs in the year of its 10th only morning news programme to see growth anniversary. The channel got a 7.1 % audience (0.8 points vs. 2015), leading its rival. share, surpassing Cuatro with the largest gap in • El intermedio the favourite daily program of its history. laSexta. It was once again the most-watched • laSexta Noticias achieved the best year in its daily programme on laSexta, with 11.3 % share history, reporting its highest numbers, growing and more than two million followers. and surpassing its competitors. laSexta Noticias ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 21 • Salvados continued to be the network’s most iconic show. It was the most-watched programme on laSexta in 2016 and overall leader with more than 2.7 viewers and a 13.9 % share. The “Salvados: una hora en La Moncloa” episode – which featured an interview with Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy – airing on 3 April, was the year’s most-watched episode for the channel. • laSexta Noche and El objetivo, reference programs in information content. The debate program aired on Saturdays and the news program shown on Sundays are the favourite ones to follow current affairs. • Más vale tarde achieved an all-time high with a 7.8 % share and 759,000 followers. The show continued to grow yet another year, in keeping with the trend it has followed since it began airing. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 22 • Pesadilla en la cocina, leader in commercial • Mega and Atreseries leaders in 2016. The two target. The program presented by Alberto new channels which joined Atresmedia in 2015 Chicote had its second best season, with a 12.2 % reported good results throughout 2016. Mega share. It was the overall leader in the commercial ended its first full year with a 1.8 % share and target with 16.6 %. as the overall early morning leader with 7.4 %. • Enviado especial, a new successful brand in Atreseries, the HD channel that rounded out the laSexta. Conducted by Jalis de la Serna, this group’s entertainment offerings, was the top new program analyses in depth problems such as specialised channel with a 0.8 % share. obesity, weapons and the market changes • Neox and Nova consolidate their position in resulting from imports of Chinese products. the afternoon. Neox ended the year with 2.5 %, Enviado Especial achieved 9.1 % audience share. leading afternoon specialised offerings with a • Zapeando also had its best year, with a 7.3 % 2.9 % share and among viewers 18–35 (6 %). Nova share and over 870,000 followers, up from 2015. finished 2016 with 2.2 % and was the top DTTV • Also up was Jugones, which had the best year channel Monday–Friday afternoons, with a 3.1 % in its history, obtaining a 5.6 % share (+0.4 over share. 2015). • laSexta Columna, the news documentary programme airing on laSexta, also set its best annual record with an 8 % share. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 23 Atresmedia Radio continues its renewal with a solid financial position and the best earnings rates In 2016, Atresmedia’s Radio Division continued its • A radio of reference in Spain. Atresmedia bet on quality and plurality. Onda Cero added José Radio finished the year consolidating its leading Ramón de la Morena, a leader in night-time radio with position in the radio market and continued El transistor, and Frank Blanco joined Europa FM at to demonstrate its strength and influence. the helm of the first after-work show on Spanish radio. Atresmedia’s radio division reached an average audience of 4.2 million listeners. • The most profitable and solid radios of the • Onda Cero increases its audience. With an sector. Atresmedia Radio ended 2016 with the average of more than two million listeners, Onda best revenue per listener and one of the most Cero held the number three position among solid financial positions in the reporting Net general interest radio stations, ending the year Revenues of 82.2 mill €. as the only station to increase its audience, according to the last survey (Encuesta General de Medios). Moreover, Onda Cero had an average audience in the year of almost 2 million listeners. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 24 • Successful morning show Más de uno. Más de • Isabel Gemio and Te doy mi palabra maintained uno, with Carlos Alsina and Juan Ramón Lucas, their commitment to listeners and society, with earned an audience of more than 1.2 million 618,000 and 587,000 listeners on saturdays and listeners per day in 2016. sundays respectively. • Betting for the best sports programming. José • Successful formulas of Europa FM and Melodía Ramón de la Morena debuted on Onda Cero with FM. Europa FM, with almost 2 million listeners, 372,000 listeners, doubling the audience for his held its position at number three among time slot. specialised stations. Melodía FM, one of the • Compromise with the analysis and the youngest formulas on Spanish radio, grew to information in the highest audience slots. 286,000 listeners as an average in 2016 (269.000 Noticias Mediodía ended the year as the number in the last survey). two news show in its slot, with 204,000 listeners. • Levántate y Cárdenas: yet another year Julia Otero consolidates its program in the of growth. The morning show Levántate second place of the ranking of the evening y Cárdenas, gathered more than 1.1 million shows, and each night, 323,000 listeners tune in dreamers every morning with a successful for La brújula. mixture of entertainment, current affairs, good music and humor with Javier Cárdenas at the helm. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 25 Atresmedia Publicidad • Atresmedia Publicidad launched Iceberg, an innovative initiative providing access to Atresmedia’s entire digital advertising portfolio. • Atresmedia Publicidad was the highest ranked This year also saw the launch of Atresdata, a new exclusive agent for television, leading in sales and revolutionary tool for improving affinity and service and advertising effectiveness. effectiveness in television advertising sales. • The audiovisual group with the best reputation. • Consolitation of MABS. Atresmedia Publicidad Studies such as RepTrak España, Personality made a strong showing with the second edition Media, Media Scope, Superbrands and Randstad of the Management & Business Summit, a major Award once again demonstrated that Atresmedia gathering of global executives and leaders. is the audiovisual group with the best reputation. • The importance of television to increase • Atresmedia’s commercial offerings were ranked awareness. Atresmedia Publicidad and number two by Comscore, only surpassed by Tres14Research once again conducted the Google, with over 27 million users, reaching 84 % ROIMAP study, reflecting the continued increase of the online population. of the importance of television in increasing • Eduardo Olano was appointed as the new awareness. Chairman of Atresmedia Publicidad, passing the • Special advertising actions with big companies. General Manager’s baton to José Miguel GarcíaAtresmedia Publicidad worked with Twentieth Gasco. Beatriz Medina, Digital General Manager Century Fox, Ikea, DKV, Adeslas, Heineken, Bwin of Atresmedia Publicidad, was named chair of and Gas Natural Fenosa on special actions in the board of directors for IAB Spain. 2016. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 26 Atresmedia maintains its position as the leading online audiovisual group 2015 numbers, to more than 2.8 million users, becoming the television website with the highest As a group, Atresmedia’s websites ended 2016 with growth in 2016 and consolidating its position as a monthly average of more than 24 million unique the number three television website in Spain. users, up 14 % on 2015, maintaining the corporation’s • One year after its launch, Flooxer consolidated position as the leading audiovisual group on the Interits position as a creators’ platform, with more net. than one million users per month enjoying its content, which included over 15,000 videos on • Throughout 2016, the Antena 3 website received its first anniversary. In addition, the series Paquita an average of 8 million unique users per month. Salas, released on Flooxer, caught the eye of a • This year, the Antena 3 news portal was again large audience of viewers and critics, and was a key element of Atresmedia’s digital growth, recognised with several awards. topping its 2015 figures by 16 % and attracting • Atresplayer was the leading platform, with over 3.6 million monthly users interested in the intense 4.8 million monthly users and more than 600 Spanish and international political agenda. The million video plays per year. It ended the year latter included such issues as the American with over 4.5 million registered users, 1 million presidential election and the Brexit vote, among more than at the close of 2015. others. • Over 6.8 million users visited Atresmedia’s • laSexta Noticias website tripled its 2015 Thematic & Partners websites, 30% more than numbers. laSexta Noticias website was the previous year. This was the result of the responsible for one of Atresmedia’s milestones addition of new titles, seeking to diversify and in the digital arena. It succeeded in tripling its search out new user niches. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 27 Atresmedia Diversificación: the Atresmedia Cine: expansion model another year of box consolidates its office growth position • Atresmedia Cine premiered twelve films in 2016, which accounted for 38.4 % of the total Spanish This Division groups together the Atresmedia busibox office, up nine points on 2015. All of the new nesses not linked to advertising and is made up of films ranked among the top twenty five moneyfour areas: International, Media for Equity, New Busimakers, and five were in the top ten. nesses and Music Rights Management. • Atresmedia Cine won two Goya Awards with El hombre de las mil caras for Best Screenplay and • Atresmedia is the group with the highest Best Leading Actor, Eduard Fernández. This film number of subscribers only after the big also won other prizes: Premio Feroz , Gaudí, and American majors. This shows the high capacity San Sebastian. of penetration in the pay TV market. • Palmeras en la nieve continued its successful • Atresmedia Group’s three international channels run, bringing in a total of 16.8 million euros at the – Antena 3 Internacional, Atreseries and ¡HOLA! box office in 2016. TV – reached 45 million subscriber homes, up • The two biggest Spanish comedy box-office hits 40 % from 2015. of the year, Cuerpo de élite and Villaviciosa de al • Antena 3 Internacional celebrated its twentieth lado, were Atresmedia Cine productions. anniversary in 2016, debuting in Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and Equatorial Guinea. This increased its subscribers by 20 % over the previous financial year. • Atresmedia Diversificación’s Media for Equity model established itself as a key player in the Spanish venture capital sector. At year end, the Atresmedia portfolio included ten companies in which it has shareholdings, notably, some of the most promising Spanish start-ups. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 28 Corporate Responsibility: Atresmedia’s commitment to sustainability Economic and corporate dimension the most entertaining, with the best news programmes and presentors, and the most varied programming. Atresmedia is recognised by the RepTrak España 2016 study as the Audiovisual Group The study puts Atresmedia Televisión at the head of with the best reputation the ranking of the Top 15 highest quality programmes. For the third year, between them, Antena 3 and Atresmedia is the audiovisual company with the laSexta garnered the top position in 10 of the 11 catbest reputation among Spanish consumers in terms egories that make up this study, which measures the of financial results, products and services offered, positive attributes of channels. integrity, good citizenship, leadership, innovation and working environment, according to data from the study RepTrak España 2016. Atresmedia joins Forética, leading CSR forum in Spain, participating in the For all indicators analysed in the study, which is Transparency, Good Governance and based on 8,084 interviews and 32,000 assessments Integrity Cluster of 290 companies, Atresmedia ranked considerably higher than its main competitors. In the opinion of Atresmedia has signed a co-operation agreement with consumers, the Group’s strongest points are its finanForética, making the audiovisual company the first cial soundness, innovation capacity, leadership posicommunications group to become a member of one tion among competing companies, and its news and of the leading CSR and sustainability organisations in entertainment offerings. Spain and Latin America. With this co-operation agreement, the Group seeks to more actively and dynamically promote the Company’s corporate responsibility Third Personality Media Image Study places strategy, as well as continuing to make a positive conAtresmedia Televisión at the top of the tribution to society, individuals and the environment in ranking of programmes with the highest order to ensure a more sustainable future. quality Within Forética, Atresmedia will also be part of the According to the latest analysis in the third televiTransparency Cluster, through which the top global sion Image Study, conducted by Personality Media, trends and discussions around transparency, good Antena 3 and laSexta are the Spanish channels with governance and integrity will be incorporated into the highest quality, the favourites among Spaniards, the Spanish context. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 29 Atresmedia climbs to number 18 in the Reporta 2016 report and is the media company with the best public information The Reporta 2016 report, published by DEVA, evaluates the quality of the financial and non-financial information of the 113 companies that make up the IGBM stock index (Index of the Madrid Stock Exchange). The study looks at three aspects: transparency, importance and accessibility of the information published. For the fourth consecutive year, with 73.4 points, Atresmedia is the media company with the best position in the ranking, climbing 11 places from its 2015 spot, from 29 to 18. Additionally, Atresmedia is the media company with the best score in all three assessment criteria. Most attractive employer among communications groups, according to the Atresmedia Formación is created to 2016 Randstad Employer Branding Report contribute to the advancement of the audiovisual sector Atresmedia’s HR policies have earned it the title “most attractive employer in the telecommunications Atresmedia took another step forward in its comindustry” for the fourth consecutive year, according to mitment to the audiovisual industry in 2016, creating the 2016 Randstad Employer Branding Report. Atresmedia Formación, an initiative aimed at training future audiovisual media professionals, supporting This study, which represents the best independent the progress and development of the sector. international analysis recognising the most attractive employers, also shows Atresmedia to be the third Due to the Group’s experience and considerable most attractive company in Spain, with 64.26 % of technical and professional capacity, Atresmedia Forthose surveyed choosing it as the Company they mación has developed a comprehensive and specialwould like to join as an employee. The Company leads ised range of training offerings suited to the working the ranking among young people aged 18–24 and is reality of media and communications companies. The the best positioned in the “interesting job content” catalogue is made up of 438 practical single-subject and “pleasant working atmosphere” categories, where courses specialising in subjects relevant to the enviit ranks number one. ronment: television, radio, cinema, music, etc., as well as other areas: communication skills, computing, multimedia, etc. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 30 Social dimension tising space valued at 11,968,757 Objetivo Bienestar holds its euros, representing a 49 % second wellbeing conference Atresmedia subtitles almost increase in this type of support 100 % of its live broadcasts over the previous year. The 2nd Objetivo Bienestar Conference was held in June 2016 at Among Atresmedia’s priorities is Ateneo de Madrid. At this second increasing and facilitating access Ponle Freno races expand edition, the aim was to approach to audiovisual content for all into other areas of Spain, the concept of wellbeing from a people, regardless of their auditory now in Madrid, Vitoria, practical perspective which could or visual capacity. In 2016, live proTenerife and Vigo be applied to everyday life, placing gramming was the most important special emphasis on issues such focus, and with the exception of The Ponle Freno races are continas emotional intelligence, intersporting events, almost 100 % of uing to expand into other areas of personal relationships, managing live broadcasts were subtitled, Spain. The cities hosting this major change, the search for happiness incvluding all general interest road safety event now number and self-improvement. The gathnews. four. Madrid continues to draw ering featured such noted speakthe largest crowds, with 20,000 ers as Luis Rojas Marcos, Silvia runners at its eighth edition. Vigo’s Congost, Pedro García Aguado, The group provides space first edition was a success, attractMila Cahue, Enrique Rojas, Tomás valued at almost 12 million ing 1,000 runners, and Tenerife and Navarro, Javier Iriondo and Lary euros for NGO advertising Vitoria have reinforced their parLeón. campaigns, 49 % more than ticipation with their second and the previous year third editions, respectively. These races enabled Ponle Freno to raise In order to disseminate informamore than 200,000 euros, which tion about the work of different have been allocated to different non-profit-making organisations projects supporting the victims of and increase public awareness of traffic accidents. their causes, Atresmedia provides free television and radio adverATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 31 More than 100,000 people join the aired on television, along with commercial breaks on Constantes y Vitales campaign for the use all radio stations, and all of the group’s websites and and installation of defibrillators social networks spotlighted this initiative. In addition, through its news programmes, Atresmedia used all of In 2016, Constantes y Vitales set itself a new and its communication powers to raise awareness among ambitious goal: asking autonomous communities to the population, airing over 70 pieces and reports disregulate the use and installation of defibrillators in cussing the problem of gender-based violence. public spaces. In just one month, more than 50,000 people joined the campaign, totalling over 100,000 by the end of the year. In addition, three autonomous Fundación Atresmedia’s ¡Grandes Profes! communities have announced that they are taking initiative brings together almost 5,000 steps to become cardiac-protected regions: Asturias, teachers Murcia and Madrid. What is more, thanks to the campaign, numerous private companies and organisaOne of the Fundación Atresmedia’s most recognised tions have joined the initiative, installing defibrillators actions is the ¡Grandes Profes! initiative, which in 2016 in their locations. These include Atresmedia, which brought together more than 1,400 teachers in person, became a cardiac-protected space in 2016, placing with 3,500 attending via streaming. The goal of the eight defibrillators in its facilities. event is to strengthen the figure of the teacher and give them tools for their everyday work in the classroom. On this occasion, it featured highly respected Crea Cultura launches its new campaign: speakers from different fields, including César Bona, “Está en tu mano” Victor Küppers, Nachi Picas and Nuria Roca, who shared experiences and tips to provide inspiration for Crea Cultura had launched a new campaign with attendees and give them examples to follow in their the aim of conveying the importance of culture and daily work with students. responsible consumption of the same. Under the slogan “Está en tu mano”, the campaign seeks to raise awareness of responsibility among digital con209 Atresmedia employees participate in sumers, getting them involved in content creation. the Voluntariado Corporativo Programme, The campaign was launched in collaboration with donating more than 2,500 volunteer hours to Google, Fece, Fedicine and Movirecord. social welfare organisations Atresmedia has a comprehensive corporate volunTolerancia Cero airs over 70 reports and teerism programme which attracts more and more pieces on Antena 3 Noticias to raise employee participation with each passing year. In awareness of gender-based violence 2016, Atresmedia offered 15 volunteer activities, helping 13 different social welfare organisations. 209 In 2015, Antena 3 Noticias and the Mutua Madrileña volunteers took part, donating 2,533 hours of their Foundation created the Tolerancia Cero initiative, time to soup kitchens, providing companionship for aimed at raising awareness, encouraging reports the elderly and disabled, and training workshops for to the police and sensitisation through education unemployed youth. around this scourge of society. In 2016, spots were ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR | 32 Environmental dimension Atresmedia and National Geographic Hazte Eco joins forces with Intermon Channel join forces against climate change Oxfam for the Marrakech Climate Change with the premiere of Before the Flood Conference Atresmedia programming includes a wide variety of Hazte Eco, the Atresmedia initiative supporting the content on environmental protection, with very speprotection and defence of the environment and procific messages to help build a society that is more moting community involvement in this area, joined respectful of its environment. In 2016, National Geoforces with Oxfam Intermon in 2016 to send out a graphic Channel and Atresmedia Televisión joined message of awareness-raising and action against forces against climate change with the premiere of climate change through the campaign “El cambio Before the Flood, produced by Leonardo DiCaprio climático afecta más a quienes tienen menos”, on and Martin Scorsese, and directed by Fisher Stevens. the occasion of the Marrakech Climate Change ConThe goal was to send out a warning to the world on ference. The awareness-raising campaign consisted the state of the environment and the fight against of airing a spot on Neox, as well as coverage of the climate change. conference on laSexta news shows. For its part, the website hazteeco.es created a specific section for this cause and the Neox programme Hazte Eco devoted a special programme to it. ATRESMEDIA ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 34 Mission, vision and values Mission Creativity: We encourage the creative development of our employees, promoting artistic freedom and Broadcast of varied, innovative and high quality news freedom of thought and respecting the democratic and entertainment programs that respond to our and cultural values of society. stakeholders in order to win their trust and thereby ensure the leadership position and sustainability of Long-term vision: We work to create a corporate the Group. project that is the leader in the audio-visual industry and endeavours to move closer to the future by creating it. Vision Innovation: We promote the creation of new ideas, To be the leading multimedia communications group products, services and practices that provide value with a valuable and positive contribution to the to the Company and society. society in which we operate. Leadership: We motivate and encourage our employees to work on their own development and that of Values the organisation, giving them the strength and confidence to help the Company achieve its business Commitment: We strive to make a valuable contribugoals. tion to society, creating social awareness campaigns that resolve problems and generate a positive change. Teamwork: We promote a culture based on establishing trust and respect between the Company and its Quality: We work on continuously improving our employees. We empower them and encourage them activities, developing excellent products in both form to participate in decision-making processes, based on and content, aimed at meeting the needs and expecthe principles of delegation and responsibility. tations of our audiences. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 35 Financial results Atresmedia reported excellent results in 2016. It a varied and competitive range of programming with achieved its highest ever revenues; higher even than attractive content that has resulted in impressive those reported in 2007 when the conventional adveraudience figures. tising market was 34 % bigger than it is today. Thanks to the strong performance of all its media and platThe Division’s financial results improved as a result forms, the Company’s net revenues, EBITDA and net in 2016: profit all increased compared to 2016. • Net revenue totalled 909.5 million euros, up 6.1 % The advertising market in conventional media was on the 857.4 million euros reported for 2015. worth a total of 5,234.7 million euros, up 4.3 % on the • EBITDA for the year totalled 169.4 million euros, previous year, according to Infoadex. an increase of 26.9 % on 2015 and with a margin on net revenue of 18.6 %. • Net revenue totalled 1,021.1 million euros, up 5.2 % on the 970.2 million euros reported for 2015. • EBITDA for the year totalled 201.9 million Atresmedia Radio euros,with a margin on net revenue of 19.8 % compared with 17.0 % in 2015. The Radio Division of the Company has released • Net profit for the year increased by 30.1 % to solid results despite the lower growth shown by the 129.2 million euros. advertising radio market. The strength of the grid of • The distributed economic value in the year the radio channels, renewed in 2015, together with amounted to 738.7 million euros. the cost control, make Atresmedia Radio the most profitable radio company in Spain, with an EBITDA Margin on sales of 24 %. Atresmedia Televisión • Net revenue totalled 82.2 million euros, down The revenues generated by Atresmedia’s Television 8.6 % on the 89.9 million euros reported for 2015. Division increased markedly in the year; in fact, it • As costs were contained to almost the same reported its highest ever revenues despite operating extent by which revenues fell, EBITDA for the in a market that has shrunk by 39 % since its peak in year totalled 19.7 million euros. 2007. Although it operates one channel fewer than • The EBITDA margin on Net Revenues of the Radio its main competitor, it has succeeded in developing Division maintained the same level of 2015: 24 %. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 36 Shareholders Structure Grupo Planeta De Agostini its activities from the historical editorial business, -the company is present in over 30 countries and publishes in 13 languagesto the diversification and international areas, fruit of the strategy implemented in 1997. In December 2016 Grupo Planeta De Agostini restructured its investment in Atresmedia, and the company 41.7 % Grupo Pasa Cartera S.A.U. is now the direct holder of the Company’s shares. RTL Group Grupo Planeta De Agostini is the result of a strategic alliance between Grupo Planeta and De Agostini. The group’s aim is to secure its leading position in the publishing world, in new sectors of the economy and, in particular, in the audiovisual media industry. 18.65 % Grupo Planeta is Spain’s largest family-owned publishing and communications group and a leading provider in the areas of culture, education, information and audiovisual entertainment. Since the foundation of Editorial Planeta in Barcelona in 1949, the Group, currently headed by José Creuheras, has combined sound business sense with a great capacity for innoRTL Group S.A. holds its shares in Atresmedia via vation and a decidedly multinational approach. its subsidiary UFA FILM, Gmbh. Since July 2001 Bertelsmann has been the majority shareholder of RTL Grupo Planeta leads the publishing market in Spain Group. and Latin America, is second in the market in France and ranks among the top ten publishing enterprises With 60 television channels and 31 radio stations in 12 worldwide. It owns over 100 publishing imprints that countries, RTL Group is Europe’s leading company in encompass all the literary genres and it boasts a catthe entertainment market. The company, whose head alogue featuring over 15,000 Spanish and foreign office is in Luxembourg, has investments in radio and authors, both classic and contemporary. It is also the television companies in Germany, France, Belgium, the leading education private group in Spain and has Netherlands, Luxembourg, Spain, Hungary, Croatia more than 100,000 students in 88 countries. and Southeast Asia. Its shares are listed on the stock markets of Frankfurt, Brussels and Luxembourg. Grupo Planeta’s international outlook begins with its strong roots in Europe and Latin America. Its presTelevision: The RTL Group is the television company ence in over twenty-five Spanish-, Portugueseand with the greatest number of viewers in Europe. Its French-speaking countries gives it access to a market channels, which include RTL in Germany, M6 in France, of nearly eight-hundred million people worldwide. RTL 4 in the Netherlands and RTL-TVI in Belgium, are viewed by millions of people every day. Grupo De Agostini is an Italian multinational group with operations in publishing, the production and The multinational also has investments in markets distribution of content for television and cinema, such as Hungary (RTL Klub, RTL II and six cable chanand in the financial and insurance sectors. Founded nels), Croatia (RTL Televizija, RTL 2 and RTL Kockica), in 1901, Grupo De Agostini has gradually expanded and in Spain via Atresmedia. In August 2013, RTL and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 37 CBS Studios International announced a joint venture, tising. RTL Group has also invested in Clypd, a pioneer RTL CBS Asia Entertainment Network, to launch two in programmatic TV, and VideoAmp, a platform for pay television channels in Southeast Asia: RTL CBS cross-screen data optimisation. Entertainment HD and RTL CBS Extreme HD. Content: FremantleMedia, RTL’s content production Grupo Imagina division, is one of the largest international producers outside the United States. With operations in 31 countries, it produces over 10,000 hours of programming a year. It is also one of the world’s largest audiovisual rights distributors, selling more than 20,000 hours in 200 countries. 4.23 % Radio: RTL operates radio stations in 6 countries with millions of listeners every day. It owns leading broadcasters in France (RTL) and has holdings in Germany (104.6 RTL and Antenne Bayern), Belgium (Bel RTL and Radio Contact), in Spain, via Atresmedia (Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía FM) and Luxembourg (RTL Radio Lëtzebuerg, Eldoradio). Grupo Imagina has operations throughout the world and is a leading producer and broadcaster of audioDigital: RTL Group has become the leading European visual products and sports events, being one of the media company in on-line video and is ranked among most important audiovisual groups in Europe. Europe’s top four global players in online video. In June 2015, RTL Group founded the RTL Digital Hub Grupo Imagina is shareholder of Atresmedia Corpoto oversee the investments in the multi-channel netración since 31st October 2012, year of the merger of works BroadbandTV and StyleHaul and in SpotX, one Antena 3 with laSexta, through Imagina Media Audioof the leading players in programmatic video advervisual, S.L. AND Mediaproducción, S.L.U. Shareholders Structure Grupo Planeta RTL Group Grupo Imagina De Agostini 18.65 % 4.23 % 41.7 % Treasury Free float shares 35.07 % 0.35 % There were no material changes in the shareholder structure in the year. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 38 G4-17 Atresmedia companies: subsidiaries and associates Corporate structure at 22/02/17 Atresmedia Corporación de Medios de Comunicación, S.A. Antena 3 Multimedia, S.L.U., 100 % Antena 3 Noticias, S.L.U., 100 % Atres Advertising, S.L.U., 100 % Aunia Publicidad Interactiva, S.L., 50 % Guadiana Producciones, S.A.U.,100 % Atres Hub Factory, S.L., 50 % Atresmedia Cine, S.L.U., 100 % Atresmedia Foto, S.L.U., 100 % Atresmedia Música, S.L.U., 100 % Hola Televisión América, S.L., 50 % Hola TV Latam, S.L., 100 % Cordina Planet, S.L.U., 100 % Hola TV US, Llc., 100 % Uniprex, S.A.U., 100 % Antena 3 Televisión Digital Terrestre de Canarias, S.A.U., 100 % Flooxplay, S.L.U., 100 % Canal Media Radio, S.A.U., 100 % Lemac Gestión, S.L., 16.67 % I3 Televisión, S.L., 50 % Mitjans de Cataluña, S.L., 16.666 % Uniprex Televisión, S.L.U., 100 % Uniprex Valencia TV. S.L.U., 100 % Música Aparte, S.A.U., 100 % Uniprex Televisión Digital Terrestre de Andalucía, S.L., 74 % ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 39 Management Structure Corporate Organisation Atresmedia Televisión of Atresmedia General Manager Chief Executive Officer Mr. Javier Bardají Hernando Mr. Silvio González Moreno Corporate General Manager Atresmedia Radio Ms. Patricia Pérez González General Manager Chief Financial Officer Mr. Ramón Osorio de Rebellón Mr. Antonio Manso Marcos Legal Advice Manager Atresmedia Publicidad Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Fernández de Heredia Chairman Regulatory and Institutional Mr. Eduardo Olano Codesido Relationships General Manager Mr. Miguel Langle Barrasa General Manager Mr. José Miguel García Gasco Audit and Process Control Manager Mr. Fernando Costi Pérez Atresmedia Digital Director of Communication Mr. Ignacio Mata Maeso General Manager Ms. Patricia Pérez González Director of Strategy Mr. Arturo Larraínzar Garijo Atresmedia Diversificación General Manager Mr. Javier Nuche Sanz Atresmedia Cine Chairman Mr. Mikel Lejarza Ortiz Fundación Atresmedia General Manager Ms. Carmen Bieger Morales ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 40 The stock market in 2016 and the January 2017, analysts expect GDP to grow by 2.4 % outlook for the economy in 2017. These estimates are slightly higher than the figures published by the IMF (2.3 %) and lower than 2016 was a very good year for the Spanish economy, those published by the Bank of Spain and the Govalthough the stock market did not reflect it. The IBEX ernment (2.5 %). 35 traded at below its opening level throughout the year. It closed at 9,352.10 points, a fall of 2.01 %, The advertising market continued to grow in 2016, making this the second consecutive year that the although in the end not by as much as in 2015. index closed lower than at the start of the year. Other According to Infoadex, the total advertising market European markets performed better, with the major grew in 2016 by 4.3 % to 5,234.85 million euros. The indexes closing up on the year. The US stock markets television advertising market totalled 2,121.9 million were also trading higher at the end of the year than euros, a 5.5 % increase on 2015. at the start. At the date of this report, analysts expect the teleThe economic recovery that began in 2014 continued vision advertising market in 2017 to grow by around throughout 2016. GDP grew in the year by 3.2 %, the 4.7 % to 2,221 million euros. same as in the previous year. A number of factors helped produce this additional growth in the year: an upturn in job growth that gave domestic consumpAtresmedia's shares and share capital tion a strong boost, the ease with which the fiscal tightening process was implemented, the exceptional Atresmedia's shares were trading at 10.39 euros at performance of tourism and falling oil prices and the end of 2016, up 5.6 % on the 2015 closing price. interest rates. The performance of European television companies in general was mixed during the year, with their share According to the macroeconomic forecasts of various prices falling by an average of 3.6 %. bodies, the economy will continue to grow in 2017, albeit more moderately. This is because some of the Television companies' share prices, at least in Spain, aforementioned factors will no longer be supporting are closely linked to trends in the advertising market. growth. Oil prices climbed rapidly at the start of the Atresmedia's shares therefore rose more in the first year and, furthermore, tax increases designed to meet half of the year (when the market grew by 8.4 %) deficit targets for 2017 have now come into effect. than in the second half (when the market grew by These and other factors mean that consumption and just 2.5 %). investment are likely to grow more slowly. At 31 December 2016 the share capital of Atresmedia According to the latest forecasts from the Fundación Corporación was 169.3 million euros, represented by de las Cajas de Ahorros (FUNCAS), published in 225,732,800 shares with a face value of 0.75 euros. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 41 Key figures 2016 ings and telephone conversations with sector analysts and investors. Around 700 contacts in the financial Share capital at 31 December 169,299.6 community were established in the period. (thousands of euros) Number of shares at 31 December 225,732,800 To ensure that they have fast access to clear informaMarket capitalisation at 31 December 2,345.36 tion, the corporate website, www.atresmediacorpor(millions of euros) acion.com, has a special section for shareholders and Share price at 31 December (euros/share) 10.39 investors where price sensitive information, financial High (euros/share) 11.72 results and other key news items are published. Low (euros/share) 7.73 Weighted average price (euros/share) 9.75 Investors can contact the Company at the email Average daily trading volume (shares) 894,246 address ir@atresmedia.com, while non-institutional Average daily trading volume shareholders should write to oficinadelaccionista@ 8,715.0 atresmedia.com. (thousands of euros) Source: Six Telecours Analysts and investors can contact the Company through the Investor Relations department to get direct answers to their questions and concerns about Shareholder and investor relations the sector and about Atresmedia. The issues that generated the most interest last year were the perThe Investor Relations department and the Shareformance of the advertising market (monthly trends holders' Office are responsible for publishing quarand the outlook for 2017), the sectors that spent most terly financial reports, audience data reports and on advertising in each quarter, the impact of new other periodical information. These departments also technologies and new ways of watching television on give details of the market and company news, and the traditional television consumption and their knock-on Group’s financial outlook. effect on advertising spending. During the year Atresmedia's Investor Relations The department's staff also answered questions on department took part in 34 conferences and roadissues such as the Group's cost structure, its other shows in cities including London, Madrid, Paris, Milan divisions (radio, film, diversification) and the ComFrankfurt, Dublin, Nice, New York, Boston, Chicago pany's approach to the new digital world. and Oporto. Investor Relations, meanwhile, with the aim of raising In addition to these trips, the department held the profile of different areas of the Group, organised ongoing and direct meetings, investor group meetsessions with analysts and investors at which the ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 42 heads of the divisions talked about The Company's flagship is content. On the Neox channel, the the main variables affecting the Antena 3, and was its first channel, morning slot, NeoxKidz, is aimed business and answered their queslaunched 26 years ago. It is a genat very young audiences, broadtions. In December it produced a eralist channel that broadcasts casting the top cartoon shows. case study on Atresmedia Radio programmes from a wide range of Nova (2.2 % audience share) is discussing its market, programgenres, with the aim of attracting Atresmedia's channel aimed at ming, outlook and business goals. the widest audiences. News, enterfemale audiences. Its programtainment, drama and sport form ming includes music, cookery, the bulk of its content and provide soap operas and films. Mega is Strategy and the structure for its weekly proone of Atresmedia's newest chanbusiness model gramming. It's audience share in nels, launched in July 2015. Aimed 2016 was 12.8 %, with prime time at adult, male audiences, it prinAtresmedia is the most important commercial audience figures cipally broadcasts foreign series, communications group in Spain, a (the most attractive audience for football, films and documentaries. leader in the television and radio advertisers) of 14.3 %. laSexta It attracted exceptional audience markets with an ever-increasing Is the Group's second channel levels right from the start, and had presence in the digital market and with an audience share of 7.1 %. It an average audience share of 1.8 % in businesses that are not entirely merged with Atresmedia in 2012; at the end of 2016. Atreseries is dependent on traditional advertissince then its audience figures the group's youngest channel. It ing. All these media are marketed have increased year-on-year. One broadcasts Spanish drama series by Atresmedia Publicidad. of its prime focuses is informative from Antena 3's archives and programming: in addition to two highly successful foreign series. Atresmedia Televisión is the news programmes it broadcasts In 2016 its audience share was Group's largest division, accounta daily informative and political 0.77 %, with 1.00 % of commercial ing for 89.0 % of its total revenues. talk show and a weekly special target audiences. information programme. Neox is It operates six free-to-air channels, the most important of the comWith these six channels, each with each with its own distinct personplementary channels, with a 2.5 % its own clearly defined profile ality, which top the rankings for audience share. Aimed at young and target audiences, Atresmetheir respective target audiences: audiences, it was launched in 2005 dia Televisión is today a widely Antena 3, laSexta, Neox, Nova, and is now an established brand recognised brand with outstandMega and Atreseries. for viewers seeking more modern ing, high-quality and varied proATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 43 gramming for a plurality of audiences, that respects its viewers and endeavours to bring them the best information and entertainment products. All of Atresmedia Televisión's channels aim to inform and entertain, based on a clear commitment to truthfulness and quality, which continues to win the support of the public, who trust the wide range of content offered on Atresmedia's channels to meet their entertainment and information needs. Atresmedia Televisión's channels achieved a combined audience share of 27.1 % in 2016, three percentage points Atresmedia Radio generates 8.0 % of the Group's more than in 2015. revenues and is Spain's third-largest radio broadcaster in terms of listener numbers. It operates three Revenues in the television business are highly cyclical distinctive stations with a combined average of 4.2 and closely linked to trends in the advertising market. million listeners in 2016 (third 2016 EGM wave, rolling Being aware of the cyclical nature of its main source average). Onda Cero, with 1.92 million listeners, is of revenues, Atresmedia works constantly to maxSpain's third-ranking non-specialist radio station. Its imise them. Its sales team analyses every campaign, programming was extensively restructured in 2015, customer and programme to determine the best changing part of its content and some of its bestcommercial strategy. This, combined with attractive known voices. After many years with no changes, the programming, has enabled Atresmedia Televisión to station is entering a new phase with exciting plans achieve a share of the television advertising market for the future, without losing sight of the values it has of over 42 %, making it the leading operator in the always been known for: credibility, quality and being Spanish market, and a Power Ratio of 1.6, the highest in touch with its audience. of all the Free to Air Televisions in Spain. All this makes Atresmedia Television the top TV player in Spain. Europa FM is the third-ranking music station and the station of choice for listeners who enjoy not only the latest music but that of the last few decades. It had an average of 1.95 million listeners in the year. Its top programme in 2016 was once more the morning show Levántate y Cárdenas, which over 1.1 million people wake up to each morning. Melodía FM Is the Group's third station. Relaunched in 2014, its target audience is more mature than that of Europa FM. Its listener figures have increased in every single month since its relaunch, and at the end of 2016 it had 286,000 listeners. Atresmedia Publicidad: Atresmedia is supported by a strong and experienced sales force. Is the biggest seller of multimedia advertising in the Spanish market with a 19 % share of total spending in conventional media. This division markets the advertising services of all the Group's media, offering tailored solutions ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 44 for customers across all platforms. Its strategy is of vertical portals, building up the range of content based on a customer-focused approach, innovation, offered through cooperation agreements, enabling it efficiency and profitability. This strategy ensures that to reach new audiences and strengthen the Atrescustomers, who seek to get the most out of their media brand. Atresmedia's Temáticos&Partners is investments, trust Atresmedia to provide them with the largest group of specialist websites belonging to the support needed to ensure that their campaigns a Spanish media company, comprising 13 specialist reach their target audiences at the most suitable portals offered by Atresmedia and seven cooperation times for the best price. agreements with Spain's top publishers and native internet media. Atresmedia Digital: Is one of Atresmedia's most important and fastest-growing divisions. Created to One of Atresmedia Digital's flagship products is develop Atresmedia's on-line strategy, at the end of Atresplayer, an on-line video platform allowing 2016 it was the clear leader in the audiovisual sector viewers to watch television live or on catch-up. Users on the internet. can access this season's content for free, or pay a monthly subscription to access all content. This division is building its strategy around four key areas: the websites of the Group's television chanIn 2016 Atresmedia continued to strengthen its posinels and radio stations, specialist websites, full-length tion as the leading on-line platform for viewing telvideos (Atresplayer) and short videos (Flooxer). evision. 660 million videos were viewed throughout the year and the platform had over 4.8 million users In 2016 monthly unique visitor figures for Atresmea month. dia Digital's websites totalled 24 million, up 14 % on the monthly average in 2015, being leader in the Atresmedia's commitment to varied, high-qualsector. This growth is due to the quality of the content ity content is the key to the platform's success. In offered on the Group's television and radio websites addition to the Group's drama and entertainment and. In addition, in 2016 the television websites were content, the strong performance of football broadredesigned to make them more usable and easy to casting under the Champions Total banner (the final navigate, in line with new ways of consuming content, between Real Madrid and Atlético de Madrid was the and to give them a more attractive look. most viewed live broadcast on Atresplayer in 2016 with 300,000 users) was fundamental to building In November 2016 Atresmedia Digital launched its Atresplayer's audiences. new strategy for specialist sites, extending its range ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 45 Over a million users a month enjoyed the short videos • Finally, the Music rights management division offered on the Flooxer platform in 2016. In just one manages music distribution rights through year the platform has grown to host content from music publishing company IRRADIA, and the 200 creators in 450 formats and with over 15,000 exploitation of recording rights under the videos. Atresmúsica music label, launched in 2015. In this short period of time, Flooxer has become a Atresmedia Cine is the Group's film production divigo-to platform for users, content creators and brands, sion. Every year it produces or invests in the prodeveloping a range of high quality content across all duction of feature length films to comply with the genres and formats appealing to all types of audience: requirements of the General Audiovisual Law, under humour, lifestyle, action, drama, children's content, which television broadcasters must invest part of film, cookery, TV and music, etc. their revenues in the film industry. Through Atresmedia Cine, the Group has turned an obligation into an Atresmedia Diversificación: This division was created opportunity, releasing over 110 titles to date. In 2016 to further Atresmedia's ambitions for growth. It brings the division co-produced 12 feature length films, all of together the Group's businesses that are not linked which were ranked among the top 40 films released to advertising, allowing it to generate additional revein the year, accounting for 38.4 % of the box office nues. The businesses included under the Atresmedia receipts for Spanish films. Diversificación umbrella include the Internacional, Media for Equity, New Businesses and Music rights management division. • Atresmedia Internacional was set up to unify the strategies and efforts of the Group's three international channels (Antena 3 Internacional, Atreseries and ¡Hola!TV) and, especially, its distribution, communication and marketing activities. The creation of this new division resulted in the number of subscriber households increasing by over 40 % in the year, to 45 million. • Through its Media for Equity business, Atresmedia invests in companies it considers to have great potential, swapping capital for Atresmedia creates, generates, manages, advertising space. In less than three years, distributes and markets content across Atresmedia has become an established player in every possible platform, making it the most the Spanish risk capital sector, as a co-investor in important communications group in Spain. some of its main funds. The Group has invested in more than ten high potential start-ups, giving these new businesses the important boost represented by the opportunity to advertise on the Group's television channels and radio stations (Job Today, Promofarma, Fintonic, Hundred Rooms, etc.). • The New Businesses division is responsible for the commercial management of the Group's brands and for seeking new business opportunities in segments outside the advertising sector. The lines operated by the division include licences and merchandising, on-line games and Tualbum.com. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 46 Corporate governance RELEVANT ASPECT In 2016, Atresmedia has taken significant steps to improve the organisation's transparency and corporate governance, carrying out reforms to adapt to new developments in the legislation and the Code of Good Governance, approved in February 2015. Atresmedia's Corporate Governance System is comprised of the company's governing and management bodies, along with the legal provisions and internal regulations that have been approved in order to ensure its correct operation and the control of these bodies, as well as an appropriate relationship with all of the stakeholders: employees, shareholders, investors, public administrations, advertisers, viewers, etc. System of corporate governance Delegated Committee Appointments and Remuneration Committee Bodies General Meeting of Board of Directors Shareholders Audit and Control Committee Regulatory Compliance Committee Corporate Enterprises Act, Securities Market Act, Good Governance Code for Listed External regulations Companies, SCIFF, etc. Rules Internal regulations Bylaws, regulations, code of conduct, corporate policies, internal protocols. SAP-GRC system, enquries and complaints channel, regulatory Control Tools Risk management system for conduct in issues of the securities market, etc. mechanisms and control model Compliance and crime prevention model ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 47 The system is based on Atresmedia's Corporate promote the common interest of the organisation and Governance Policy, the main objective of which is to its stakeholders, as reflected in its principles. Principles governing Atresmedia's Corporate Governance Policy 1. To define a corporate governance system that is respectful of the legal, general and self-imposed regulations. 2. To pay attention to good governance recommendations and incorporate them into its system, provided that this is possible and that they are in keeping with the social interest. 3. To ensure the fair treatment of shareholders, on the basis of strict compliance with the regulations on market abuse. 4. To facilitate the exercising of shareholders' rights (rights of information, effective participation and voting, etc.). 5. To promote communication and the active participation of stakeholders in the company, with a view to creating shared value (shareholders, investors, advertisers, employees, etc.). 6. To ensure the existence of the appropriate procedures for selecting directors, which guarantee a reasonable balance and diversity in the Board of Directors when carrying out its mission. 7. To ensure the quality and effectiveness of the operation and performance of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Company's Chief Executive and the Board's Committees. 8. To establish control and compliance mechanisms for the procedures established for the supervision and monitoring of the corporate governance model. 9. Utmost transparency, ensuring the timely and accurate reporting of all matters relating to the Company, including the financial situation, ownership and governance of the Company and corporate responsibility. Atresmedia's governing and management bodies In 2016 Atresmedia has increased the presence of ernance and the target that Atresmedia had set in its independent directors on the Board and its ComDirectors' Selection Policy for 2020. mittees. Ms. Mónica Ribé has joined the Audit and Control Committee, which therefore has a majority of Another new development this year has been a independent members, and Ms. Patricia has joined the change in the Chairman's directorship status, now Executive Committee, which in terms of the category being classified as executive. As a result of this of directors appointed has a similar composition to change, Ms. Patricia Estany has been appointed as the Board of Directors, in accordance with RecomCoordinating Director. In addition to the legally estabmendation 37 of the Code of Good Governance. lished duties, she has been assigned all of the duties contained in article 15 of the Board of Directors Regulations, whose content is adapted to RecommenComposition of the Board of Directors dation 34 of the Code of Good Governance. These duties are: 55 % 18 % 46 % 23 % • To request the convening of the Board of Directors or the inclusion of new items on the agenda of a Board meeting already convened. • To coordinate and bring together the nonexecutive directors and lead, where appropriate, the regular evaluation of the Chairman of the 27 % 31 % Board of Directors. • To chair Board meetings in the absence of the 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 Chairman and Vice-Chairmen. • To report the concerns of the non-executive  Executive  Independent  Proprietary directors. • To keep in contact with investors and shareholders in order to gather their points of Moreover, with the appointment of Ms. Mónica Ribé view for the purposes of forming an opinion on another step has been taken towards gender diversity their concerns. in the organisation. Female directors now represent • To coordinate the Chairman's succession 30 % of the Board of Directors, which allows it to planning. meet Recommendation 14 of the Code of Good GovATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 48 Board of Directors Mr. José Mr. Maurizio Mr. Silvio Ms. Patricia Mr. Josep María Creuheras Carlotti González Estany Benet Chairman Vice-chairman Chief Executive Officer Coordinating Director Member Mr. Mauricio Ms. Aurora Mr. Marco Ms. María Mr. Elmar Casals Catà Drago Entrecanales Heggen Member Member Member Member Member Mr. José Manuel Ms. Mónica Mr. Nicolas Mr. Manuel Ms. Margarita Lara Ribé de Tavernost de la Viuda González Member Member Member Secretary Vice-Secretary Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Vice-chairman: Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Chief Executive Officer: Mr. Silvio González Coordinating Director: Ms. Patricia Estany Members: Mr. Josep María Benet, on behalf of Imagina Media Audiovisual, S.L. Mr. Mauricio Casals Ms. Aurora Catá Mr. Marco Drago Ms. María Entrecanales Mr. Elmar Heggen Mr. José Lara Ms. Mónica Ribé Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Vice-Secretary: Ms. Margarita González ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 49 Executive Committee Chairman: Mr. José Creuheras Chief Executive Officer: Mr. Silvio González Coordinating Director: Ms. Patricia Estany Members: Mr. Maurizio Carlotti Mr. Marco Drago Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Secretary Mr. Manuel de la Viuda Audit and Control Committee Chairwoman: Ms. Aurora Catà Vice-Chairman: Mr. Elmar Heggen Members: Ms. María Entrecanales Mr. José Lara Ms. Mónica Ribé Secretary: Ms. Margarita González Appointments and Remuneration Committee Chairwoman: Ms. Patricia Estany (Coordinating Director) Vice-Chairman: Mr. Nicolas de Tavernost Members: Mr. Mauricio Casals Ms. Aurora Catá Ms. María Entrecanales Secretary: Mr. Manuel de la Viuda *Composition as of 31 December 2016 Remuneration of the Board of Directors The Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting held in 2016 made limited changes to the directors' remuneration policy approved in the 2015 meeting and which gave rise to a remuneration plan with an allocation of shares aimed at certain directors and managers of Atresmedia Corporación. This plan establishes a long-term incentive linked to the organisation's performance over a three year period and to meeting two financial targets. This is only aimed at executive directors, as recommended in the Code of Good Governance. The changes made to the policy and details of the plan appear in the Annual directors' remuneration report approved by the Board of Directors on 22 February 2017, which has been sent to the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (National Securities Market Commission CNMV) and is available on its website and the corporate website of Atresmedia. Reforms of the internal regulations In 2016, Atresmedia carried out new reforms to its Corporate Governance regulations. Some of these are the result of legal requirements, as Law 22/2015 of 20 July on Account Audits introduced amendments to the Capital Companies Act with regard to the competencies and composition of the Audit and Control Committee. Others have been carried out to improve Atresmedia's level of compliance with the Code of Good Governance. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 50 In this regard, it has amended the Board of Directors Regulations in order to establish limits and rules about the number of boards to which a director can belong, following Recommendation 25 of the CGG. It has also approved a new internal code of conduct regarding the securities market, in order to adapt to the new European regulation on market abuse that entered into force in July 2016. These amendments are in addition to those already carried out by the Organisation in 2015 which involved reforming all of the corporate governance regulations and approving new policies for corporate governance, corporate responsibility, directors' selection and communication with shareholders and investors, among others. The regulations comprising Atresmedia's Corporate Governance System are as follows: • Bylaws – Action protocol in the – Protocol for analysing and • General Shareholders' Meeting event of a breach of the approving related-party Regulations Regulatory compliance and transactions • Board of Directors Regulations crime prevention model – Protocol for compliance by • Internal Code of Conduct – Disciplinary system of the Fundación Atresmedia with in matters relating to the Regulatory compliance and all obligations deriving from Securities Market crime prevention model the Ley de Prevención de • Code of Conduct – Regulatory procedure for Blanqueo de Capitales y de • Regulatory Compliance the queries and complaints Financiación del Terrorismo Committee Regulations channel (Law on the Prevention • Electronic Shareholders' Forum – Protocol on the acceptance of Money Laundering and Regulations and giving of gifts Financing Terrorism) • Corporate policies: – Risk protocol related to the – Action protocol for – General Corporate possible use of audiovisual transactions with special tax Governance policy material without rights implications – Policy on communication – Action protocol of the • Other protocols with shareholders, investors Committee to comply – Notifications management and voting advisers with the Ley General de protocol – Tax policy Comunicación Audiovisual – Management protocol for – Remuneration policy (General Law on Powers of Attorney and – Directors' selection policy Audiovisual Communication Electronic Signatures – General corporate CLGCA) in relation to – Action protocol against responsibility policy advertising criminal risk • Policies and Protocols of the – Protocol on the use of – Directors' recruitment Regulatory Compliance and computer resources protocol Control Model: ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 51 All of the regulations forming part of Atresmedia's ing to breaches or partial breaches provided in the Corporate Governance System are available on the 2015 Corporate Governance Report. The objective corporate website www.atresmediacorporacion.com, was to assess whether these clarifications fit the criin the Shareholders and Investors/Corporate Governteria established by the guide, according to which ance section. companies must clearly indicate the Code of Good Governance recommendations that they are not folThe Group's internal protocols and procedures are lowing and provide, in each case, an explanation of available to all employees on the corporate Intranet. the reasons for this and measures adopted in order to ensure that the organisation's activity continues to be consistent with the objectives of the RecommenGood Governance and transparency: dation and the Code. initiatives of improvement in 2016 As a result of this analysis, Atresmedia's Board of In keeping with the Guía técnica de buenas prácticas Directors, at the request of its Chairman and in collabpara la aplicación del principio “cumplir o explicar” oration with the Board Committees and its Secretary, (Technical guide on good practices for the application has approved some improvements, many of which of the comply or explain principle) issued by the have already been reflected in the 2016 Annual CorCNMV in July 2016, Atresmedia decided to review, porate Governance Report, available on the website in the second half of the year, the explanations relatof the CNMV and Atresmedia. Legal principle/ recommendation Implementation Regulation or recommendation CGG date Action The Board of Directors has Inclusion of suitable explanations about resolved to deal in more depth Recommendation the Corporate Governance activity in the 14/12/2016 with this matter in the speech 3 of the CGG Chairman's speech to the General Meeting. given by the Chairman at Ordinary General Meetings. General Meeting The Board of Directors has Retransmission of the General approved the retransmission Recommendation Shareholders' Meeting through the 14/12/2016 through the website of the 2017 7 of the CGG website. Ordinary General Meeting and subsequent ones. The 2016 Ordinary General Shareholders' Meeting approved Selection and appointment of new the appointment of the Mandatory independent directors and their independent director Ms. Mónica Legal principle 20/04/2016 appointment to the Audit Committee, so Ribé, who joined the Audit and 529m of the LSC that they form a majority. Control Committee, which now has a majority of independent members. Appointment of at least one independent The Board of Directors has agreed director to the Executive Committee, so Recommendation to appoint the independent 23/11/2016 that its composition is similar to that of the 37 of the CGG director Ms. Patricia Estany to the Board of Directors. Executive Committee. With the appointment of Ms. Board of In 2020, female directors must represent Recommendation Mónica Ribé, female directors Directors and 20/04/2016 30 % of the Board of Directors. 14 of the CGG account for more than 30 % of Committees the total. The Board of Directors has To establish a maximum number of Boards Recommendation implemented a maximum limit 23/11/2016 to which a director can belong. 14 of the CGG and rules for its application (art. 35 of the Board Regulations). With the appointment of Ms. Independent directors must represent at Mónica Ribé, Atresmedia has 30 % least one third of the total, as there is one Recommendation 20/04/2016 independent directors, a figure shareholder who controls more than 30 % 17 of the CGG that is close to the recommended of the share capital. 33 %. Variable remuneration of executive Recommendation Only executive directors have this directors through the delivery of shares or 23/11/2016 47 of the CGG type of remuneration. financial instruments linked to its value. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 52 Legal principle/ recommendation Implementation Regulation or recommendation CGG date Action The Board of Directors has agreed to publish this report with the To publish a report on the auditor's Recommendation 14/12/2016 documentation made available independence on the website. 6 of the CGG to shareholders for the Ordinary General Meeting. Transparency The Board of Directors has agreed to publish this report with the To publish a report on related-party Recommendation 14/12/2016 documentation made available transactions on the website. 6 of the CGG to shareholders for the Ordinary General Meeting. The Board of Directors has agreed Involvement of an external adviser in Recommendation for an independent specialist firm the annual assessment of the Board of 23/11/2016 36 of the CGG to advise it on the assessment Directors for 2016. Other The Board of Directors has agreed Meeting of the external auditor with that as of 2017 the external the entire Board of Directors to inform Recommendation auditor, who so far has attended them about the work carried out and the 23/11/2016 42 of the CGG the Audit and Control Committee evolution of the company's accounting and five times a year, will also attend risk situation the Board at least once a year. In 2015, and for the third consecutive year, there favourably reported on the independence and was an assessment of the Board of Directors and its suitability of the firm Deloitte to assume this Committees, setting out the conclusions from this task. On that same date, the Board of Directors in a report that contained an Action Plan for 2016. approved the involvement of this firm in the The Secretary of the Board of Directors analysed evaluation process, which will culminate with a the improvement proposals in this plan. A selection report to be approved in 2017. of those implemented during the year are included 2. Communication with the directors has been below: intensified in relation to corporate responsibility initiatives and the execution of the programmes 1. The system for evaluating the Board of of Fundación Atresmedia. The Corporate Directors was reviewed, taking into account General Manager attended the Audit and Control Recommendation 36 of the CGG. The Committee in order to explain the Annual and Appointments and Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Report, and the General meeting held on 23 November 2016 proposed, to Manager of Fundación Atresmedia attended the the Board of Directors, the hiring of an external Board of Directors on the same date that the adviser to review its activity in 2016. It also Board approved the 2017 Action Plan. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 53 Evolución seguimiento Código de Buen Gobierno 58 56 48  Compliant  Partially compliant  Not compliant  Not applicable 6 4 6 6 4 2 2 1 1 * 2017 compliance scenario after the improvements approved in 2016 2015 IAGC 2016 IAGC 2016 Proposals 3. There has been an intensification of the Risk and Compliance Management Model participation of directors in matters related to the control and management of the Group's risks. Its supervision is the responsibility of the Audit and Control Committee, to which regular reports have been submitted on the updating of the Atresmedia has implemented a Risk and Compliance GRC system, mainly on the incorporation of risks Management Model which allows it to identify and and controls related to compliance and crime assess the possible risks from its activity and mitigate prevention. them by implementing specific controls and action 4. The Secretary of the Board of Directors has plans. provided information to the directors on the legal reforms affecting the Group during the This Model is updated regularly depending on the year, paying special attention to those related to evolution of the Group's businesses, the materialisacorporate governance and market abuse. tion of risks and new regulatory developments. 5. Continuous monitoring was carried out on the application of corporate policies, through Its main objectives are: controls associated with these in the GRC system and their reporting and application. Direct • To ensure uniformity in the definition, awareness of the directors from the different identification and measurement of risks across all business areas has been encouraged, through a of the Group's businesses. greater presence of the directors in the Board • To create and maintain an internal control of Directors meetings. In 2016, the General environment. Managers of Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia • To have tools and indicators that facilitate the Radio, Atresmedia Televisión, Antena 3 Noticias assessment and identification of new potential and Fundación Atresmedia have attended these risks, identifying these and allowing for the meetings. introduction of the necessary controls and their updating. The conclusion of this internal analysis is that the • To set policies, rules and procedures for action degree of fulfilment and application of the proposals for the business areas of the Group's different from the 2016 Action Plan is very high. However, this companies. will continue to be taken into account as a reference • To check that everyone related to Atresmedia for future years and, to the extent that proposals are complies with the rules and regulations relevant not fully executed they will form part of the Action to all of the Group's businesses. Plan for 2017. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 54 Roles and responsibilities The management and final responsibility for the Risk Moreover, the Regulatory Compliance Committee and and Compliance Management Model lies with the the Internal Auditing and Process Control DepartBoard of Directors. ment regularly inform the Audit Committee of all new developments. The Audit and Control Committee is responsible for supervising the Model's operation and for reportOther responsibilities related to the Risk and Control ing on this to the Board of Directors so that it can Management System are distributed as follows: approve or amend, as appropriate, the action plans to be implemented. Business units and • Responsible for controls, evaluation and supervision. corporate units • Compliance with external and internal regulations (policies, standards and procedures). • Responsible for most of the financial controls and the Internal Control System for Financial Reporting (ICFR). Finance department • Compliance with policies and standards related to budgets, accounts and financial statements, and financial reporting. Legal affairs • Responsible for most of the Compliance and Corporate Governance controls. department/board • Information on new regulations that may apply to the Group or any of its business areas. secretary Internal auditing • Coordinates and manages the Risk and Control Management Model and process control • Designs policies and procedures and identifies new controls. department • Tests controls and reports to the Audit and Control Committee. • Chairs the Regulatory Compliance Committee. This is an independent external professional, requiring a Director of regulatory strong ability for decision-making and taking action given that they are external to the Group's organisational compliance (RCC) structure. The person the Board of Directors has appointed to this position is Mr. Pedro Ramón y Cajal, who has been a director at Atresmedia and has extensive legal training and experience in compliance models. • The body that monitors the Group's regulatory compliance. Regulatory compliance • Responsible for monitoring the Code of Conduct, Queries and Complaints Channel and Internal Regulation committee (RCC) regarding the securities market. Head of criminal • Responsible for implementing and monitoring the Group's Criminal Compliance Model. compliance • Responsible for the operation of the Queries and Complaints Channel. Key components of the Model The Risk and Compliance Management Model at Grupo Atresmedia has several key components: Regulatory Compliance Model / compliance Definition of the model’s Definition and evaluation of Evaluation of risks objectives and variables controls Internal control Continuous improvement ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 55 Internal control tools The Atresmedia Risk Management System has various tools that improve internal control and facilitate management: Internal Control System for the SAP GRC System Preparation and Issuance of Financial Policies, Protocols and Procedures Reporting (ICFR) Other computer control tools (e.g. Purchasing Management System, Internal Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Contract Proposal Management System, Quality System, etc.) Queries and complaints channel Regulatory Compliance Committee Head of Criminal Compliance New developments in 2016 In 2016, Atresmedia has strengthened both its Internal Risks and Control Model and the Regulatory Compliance and Crime Prevention Model with various improvements. • Training on the Criminal Compliance Model. Two specific types of training have been carried out: – Face-to-face training for the Senior Management and middle managers, a total of 85 people with the presence of all of the Group's directors, on the most relevant new developments in the area of criminal responsibility as well as its adaptation to Atresmedia's Criminal Compliance Model. The training was given by an external expert with the collaboration of the staff responsible for compliance at Atresmedia. A questionnaire to evaluate the knowledge acquired was also completed. – An online course on criminal responsibility was launched, aimed at all Atresmedia employees, more than 1,800 professionals. The training was structured into five modules in order to be able to address the main criminal risks of each business and organisational area of Atresmedia. During 2016, more than 80 % of the staff took the course and completed the assessment questionnaire. • In the SAP.GRC System, the control of risks associated with corporate criminal responsibility was strengthened with the addition of new specific controls related to the Criminal and Reputational Compliance Model. • In keeping with the commitment to continuously improve the Model, different controls were reviewed and adapted in order to adjust them to the organisational changes and evolution of the businesses of Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 56 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Corporate Responsibility: profitable and committed OUR VISION 1 To achieve a profitable and sustainable long-term business model. 2 To transmit the corporate policies and values to the entire value chain. 3 To listen and respond to the stakeholders. CR scorecard 2014 2015 2016 Economical sustainability Net income (millions of €) 883.23 970.2 1,021.1  Economic value distributed (millions of €) 657.9 698.1 738.7  Financial aid received from governments (millions of €) 7.4 6.4 7.8  Human Resources Percentage of women in the workforce 49.9 49.5 49.5 = Permanent employment 81.0 78.0 76.5  Turnover index 3.2 2.7 5.3  Hours of training per employee 22.0 26.2 22.1  Investment in training (€) 348,661 406,055 727,308  Accident severity index 0.14 0.06 0.05  Society Income provided by Atresmedia to the Fundación Atresmedia (€) 300,000 500,000 500,000 = Free campaigns for NGOs and non-profit organisations (€) 6,538,228 6,022,293 11,968,757  Volunteering hours 1,722 2,102 2,533  Funds contributed to NGOs through Atresmedia programmes (€) 171,809 206,726 164,453  Percentage of programming subtitled 72.71 78.65 80.18  Environment Electricity consumption (kWh / employee) 15,171 15,272 14,650  Water consumption (m / employee) 3 31.5 28 24.5  Emission of scope 1 greenhouse gases (equivalent tonnes of CO2 / employee) 1.82 0.81 0.77  Environmental investment (€) 89,490 111,481 120,495  ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 57 G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Cross-cutting approach In order to achieve this profitable and committed and management business model, Atresmedia has designed a CR e-Strategy that is guided by the corporate values Atresmedia understands Corporate Responsibility of commitment, independence, quality, creativity, (CR) as the creation of a business model that, in addilong-term vision, innovation, leadership and teamtion to contributing value to the Company and ensurwork. In turn, the strategy is implemented through ing its necessary profitability and competitiveness, a number of areas of action based on transparency also contributes in an active, valuable, recognisable in management, responsibility in communication, the and positive manner to the progress of society, and satisfaction of stakeholders and listening to them, a generates trust and support among the main stakecommitment to innovation, the attraction and retenholders: audience, employees, advertisers, investors, tion of talent and the protection of the environment. suppliers and society in general. Teamwork Commitment Independence Leadership Values Quality Innovation Long-term Creativity vision CR at Atresmedia has been evolving since it was first 1. To produce and broadcast responsible news and implemented in the Company in 2004. Initially it had entertainment content for all of society. a more philanthropic nature and focused on launching 2. To promote high quality, honest and ethical specific social actions. However, it has evolved over advertising. time and now is of a stable, strategic and cross-cut3. To support the employees as the Company's ting nature within the organisation, following a more main asset. proactive and broader approach. 4. To contribute to the progress and development of society. In line with the Group's current commitment to CR, in 5. To minimise its environmental impact and 2015 Atresmedia incorporated the CSR recommendaraise awareness in society about caring for the tions of the Code of Good Governance and designed environment. a new general CR policy, approved by the Board of 6. To strengthen corporate governance. Directors and supervised by the Audit and Control 7. To transmit its corporate policies and values to Committee, which identifies and describes the comthe entire value chain. mitments of the Group. 8. To establish transparent relations with stakeholders. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 58 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Members of the Atresmedia Corporate Responsibility Committee. Atresmedia involves the main internal governance and control bodies in the management of CR, ensuring that it is applied across the organisation: Board of Directors Approval of the CR report and CR policy Audit and Control Committee Supervision of the general CR policy and monitoring of CR actions and objectives Dialogue with Stakeholders Advertisers impact Audiences General Corporate Division Shareholders Regulatory Compliance Committee Management and definition of the CR strategy Employees Code of Conduct Development of the general CR policy Suppliers Reports Channel Definition of CR objectives Regulators expectations CR scorecard Society Competition Corporate Responsibility Committee Advisory and informative body (HR, Operations Management, Internal Audit, Corporate Governance, Advertising, Radio Content, Television Content, News, Fundación Atresmedia) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 59 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21 Responding to stakeholders Atresmedia has set itself the objective of giving specific responses to the needs and expectations of its stakeholders, and therefore it strives to maintain an active dialogue with all of them. For this reason, Atresmedia has several specific communication channels, including different corporate e-mail addresses, newsletters for customers and the audience, surveys, focus groups and a large number of social network profiles. The Group is aware of the importance of identifying the most significant economic, social and environmental aspects for its priority stakeholders. To do this Atresmedia has been conducting specific studies since 2012 which have involved representatives of its stakeholders, both internal and external. These analyses have mainly included surveys focused on a wide sample of representatives (over 3,000) and focus groups aimed at collecting opinions first-hand. The results of these studies have identified “quality of the content”, “social action” and “child protection” as aspects of extremely high priority for the Group. These already form part of Atresmedia's Corporate Responsibility strategy and will continue to be strengthened in upcoming action plans. Matrix of important factors Very low Low Average High Very high Transparency Staff Quality of Development content Very high Social Action Child Protection Strategic lines and objectives of the Group Regulatory Satisfaction of Responsible Advertising compliance Control Advertisers High Mechanisms Impact for Atresmedia Freedom of Editorial expression independence Average Cost management Advertiser Advertising Independence Quality Governing Bodies Low Shareholder Composition Very low Importance for the Stakeholders The material issues have been defined using the indices in the GRI – G4 Guide. The prioritisation of the important (material) issues for Atresmedia is determined by the relevance and likelihood of the impact of these issues on the business (both positive and negative), which in turn are closely related to Atresmedia's ability to manage the expectations of its stakeholders and create value for society. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 60 Outstanding initiatives in 2016 Atresmedia, the audiovisual group with the best reputation according to the 2016 Rep Trak España study Atresmedia rises to 18th position in the Reporta 2016 Atresmedia is the audiovisual company with the best report and is the media organisation with the best public reputation among Spanish consumers in terms of financial information results, supply of products and services, integrity, citizenship, leadership, innovation and work environment, according to The Reporta 2016 report, published by DEVA, assesses the the figures published in the 2016 Rep Trak España study. quality of the financial and non-financial information of the 113 companies comprising the Madrid Stock Exchange general Atresmedia notably exceeds the performance its main index (IGBM). The study looks at three criteria: transparency, competitors in all of the indicators analysed in this study, relevance and accessibility of the information published. For conducted from 8,084 surveys and 32,000 valuations of 290 the fourth consecutive year, with 73.4 points, Atresmedia companies. is the media company with the best position in the ranking having risen 11 positions compared to 2015, moving from 29th The Group's strong points, according to consumers, are its to 18th position. Atresmedia is also the media company with financial strength, innovation capacity, position of leadership the best ratings in the three assessment criteria. compared to competitor companies, and its supply of news and entertainment content. Atresmedia is once again the platform providing the greatest meeting point between the world of business and sustainability: Sustainable Brands Atresmedia, the first audiovisual communication group to be a partner of Forética Sustainable Brands, of which Atresmedia is once again media partner for the second consecutive year, closed the doors of Atresmedia has signed a partnership agreement with Forética its second edition with over 450 attendees of 30 nationalities through which the audiovisual company has become the first and more than 40 speakers. The event was held in Barcelona communications group to be a partner of one of the leading and was preceded by Sustainable Sunday, a fun day during CSR and sustainability organisations in Spain and Latin which over 4,000 people enjoyed leisure activities and America. With the signing of this partnership agreement the workshops based around sustainability and brands. Group aims to more actively and dynamically promote the Corporate Responsibility strategy within the company, and to The professional Sustainable Brands events are an ideal forum also continue with its positive contribution to society, people for sharing knowledge and contributing value to the way of and the environment, helping to achieve a more sustainable understanding the world and business from the perspective future. of sustainability. Within Forética, Atresmedia participates in the Transparency The event was created in 2006 with the mission of inspiring, Cluster, a body through which the main global trends and involving and equipping the innovative brands and companies conversations in matters of transparency, good governance to guarantee their profitability and also a better future. It is and integrity from a business perspective will be transferred a global community with more than 350,000 specialists from to Spain, through collaboration with governments and opinion innovative companies and brands. leaders. The objective is also to contribute to generating knowledge and developing a leading position as a Spanish Antena 3, laSexta and Onda Cero have covered the main benchmark in matters of transparency, good governance and ideas arising from this forum through their news programmes. integrity. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 61 Atresmedia collaborates with the Masters in Social Responsibility and Sustainability at the Universidad Complutense de Madrid for the third consecutive year The objective of this Masters course, involving different professionals in the disciplines from over 12 countries, is to Atresmedia collaborates with In Good Companies acquire the new skills necessary for diagnosing, designing, developing, deploying, implementing and assessing In 2016, the third edition of In Good Companies took place administration and management models focussing on Social and had the support of Atresmedia as media partner. Responsibility and Sustainability. One of the purposes of the Masters course is employability and entering the world With In Good Companies, the Hazloposible Foundation of work and it therefore uses the real projects of renowned seeks firstly to share success stories of collaboration Spanish and Latin American companies. between companies and NGOs that can serve as inspiration, and secondly to provide a space where partnerships can be established to jointly develop corporate volunteering programmes. Contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs approved by the United Nations in 2015 offer a great opportunity for countries and citizens across the world to embark on a new path that decisively contributes to improving the lives of everyone. Atresmedia is aware of the important work of companies in achieving these essential goals and for this reason it uses its policies, initiatives and broadcasting power to support the SDGs where the company's contribution is greatest or of special relevance. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 62 Sustainable Development Goal Atresmedia's Actions • Broadcasting awareness campaigns on television, radio and on-line platforms about NGOs working to eradicate poverty. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Broadcasting awareness campaigns on television, radio and on-line platforms about NGOs working to eradicate hunger. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Ponle Freno: initiative to reduce road accidents. • Objetivo Bienestar and Objetivo Bienestar Junior. • Constantes y Vitales: initiative to promote medical research and health prevention and awareness. • Fundación Atresmedia is working to improve the quality of education in Spain through initiatives such as Grandes Profes and Descubre la FP. • Crea Cultura campaign: initiative to defend intellectual property, highlight the work of its creators, and promote culture and talent. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Atresmedia is a member of Red de Empresas por una Sociedad Libre de Violencia de Género (Network of Companies for a Society Free from Domestic Violence). • Tolerancia Cero campaign to promote the reporting of domestic violence and raise awareness in society about this social problem. • Approval of Atresmedia's Equality Plan. • Collaboration agreement with the Integra Foundation to promote non-labour practices in Atresmedia for women who are victims of domestic violence. • Broadcasting of awareness raising campaigns on television, radio and on-line platforms about NGOs working for equality and to eradicate domestic violence. • Hazte Eco: environmental awareness campaigns on the Neox channel and information about the environment. • Collaboration agreements with Greenpeace, WWF and Ecoembes. • Broadcasting of special programmes on the environment and climate change. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Hazte Eco: environmental awareness campaigns on the Neox channel and information about the environment. • Collaboration agreements with Greenpeace, WWF and Ecoembes. • Broadcasting of special programmes on the environment and climate change. • Corporate volunteering actions. • Atresmedia is a member of the main leading sustainability forums including: Forética, Pacto Asociación Española para la Calidad o Responsible Media Forum (Pact of the Spanish Association for Quality and Responsible Media Forum). In addition to its commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, Atresmedia has also been a member of the Spanish Network of the United Nations Global Compact since 2008, thus showing its commitment to the 10 principles promoted by that organisation respecting human and labour rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 63 Excellence in management Introducing improvements to the process: lessons learned A priority objective for Atresmedia is to reach the highest standards of quality in all of its management processes and in the Identifying, controlling programmes and advertisements and monitoring it broadcasts. The organisation incidents works by focusing on excellence, always taking into account compliance with the existing legislation and regulations. Continuous analysis of the sourceand those To ensure that this occurs, Atresresponsible media has a Quality Management System aimed at the control and continuous improvement of the organisation's key processes and Identifying corrective applied to the Group's main busiand improvement nesses. actions This system follows these steps: Assessing the effectiveness of the corrective actions ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 64 The Internal Audit and Process Control Division coordinates the entire system and a Quality CommitIn 2016, television incidents tee, formed by the departments most involved, meets were 11 % lower than in the regularly to implement action plans and improveprevious year ments. The System also has a corporate application which allows for the identification, classification and categorisation of all quality-related incidents that occur Thanks to the efficiency of this Quality Management in the programmes broadcast through any of the System and the improvement plans implemented, Group's media, be it on television, the radio or virthe incidents recorded in the processes for the protually. duction, recording and broadcasting of content have maintained a highly favourable downward trend for There is also a standard communications system that several years. In 2016, there were 11 % fewer incidents reports to the management on the source of the incithan in the previous year. dents, their description, classification and any actions taken. Improvement actions undertaken in the multimedia field during 2016 Improvement actions undertaken in the field of television during 2016 • Updating of the web content storage system, improving its performance and availability. • Improvements to the safety measures to ensure • A significant increase in the output capacity and continuity of service when faced with any management of Internet traffic. eventuality. • Updating of the video platform, optimising the • Culmination of the implementation of a new news use of resources. editing system to improve the process for the • Extension of the Internet platform, reducing the production and editing of news. delivery time of VOD content. • Improvements to control advertising with time restrictions. Thanks to these and other improvements, incidents • Intensification of control over any possible errors across all platforms have fallen by 13% compared to in the programmes before they are broadcast, the previous year. through different supervisory measures. Evolution in the Number of Digital Incidents Evolution in the Number of Television Incidents 100 97 286 296 300 250 80 200 172 150 60 98 52 53 100 65 47 45 50 27 24 40 0 e e e erag e erag erag erag age * Av 4 Av 5 Av 6 Av erag e e erag Averag Avera e ge e erag Aver vera ge vera ge 201 3 201 201 201 9 Av 010 Av 1 2* 3 Av 014** 15 A 2016 A 200 2 2 0 1 2 0 1 2 0 1 2 2 0 (*) Incidents involving the Atresplayer platform are included as of October (*) Incidents from La Sexta channels are included as of October 2012. The 2013 Mega channel was added in July 2015 (**) The Nitro, La Sexta3 and Xplora channels ceased broadcasting as of May ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 65 Suppliers, partners in the commitment to Sustainability Atresmedia involves its entire value chain in its commitment to Corporate Responsibility. In this way, it binds suppliers to the Group's mission, vision and values, and establishes mutually beneficial relationships with them in order to improve the Company's sustainability. Production and Definition of Reception and purchase of Programming Distribution R+D product Sale rights • Generation of • Selection and • Adapting of the • Atresmedia • Monitoring of ideas. contracting of content and Channels. audiences. • Incorporation producers. advertisements • Websites and • Listening and of Atresmedia’s • Acquisition of to self-regulation Social Networks. interactivity values in the broadcasting codes. • Smart TV. mechanisms. content. rights. • Strict • Smartphones. • Sale of • Responsible • Transparent classification of • Investment in broadcasting television model. purchasing content by age. accessibility from rights. • Attention to the process. all platforms. • Innovation and expectations of • Corporate • Parental control quality in the the audience and Responsibility tools. advertising advertisers. Clause in marketing contracts with service. suppliers. Atresmedia distinguishes between two types of suppliers: • Producers and distributors who supply drama, current affairs, news and/or entertainment contents. • Other suppliers of goods and services. Producers and distributors Partnerships with producers Globomedia participates in Atresmedia's disability awareness conferences Vive su Realidad (Live their Reality) During 2016, four groups of 10 people, formed of Atresmedia employees and other professionals from the written press and audiovisual companies with which the Group collaborates, had the opportunity to find out more about the daily life of people with disabilities. Among those attending were four people from the producer Globomedia, who participated in these awareness events in order to promote the employability of this group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 66 Atresmedia's External Production Division is responThe number of distributors has increased by 33 %, sible for the relationship with distributors and for while the number of external purchasing proposals managing the acquisition of broadcasting rights for has increased by 27 % compared to 2015, mainly due products that are not exclusively produced for Atresto the launch and consolidation of the new channels media Televisión, such as feature films, TV-movies, Mega and Atreseries. 43 % of distributors and 49 % of documentaries and entertainment programmes. the 200 contracting proposals are national. Moreover, the selection and management of the ecoThe acquisition of broadcasting rights is handled nomic and operational relationships with producers through an internal approval system, which ensures responsible for producing ad-hoc content for Atrestransparency in the process and internally publimedia corresponds to the Production Division. cises the contracting conditions in the financial, legal advice, programming and internal audit departments. All content and formats, before their selection, must pass a strict control which ensures that they are in line with the Group's own model of responsible and Number of producers who have collaborated with high quality television. The chosen suppliers must Atresmedia TV and the programmes produced also ensure compliance with Atresmedia's Corporate Responsibility values and principles. Therefore, they 80 are obliged to sign a specific clause encouraging the application of measures that promote respect for human rights, caring for the environment and the accessibility and diversity of content. 48 43 30 30 Corporate Responsibility clause 22 for Suppliers 2014 2015 2016  Producers  Programmes Equality and nonSustainability discrimination Number of producers who have collaborated with Atresmedia TV on fiction series and the series produced 13 Corporate 12 12 Accessibility of values of content 10 Atresmedia 8 8 In 2016, the number of programmes produced practically doubled, while the number of producers with which it worked has remained constant at 30, 24 of which were national. 2014 2015 2016  Producers  Series ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 67 Number of Atresmedia TV distributors Number of external purchasing proposals generated at Atresmedia TV 76 76 200 187 158 57 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Partnerships with distributors Atresmedia and Warner Bros. Pictures collaborate in the charity screening of the film Palmeras en la Nieve (Palm Trees in the Snow), in support of AMREF Health Africa A charity screening of the film Palmeras en la Nieve took place in May at the Olimpia theatre in Huesca and was attended by Luz Gabás, writer of the best-seller, and Adriana Ugarte, the film’s leading actress. The event was made possible thanks to the collaboration of Atresmedia and one of the main distributors with which it works, Warner Bros. Pictures. Over 400 people attended and the money raised was sent to AMREF's Stand Up For African Mothers African midwifery training programme. Other suppliers of products and services Purchase Expenditure (millions of €) For all other suppliers, Atresmedia applies a unique 65.13 contracting procedure that affects all of the compa59.49 nies that supply products and services equally, and is 50 based on the following requirements: • Transparency. • Technical quality. • Sustainability. Moreover, the entire contracting process is internally audited to ensure transparency and reliability in contracting. 2014 2015 2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 68 Criteria applicable to the contracting of suppliers Minimum Environmental Corporate Valuation of the technical quality responsibility of Responsibility financial offer criteria the suppliers Clause Necessary in order Purchases of more Requirement Signing of to be able to value than €50,000 to minimise the a Corporate the financial offer. are approved environmental Responsibility by a Purchasing impact of clause. Committee. their activities and green purchasing criteria. Partnerships with suppliers of goods and services 93 % of the suppliers of goods Atresmedia and Sodexo collaborate in the Otro Tiempo, and services are national and Otro Planeta (Another Time, Another Planet) project for the purchases made from the employability of women who have been victims of them represent 91 % of total domestic violence expenditure Atresmedia and Sodexo, committed to the fight against domestic violence, signed a collaboration agreement in 2016 in order for the vegetable oil used at its facilities to be delivered to the Otro Tiempo Association so that it can be used in its Otro Tiempo, Otro Planeta project, which seeks to contribute to the employability of women who have been victims of domestic violence. Sodexo is one of Atresmedia's service providers and supplies its food service. Women are a priority in Sodexo's commitment to integration and the diversity of its workforce. As one of the world's largest employers, we play a key role in the employability of groups at risk of exclusion, and women who have been victims of domestic abuse are one of these Carina Cabeza Chairwoman of SODEXO ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA | 69 Committed to a more competent and responsible audiovisual sector Where Atresmedia is involved in the main forums and associations in the audiovisual sector, it participates with an attitude of positivity and dialogue, helping to develop public policies that build a competent and responsible industry. Sector forums to which Atresmedia belongs UTECA Unión de Televisiones Comerciales Asociadas (Commercial Television Union) ACT Association of Commercial Television in Europe Consejo Asesor de Telecomunicaciones y para la Sociedad de la Información CATSI (Advisory Council on Telecommunications and the Information Society) Asociación Española de Radiodifusión Comercial (Spanish Association of AERC Commercial Broadcasting) ACR Asociación Catalana de Radio (Catalan Radio Association) Atresmedia also belongs to the Open Television Platform (televisionabierta.es) which was created in 2016 to defend the television model of universal access, free and at no cost, particularly in relation to the release of the 700 MHz spectrum (called the second digital dividend). During 2016, Atresmedia continued working to promote an optimal legislative framework and a suitable environment for the audiovisual sector. Listed below are the main issues in which the Group has been involved: The Atresmedia Group, like all other television channels, has come out against the mandatory “investment fee” to fund the production of films. The sector argues that it is the activity of the channels themselves that strengthens the country's film industry. However, in 2016 both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Supporting Spanish cinema Court ruled on this issue, declaring the legality of this obligation, meaning that the television channels have fulfilled their investment obligations for yet another year. The revenue from these films represented more than 75 % of the total revenue of Spanish cinema in 2016. Atresmedia has always believed that public television should seek credibility and strength through offering a public service and not from selling commercial space, making television for the public and not for the advertisers. Therefore, it firmly supports Law 8/2009 regarding the funding of the RTVE Corporation, which Public television funding prohibits it from obtaining income from broadcasting commercial communications. Atresmedia Televisión maintains its activity, both individually and through its membership of UTECA, to achieve a true rationalisation of the public television sector as a whole. Since June 2016, copyright management companies have had new general fees in compliance with the Reforms relating to the regulation approved in 2014 and 2015. collective management of intellectual property rights Atresmedia is carrying out an intense negotiation process with all of these in order to sign contracts that are adapted to the new situation. Throughout 2016 the European Commission, in the framework of its Digital Single Market strategy, presented various proposals to amend the European regulations relating to the audiovisual sector, included among which are the following: • Decision to release the 700 MHz spectrum for mobile telephony. Proposed reforms of the • Amendment of the Audiovisual Services Directive. European Union regulations • Various proposals on directives and regulations in matters of intellectual property. Atresmedia actively participates in the development of these regulations, both individually and through the Spanish and European associations to which it belongs, as well as through the newly created Televisión Abierta (Open Television) platform. ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 71 The leadership of a plural and a quality television Atresmedia's television model continues to perform margin in its history. It comfortably outperformed strongly, supported by high quality and innovation as it yet again during prime time (7.7 % vs. 6.2 %) and its core values. It ended 2016 as the television group in the commercial target (8.1 % vs. 7.6 %). It beat its (27.1 %) that grew the most (+0.3) in a sector that has afternoon record (6.8 %) and matched its best perwitnessed the launch of five new free-to-air channels. formance in the evening (7.4 %). The complementarity and success of its six channels make it the only group capable of growing signifiThe great results also extended to the themed chancantly in this context and also make it the preferred nels, which formed a varied and complementary offer choice among the most commercially attractive audiaddressing different audiences with different genres. ence during prime time. Neox (2.5 %) remained the group's most effective themed channel and the second best on the market. Antena 3 ended the year as the television leader in It was also the favourite themed channel with viewers December (13.3 %). It was leader in the mornings aged 18 to 35 years old (6.0 %), its target audience. (13.3 %) and was the most popular option at the Nova ended the year as the leading women's channel weekends (12.0 %). It was once again the channel in December (2.5 %) and consolidated its absolute preferred by the commercial audience during prime leadership in the afternoons from Monday to Friday, time (14.3 %). with 3.1 % in 2016. Mega ended its first full year with 1.8 % and was the most popular option in the early Moreover, laSexta (7.1 %) celebrated a truly magnifihours (7.4 %), performing better than the general chancent ten years in March. It surpassed Cuatro (6.5 %) nels. Atreseries, meanwhile, strengthened its position for the fourth consecutive year and by the greatest as the leading new themed channel with 0.8 %. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 72 Once again a benchmark for news results were positive from the first moment. Noticias and current affairs de la mañana (13.5 %) was the morning programme that grew the most compared to the previous year Atresmedia Televisión also once again consolidated (+0.7) and achieved its best result since 2009. its position as a first-rate news provider. Viewers chose to follow the debate of the four candidates, The news programmes on laSexta also achieved on 13 June on Atresmedia, with more than 4.6 million noteworthy results (10.3 %). They grew for the fifth followers, accounting for 25.1 % audience share. The consecutive year, having their best ever year and coverage on Antena 3 and laSexta of the election strengthening their dominance over those on Cuatro. on 26 June accounted for 24.2 % of the audience. The first edition from Monday to Friday, fronted by Both channels were the preferred option, well ahead Helena Resano, continued with the upward trend of public television. They were also chosen by most seen over the last four years, once again comfortably people to follow the American elections (26.6 %). beating its direct competitor and becoming absolute leader in its time slot with a share of 13.4 % and This starring role at times of breaking news stems from 1,362,000 viewers. laSexta Noticias 20h with Cristina the great performance of the daily news programmes. Saavedra also improved its performance. It grew for Antena 3 Noticias Fin de semana, with Matías Prats the fifth consecutive year and recorded a new annual and Mónica Carrillo, was once again the absolute high: 10.0 % and 1.1 million viewers. Positive results leader on Saturdays and Sundays with 12.8 % and an were also seen at the weekend: the first edition, with average of over 1.6 million viewers. The first edition Cristina Villanueva grew for the fourth consecutive on these days remained the absolute leader for the year (10.1 % and 900,000) and the second (7.1 % and fourth consecutive year, with 14.3 % and 1.7 million 847,000) remained above Cuatro. viewers. Antena 3 Noticias 2, which has been fronted by Vicente Vallés since September, ended the year However, the warm reception from the audience with 11.6 % and 1,607,000 viewers. Antena 3 Noticias was not only for news programmes. Espejo Público 1, which also had a change of faces in September with recorded the best year in its history (17.1 %) and the addition of María Rey and Sandra Golpe, ended ended the year as leader of its time slot. Un café con the year with 13.1 % and 1,625,000 followers. The Susanna, in which Susanna Griso interviews leading ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 73 current affairs figures, was leader of its time slot Andrea Ropero averaged 9.8 % and exceeded one from the moment of its launch in September, with an million viewers. On Sundays, El objetivo with Ana average of 13.8 % at the end of the year. Pastor averaged 8.8 % and over 1.6 million viewers. The channel also successfully incorporated a new On laSexta, Al rojo vivo with Antonio García Ferreras brand, Enviado especial, in which Jalis de la Serna grew once again, as it has done every year since its looks at the different problems facing society today launch. It achieved its best year ever (12.5 %), was such as obesity, weapons and the proliferation of the only morning debate show to grow (+0.8 vs. Chinese products. It ended its seven broadcasts with 2015) and widened the gap with Cuatro. The audi9.1 % and almost 1.6 million followers. ence also chose laSexta as their source of information on weekday afternoons. Más vale tarde (7.8 % Antena 3 also dedicated space to current affairs in the and 759,000), with Mamen Mendizabal, Hilario Pino evening. It broadcast four specials on food and conand Manu Marlasca grew once again and achieved a sumption with outstanding results, averaging 15.6 % record annual high. and almost 2.5 million viewers. The episode dealing with super-food was the leader in its time slot. It also Daytime spaces were not the only time slots to offered late night specials on different current affairs perform well. Current issues also found their place issues. The programme dedicated to the disappearin the evening schedule. Fridays were the moment ance of Diana Quer reached an impressive 16.0 % and for laSexta Columna, which ended its best ever year almost 1.2 million viewers. Moreover, laSexta broadwith 8.1 %, and Equipo de investigación with 6.8 %. cast a new series of Policías, which ended with 6.3 % On Saturdays, laSexta noche with Iñaki López and and 844,000. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 74 With a strong The Group also stood out for find favour with the audience in positioning in sport its sports analysis programmes. 2016. With innovation and quality Jugones, with Josep Pedrerol, as core principles, its combination In 2016, Atresmedia Televisión maintained its growth and once of new and veteran programmes also consolidated its position in more recorded its best annual achieved great results. sport. This year the Champions figures with 5.6% (+0.4 compared League ended its first season back to 2015). Two of the main flagships of on Atresmedia with 34.1 % and an Antena 3 were undoubtedly El average of 6,354,000 viewers, Moreover, El Chiringuito de hormiguero 3.0 and Tu cara me which is 3.5 % more than its preJugones was the leader sports suena. Pablo Motos' programme vious season on La1 from TVE. talk show of its time slot, and once again achieved its best ever The penalties in the final between kept increasing its influence at year and established itself as Atlético de Madrid and Real the Social Networks. The program absolute leader in its time slot with Madrid became the most watched ended the year with an average 14.9 % audience share (+0.5 vs. broadcast of the season, obtaining audience share of 4.3 % and 2015) and over 2.7 million viewers. 11,642,000 viewers. The competi234,000 viewers. Tu cara me suena with Manel tion also continued growing. The Fuentes also continued making group stage of the 2016-17 season history. The fifth series again averaged 28.0 % and 5,080,000 Consolidation of the best revolutionised Friday evenings, viewers, which is an improvement entertainment becoming the most watched on of 1.1 % compared to the result those days (3,263,000) and posifrom the previous year. Atresmedia Televisión's entertioning itself as absolute leader in tainment formula continued to its best ever series (23.4 %). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 75 The channel also maintained its commitment to the Juanra Bonet ended with 12.5 % and 1,418,000. In diversification of audiences and genres, and offered a 2016, ¡Boom! also achieved its best results since its new series, Casados a primera vista, which positioned launch in 2014. On 18 January it surpassed two million itself as leader with 14.7 % and almost 2.5 million folviewers (2,088,000) and on 8 June it was positioned lowers. In April it focussed on dance with Top Dance as leader and achieved its maximum share (20.3 %) (13.4 % and 1,953,000), released Dos días y una noche with the winning of the largest prize on Spanish tele—a new programme of interviews with Susanna Griso vision by the contestants Rockcampers. (10.3 % and 1,768,000) — and launched the 2016-17 season with El amor está en el aire (10.5 % and laSexta was not far behind with its achievements in 1,237,000). It also broadcast two special entertaining entertainment. Salvados once again positioned itself programmes on hypnosis. Both were the preferred as the channel's programme with the highest viewing option in their time slot with a noteworthy 18.1 % and figures and absolute leader with over 2.7 million viewers 2,513,000 followers. and 13.9 %. Jordi Évole's interview with Mariano Rajoy on Una hora en la Moncloa was the most watched on In the mornings, La ruleta de la suerte celebrated a laSexta in 2016 with 3,840,000 and 19.2 %. truly magnificent ten years of broadcasting. It confirmed its position as unbeatable leader for yet another El intermedio also confirmed its great success. year, with 16.4 % and almost one million followers. Wyoming and Sandra Sabatés' ironic approach to Moreover, Karlos Arguiñano maintained his great current affairs positioned itself as the channel's most appeal and ended the year with 14.5 % and 571,000. watched daily programme with 11.3 % and over two million followers. Pesadilla en la cocina, another In the afternoons, the duo of game shows ¡Ahora veteran presented by Alberto Chicote, returned with caigo! and ¡Boom! continued to demonstrate its effecrenewed strength. Its fifth series became its second tiveness. The programme with Arturo Valls ended best ever and it was absolute leader of the commer2016 with 14.7 % and 1,407,000 viewers, and that with cial target (16.6 %). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 76 Zapeando also stood out. This fun Series atresmedia, the share of 21.7 % and around 3.6 entertainment formula with Frank benchmark brand in million followers during the last Blanco and his team of collabospanish drama period. Its final episode had a rators ended its best year with record share (26.2 %) and was the 7.3 % and over 870,000 followers. In 2016 the Series Atresmedia most viewed drama broadcast of Another veteran programme, El brand continued being synonythe season (4,302,000). club de la comedia, added Ana mous with the best of Spanish Morgade as presenter and ended drama, receiving critical acclaim Moreover, Allí abajo and Mar de the season with a share of 6.7 % and good audience figures. Velvet plástico confirmed the great and 1,151,000 viewers. was one of the greatest exponents reception seen for their first in this sense. This stylish period seasons. Allí abajo was the second The channel also showed the drama ended its hugely successful most viewed series on Antena 3 second series of Pekín Express, fourth series. The Group made a in 2016, ending its second season which was broadcast last year real effort with the series finale: it with 18.2 % and 3,164,000. Mar de on Antena 3, and it launched A organised an event at the Círculo plástico concluded with 17.5 % and mi manera. The first, with Crisde Bellas Artes with a wide range 2,897,000. Its final episode was tina Pedroche as race director, of activities based around the another demonstration of Atresended with 7.8 % and an average drama and made history with the media's commitment to innovaof 1.3 million followers. The second live broadcasting of over fifteen tion: viewers chose how it would received very positive reviews minutes of its last episode. Velvet end, with justice or revenge. The and recorded 6.1 % and 1,128,000 ended as absolute leader in its Justice ending achieved a double viewers. fourth season and had an average record: it was the most viewed ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 77 episode and had the highest share for the series over with 15.2 % and 2,736,000 followers on average. La that season (20.6% and 3,232,000). embajada was released in April, an innovative programme on politics and power, and on its release it 2016 also saw us saying goodbye to Vis a vis and was in a leading position with over 4 million viewers Bajo sospecha. Vis a vis, popular with audiences and and ended with 16.0 % and around 2.7 million viewers critics from the start, ended with 14.1 % and 2,427,000 on average. followers and a yellow tide of fans. Bajo sospecha, leader for most of its episodes, closed its second Evenings and afternoons on Antena 3 also continued season with 15.8 % and 2,808,000 viewers. to be territory for drama. Amar es para siempre and El secreto de Puente Viejo remained strong. Both This season also saw new arrivals. Buscando el Norte were once again leading dramas in their time slot. arrived in February and was absolute leader with its The first closed the year with 13.1 % and 1,483,000 multi-channel release (19.1 % and 3,466,000), ending followers and the second with 16.7 % and 1,678,000. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 78 Great results in foreign The Group also continued hitting being its most watched film of the drama and the best films the mark with its film catalogue year with 2,114,000 (13.7 %). selection. El peliculón yet again Antena 3 once again brought in positioned itself as a contender foreign drama with good audience with the best market share (13.5 % Complementary and results. Lucifer was the preferred and 2,050,000). Life on the Line, successful thematic option in its time slot and the broadcast on 4 December, was the channels most viewed foreign series of the most watched film in the 2016-17 year with 13.8 % and 1,611,000 folseason up to the end of the year, Five new free-to-air channels were lowers. Blindspot averaged 11.7 % with over 3.5 million viewers launched in 2016, so fragmentaand 1,173,000 viewers and Super(20.5 %). And Multicines (14.1 % tion increased. However, the offer girl averaged 10.7 % and 906,000 and 1,692,000) remained unbeatof Atresmedia's themed chanfollowers during their summer able as the most watched option nels, based on the complemenbroadcasts. in its time slot. tarity of audiences and genres, still achieved positive results. The laSexta, moreover, broadcast the laSexta also stood out in this veteran channels Neox and Nova first series of Merlí, a series from genre. El taquillazo on laSexta were positioned among the most TV3 that was a true phenomenon (9.0 % and 1,360,000) improved effective in the market, while the for audiences and critics in Cataits average by 1.0 % compared to most recent channels Mega and lonia. It closed the year with 5.2 % the previous year, with Sherlock Atreseries consolidated their posiand 913,000 viewers. Holmes: A Game of Shadows tioning. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 79 Neox (2.5 %) remained the second most viewed Mega ended its first full year with 1.8% and as absothematic channel, leader in the afternoons (2.9 %) lute leader of early mornings (7.4%), even out-perand among viewers aged 18 to 35 (6.0 %). Its offer forming the general channels. Its combination of of American sitcoms was once again one of its main sport and factual programming especially attracted hallmarks. The tenth season of The Big Bang Theory the male audience (2.5 %) and achieved outstandwas the leading option in its time slot in a thematic ing results in its commercial target (2.5 %). El Chichannel, with 4.2 % audience share. This was the ringuito de Jugones with Josep Pedrerol was one same with the eighth series of Modern Family, the of its emblems: the sporting chat show was leader most viewed with 3.3 %. The Big Bang Theory beat in its time slot and a real phenomenon on the social its own record this year and recorded the episode networks. It closed the year with 4.3 % and 234,000 with the highest viewing figures in its history: 5.6 % viewers. In February, the themed channel also offered and 969,000 viewers on 29 May. Neox also broadcast the UEFA Futsal Championship, which averaged 3.0 % the most watched film on a themed channel in 2016: and 503,000 followers, and positioned itself among Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (979,000 the channel's most watched programmes of the year. and 6.8%). Its contender for child viewers, NeoxKidz Hardcore Pawn and Mystery Diners were two of its (11.1 %), again surpassed exclusively child-related most effective factual franchises. channels such as Clan (10.8 %) for children aged between 10 and 12. Atreseries established itself as the leading new themed channel with 0.8 %. Despite being in HD and Nova (2.2 %) was the leading thematic channel not being available on all television sets, its offering channel Monday to Friday in the afternoon (3.1 %) of series and films achieved a noteworthy result. The and has been the most watched on demand (3.2 %) channel released series such as Bates Motel, Mildred since records began. It ended the year as the leading Pierce, UnReal, Looking and the Catalan show Cites women's themed channel with 2.3 % from October in Spain and recovered classics such as Murder, She to December. Its offering of soap operas continued Wrote and the main exponents of the Atresmedia to prove popular and it positioned itself as the most factory. It also offered its own drama shows such as popular themed option on Monday to Friday afterTercer grado and Café en serie. Its broadcast of Los noons. The episode of Un camino hacia el destino on hombres de Paco was the most watched in its history 16 November was its most watched broadcast of the with 277,000 viewers. year with 636,000 viewers and a share of 4.0 %. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 80 Commitment to television that RELEVANT ASPECT is diverse and for everyone OUR VISION The vision of Atresmedia Televisión is to broadcast a diverse, innovative and high quality mix of information and entertainment. The following principles are considered in both the creation and the production and broadcast of content 1 To ensure the quality and interest of the content. 2 To respond to social concerns. 3 To protect the most vulnerable audiences, especially children. 4 To promote accessibility to audiovisual content. 5 To bring the media closer to society. 1 Content of quality and interest Atresmedia takes on the responsibility of offering high quality, diverse content which reflects the different realities, environments and voices that make up society, and which meets the needs and expectations of the audience. To do this, it is committed to its own television model based on quality, the diversity of genres, innovation and commitment. Content control mechanisms Atresmedia Televisión carries out a selection and control process on the content which ensures that all broadcasts reflect the Group's values, ethical codes and policies and that they reach the expected quality levels. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 81 G4-26, G4-27 This process consists of different mechanisms, both internal and external: Internal mechanisms Content Committee The Committee ensures the application of the Group's values in the entire content creation process, from the beginning right up until they see the light of day in the broadcasting. Atresmedia's code of conduct eral description of the policies, principles, objectives and values of Atresmedia. This code unifies and reinforces the identity, visibility and standards of conduct of the Group. Professional Ethical Code for news services The news services at Antena 3 and laSexta have professional ethical codes that ensure a rigorous and high quality news service committed to the ethical and Corporate Responsibility principles. Principles of the Professional Ethical Code for news Principles of the Professional Ethical Code programmes for news programmes • Reference framework: the Constitution and legal framework • Reference framework: Declaration of Human emanating from it. Rights and the Spanish Constitution. • Respect for the dignity of people. • Giving a voice to organisations and groups • Language and visual resources of carefully handled and fighting for the underprivileged and against monitored information. inequality and injustice. • Principle of separating the activities of all the journalists in order • NGOs and new social movements as a basic to avoid possible conflicts of interest. pillar when reporting. • Clear and explicit separation between news and advertising. • Promotion of the values of equality, • Unequivocal differentiation between news content and content solidarity, coexistence, peace, freedom and which implies a critical interpretation or comment. understanding. • Ban on accepting gifts. • Legal principle of the presumption of innocence. • Extreme rigour when there are minors involved. • Participation of viewers through the social networks. External mechanisms Atresmedia Televisión carries out research work and is in constant communication with the audience in order to adapt its content as much as possible to the tastes and demands of the viewers. Qualitative research • The daily analysis of audience figures supplied by Kantar Media is complemented with an investigation carried out by Atresmedia along with prestigious institutes from the sector. • 103 discussion groups were held during 2016, which meant listening to the assessments and opinions of 824 people, resulting in guidelines on the trends and demands of society for television. • Since 2014 the listening tool, which the social networks have become, has helped to complement the audience studies and the information provided by the discussion groups. • International benchmarking projects have been carried out to obtain information on the audiovisual formats that are trending in other parts of the world. Audience communication • Atresmedia has a website and call centre service to respond to any possible queries. In 2016 it received over 31,000 calls from viewers, and more than 2,300 people also visited the Group's facilities. • The measurement tool Instar Social offers official data on television-related comments made on Twitter. • In 2016, it is important t highlight the launch of the Opina section in the channel Atreseries, that allows the user to send his valuation, critic or suggestion. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 82 Antena 3 is perceived by the According to the different qualitative research actions carried out by the audience as the most diverse Group, Atresmedia Televisión is rated as the strongest, best positioned channel and the one striving and, above all, most enriched company compared to its closest commost to create quality content petitors. According to these sources, it projects a more diverse image in relation to television content and styles. It is also the Group that achieves the best recognition and notoriety for its different channels (not only Antena 3 and laSexta, but also a large number of its themed channels). In terms of the different channels, Antena 3 continues to enjoy the best rating out of all of the generalist channels. It is seen as the most diverse and the one striving most to create quality content. It continues to be rated as the channel that is most committed to developing a more controlled television language, and projects a most updated and most innovative image. laSexta once again demonstrates its strength within the system of genlaSexta is perceived as a channel eralist channels, thanks to its strong recognition among the viewers and committed to a social and its maturity as a proposal. It is defined as a channel committed to social innovative change change, interested in showing how the world is changing, open to innovation and daring when committing to new content. It is also recognised for its commitment to equality, based on the strong presence of women in its schedule. Antena 3 and laSexta are once again the channels with the television of highest quality, the most entertaining and that preferred by the Spanish people According to the latest analyses carried out by the third study, Imagen de las televisiones (Image of television), performed by Personality Media, Antena 3 and laSexta are the Spanish channels with the highest quality, those that are preferred by the Spanish people, the most entertaining, with the best news programmes and presenters, and with the most varied programming. % TV with the highest quality % most entertaining TV % preferred TV 22 22 26 18 24 17 18 18 14 9 12 12 9 7 6 6 7 5 4 5     None    The study positions Atresmedia Televisión at the head of the Top 15 ranking of the highest quality programmes and it is the Group with the greatest representation. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 83 For the third year, Antena 3 and laSexta share the leadership in 10 out of the 11 categories forming part of this study, which measures the positive attributes of the channels. With regard to attributes, consumers rate Antena 3 as the most entertaining channel (26 %), followed by laSexta (24 %). It is also the most liked by all audience types (28 %) and has the most varied programming (27 %). The two Atresmedia TV channels also share the television throne for having the highest quality (22 %). laSexta is the channel with the best news programmes (24 %), has the highest credibility (24 %), the most innovative programming (29 %) and has the highest audience identification (24 %). The Atresmedia TV channel ties with Antena 3 in the question of best presenters, each with 26 %. 2 Responding to social concerns Atresmedia is committed to a television model that acts as a spokesperson for the public and includes issues of social interest in its daily programming. It also understands that supporting charity events and publicising them to the whole of society is part of its responsibility as a media organisation. Raising awareness and reporting on society's problems Atresmedia chooses its televised content taking into account that it not only has an obligation to inform society, so that people can form their own opinions, but also has the responsibility of raising awareness and bringing the main social problems closer to the public, so that together they can search for better solutions. In order to achieve this, both Antena 3 and laSexta have programmes that contribute to generating critical reflection among the audience: SOCIAL ISSUES IN CURRENT AFFAIRS PROGRAMMES The A fondo programme from Antena 3 Noticias is a news reporting programme focused on researching current affairs. In 2016 it provided a large amount of coverage for the following issues: • 20 % of electronic waste is not appropriately recycled. A FONDO • The Gender Violence Courts celebrate 10 years. • Carelessness causes 80% of forest fires. • Pro-anorexia and bulimia websites are multiplying. • 20 % of school bullying victims become bullies themselves. Espejo público is a news magazine programme that addresses current issues on a daily basis through interviews and reports. From the viewpoint of social interest, it is worth mentioning two sections: ESPEJO PÚBLICO • The Objetivo Bienestar section, dedicated to broadcasting advice on how to look after your body but also how to achieve emotional well-being. • The Tiempo de lectura section, a special space dedicated to promoting reading. Salvados is a programme that looks at current affairs from the personal perspective of the committed journalist Jordi Évole. The following are some of the many social issues covered in 2016: • Anti-globalisation. • The miracle of reconciliation. SALVADOS • Male chauvinism kills. • The current situation of women in Spain. • Refugees, no news from Europe and ASTRAL. • By whom, how and where is the clothing sold by big brands manufactured? • Education and the demands on our children. El objetivo is a programme of interviews and current affairs, presented by Ana Pastor, based on the genre of fact checking and data journalism. The following social issues were covered in 2016: EL OBJETIVO • School bullying. • The future of pensions. • Special on Lampedusa. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 84 LaSexta columna is a programme presented by Antonio García Ferreras and directed by Rodrigo Blázquez which focuses on analysing current affairs. The following are some of the social issues covered: LA SEXTA COLUMNA • Waste management in Spain. • Volkswagen: emission impossible. • Refugees: right of admission reserved. Enviado especial is a documentary series starring Jalis de la Serna which seeks to portray the current globalised world, as complex and fascinating as it is contradictory. Main documentaries in 2016: ENVIADO ESPECIAL • The roof of the world, on climate change. • The desert of prodigies, on the labour used for the Qatar World Cup. • The factory of the world, in China. • This is an investigative programme presented by Gloria Serra, which looks in more depth at certain issues of interest. In 2016, the programme covered issues such as: EQUIPO DE INVESTIGACIÓN • The quality of water in our country. • Home Social Madrid. Al rojo vivo is a morning news program directed and presented by Antonio García Ferreras, in which current affairs are analyzed, and in which social matters have a wide coverage. Some of the topics that have been treated were the follows: • Inequality. AL ROJO VIVO • Energetic poverty. • Refugees. • Labour insecurity. • Students' protests. SOCIAL ISSUES IN ENTERTAINMENT PROGRAMMES El hormiguero 3.0 is a talk show whose content revolves around humour, interviews and science experiments. Many social causes have been supported during the different programmes, including the following: • Penélope Cruz fights against leukaemia and presents the documentary Soy UNOENTRECIENMIL in El HORMIGUERO order to help raise €100,000 from the audience to end child leukaemia. • Amores Perros. Section that encourages people to adopt dogs that have been unlucky in life. • Emilio Aragón presents the short film from the Mahuer Foundation to promote greater awareness of rare diseases, which in Spain alone affect around three million people. El Intermedio is a programme that analyses the day's current events and reviews the most important news items in a tone that mixes information and humour. In addition to current affairs and politics, social issues have a strong presence on the programme. Some examples of such issues that have been covered are: • Energy poverty. • Dependence. EL INTERMEDIO • Refugee crisis. • Domestic violence among young people. • Homeless people. • Precariousness of domestic employment. • The programme travels to Saharawi refugee camps to learn first-hand about life in the Saharawi camps. Cervantes vive laSexta brought the greatest figure in Spanish literature into the 21st century. During the months of February, March and April, laSexta ran a global initiative that paid homage to this universal writer, whose work remains relevant 400 years after his death. The channel wanted to turn him into a chronicler and commentator of our time. The initiative began with the launch, from the Twitter profile @Cervantes_Vive, of famous quotes from his works that are closely linked to the present day. Subsequently, original content was broadcast through all of the news and entertainment programmes on laSexta: identity elements, image pieces, reports, documentaries, etc. It also developed its own website which contains all the pieces devoted entirely to the subject and offers extra content related to the writer. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 85 Charity specials During 2016, various charity slots were broadcast on Atresmedia's different television channels. These covered the Corporate Responsibility campaigns of Atresmedia and its Foundation, as well as the work of non-profit organisations, helping to raise money and increase awareness of their causes: • The series Velvet organised a charity market that managed to raise over €20,000 for the Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (Spanish Association Against Cancer, AECC). Atresmedia added an extra contribution to the proceeds thanks to the sale of furniture, objects and clothing from the series. • La ruleta de la suerte broadcast a charity special with teachers and students as part of World Teacher Day, which raised over €6,000 to be used entirely for the educational and social projects of each school. • La ruleta de la suerte also organised a special programme on the UNHCR, in which the presenter Jorge Fernández accompanied the organisation on a trip to the Azraq refugee camp in Jordan, home to around 35,000 Syrians. The programme also disseminated an SMS to raise awareness about the refugee crisis and help raise money and donations for the organisation. Disability awareness workshop at the Madrid Première Week The schedule for the Madrid Première Week 2016 film event included a workshop on raising awareness about The normalisation of disability in audiovisual content . The session featured the actor Federico Aguado, who plays a young man with an intellectual disability in the series Mar de plástico (Antena 3), who shared his experience of playing this character. Screenwriter and director David Marqués also participated, contributing the vision of the group of professionals who write stories for film and television and include people with disabilities in their plots. The workshop gave the participants the opportunity to put themselves in the shoes of a person with a disability, seeing the difficulties that these people face on a daily basis. The conclusions were unanimous: vulnerability and dependence . ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 86 3 Child protection In 2016, Atresmedia continued strengthening the quality content aimed In 2016, NeoxKidz broadcast at families and continued to provide spaces that are suitable for both a total of 1,635 hours of parents and children, carrying out a strict control of the content broadprogrammes dedicated to the cast, its rating and the advertisements issued during the children's slot. younger audience Source: Kantar Media Quality children's television During 2016, Atresmedia Televisión added new content aimed at children to its programming through its channel Neox. Harvey Beaks, Angry Birds, The Goldbergs, the complete Harry Potter saga and the Puppets are some of last year's releases which combine quality and entertainment for children. Hours of children's programming Channel Content Hours NeoxKidz 1,635 Neox Rest of Neox 41 laSexta Cinema 5 Atreseries The Clone Wars 11 Total hours 1,692 Moreover, the children's portal neoxkidz.com offers a selection of the channel's best content, as well as on-line games. Its objective is to offer a fun and educational environment for children, based on four concepts: entertainment, education, safe browsing and usability. Children aged between 0 and 4 years also have an environment with adapted content that includes educational videos, stories, songs and cartoons. During 2016, various Antena 3 Televisión game shows also broadcast episodes in which children were the stars, including the Christmas specials of ¡Ahora Caigo! and ¡Boom!, and a La ruleta de la suerte special on World Teacher Day. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 87 Control and self-regulation over content and Self-Regulation Code infant contents complaints accepted by the Committee Atresmedia Televisión is committed to protecting children in televised content, hence its compliance, since 2005, with the Self-Regulation Code on 8 Televised and Infant Content, which is voluntarily applied by all the companies who have signed up to it. Atresmedia also forms part of its Mixed Monitoring Committee, responsible for checking that the code is correctly implemented. 3 In 2015, the Code amended the content rating system 2 2 for the different age groups, as well as the criteria for determining these ratings. The objective of this 0 change was to help responsible adults with their parental control, as well as to seek greater objectivity 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 and automatism when applying the Code. In 2016, a total of 123 complaints were filed against all of the operators signed up to the Code, of which a total of 11 were accepted as inappropriate broadcasts. 4 Television for everyone Of these, only 3 corresponded to Atresmedia. One of Atresmedia's priorities is to increase and Moreover, in 2016 the CNMC issued three sanctionfacilitate access to audiovisual content for everyone, ing decisions against Atresmedia for the inadequate regardless of their hearing or visual capacity. rating of content. Although the Group used the same rating awarded by the ICAA (Institute of CinematogAtresmedia dedicates significant resources to achievraphy and Audiovisual Arts) to rate its audiovisual ing this objective and, thanks to its efforts to improve works, in accordance with the Self-Regulation Code in this aspect year after year, it has achieved one of on Televised and Infant Content, with article 8 of the the most extensive and varied accessible offers on the Film Law, and as established by the ICAA itself, these domestic television market. sanctions have been imposed by the CNMC on the understanding that this rating is inadequate. The deciIn 2016, the Group subtitled a total of 36,155.9 hours, sions have been appealed by Atresmedia. which represents more than 80 % of its programming, with the channels Neox, Mega and Atreseries being those with the highest percentage of subtitled programming, 78 % and 95 % respectively. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 88 As in the previous year, the offering of live programming was the most It has subtitled almost 100 % important commitment as, with the exception of sporting events, almost of direct broadcasts, except 100 % of live broadcasts were subtitled. In this sense, it is worth highlightsporting events ing its commitment to making all general interest news events accessible, regardless of their time slot. Atresmedia also provides maximum flexibility in its programming to address the changing length of programmes such as Espejo público and Al rojo vivo, which in 2016 happened regularly due to breaking news. Various special programmes were also subtitled: Major special programmes that have been subtitled live: • Al rojo vivo and Espejo público specials on the investiture and the Brussels terrorist attack. • Al rojo vivo specials on Lesbos, Brexit, the Government Pact, American debate, the PSOE, Target the White House and the Berlin terrorist attack. • El debate a 4 , pre and post; and the Television Academy debate. • General Elections: specials on Antena 3 news, Al rojo vivo and El objetivo. • Al rojo vivo and El objetivo specials on the Galician and Basque Elections. • Más vale tarde Special. Regular live programming with subtitles: • 6:15 news • Espejo público • Al rojo vivo • El intermedio • Zapeando • Más vale tarde • laSexta columna • El objetivo • All news programmes on Antena 3 and laSexta • Sports and Weather Subtitled advertising has • El chiringuito de jugones increased by 40 %, increasing from 15.2 hours in 2015 to 21.4 hours in 2016 Also worth mentioning are the efforts made to ensure that all recorded content already subtitled is adjusted to the new broadcasts, checking and adapting any changes that arise one by one. In terms of subtitled advertising, this increased by 40 % in 2016, reaching a total of 21.4 hours compared to the 15.2 hours last year. Apple, Campofrío, Vodafone, Repsol and Almirall are examples of companies that have broadcast accessible advertisements. Grupo Atresmedia Subtitling for the Deaf Year Hours Percentage over 25 hours 2014 21,327.1 72.71 (*) (**) 2015 26,054.8 78.65(**) 2016 36,155.9 80.18 (***) (*) laSexta 3, Nitro, Xplora stopped broadcasting on 5 May 2014. (**) Source: CNMC – CESYA. (***) Own source due to the 2016 data from the CNMC – CESYA not being published on the publication date of this report. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 89 Moreover, there has been an increase in the audio-deAudiovisual (General Law on Audiovisual scribed and signed broadcasts of the channels, which Communication) 7/2010). will include the upcoming episodes of series such • Thanks to an agreement with Ericsson as Aquí no hay quién viva and Forensic Files. The Redbeemedia to adapt the Time Machine audio-descriptions of content such as About a Boy software, underway since summer 2016 on the (Neox), The Last Man on Earth (Neox) and Law and BBC, it is working on improving the delay in live Order (Nova) were also increased. subtitles. • Continuation of the collaboration with the It is also worth mentioning the Salvados programme Atresmedia website to offer subtitled broadcasts on James Rhodes, which was offered with subtitles of its recorded content for the deaf and a translation into Spanish for people • Investment in the subtitling of a package of films with a visual disability. being released in 2017, containing over 100 titles. Other contributions in which Atresmedia was involved during 2016 include: Accessible content was globally increased in 2016, compared to the previous year: • Collaboration with the Ministry and with the National Commission of Markets and Competition • Subtitling: 39 %  (CNMC) in contributing the quarterly data on • Signed: 39 %  accessible broadcasts for the control of legal • Audio-description: 38 %  compliance (Ley General de Comunicación Numbers of hours of signed programs Number of hours audiodescribed Number of subtitled hours 997.3 1,215.40 1,255.3 36,155.90 748.6 717.5 910.4 26,054.80 21,327.10 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA TELEVISIÓN | 90 5 Bringing the media closer to society Atresmedia, aware of the influence that the media has on public opinion, promotes awareness about the sector and organises various activities where it opens its doors to society and encourages people to learn about its operations: Fans of Velvet had an unmissable date coinciding with the broadcasting of the penultimate episode of the series. The Event of the Year was held throughout the day. Velvet: The event It was a meeting point to bring Velvet closer to fans of the series, which had a multitude of activities and actions that of the year were enjoyed by the more than 2,500 people who attended. It was a very special event, open to the public, with free entry and was the prelude to the great farewell of the series. The main purpose of the Proyecto Mañana 2016 (2016 Tomorrow Project) is to promote, execute and coordinate a research and development project in the university sector which identifies and encourages creativity and talent among students of audiovisual communication. Proyecto In 2016, the students of Audiovisual Communication from the Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona were winners of the Mañana 2016 competition, ex aequo with the Universidad de Málaga. The projects presented consisted of designing a music radio station and creating a drama series. The prize for the winners was a quarterly scholarship to gain work experience in the multimedia departments of the Atresmedia Corporation Group. Thanks to the collaboration of the Onda Cero stations, Fundación Atresmedia brings the magic of radio to hospitalised children through the organisation of radio workshops. Bringing the magic of radio In this way, the hospitals with which the Foundation collaborates become improvised radio studios. Children have the to hospitalised opportunity to listen to their voices through headphones, discover the language of radio, find out how to present a children song and learn how to conduct an interview. The Foundation also invites all of the children to watch a real programme when they leave hospital. In 2016, the Hospitals of Son Espases, Torrecardenas, Salamanca, Badajoz, the Hospital Rafael Méndez de Lorca, and the Poniente in Almeria, among others, held radio workshops. Visits to During 2016, over 2,300 people in different groups (schools, universities, associations, advertisers, etc.) were able to visit Atresmedia's Atresmedia's facilities and see at first-hand how the Group works on a daily basis. Over 31,000 calls were also answered facilities and throughout the year, responding to all types of queries, suggestions and complaints from the audience and public in responding to general. calls ATRESMEDIA RADIO ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 92 A successful and profitable model The year 2016 was marked by new momentum resulting from the Kiko Béjar in charge of branded the new developments in the power of the Atresmedia Group content aimed at both gamers and Atresmedia Radio stations. José and a renewed excitement. We non-gamers, because, as the preRamón de la Morena joined Onda want to offer our best version ever. senters say, the strange people Cero and Frank Blanco, Quique I have a feeling that the best is yet now are the ones who don't play . Peinado, Kiko Béjar, Hardwell and to come , said José Ramón de la Armin van Buuren joined Europa Morena on joining Onda Cero. In 2016 all of these professionals FM. Moreover, Studio 1 at Onda joined a strong team in which the Cero underwent an extraordiEuropa FM also strengthened its following people were already nary overhaul that turned it into a programming in 2016 with the standing out and continue to do spectacular studio/set with a large addition of Frank Blanco, who so: Carlos Alsina, Juan Ramón video wall and robotised cameras in September began to run and Lucas, Julia Otero, David del Cura, allowing for live broadcasting of present the first after-work show Isabel Gemio, Javier Ares, Javier video streaming. By the end of on Spanish radio: Vamos tarde Ruiz Taboada, Javier Cárdenas, 2016 more than four million people that joins the big Europa FM Nuria Roca, Elena Gijón, Juan were tuning in to one of our radio family, lead by Javier Cárdenas. Diego Guerrero, Bruno Cardeñosa, stations each day. The music station also enhanced S i l v i a C a s a s o l a , B a r to l o m é its commitment to electronic Beltrán, José Luis Salas, Esther Onda Cero's main milestone in music with the arrival of Hardwell Eiros, Carlos Rodríguez, Soledad 2016 was the arrival of José Ramón and Armin van Buuren, two of de Juan, Pablo Rodríguez, Wally de la Morena, a leading name in the most renowned DJ's on the López, Brian Cross, Mar Montoro, evening sports radio, who joined current scene, who joined Europa Sara Gil, Pablo Guerola, Juanma Atresmedia Radio in September baila, the music project led by Romero, and all of the professionto host El transistor, a programme Brian Cross. als at Atresmedia Radio. that retains the spirit and DNA of the show that he ran and preIn October, Europa FM also sented for almost three decades launched the programme Euroon Cadena SER. All of this with a play, with Quique Peinado and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 93 The strength of a large Group celona, Granada, La Rioja, Málaga, Asturias, Zamora and Zaragoza. The strength and variety of content on Atresmedia Radio's stations mean that more than four million lisMelodía FM, moreover, has a total of 286,000 listenteners tune in to one of its products each day, thanks ers and is still one of the most recent formulas of the to innovative programming and adapting to developmusic radio scene. ments in society. Atresmedia Radio has once again this year managed With an audience of more than two million listeners to position itself as the radio group with the best (EGM 3rd/2016), Onda Cero is the third ranked conrate of return per listener and the most solid financial ventional station in Spain. The station ended 2016 as balance sheet in Spanish radio. the only generalist radio station that grew compared to 2015 (+3.4 %) and compared to the previous wave of the General Media Survey (+8.8 %). Onda Cero: credibility, quality, closeness Onda Cero also saw its share grow by 0.6 % in 2016, to stand at 13.6 % (+1.2 % higher than in the previous The signing of José Ramón de la Morena brought new year). The station's listening time was 132 minutes per momentum to Onda Cero's successful formula. The listener (+5 minutes compared to the previous year). sports commentator launched El transistor in September, which retained the hallmarks of real evening Europa FM ended the year maintaining its position sports radio, of which he is the undisputed leader: as the country's third ranked music station, with information, interviews, analysis, and the friendly and around two million listeners, and a rise of 0.7 % in intimate style of De la Morena. its share, accumulating a 9.9 % share in the context of an extraordinarily fragmented themed music radio Practically all of the collaborators and sports anasector. Europa FM currently has a higher audience lysts with whom he previously worked joined Onda than its closest competitor, Los 40, in Madrid, BarCero with him: Jorge Valdano, Sergio Santomé, ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 94 Roberto Gómez, Enrique Ortego, of sports on Onda Cero, whose The new developments at Onda Sebastián Álvaro, Ernest Folch, objective was to integrate the Cero have simply enhanced the Antonio Fuentes, Pedro Delgado, team of the journalist from Brunete diverse, close and participatory Anselmo Fuerte, Joan Villadelpart, into the already well-established model that defines the radio of Santi Nolla, doctor José González, sports line-up on the radio, someAtresmedia; radio that in 2016 doctor Antonio Escribano, Rafa thing that was extraordinarily continued focussing on informaPlaza, Cayetano Ros, Pablo Blanco easy and enriching to do. Héctor tion and providing a local service, and Enrique Gozalo joined the Fernández, who had been leading with an extraordinary network of panel of analysts in which Santievenings of sport on Onda Cero, stations that make it the channel ago Segurola, Ricardo Gallego, moved on to direct and present La that dedicates the most time to Bernd Schuster, Gica Craioveaunu brújula del deporte. local and regional content, conand Milinko Pantic were already necting the business sector in the performing strongly. The other great new developregions to the listeners thanks to ment in 2016 came with the comformats which are very attractive El transistor with José Ramón de plete renovation of Onda Cero's for both parties. la Morena made its début on Onda Studio 1, which was turned into Cero with 372,000 listeners, which a formidable studio/set with the Onda Cero's staff (announcers, led to the doubling of the audimost advanced technology to journalists, technicians, sales staff, ence in that time slot in a context broadcast not only audio but also managers, etc.) are a guarantee of of extremely strong competition video streaming, thanks to its four trust and credibility, and make it from the other general radio starobotised cameras. A large twelvepossible for us to each day create tions. screen video wall opens up the programming that accompanies radio to what is happening beyond Spanish society in its process of The addition of De la Morena the studios in San Sebastián de los permanent transformation. brought with it a reorganisation Reyes. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 95 Más de uno (Carlos Alsina and Juan Ramón Lucas), the second ranked news programme in its time slot which has the trust of 1.2 million daily listeners, conon Spanish radio, in terms of audience numbers. tinued to be structured into two sections. In the first (6am 10am), Alsina reviewed the current news and Julia Otero returned for another season of the late-afanalysed the different implications of the information. ternoon magazine programme Julia en la onda, comThe lawyer Miriam González, political experts Víctor mitted to being up-to-date, rigorous and entertaining. Lapuente and Kiko Llaneras, and the journalists Rosa 470,000 daily listeners confirmed Onda Cero's afterBelmonte and Antonio Lucas joined as new collabnoon programme as the second most listened to, even orators, alongside the established figures of Rubén taking into account that it is one hour shorter than Amón and Fernando Ónega. The opinion pieces of the competition. Julia continued to be joined by the Vicente Vallés, John Müller and Fernando Savater television critic Ferrán Monegal and Manuel Marlasca also continued, along with the economic reports of and Luis Rendueles with their reporting of events. Carlos Rodríguez Braun. The so-called Gabineteros Manuel Delgado and Juan Adriansens also recovered the feeling of radio The second section of Más de uno (10am – 12.30pm), from the olden days with El gabinete sentimental, a with Lucas at the helm, strengthened the presence sort of clinic where listeners could raise the large and of humorous sections and added new collaborators. small dilemmas in their lives. Juan Gómez Jurado and Carlos Latre and Goyo Jiménez were joined by Leo Raquel Martos continued to lead on physical issues; Harlem and El Monaguillo. Alicia Borrachero, Mónica and El gabinete signed the philosopher Pedro Insúa, Carrillo and the tenor José Manuel Zapata also had the journalist and sociologist Javier Gallego and the new sections on the morning magazine programme journalist Ana Pardo de Vera, who joined the payroll from Onda Cero, in which Lorenzo Díaz and Josemi which already included, among others, Fernando Rodríguez Sieiro continued to appear. Iwasaki, Juan Carlos Girauta, Julián Casanova, Elisa Beni and Rosa Díez. The writer Laura Falcó joined Elena Gijón continued to be at the helm of Noticias Territorio comanche, which had already signed up mediodía throughout the year, compiling and updatMáximo Pradera, Santiago Segurola, Agustín Alcalá, ing all of the morning's news. With 204,000 listeners, Lorenzo Caprile, Julián Casanova and J. L. Ibáñez the programme ended the year confirming its role as Ridao. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 96 In 2016, every evening David del Cura continued from early mornings and take on new professional guiding La brújula towards current affairs (323,000 challenges. The programme ended the year with listeners). The programme involved the journalist almost 100,000 listeners. Antonio Lucas, who joined the list of regular analysts: Pilar Cernuda, Casimiro García Abadillo, Paco MarThe weekend continued to be the territory of the huenda, Pepe Oneto, Toni Bolaño, Antonio Casado, conversation and commitment of Isabel Gemio and etc. In addition to news and political discussion, 2016 Te doy mi palabra (618,000 and 587,000 listeners), saw the triumph of sections such as La brújula de la which signed the socialite Carmen Lomana and economía, La brújula del deporte (Héctor Fernández), Carmen Freixa, little Rúben Darío, a genius who uses Punta norte (Javier Cancho), La brújula de la ciencia literature to fight against his illness (considered rare) (Alberto Aparici) and La gambada (María Hernánand the comedian and impersonator Javier Quero dez). La brújula was cut short by half an hour to allow as new collaborators. Gemio continued to share the El transistor to be brought forward to 11.30pm. weekend with the scientific expert Antonio Martínez Ron, the psychologist María Jesús Álava, and the jourIn the early hours of the morning, and after El trannalists Fernando Sánchez Dragó and Alfonso Rojo. sistor with José Ramón de la Morena, the voice of Juan Pando, Eloy Arenas and Milena Busquets comJosé Luis Salas could be heard in 2016 with the propleted the list of collaborators. gramme No son horas, a content-packed magazine programme in which quality music was again the Radioestadio, with Javier Ares and Javier Ruiz common theme. Salas occupied the time slot of La Taboada (487,999 and 631,000 listeners), remained parroquia with El Monaguillo and Arturo González the weekend's leading sports programmes in terms Campos who, at his own request, decided to retire of both form and content and collaborators (Bernd ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 97 Schuster, Ángel Cappa, Jorge Valdano, Iván Helguera, result, the news team was present at almost all of the Ricardo Gallego, Milinko Pantic, Gica Craioveanu, Mr major news events of the year: the general elections Chip, etc.). Onda Cero's sports programme focussed in Spain, the U.S. elections, Obama's visit to Cuba, the heavily on events in La Liga, la Copa del Rey and the death of Fidel Castro, the United Kingdom's Brexit European competitions. referendum, and the terrorist attacks in Brussels, Nice and Berlin. Wherever the news happened, however Gente viajera (Esther Eiros), which received an unexpected as it was, Onda Cero was there. Antena de Oro , La rosa de los vientos (Bruno Cardeñosa and Silvia Casasola), Noticias fin de semana (Juan Diego Guerrero), Como el perro y Europa FM and Melodía FM, the el gato (Carlos Rodríguez), Onda agraria (Pablo formulas for success Rodríguez and Soledad de Juan) and En buenas manos (Bartolomé Beltrán) are already classic proEuropa FM, with almost two million listeners, was a grammes on Onda Cero and continued forming part real leader in music radio, positioned in third place in of the weekend schedule. the rankings of themed radio stations nationally and exceeding the audience of its most direct competitor, Los 40, in Madrid, Barcelona, Granada, La Rioja, A commitment to information Málaga, Asturias, Zamora and Zaragoza. One of the pillars of Onda Cero's programming Much of the success of Atresmedia's music station throughout 2016 was current affairs. Its news sercame from the morning show Levántate y Cárdenas, vices were on alert 24 hours a day, 365 days a year in with Javier Cárdenas at the helm, which had over 1.1 order to never miss a single news event; especially in million dreamers each morning, and the success at a year with such an intense political and international the weekends of Juanma Romero and the programme agenda. ¿Me pones? Carlos Alsina, Elena Gijón, David del Cura and Juan In order to strengthen its afternoon slot, in September Diego Guerrero were the most recognisable voices Europa FM signed Frank Blanco, who launched the on the station's news programmes. However, many first after work show on Spanish radio, Vamos tarde, other professionals worked to bring listeners the a programme packed with humour, current affairs and main features of the breaking news during 2016. As a zapping. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 98 Moreover, the electronic music programme Europa achieving its best figures in September with over baila was strengthened with the addition of Hardwell 1.2 million unique visitors. The consolidation of the and Armin van Buuren, two of the most prestigious station's programmes with the highest audiences, international DJ's who became part of the project led such as Más de uno, as well as the excellent welcome by Brian Cross. received by the arrival of José Ramón de la Morena with El transistor, were the basis for the strong figures Europlay was launched in October, providing weekly achieved by ondacero.es, which closed the year as branded content from the world of video games, prethe general radio station with the highest growth sented by Quique Peinado and Kiko Béjar. compared to 2015. Melodía FM, one of the stations that has most recently europafm.com ended 2016 with growth of 36 % comreached the dial, maintained its excellent performance pared to 2015, with more than 1.6 million monthly with almost 270,000 listeners, 21 % more than in the unique visitors. Europa FM's website was the music previous year. Nuria Roca continued at the helm of the radio portal that grew the most in 2016, which estabmorning show Lo mejor que te puede pasar in 2016, lished it as the second most popular music radio which at the end of the year had gained the trust of station in Spain. The basis for this success was the 116,000 listeners. This is 17.2 % more than in the previous loyalty of the listeners to its star programmes, Leványear, and 17 % more than in the second wave of 2016. tate y Cárdenas and Ponte a prueba, as well as its commitment to new formats such as Vamos tarde, which made its début on the station in September 21st century Radio and is presented by Frank Blanco. Onda Cero's website broke the barrier of one million The website of Melodía FM ended the year with 121,153 monthly unique visitors in 2016 and managed to unique visitors, 20 % more than in the previous year exceed the strong figures achieved in 2015 by 10 %, and with a growth of 20 % in the monthly average. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 99 Radio with a desire to serve All of the Group's broadcasters contribute to making Atresmedia Radio a benchmark in corporate responsibility, and they do so first by including in their programming sections and content that reflect the main concerns of society, and second by being involved in social initiatives promoted by both the Group and other entities: Broadcasting social content Supporting social initiatives Outlined below are some of the main actions carried out by Atresmedia Radio and its local broadcasters in 2016: Supporting social initiatives: • Photography competition to help promote the province's natural spaces. • Radio workshops for hospitalised children as part of the hospital assistance programme run by Fundación Atresmedia. • Campaign to recover the lighthouses of Almería. • Supporting Book Day from the home of the poet Jose Ángel Valente. • Campaign and special programme supporting those fighting breast cancer. Onda Cero Almería Broadcasting social content: • Programme to support the Casa Ibáñez Museum as heritage for all the people of Almeria and Andalusia. • Collaboration with non-profit social organisations through prominent advertisements: support for Cáritas, Amnesty International, Proactiva Open Arms, etc. • Collaboration with culture: “La Oficina”, “La Guajira” and other cultural projects that bring together thousands of members have Onda Cero as their leading media organisation for all their activities. • “Conocemos Almería desde dentro” (We know Almeria from the inside) programme. Supporting social initiatives: • Annual presentation of the ‘Gaditanos del Año’ awards, with a section dedicated to NGOs. Broadcasting social content: Onda Cero Cádiz • Coverage of social issues, especially in the news programmes: Soup kitchens, food banks, Red Cross campaigns, etc. • Interviews of a social nature during the year: Madre Coraje, ADACA, EQUA, ASPADEMIS, Autismo Cádiz, etc. • Monthly slot with the Asociación de Donantes de Sangre (Association of Blood Donors) of Cadiz. • Coverage of the campaigns of the Asociación de Ayuda Contra el Cáncer (Association of Support Against Cancer). Broadcasting social content: • Magazine programme Castellón en la Onda , which includes specific sections on social matters: Onda Cero – Seguridad Vial (Road Safety). Instructor and trainer Raúl Ribes gives listeners a refresher course so that they can Castellón drive efficiently, calmly and safely. – Perritos en la Onda (Dogs on la Onda). A weekly slot in collaboration with the animal protector Manada Feliz. – Empowering listeners to achieve excellence in their personal and professional lives. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 100 Supporting social initiatives: Support for the communication of the charity concert Rock&Joc, organised by Melodía FM and Mossosd’Esquadra to collect toys in collaboration with the Red Cross. Broadcasting social content: • 'CiutatSolidària' Awards. Social initiative recognising the social work of volunteering entities and associations. The awards are named after the weekly section “CiutatSolidària” of the programme La Ciutat, in which an entity is interviewed to raise awareness about its projects. At the end of the year, a jury chooses two entities (winner and Onda Cero runner up) from among those interviewed who are deserving of an award. Catalonia • Interview with the Síndica de Greuges, a figure similar to the ombudsman in other autonomous communities. • Weekly social debate on the programme 'La Brúixola' where NGOs and other social entities are frequently given a voice in current debates. • Frequent broadcasting of news, reports and articles with social content in the programme La Ciutat. • In Tarragona, coverage of charity events organised by the PorAventura Foundation. • In Tarragona, a voice has been given to associations, professionals and other people supporting social interests such as the Vicente Ferrer Foundation, URV Solidaria, Intermon Oxfam and interviews with volunteers who have been in Greece, Turkey and Syria to help the refugees. Supporting social initiatives: • Immediate reporting of activities or campaigns by social assistance associations in the programming and support for campaigns helping specific members of the public. Onda Cero Ceuta Broadcasting social content: • Special programmes or in-depth interviews with issues such as school bullying, the fight against domestic violence, AIDS, the Great Collection Campaign for the Food Bank, among others, as protagonists. • Regular information and programmes on social aspects such as emergency telephones, veterinary consultations, AIDS prevention, mental health, etc. Broadcasting social content: Onda Cero • Sin Barreras and Charlas con Córdoba Solidaria sections on the programme Córdoba en la Onda, seeking to bring Cordoba society closer to the world of disability and publicise the activity of different NGOs, respectively. Supporting social initiatives: • Monitoring of all the actions and events of NGO RANA (Support Network for Abused Children) • Onda Cero Mallorca Award, with interviews every time there is a special campaign. Onda Cero Balearic Islands Broadcasting social content: • Sections in collaboration with Palma Aquarium, the largest aquarium in Mallorca, on education and environmental awareness. Supporting social initiatives: • Collaboration with culture: supporting associations such as the group of artists El Arroyo , the Asociación de Amigos del Archivo (Association of Friends of the Archive) and the Ateneo Cultural Andaluz (Andalusian Cultural Athenaeum). • Active collaboration with the neighbourhood movement, thanks to the spaces dedicated to the two federations of neighbourhood associations in the city, Solidaridad and La Plazoleta 2.0. Onda Cero Jerez Broadcasting social content: • Coverage of all the activities organised by the city's charity associations, from soup kitchens to non-profit organisations fighting for social integration. • Dissemination of the different campaigns implemented by associations such as Madre Coraje, Intermón, Food Banks, etc. Supporting social initiatives: • Supporting all the charity campaigns that ask to broadcast free advertisements. In 2016, it collaborated especially in the Women's Fun Run for the Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (Spanish Association Against Cancer), the 32nd Aspace Fun Run and the Los Átomosa concert in favour of FARO (Families of Children with Cancer). Onda Cero • Interviews with all of the organisations that have held a charitable event and that have asked to be broadcast: Cáritas, La Rioja Proyecto Hombre, Médicus Mundi, la Cocina Económica, Mujeres por África, among others. Broadcasting social content: • Monthly programme with Aspace La Rioja, in which staff from the organisation, both people with cerebral palsy and their workers, explain the work of this association. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 101 Supporting social initiatives: • Free promotional slots, promotions and/or interviews supporting social actions such as the FUNDASPE support campaign, for donating blood and organs, the Fundación Alzhéimer (Alzheimer's Foundation) Awards and the Ruta de la Luz Foundation. Onda Cero Leon Broadcasting social content: • Live broadcasting of the programme 'León en la Onda', from the hospital classroom in León, with the participation of the city's Mayor along with the doctors and hospitalised children. • Radio workshop from Colegio Maristas in San José de León with the participation of eight year old children. • Radio workshop from the hospital classroom in León. • Direct programme from the Hospital San Juan de Dios, to mark its festivities. Supporting social initiatives: • Special stories of overcoming adversity Onda Deportiva Marbella, which honours three local athletes whose spirit of overcoming adversity has crossed borders. The fund-raiser was for the Cesare Scariolo Foundation and to contribute Onda Cero to the rehabilitation costs of chato Antonio Benítez. Marbella • DJ Retro playing for a cause: People linked to Onda Cero Marbella but who were not music professionals took turns in DJing a music session. The money collected from the sale of toys supplied by the youth department of Marbella City Council was donated to Alzheimer España (Spanish Alzheimer’s Foundation). Supporting social initiatives: • Free promotional radio advertisements supporting campaigns such as collecting food, the Magia Solidaria gala and the charity calendar from the Fundación Síndrome de Down (Down's Syndrome Foundation), among others. • Help for the Asociación Amigos de Tirsona (Friends of Tirsona Association) who wanted to bring to Murcia a Syrian girl aged one and a half who had been hospitalised in Athens, very ill, with heart and respiratory problems. Onda Cero Murcia Broadcasting social content: • Radio workshops at Lorca Hospital. • A voice was given in the radio station to associations, professionals and other people supporting social interests such as the Asociación contra la Distrofia Muscular (Association against Muscular Distrophy), the Asociación de Famosos y Deportistas Contra el Cáncer (Association of Celebrities and Athletes Against Cancer) and the Federación de Salud Mental de la Región de Murcia (Mental Health Federation of the Murcia Region). Broadcasting social content: • Regular interviews with Stop Accidentes (Stop Accidents) reinforcing the Ponle Freno campaign. Onda Cero • Programme with students from the Filomena Dado School, to talk about work-life balance. Orense • Interview with the chairman of the Provincial Assembly of the Red Cross. • Interviews and coverage of news on NGOs such as Amigos da Terra (Friends of the Earth). Supporting social initiatives: • Free radio advertising slots in support of social initiatives such as those of REDEAXUDA, a municipal project that brings together all the social organisations in Pontevedra. Broadcasting social content: Onda Cero • A voice is given to social groups and causes such as the UNESCO School Network, Pedaladas and the Food Bank. Pontevedra • SARAIVA + SENDO micro-spaces, two local companies explain their therapies and services aimed at people with Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. • Programmes with social content that, among others, have publicised the innovative initiatives of two educational centres in Pontevedra and Marín, and the special “Women and leadership”, sponsored by the County Council of Pontevedra to inaugurate the María Vinyals school of equality. Supporting social initiatives: • Pedaleando por el empleo (Pedalling for employment). Live programme from the Plaza de los Bandos in Salamanca, supporting the event raising awareness about social exclusion. Onda Cero Broadcasting social content: Salamanca • Live programme from the Ave María foster home, during which there were interviews with women who decided to continue with their pregnancy even though they were in vulnerable situations. • Live programme from the paediatric classroom of the University Hospital with hospitalised children. • Live programme to talk about Salamanca as a child-friendly city. • Commemoration of the Universal Day of Children's Rights. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 102 G4-26, G4-27 Supporting social initiatives: • Cada niño, una sonrisa de ilusión (Every child, a smile of excitement). Toy collection for the children of Seville at Christmas. • Rieloterapia: cómo ser feliz en tiempos de crisis (Laughter therapy: how to be happy in times of crisis). Free non-profit show which brought together 300 people. • Free promotional radio advertisements for the initiatives of Fundación Banco de Alimentos De Sevilla (Seville Food Bank Foundation), Fundación Sandra Ibarra (Sandra Ibarra Foundation) against breast cancer and the Fundación Onda Cero Pequeño Deseo (Small Wish Foundation) to support sick children, among others. Seville • Donation of sweets for the Three King's Parade. • Toy collection. Installation of a marquee in the centre of Seville where the public could donate toys to be distributed among children in need. Broadcasting social content: • Campanilleros Competition Programme. Over three days, different schools in Seville competed and livened up Christmas in a campanilleros choir competition. Supporting social initiatives: • Collaboration with NGOs that ask for their initiatives to be broadcast. • Official Broadcaster of the Ronald McDonald House in Valencia, disseminating the initiatives they carry out to raise money for long-term hospitalised children. Onda Cero Valencia Broadcasting social content: • Dissemination of NGO initiatives such as the Food Bank, Fundación Pequeño Deseo and Cáritas Diocesana. • Annual programme with the Blood Transfusion Centre of the Valencia Community, to disseminate and raise awareness about blood donation. • Programme about the circus so that socially excluded children can go free of charge. Broadcasting social content: • Dissemination of the work of entities that help groups at risk of social exclusion with interviews, informative breakfasts, social gatherings and special programmes. Included among the entities it has supported is AMINO, an association that fights against the abuse and mistreatment of children and young people; ASANOG, an association to Onda Cero Vigo support children with cancer; and the IGUAL-ARTE Foundation, an entity that promotes artistic disciplines in people with different abilities. • Contraparte Programme. Space comprised entirely of content related to social issues: HIV, disability, exclusion, drug dependency, gender, prison facilities, children, old age, etc. In addition to these local actions, all of the Group's radio stations In 2016, Atresmedia Radio support Atresmedia's main corporate responsibility campaigns such as stations broadcast 17,317 seconds Ponle Freno, Hazte Eco, Objetivo Bienestar and Crea Cultura, broadof free radio advertising slots casting their messages on road safety, the environment, healthy lifestyle in support of social initiatives, habits and protecting intellectual property, among others. whose value reached €2,643,127 Moreover, Onda Cero and its programmes extensively broadcast corporate volunteering initiatives, being one of the main media channels supporting Día Solidario de las Empresas (Company Solidarity Day) together with Cooperación Internacional ONG (NGO International Cooperation), Give and Gain Day together with Forética, and In Good Companies from the Fundación Hazlo Posible (Make It Possible Foundation). Through interviews and sections on programmes and in the news it also widely broadcasts the initiatives undertaken by Fundación Atresmedia which are linked to defending children, education and people with disabilities. The Onda Cero and Europa FM radio stations also broadcast the advertising campaigns of different NGOs for free in order to help them spread the word about their work. In 2016, Atresmedia Radio broadcast 17,317 seconds of free radio advertising slots for a value of €2,643,127. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA RADIO | 103 Distinctions received in 2016 As recognition for their work and efforts, various programmes and professionals at Atresmedia Radio received different awards and distinctions throughout 2016: Onda Cero Cadiz • Madre Coraje special recognition in the Media section. • Honorary Member, awarded by the Brotherhood of Blood Donors of Andalusia. • 1st Consumers of Cadiz Awards, in the Media section. • Mojarrita de Oro, from the Association of Friends of Fernando Quiñones. • Andalusian Sailing Federation Award, in the Media section. Training new professionals Onda Cero Jerez Another of Atresmedia Radio's main lines of action in the area of corporate responsibility is training new • Public recognition for cultural dissemination from professionals in the sector. During 2016, the Group's the Jerez Athenaeum. radio stations have been especially active in this commitment: Onda Cero La Rioja • The third year of the Onda Cero Master's in • Award for the most charitable media channel in Radio has begun, in collaboration with the 2016. Universidad de Nebrija, in which professionals from the Group's radio stations, representing all Onda Cero Murcia departments, from management to editing, took part. In this edition, XX students were registered, • Silver antenna from the Radio and Television four more than in the first year. Association for Rosa Roda, news director for • Moreover, Onda Cero, Europa FM and Melodía Onda Cero Murcia Region. FM collaborated in the design and development • Award from the SATSE Nursing Union of the of the 2016 edition of Proyecto Pro, together Murcia Region for Onda Cero journalist Mari Paz with Fundación Atresmedia and the Universidad Martínez. Rey Juan Carlos. As part of this initiative, the University Specialist in Radio Content and Onda Cero Salamanca Production course was given, aimed at students with disabilities. This proved to be a success and • Cossío Journalism Award in the Radio category. a good experience for everyone involved. • In addition, each year 10 Audiovisual students Onda Cero Seville from the State University of Ohio (USA) visit Onda Cero Seville accompanied by their • 2016 FLACEMA Award from the Andalusian teachers. Guided visits are also made to this city's Labour Foundation for Cement and the radio station by students from IES Lauretum de Environment for the programme Aquí en la Espartinas. Onda . ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 105 The best valued advertising seller Numerous studies, including RepTrak España, Personmillion listeners, continued to increase its audience ality Media, Media Scope, Superbrands and Randstad share, consolidating its position as the number three Award once again demonstrated that Atresmedia is music radio station. The morning show “Lo mejor que the audiovisual group with the best reputation. Atreste puede pasar”, with Nuria Roca, reached a record media Publicidad was also the highest ranked TV high for mornings on Melodía FM. sales house, leading in sales service and advertising effectiveness. The two main channels in the AtresmeOnline, highlights include the launch of Iceberg, dia Group, Antena 3 and laSexta, led all the rankings which defined the Group’s digital offerings. It profor quality and innovation, and were the favourites vides a more complete, organised and simplified among consumers. way to access the entire digital advertising portfolio of Atresmedia and its partners. Iceberg is made up Atresmedia Televisión was the group which saw of five sales formats, covering all the demand-side the highest growth in 2016, capturing a 27.1 % share, requirements of agencies and advertisers: Branding, up +0.3 points compared to 2015. Antena 3 ended Performance, Programmatic, Native Advertising and the year as the prime-time leader in the commercial Special Advertising. This has allowed Atresmedia target (14.3 %), laSexta came in with 7.1 % for the year Publicidad to demonstrate that it is much more than and our complementary channels were up +1.3 points video and branding, which are the tip of the iceberg in comparison with the previous year. Mega reported for which it is recognised and valued by the market. the largest increase (+0.9). With over 27 million users and covering 84 % of the online population, Atresmedia’s commercial offerings In radio, highlights include the addition of sports came in at number two in the ComScore ranking. journalist José Ramón de la Morena in July 2016. The undisputed leader in Spanish sports journalism joined As regards the Internet, it should be noted that the the Atresmedia Group with “El transistor”, the new largest European football competition, the Champinight-time sports show on Onda Cero. With 163,000 ons League, returned last February with an innovative new listeners, Onda Cero was the only general interplayer, social media battle and the games “Elige tu 11” est radio station that saw growth in the latest General and “Trivial Champions”. Live broadcasts could be folMedia Study, coming in at over two million followlowed using the innovative multi-camera player, with ers per day. Atresmedia Radio’s music stations also up to seven different angles available to the audience. reported positive results. Europa FM, with almost two ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 106 Atresmedia consolidated the success of the Managedia Publicidad maintained its commitment to offerment & Business Summit at its second edition. This ing the best service to agencies and advertisers, and major gathering of global executives and leaders, to continuing its research into knowledge around which took place over two days filled with motivaadvertising effectiveness. It also continued to focus tion, innovation, creativity and leadership, posted on innovation in generating new advertising formats, extraordinary numbers: more than 1,400 attendees; as well as actions aimed at improving the product 600 networking connections; hundreds of ideas for offered to brands. In this area, Atresmedia Publicibusinesses to apply in order to improve productivity, dad expanded the content of its website with two innovation, adaptability and motivation; and 18 hours new sections: Objetivo eficacia (Target Effectiveness) of training sessions. Two days of conversation, reflecand Objetivo innovación (Target Innovation), adding tion and learning. to the quality positioning of the Atresmedia Group. One final noteworthy event was the appointment of This helped Atresmedia Publicidad remain true to its Eduardo Olano as the new chairman of Atresmedia commitment as an exclusive advertising agent, somePublicidad, passing the general manager’s baton to thing which goes beyond acting as a mere provider of José Miguel García-Gasco. Beatriz Medina, digital advertising spaces. Committed to its role in offering general manager of Atresmedia Publicidad, was effective advertising for its clients and keeping up-tonamed president of the board of directors for IAB date on innovation, from its inception, the Atresmedia Spain. Group’s advertising arm has been known for offering brands and agencies the most suitable campaign for This year, innovation and effectiveness were the two each communication need, as well as the best sales key focal points of Atresmedia Publicidad. Atresmeservice. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 107 G4-26, G4-27 Innovation Once again, IKEA’s La escuela de decoración, airing on laSexta and Nova, was another fantastic example In a constantly changing television and advertising of branded content on TV. This 30-minute programme environment, two years ago, Atresmedia launched airs Saturdays on laSexta and is rebroadcast on Nova AtresmediaLab, a project incubator to manage all on Sundays. La escuela de decoración is also availthe possibilities available to brands, advertisers and able on laSexta website and Atresplayer, as well as suppliers emerging as a result of the new multi-screen having a presence on social media. The action also advertising formulas and new technological options included previews of programming, which reached (mobiles, online video, mobile marketing, social 82 % of the core target and were covered by the spemedia, smart TV, apps, etc.). cialised media. Under this innovation plan, Atresmedia Publicidad According to a market study, 62 % of those surveyed was able to successfully get ahead of the market. said that they had seen it on TV and 7 out of 10 people Taking advantage of the Group’s multimedia potential, associated the programme with IKEA. After watching it created new television and multi-screen formats, the programme, 80 % stated that they would visit enabling it to distinguish itself from other communiIKEA, that they would purchase a product, and that cations groups. they would recommend their visit and/or purchase. In addition, after watching the programme, the number Seven new advertising formats based on interactivity, of visits to the website www.laescueladedecoracion. new technological applications and the use of own es increased sixfold. This site offers users simple online brands: Agreement with Shazam, Context Spot/Real courses with great ideas to implement at home. This Time, Context Spot/RC, Neuroquiz, Momentazo y is one more example of how advertising and content Juega TV, and Avance estreno. can come together to achieve greater message integration within the Atresmedia programme schedule. The programme won one Gold and one Silver Sun at Special actions carried out by Atresmedia the El Sol Awards. The show won a Silver Sun in the Publicidad in 2016 “Brand Content” category for Television and Film, and a Gold Sun for the best integrated content campaign. An original telepromotion during Ahora caigo was the format selected by Twentieth Century Fox España The insurance brand DKV, together with OMD, began to promote the premiere of The Peanuts Movie. This implementing a content-based strategy as the main was an animated piece that simulated the film’s channel for its new advertising campaign. This took characters taking part in the competition featured in the form of “Irse de Madre”, branded content starring Ahora Caigo, appearing on the set of the programme well-known comedienne Sara Escudero. It features together with presenter Arturo Valls, who was reportmonologues talking about her visits to real families to ing on the premiere. learn what it truly means to become a “mummy” and ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 108 all the implications of the arrival of a new member of the family. Atresmedia launched an Adeslas campaign using the neuroquiz format with a new creative twist. A neuroquiz is a formula that consists of airing a “wake-up call” that presents a question about the brand directly related to the advertiser’s spot, which airs immediately after this piece. Adeslas goes one step further and adds a second piece between the two elements answering the initial neuromarketing question. This reinforces awareness and retains the viewer’s attention. In response to requests to integrate Heineken into the UEFA Champions League, of which it is a sponsor, Atresmedia created a new advertising formula to reinforce the impact of the company’s spots. Heineken launched a spot starring José Mourinho especially for the UEFA Champions League. But the demand for integrated content went a step further, creating a new structure consisting of an introduction to the spot by the presenters prior to the Champions League match, followed by a bumper for the brand before the advertising break. The action continues with the spot airing in the first position, creating an advertising formula linked as closely as possible to one of the most “premium” programmes on Atresmedia’s broadcast schedule. the help of experts and surprising guests, presented in a laid-back atmosphere. EuroPlay has hosted a Also for the Champions League, Bwin, the well-known number of special guests – including musicians, sports bookmaker, decided to do a live piece during actors, presenters and journalists – talking about their the half-time advertising break of the first UEFA experience with video games. Champions League match. This original format made it possible to report on the real-time values of Bwin #paraquequierouncoche (#whydoiwantacar) was a bets updated based on the result of the first half of mysterious branded content campaign on Atresmethe match. dia Radio. This action filled the city of Madrid with anonymous posters intended to encourage residents Gas Natural Fenosa presented the second and third to think about whether or not they needed to use a editions of CINERGÍA, an initiative created with the vehicle This initiative, which was soon reinforced by aim of bringing energy efficiency to the general public making the leap to social media with the hashtags through the cinema and promoting the talent of our #cochesi (#caryes) and #cocheno (#carno), was country’s film-making industry. Gas Natural received supported by an exclusive branded content-style an award at the second edition of Sitges Next, the campaign on Atresmedia Radio, with the aim of competition dedicated to communication and new encouraging answers to the question #paraquequiermedia which is part of the Sitges Film Festival. In the ouncoche. The purpose was to conduct a study which Branded Content category, the commercial brand revealed that Spaniards opt to have their own car and award went to Cinergía, by Atresmedia and Arena use it every day, and that the culture of car sharing Media for Gas Natural. to reduce expenses is not yet very prevalent in our country. The final piece of the puzzle was released at In October, Europa FM debuted the programme Eurothe end of the action, in which Skoda revealed that it Play, a new format targeting lovers of video games was responsible for the study in an advertising camand the video game world, presented by Quique paign with a clear message: Why else do you want a Peinado and Kiko Béjar. EuroPlay features the latest car, if not to live your life? from the video game industry, news and events, with ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 109 In the online area, Flooxer, the Atresmedia digital Effectiveness short video platform created in November 2015, became one of the leading portals for standard-setAs in previous years, Atresmedia Publicidad conting content in Spain. With the slogan “La plataforma tinued its commitment to offering the best service del talento digital” (The platform for digital talent), to agencies and advertisers, and to continuing its Flooxer has continued to grow with each passing research into knowledge around advertising effecmonth, filling with high quality content and incorpotiveness. rating new formats and channels. The main differentiating features of the digital Atresdata branded content on Atresmedia were the high quality production by the most influential creators and a Atresdata was the revolutionary new tool from Atrescontent distribution plan which gave branded content media Publicidad to improve affinity and effectivea boost and visibility. Brands like Heineken (Desperness in the sale of television advertising. Available ados), Pierre Fabre (Elancyl), P&G (Gillette Venus), since 1 April of last year, this launch represented a Aperol Spritz and L’Oreal Fructis by Garnier have major development in how audiences are measured already opted to post branded content on Flooxer, and advertising is sold, thanks to an agreement with consolidating the advertising success of the platform Kantar Worldpanel. Atresdata represented a giant as a new showcase for targeting audiences that are leap forward, adding measurement of current variable difficult to reach using traditional channels. socio-demographic targets in terms of real purchases and behaviour. With Atresdata, television began Coinciding with the launch of the “Triplex de la ONCE”, speaking the same language as online media, without the new game from lottery operator ONCE targeting giving up its major attributes: a reach that extends to a younger, more urban audience, Atresmedia premillions and the capacity to generate awareness and miered “Márcate un Triplex” on Flooxer. This entercreate brands. taining game show presented by Quique Peinado is another example of branded content. Based on an Opel, Nestlé, L’Oréal, Línea Directa and MSC Cruceros, original idea by Carat BE, Carat’s Branded Entertainamong other advertisers, opted for the new Atresmement and Special Actions division, the “Márcate un dia Publicidad tool, trusting in the effective planning Triplex” competition was produced and distributed of Atresdata and ensuring that their campaigns would by Atresmedia through the Flooxer branded content have a more effective impact on consumption and team. This unique, original and high-impact project behaviour targets than planning based on socio-derevolved around the new “Triplex de la ONCE” game. mographic targets. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 110 Atresdata was unveiled at the 32nd AEDEMO (Spanish It accounted for a little over half of all advertising Market, Marketing and Opinion Studies Association) activity, but was responsible for 80 % of dealership Seminar, held last February in Girona. Atresmedia traffic. Publicidad Marketing Manager Javier Andrés introduced the tool in a talk titled “16 años tarde” (16 years A correlation was established between GRP in each later), which was recognised as the best presentation medium and the number of dealership visits. For each at this specialised forum. television GRP, the car brand received 4.5 dealership visits. This ratio is three times higher than that of the remaining media, without TV (1.6). Be Neuro, Be Effective 2 Study Atresmedia Publicidad has succeeded in utilising Third study on ROI and multimedia neuroscience to gain an in-depth understanding advertising effectiveness (ROIMAP) of how viewers respond to advertising stimuli and how these influence attention and brand recall. Last For the third consecutive year, Atresmedia PubliciApril, Atresmedia Publicidad and Brain 4 Marketing dad and Tres14 Research prepared the ROIMAP study launched Be Neuro, Be Effective 2, a study based on (ROI for multimedia campaigns). This measures the neuroscience techniques whose aim is to optimise effectiveness and profitability of the different media advertising breaks by boosting viewer attention and when it comes to generating brand awareness, recall. 5-second “wake-up call” pieces clearly linked to determines what effect the media mix has in terms the following spot were produced. This connection, of profitability and recall, and suggests the perfect based on the coherence effect, achieved a significant combination of media to maximise brand awareness. increase in awareness of the brands analysed. The overall results of the study were in keeping with those of the two previous studies, although past 2nd dealership traffic model: results did indicate a gradual increase in the importance of television. The study showed that the effecFor the second time, Atresmedia Publicidad and tiveness of television experienced significant growth Tres14 Research developed an econometric model over the last three years, with 2015 being the year in which explains dealership traffic generated by a which it achieved the highest share of the optimum specific car brand based on the principle business media mix, with 64 % of investment in all media in variables. The model confirmed the direct impact of that year. television advertising campaigns on dealership traffic, and therefore, the brand’s sales. The third study on multimedia advertising effectiveness included a new feature: the ROI MAP tool. This Advertising played a very important role, as almost makes it possible to simulate different scenarios for 47 % of all traffic was the result of advertising in all share of investment by medium – based on the climedia. Analysing the role of each medium, the most ent’s specific needs – to determine the most suitable noteworthy finding was the importance of television, mix to reinforce brand recall. the medium which offered the highest return on GRP. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 111 Profitability Profitability continued to be one of the driving forces behind the Atresmedia Group in 2016. Synergies among the different media we market continued to be responsible for the Company’s positive growth. More than half of advertising investment for the Company’s television channels was based on tri-media advertisers, in other words, clients with a presence in all Atresmedia media (51.9 %).In addition, this segment of “multimedia” advertisers also accounted for 41.9 % of our advertising revenue from the Internet, as well as 54.8 % of radio turnover. For TV, it represented 51.9 %. TV Online Radio 51.9 % 41.9 % 54.8 % Based on year-end figures for 2016, advertising investment “returned” to television for the fourth consecutive year, with this medium increasing its share over the other conventional media (+0.5 points vs. 2015) and obtaining (again) the highest share compared to these since 2010. Growth over the previous year’s levels is around +5 %. This trend was based on an improvement in macroeconomic variables, but was undeniably strengthened by the effort to hold down prices begun by Atresmedia a couple of years ago, a strategy which the other leading operators in the market finally seem to have adopted. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 112 G4-26, G4-27 Responsible advertising management OUR VISION 1 To promote transparency, effectiveness and innovation in commercial communications. 2 To drive the self-regulation of the sector in order to ensure the rights of consumers and customers. 3 To improve the effectiveness of the quality controls. 4 To encourage its own social commitment and that of the advertisers. In figures 2014 2015 2016 No. of legal consultations 139 150 124 No. of copy advices 772 876 1,028 No. of violations 7 14 6 Fines for television advertising (Euros) 0 565,976 421,900 Fines for advertising on all other media (Euros) 0 0 0 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on television for NPOs* (Euros) 3,044,000 3,478,975 9,325,630 Opportunity cost of broadcasting advertising slots on the radio for NPOs*(Euros) 3,494,228 2,543,913 2,643,127 NPOs: non-profit organisations Atresmedia Publicidad remains true to its commitment to not just being a mere supplier of advertising spaces and implements a management and business model based on respect and customer service, taking innovation, quality and responsibility to its listeners, viewers, agencies and media centres as the foundation for its work. With this objective in mind, Atresmedia Publicidad has since its creation maintained solid ethical working principles based on the responsible management of advertising and commercial communication, as can be seen from its Responsible Advertising Policy and the four lines of action implemented: innovation, quality, self-regulation and social commitment of advertising. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 113 1 Transparency, effectiveness and innovation in commercial communications Transparency, effectiveness and innovation are the hallmarks of Atresmedia Publicidad. In order to achieve these standards, there are many projects run by the Group that contribute to making a clear difference for the stakeholders: Atresmedia Publicidad and Brain 4 Marketing launch the 2nd edition of the Be Neuro Be Effective study which identifies the key factors involved in doubling the recognition of spots. Atresmedia launches Atresdata, a revolutionary tool This second edition of the study has focused on the impact that improves the affinity and effectiveness of television that wake-up call pieces, based on consistency between advertising. two consecutive pieces (the most effective according to the 1st edition), have on brand recall. With Atresdata, television begins to speak the same language as online media without losing its great attributes: Atresmedia Publicidad has managed to successfully apply mass coverage in the millions and the ability to generate neuroscience in order to obtain in-depth knowledge about recognition and create brands. viewer reactions to advertising stimuli and how these influence brand recognition and recall. This is a huge step in terms of measurement and has been possible following the agreement reached with Kantar Worldpanel which allows for a 360º vision of the viewer by combining information on television audiences, the consumption and the purchase of products, attitudes and lifestyles into a single measure. Atresmedia Publicidad celebrates World Television Day Television is the media channel that generates the greatest coverage and consumption. Around 33 million Spaniards watch television every day. Atresmedia Publicidad is helping to celebrate World Television Day with the broadcasting of a spot that highlights the value of the sector. Updated commercial target Because television entertains, informs, is for everyone, is committed and supportive and because we spend so much In 2016, Atresmedia Publicidad adapted its commercial time watching it . These are some of the messages launched target to the current labour market, committing to the new by the Atresmedia spot, which forms part of the We love socio-economic index proposed by the Asociación para la TV movement. Investigación de Medios de Comunicación (Association for Media Research AIMC). The new target is comprised of individuals aged from 25 to 59 years old. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 114 Analysis of the influence of advertising on dealership customer numbers Two new sections on the website for promoting Atresmedia Publicidad and Tres14 Research have developed effectiveness and innovation a new econometric model that explains dealership customer numbers for a specific brand of premium cars using the Atresmedia Publicidad has expanded the content of its main business variables, such as offline advertising, online website (www.atresmediapublicidad.com) with two new advertising, long-term recognition, motor shows and seasonal sections: variables. • Effectiveness objective: www.atresmediapublicidad.com/ This information allows a post-campaign analysis to be carried objetivo-eficacia contains the domestic and international out which provides guidance on possible future adjustments, studies and research on the advertising sector, both its as well as future forecasts to determine the volume of GRP's own and those of other organisations. necessary depending on the objectives set by the brand. • Innovation objective: www.atresmediapublicidad.com/ objetivo-innovacion brings together new advertising One out of every three people entering a car dealership does formats and examples of the most recent creative so as a direct result of television advertising and innovative cases, both its own and those of other organisations (with special emphasis on international Television advertising accounts for 31 % of the customers content). going to the brand's dealerships, or in other words, 1 out of every 3 people going to the point of sale to obtain Thus, Atresmedia Publicidad remains true to its commitment information about one of the models is there as a result of as an exclusive advertising organisation that has never limited having seen a spot on television. itself to being a mere supplier of advertising space. Thus, the correlation between the GRP's launched and the number of visits to the dealership can be established. The premium car brand obtains 1.8 dealership visits for every 1 GRP launched on television. If we look at the visits to sales conversion rate, it is also possible to estimate the GRP's necessary for each vehicle sold. 10 Commandments of effectiveness Discovering the key factors affecting effectiveness is one of the great obsessions of any publicist. Atresmedia Publicidad shares this desire, so it has invested time, money and resources so that it can contribute its grain of sand. This is a summary of the 10 recommendations from Atresmedia Publicidad: 1.Increased sales is always accompanied by an increase in the penetration of the brands, in obtaining new buyers. 2.Television advertising generates a positive ROI for brands. 3.Planning which seeks out the real buyer of the product allows for the addition of new buyers and improves the performance of campaigns. 4.Television is the media channel that generates the greatest effectiveness and return from the viewpoint of recognition. 5.Long-term and continuous investment in television improves not only brand recognition and advertising recall, but also the purchase intention for the brands. 6.Creativity is a key factor in campaigns being better remembered as it allows for the possibility of recall from the first moment. 7.Special advertising is another key factor. 8.Preferential positions and exclusive blocks also help with effectiveness. 9.The use of neuroscience techniques leads to the recall of campaigns more than doubling. 10.The right distribution of contacts allows recognition to double. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 115 2 Atresmedia commits to the self-regulation of the sector In keeping with its responsible television model, Atresmedia does not simply ensure strict compliance with the applicable legislation, but goes further and actively promotes self-regulation within the sector. Reaffirming this commitment, Atresmedia has voluntarily signed up to various self-regulation codes which ensure ethical advertising and the protection of the rights of citizens, especially those of children. All of these codes include more stringent requirements than are found in the related legislation. Self-regulation codes signed by Atresmedia and the date from which they are valid Código de Conducta sobre Comunicaciones Comerciales de las Actividades del Juego/Code of Conduct over the Commercial Communications of Gambling Activities (2012) Self-Regulation Code for Food Advertising Aimed at Minors, Preventing Obesity and Health/Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad de Alimentos Dirigida a Menores, Prevención de la Obesidad y la Salud (PAOS) (2010) Código de Autorregulación de la Publicidad Infantil de Juguetes /Self-Regulation Code for the Advertising of Children's Toys (modified in 2010) Código de Autorregulación Publicitaria de Cerveceros de España/Advertising Self-Regulation Code for Brewers in Spain (2009) Código de Autorregulación del Vino/Wine Self-Regulation Code (2009) Código de Autorregulación SMS/SMS Self-Regulation Code (2009) Código de Autorregulación de la Federación Española de Bebidas Espirituosas /Self-Regulation Code for the Spanish Spirits Federation (FEBE) (2006) Atresmedia Televisión is also an active member and part of the founding group of Autorregulación de la Comunicación Comercial (Association for the Self-Regulation of Commercial Communication, Autocontrol), through which it works to improve compliance with the advertising and competition regulations, as well as to extend the guarantees of the advertisers, television channels and, especially, consumers. Monthly meetings are held with Autocontrol to keep up-to-date with the contacts that the organisation maintains with the sector, as well as any new developments in the applicable legislation and self-regulation codes. Atresmedia Publicidad also has an internal committee that meets regularly in order to identify all the new developments in the regulations and interpretations of the Ley General de Comunicación Audiovisual (General Law on Audiovisual Communication). Moreover, Atresmedia Publicidad continues in its endeavour to offer advertising that is suitable for all audiences and that especially protects the younger viewers. In this line, the Group has continued to voluntarily choose to extend the enhanced protection schedule on Neox, the channel on which the children's programming slot NeoxKidz is broadcast. Moreover, in this children's vertical space the advertisers have a multi-platform environment with specific content for children aged between 0 and 11, in which they can insert the advertising messages suitable for them. Atres Cobertura schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8am to 9am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 12 noon Atres Afinidad schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 12 noon Neox schedule of enhanced protection for children M-F From 8am to 10am and 5pm to 8pm Weekend From 9am to 3pm ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 116 3 Effective quality control All of Atresmedia's advertising content is subject to strict quality control before being broadcast in order to not only guarantee legal compliance but also ensure that all voluntary requirements assumed by the Group through the self-regulation codes are taken into account. Atresmedia Publicidad has created a Quality Control Committee made up of managers from the content, broadcasting, internal audit, production and marketing departments, whose objective is to detect any incidents taking place, assess them and implement the actions necessary to resolve them and improve procedures. During 2016, improvements were made to the quality control procedure through new tools to prevent saturation, ensure strict respect of the schedules and avoid cuts of content due to broadcasting advertising. The aim was to reduce the possibility of error by 100 %. In addition to the triple filter that is regularly used, a final filter was also established by the departments for advertising guidelines and continuity. Moreover, Atresmedia Publicidad requests copy advice and brings it to the attention of the advertisers in the event that it is negative or amendments are needed, so that action can be taken in advance. In this regard, a system of checks has been put in place in order to indicate whether the campaign has any restrictions deriving from the copy advice. This system warns about the conditions imposed and does not allow a campaign to be broadcast if its assessment is negative. Although Atresmedia is constantly increasing its efforts to develop and implement tools, applications and filters that ensure compliance with the General Law on Audiovisual Communication and prevent any type of technical failure or cut, during 2016 and as a result of one-off issues, three cases were opened with regard to television advertising, of which one was quantitative and two were qualitative. The other media platforms have not been affected by any sanctioning procedures for advertising during the year. 2014 2015 2016 No. of cases 3 5 3 No. of violations 7 14 6 Fines due to violations in television advertising (euros) 0 565,976 421,900 Fines due to violations in advertising on other media (euros) 0 0 0 TOTAL 0 565,976 421,900 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 117 4 Social commitment In 2016, Atresmedia issued Atresmedia promotes and involves its advertisers in the Group's Corpofree television spots valued at rate Responsibility campaigns. Highlighted below are the most notewor€9,325,630 and free radio slots thy initiatives undertaken in 2016: valued at €2,643,127 • Puleva has continued to organise the Corazones contentos (Happy hearts) movement in which, through various presentations, it is trying to raise awareness about the importance of looking after your heart. In 2016 it became a member of the Fundación Española del Corazón (Spanish Heart Objetivo Bienestar Foundation). • Objetivo Bienestar and Sandoz Bienestar, two expert health brands, have agreed to form a partnership to promote prevention and healthy habits and help to improve the quality of life. • Collaboration between AXA and Ponle Freno to research and provide information on the causes of accidents and give advice on how to prevent these, through studies based on its experience in managing accidents through the Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-AXA (Ponle Freno-AXA Study Centre). Ponle Freno • In 2016, Ponle Freno, together with the AXA Foundation, began to implement its action plan aimed at raising awareness under the slogan Más Distracción, Menos Seguridad (More Distraction, Less Safety), through spots on the Atresmedia Televisión channels and slots on Atresmedia Radio, and through banners and content on a specific micro-site within ponlefreno.com. • The AXA Foundation maintains its support for the Constantes y Vitales campaign to support and strengthen high quality medical research and health prevention. Constantes y Vitales • In 2016, Constantes y Vitales held the 2nd Edition of its Awards, created in order to promote, value, support and strengthen the research work of Spanish scientists in the field of biomedicine, as well as health prevention campaigns. Tolerancia Cero • Antena 3 Noticias and the Mutua Madrileña Foundation have reaffirmed their commitment to continuing with the Tolerancia cero (Zero tolerance) initiative, which was created one year ago to help raise awareness, promote reporting and increase sensitivity through educating society. • In 2016, Tolerancia Cero has launched Que te quiera de verdad (Someone who really loves you) to attract the attention of young people to situations of macho control, especially through the social networks and mobile phones. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA PUBLICIDAD | 118 Added to these initiatives is Atresmedia's allocation of various free advertising spaces on television and radio to NGOs in order to publicise their work and raise awareness in society about different issues. In 2016, Atresmedia broadcast more than 38,000 seconds of free television spots, valued at €9,325,630, and more than 10,000 seconds of free radio slots valued at €2,643,127. The following entities were some of the beneficiaries of this aid: Free allocation of advertising space TV Theme of the Campaign Asociación CONI (CONI Association) Children in Guatemala Fundación RAIS (RAIS Foundation) Awareness about the homeless Down España (Spanish Down Syndrome Foundation) International Down Syndrome Day Juegaterapia Child cancer research Plataforma Acción Social (Social Action Platform) Mark double X on Income Tax Declarations Caritas Mark double X on Income Tax Declarations Fundación Josep Carreras (Josep Carreras Foundation) Child Leukaemia Week Educo Free school meals AMREF Midwives in Africa Acción contra el Hambre (Action against Hunger) Refugees in Syria Amigos de los Mayores (Friends of the Elderly) International Day of Older Persons Asociación Española de Alzheimer (Spanish Alzheimer's Association) No les olvides (Don't forget them) campaign Lucha contra la Violencia de Género (Fight against Domestic Fundación Integra (Integra Foundation) Violence) FAD Fundación de Ayuda contra la Drogadicción (Foundation for Fight against drug addiction Help against Drug Addiction) ASPACE Cerebral Palsy AUTOCONTROL Ethical advertising UTECA Parent controlling RADIO Theme of the Campaign Banco de Alimentos (Food Bank) Gran Operación Kilo (Operation Kilo) Fundación Reina Sofia (Reina Sofía Foundation) Charity cinema against Alzheimer's FAD Fundación de Ayuda contra la Drogadicción (Foundation for Fight against drug addiction Help against Drug Addiction) Fundación Crecer Jugando (Grow Up Playing Foundation) Comparte y Recicla (Share and Recycle) Campaign Plataforma Acción Social (Social Action Platform) Mark double X on Income Tax Declarations CARITAS Request from the Church to mark X for social purposes Acción contra el Hambre (Action against Hunger) Refugees in Syria ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 120 Indisputed leadership Antena 3's website received an average of around 8 million Atresmedia's websites ended 2016 to its focus on carefully selected monthly unique visitors with a monthly average of over 24 premium video content. throughout 2016 million unique visitors, 14 % more than in 2015. This growth was Atresmedia's themed channels Antena 3's website continued to due to the quality of the content and partners (Temáticos&Partbe a leading news and entertainoffered by the Group's television ners) were also key: the themed ment site for visitors. Throughout websites. We should also not channels saw the family of spe2016, more than 8 million monthly forget the redesign of the televicialised portals increase in 2016, visitors visited antena3.com and sion websites, whose usability and having 13 sites, and the new Partwere able to enjoy its new more browsing were adapted to the new ners strategy, with the signing of attractive and visual image, ways in which people consume the new partnership agreements with adapted to the new forms of concontent, as well as giving them a the country's main publishers, sumption. more attractive image. complemented and strengthened the group's varied offer of content. This year the Antena 3 News Atresmedia's radio stations also These figures positioned Atresportal was again a key element contributed to these strong media as undisputed leader of of the Antena 3 website. In 2016, figures. The loyalty of their listhe audiovisual sector on the antena3.com/noticias improved teners led to the Group's radio Internet during 2016, finishing the on the figures from the previous stations ending the year as the year in 11th place out of the 100 year by 16 % and attracted 3.6 websites with the highest growth most visited websites in Spain million monthly visitors. It also compared to the figures for 2015. according to ComScore, the offiachieved its best ever figure in cial digital audience measurement September 2016, exceeding 5.1 Flooxer became another key service. million unique visitors. Visitors factor in the construction of recognised the extensive coverage Atresmedia Digital's audience, of the intense political agenda in and exceeded one million visiSpain this year with the second tors during its first year thanks general election, Government ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 121 pacts and the investiture, as well as international laSexta ended a spectacular year with events such as the presidential elections in the United over 4.8 million monthly unique visitors States. laSexta's website is unstoppable and in 2016 it The entertainment sites also contributed to Antena 3 managed to beat the strong figures achieved in the achieving strong figures thanks to the efforts made previous year by 55 %. laSexta's website beat its throughout this year to improve engagement with record on 7 occasions in 2016, achieving its best ever the visitors, contributing value through the generafigure in October with more than 7.1 million unique tion of transmedia content for the channel's series visitors. and programmes. In this way, for example, through the website visitors could experience the live finale of The spectacular performance of the laSexta Noticias Velvet in a unique manner and could enjoy it in 360° website was key in achieving these excellent figures, so as not to miss any details of the great event that as it managed to triple the figures from 2015 with added the finishing touch to four successful seasons more than 2.8 million monthly unique visitors. Visiof this series. tors chose the website of laSexta, news channel par excellence, to avoid missing out on any details about the hectic political landscape that characterised this year, with the second general election, pacts between parties, the investiture and the U.S. presidential elections, among other events. To this we must add the strong growth of its bestknown news programmes such as Salvados, Al rojo vivo, El intermedio and laSexta Noche, as well as its commitment to entertainment with programmes including Zapeando, Pesadilla en la cocina and El club de la comedia. Due to all of this, laSexta was the television website that grew the most in 2016 and it established itself as the third most popular television website in Spain. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 122 Atresmedia's radio listeners for its star programmes, Madrid and Atlético de Madrid stations have also played Levántate y Cárdenas and Ponte a being the live broadcast with the a major part in the prueba, as well as its commitment highest viewing figures in 2016, group's great results in to new formats such as Vamos with 300,000 viewers. 2016 tarde, which made its début on the station in September and is Atresplayer's multi-platform offer Onda Cero's website broke the presented by Frank Blanco. has led to it becoming a leading barrier of one million monthly platform. Atresplayer is available unique visitors in 2016 and on PC, on all operating systems managed to exceed the strong for Smartphones and tablets (iOS, figures achieved in 2015 by 10 %, Android and Windows), on Smart Atresplayer seeing its best figures in SeptemTV (Samsung and LG), video conber with over 1.2 million unique soles and can be accessed from visitors. The consolidation of the Google Chromecast. station's programmes par excellence, such as Más de uno, as well Atresplayer yet again estabThe relational model also conas the excellent welcome received lished itself as the leading online tinued providing great results. for the arrival of José Ramón de television platform. In 2016 more Atresplayer currently has over la Morena with El transistor, were than 4.8 million monthly visitors 4.5 million users registered on the the basis for the strong figures enjoyed Atresmedia's content platform, one million more than at achieved by ondacero.es, which through Atresplayer, which accuthe end of 2015. closed the year as the general mulated over 660 million video radio station with the highest playbacks in 2016. However, it is not only the figures growth compared to 2015. that demonstrate the success of Its commitment to the variety and Atresplayer. According to the Moreover, europafm.com ended quality of the content it offered latest report from the CNMC, the 2016 with growth of 36 % comwas key to the success of the platAtresplayer application, with 9 pared to 2015, with more than 1.6 form. In addition to the Group's million downloads, was the most million monthly unique visitors. drama and entertainment content, used by viewers to watch televiEuropa FM's website was the which is an essential pillar in buildsion programmes on demand on music radio portal that grew the ing Atresplayer's audience, we tablets and Smartphones. Its use most in 2016, which established it must mention the strong perforwas 45 %, which stands out comas the second most popular music mance of the broadcasts of Champared to Rtve.es (37 %) and Mitele radio station in Spain. The basis for pions league games in Champions (35 %). this success was the loyalty of the Total, with the final between Real ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 123 Temáticos&Partners In November 2016, Atresmedia Digital launched its In 2016, Atresmedia also added Economía Digital new strategy of specialised sites, expanding its family to its list of partners. This runs economiadigital.es, of vertical portals and complementing its offer of a portal specialised in economic information, microcontent with partnership agreements that allowed siervos.com, a weblog on science, technology and it to reach new targets and strengthen Atresmedia's the Internet, and diariogol.com, a sports information offer. Thus, Temáticos&Partners Atresmedia created portal. the largest offering of themed websites of any media organisation in Spain, comprised of 13 specialised Collaboration with the Bauer publishing house was Atresmedia portals and 7 partnership agreements another of the important agreements in 2016. With with the main native Spanish Internet publishers and this collaboration, young people were attracted to media platforms. Atresmedia thanks to teen magazine par excellence, bravoporti.com. Over 6.8 million unique visitors visited the themed Atresmedia sites in 2016, 30% more than in the preFilmin, the website specialised in independent cinema vious year. Two portals were added to this family and series, a leader in Spain, was another of the partof specialised sites this year: El Sextante, with tips, ners that teamed up with Atresmedia this year. Filmin trends, news and much more about the world of sex, has the largest catalogue of content in our country and Tribus Ocultas, the website offering all the inforand offers users an experience that goes beyond the mation on new trends in culture, music, literature, mere watching of films and series. series, cinema and the arts in general. The e-commerce websites promofarma.com, a In terms of the development of the Partners strategy, leading website in the sale of para-pharmacy prodit is worth mentioning the extension to the agreement ucts, and restaurantes.com, the restaurant guide with reached in 2015 with Guía Infantil, a leading worldwide the best gastronomic information and on-line reserparenting website, adding another of its successful vations at the best restaurants with exclusive promoheadliners to Atresmedia's partners: diariofemenino. tions, completed the family of partners. com, a website specialised in trends, fashion and beauty for women. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 124 Flooxer Over one million visitors enjoyed the content of Flooxer each month in 2016, which in only one year managed to attract 200 creators, 450 formats and over 15,000 videos. In this short period of time Flooxer has become a leading platform for users, creators and brands, and has managed to design an offer of high-quality content that covers all of the genres and formats to reach all audiences: humour, lifestyle, action, drama, children, films, cooking, TV, music, etc. of short videos, the kings of the most entertaining videos on the Internet in Spain, landed on Flooxer. AuronPlay, Wismichu, Joaquinputoamo, Tiparraco, Paquita Salas: series of the year Kajal Napalm, 8cho, Nexxus and DJMariio, among others, brought their best weapons to Flooxer in One of the year's great milestones was the success of order to allow users to enjoy the craziest and most Flooxer's original series Paquita Salas, which became irreverent videos on the Internet. the breakthrough series of the year. The series, directed by Javier Calvo and Javier Ambrossi, has However, it is not only the audience figures that show won over the critics and the public since its pre-rehow well Flooxer has been received as a high quality lease in July. Starring Brays Efe and Belén Cuesta, content platform, since it also received industry recin November Paquita Salas received the Cosmo ognition through different awards and nominations. Love award for the best breakthrough series, and Flooxer was among the five finalists for the presin January it won the three Feroz awards for which tigious Content Innovation Awards which were preit was nominated: best comedy series, best leading sented at the Mipcom in Cannes. actor (Brays Efe) and best supporting actress (Belén Cuesta). The awards from the news website PR Noticias, presented each year to the most outstanding communiAnother of Flooxer's great successes this year was cation companies and professionals, also recognised the creation of Squad. In this format, the dream team Flooxer with the 2016 best digital platform award. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 125 G4-26, G4-27 Social networks Multimedia: more Atresmedia has also been a pioneer in taking advantage of all the possibilities offered by the social netaccessibility, security, works to bring our content even closer to the users. dialogue and Thus, Atresmedia was the first media organisation in Spain to use the new Twitter Moments from Twitter, commitment and to promote the use of Facebook Live continuously, managing to achieve a record with the live finale of Velvet: over 15,000 people followed live the reaction of the actors after the live scenes at the end of the series, and the video obtained over one million In 2016, Atresmedia Digital was committed to playbacks in less than 24 hours. improving the quality and accessibility of the content and services it offers to users through the Group's The majority of users who visited the Group's webdifferent websites and its social networks, which have sites in 2016 were attracted because of the good continued to attract more followers. work carried out in managing Atresmedia's social networks, which can also boast of having obtained It also worked to increase cyber-security and data record figures this year. protection, and continued to use the Internet's potential as a way of actively listening to users. In 2016, Antena 3 Noticias reached one million followers on Facebook and one and a half million followers All of the websites have shown their commitment to on Twitter. Antena 3 also exceeded one and a half Atresmedia's Corporate Responsibility campaigns million followers on Facebook at the start of 2016. and have used their full capacity to support them. Moreover, the Facebook page for laSexta Noticias doubled its number of fans in 2016, and it had around one million followers on Twitter. One of the great milestones of 2016 was the extensive coverage of the election nights through Facebook Live. During the election on 26 June, the videos from the thirteen live broadcasts on Facebook Live accumulated over 300,000 playbacks in the first few hours after their broadcast. Hazte Eco Oxfam Intermon: In the fight against climate change. Greenpeace: To save the Arctic. CSIC joins Earth Hour. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 126 G4-26, G4-27 Objetivo Bienestar Jr Constantes y Vitales AECC: Broadcasting of the Comer bien es CNIO Project: #CadaPasoEsVital (Every Step divertido (Eating well is fun) project. Is Vital). Twitter followers Facebook followers 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Hazte Eco 5,156 5,780 6,355 5,932 7,778 9,388 Ponle Freno 16,300 19,117 22,875 280,623 267,703 265,916 Constantes y Vitales – 2,183 3,101 – 6,712 10,278 Crea Cultura – 14,338 21,383 – 720 911 Fundación Atresmedia – 14,632 17,186 – 4,182 5,009 Objetivo Bienestar Junior 7,904 7,932 7,914 6,782 6,792 7,223 Tolerancia Cero – 239 717 – 268 1,212 Improvements in accessibility In 2016, Atresmedia enhanced the accessibility of its portals, both in their use from mobile devices and on PCs. To do this it worked on two main lines of action: the redesign and improvement of portals and more subtitled programming. All of the websites of Antena 3 and laSexta (series, programmes and news) and of Onda Cero and Europa FM (programmes and news), as well as the sites of the Group's family of television channels (Neox, Mega, Nova, Atreseries) and the themed vertical portals (LíoPardo, ElSextante, Celebrities, SeExtrena, TecnoXplora, Cocinatis and NeoxKidz, among others) have been redesigned to create an intuitive, secure and reliable user experience. Specifically, there has been an optimisation of their programming language, HTML5, in order to facilitate the full adaptation of the content to all types of device, as well as to standardise styles and apply clearer and more readable fonts, which are uniform and larger in size. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 127 In terms of the subtitling process, throughout 2016 Cyber-security and data protection Atresmedia added the following new titles to its corporate video on demand platform Atresplayer: Atresmedia has a Computer Security Model focused on complete confidence, protection and reliability • The daily series Amar es para siempre and El for all users. The model ensures compliance with all secreto de Puente Viejo. legally applicable requirements: • Prime time programmes such as El club de la comedia, Tu cara me suena, Salvados and • Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December, on Pesadilla en la cocina. Personal Data Protection. • Prime time series such as Velvet, Mar de plástico, • Law 34/2002, of 11 June, on the Information Vis a vis, La embajada, Allí abajo and Buscando Society and Electronic Commerce Services. el norte. • Foreign drama series such as The Big Bang In terms of the corporate communications system, Theory and Two Broke Girls. Atresmedia has implemented the necessary measures such as intruder detection systems and firewall, It should also be noted that just as it did in the last anti-virus and anti-spam devices, in order to prevent election, Atresplayer, as a driving force in the inforunauthorised accesses or unforeseen attacks that mation society, broadcast various outstanding news may jeopardise the security of the information and content elements in 2016 with its own direct live the user. These measures are complemented by spesignal and a sign language interpreter. One example cific security audits. of this is the debate Primero ellas televised on 9 June during prime time with the politicians Andrea Moreover, much of the content is protected and Levy, Margarita Robles, Carolina Bescansa and Inés encrypted, both while it is being broadcast and afterArrimadas. wards, since there is traceability that controls not only its correct indexing but also searches for links to The debate among the main presidential candidates material owned by Atresmedia on sites that are not (Mariano Rajoy, Pedro Sánchez, Pablo Iglesias and authorised to broadcast it. Albert Rivera) was also broadcast with live subtitles on Atresplayer. All of this work, which is carried out in collaboration with the sector's most important partners, generates Atresmedia is currently implementing the process security standards that exceed the requirements of to reach level AA (Level AA Conformance to Web the law and ensure the preservation of the confidenAccessibility Guidelines 2.0), complying with the W3C tiality, integrity and privacy of the content and users, standards and achieving their implementation during mitigating the risks existing in the digital market. 2017. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIGITAL | 128 Digital active listening Awards and acknowledgements in 2016 Atresmedia is aware of the value to the organisation • España Digital Periodismo 2016 (Spain Digital of actively listening to its users when it comes to Journalism 2016) Award for Atresmedia. improving services and content and adapting them to • 2016 PR Award to Flooxer for the best digital their real needs. Therefore, it has an extensive range platform and nomination for the Content of digital communication tools and channels which Innovation Awards in the best millennial content allow for a free-flowing and direct dialogue with its category (The Millennials Awards). audience. • Paquita Salas (Flooxer series) – Cosmo Love Award for the best breakthrough In addition to the social networks, there are other series. areas for interaction. In 2016, it is worth mentioning – Three nominations for the Feroz Awards. the launch of the Opina (Opinion) section within the • Onda Cero: Atreseries channel, which encourages users to leave – La rosa de los vientos, leader in the rankings their valuation, criticism, complaints or suggestions. of the best 2016 podcasts in iTunes in Spain. The section not only stands out on the homepage of – Recognition from Apple of El transistor with the channel's website but is also advertised off-line, José Ramón de la Morena as Best Sports with promotions broadcast on the channel itself as an Podcast 2016. open window for public participation. – Más de uno, one of the most downloaded podcasts on iTunes Spain. Within Atresplayer, the page http://www.atresplayer. com/contacto/ is also available to contact or communicate with the Group. Atresmedia also serves its audience by telephone. An average of 800 incidents are recorded monthly, which are analysed and dealt with by the Atresmedia team one by one. ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 130 Diversification strategy The management of Atresmedia Diversificación is continuing to centralThe Atresmedia Group’s three ise all Atresmedia activity around business models that are not financed international channels now have by the advertising market in Spain, but which have high growth potential. more than 45 million subscribers around the world, a 40 % This continued in 2016, with excellent results. Noteworthy aspects include increase over the previous year new models and businesses, as well as the continuation of an excellent strategy for all units. Atresmedia Diversificación is divided into four broad areas: Internacional (International), which is made up of three channels that now reach more than 45 million homes throughout the world; Media for Equity, to promote the growth of emerging companies in which Atresmedia takes a shareholding in exchange for advertising campaigns; New Businesses, which covers different activities such as the use of late-night time slots, licences and merchandising, competitions, online gaming, and e-commerce projects like Tualbum.es; and Music Rights Management, through both music publisher Irradia and the exploitation of phonographic rights via the Atresmúsica record label, launched in 2015. International area: 45 million subscribed households In light of the growth in both number of subscribers and channels managed in recent years, it had become necessary to consolidate and ensure greater coordination among channels. This ultimately resulted in the creation of Atresmedia Internacional, whose aim is to integrate the strategies and efforts of the Group’s three international channels – ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 131 Antena 3 Internacional, Atreseries also special mentions during the the course of the year, ending and ¡HOLA! TV – especially with channel’s regular programmes. In with over four hundred thousand regard to distribution, communithe area of distribution, Antena 3 followers and an average of three cation and marketing. This stratInternacional began broadcasting million visitors. egy resulted in more than 40 % in Canada, the United Kingdom growth in the number of suband Equatorial Guinea, increasing scriber homes over the previous its subscribers’ number by 20 % New businesses, new year, now totalling 45 million. compared to the previous finanopportunities cial year. ¡HOLA! TV benefitted signifiThe New Businesses area is cantly from this new strategy. The As for the Group’s newest channel, responsible for commercial manchannel, the result of an agreeAtreseries ended its second year agement of the channel’s brands, ment between Atresmedia and with more than 50 % growth in seeking out business opportuni¡HOLA! magazine, increased its the number of subscriber homes ties in segments beyond the scope distribution by 70 %. Growth was in 2016. Atreseries reached imporof advertising. New Businesses especially strong in Mexico, where tant agreements with DISH and include various types of operaagreements were reached with SKY in Mexico, and Cablevisión tions: such major operators as DISH, in Argentina, among other operaMegacable and Sky, and where tors. In addition, it continued with commercial marketing of the the strategy of offering exclusive Licences and Merchandising channel was also begun. Addipremieres for the international tionally, ¡HOLA! TV rounded off market of the best series proWithout a doubt, the year’s highthe year with its launch on Cableduced by Atresmedia, with seven lights were the products linked to visión Argentina, one of the major new titles: Algo que celebrar, Mar the show Velvet. A new perfume pay television operators in the de plástico, Bajo sospecha, Allí line (Affaire for men and Forever Southern Cone region. abajo, Buscando el norte, Vis a for women) was launched to vis and La embajada. This allowed coincide with the series finale, Antena 3 Internacional celebrated Atreseries to establish itself as the complementing the existing Lady its 20th year in 2016. The channel only series-based channel 100 % in Velvet products. There was also began broadcasting in 1996. It celSpanish. a cosmetics line (Mandalay); the ebrated its anniversary by offering re-launch of the jewellery colthe audience the opportunity to In early 2016, Antena 3 Internalections; a new volume of the choose the best programmes of cional and Atreseries Internaciosoundtrack; and publication of the past two decades. “El pronal launched their own websites, a novel, which reveals what hapgrama de tu vida” invited viewers as well as their presence on the pened to the protagonist between to participate by choosing the major social networks. These the third and fourth seasons. 20 best programmes. There were reported exponential growth over ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 132 In the area of board games, this Famosa, Planeta Junior and Kotoc. It is accessible from any mobile year saw the launch of a new title, In this case, the Group was not device. based on the competition Boom. only responsible for production The programme’s good audience and broadcast, but also earned a numbers, together with the history share of the profits. Tualbum.es of our previous launches, made it possible to stage a large rollout, Following the late 2015 launch of with great results. Online gaming the new website for Tualbum.es (the Atresmedia Group’s portal In publishing, highlights include In 2016, Atresmedia reorganised for creation and design of personthe new title by Karlos Arguiñano, its activity in this sector, centralalised photographic products), Sabores de siempre, which was ising its online gaming offerings 2016 was characterised by cononce again among the year’s top through canalbingo.es, the site solidation of the site’s front office sellers, driving sales of titles from co-managed by Atresmedia and operations and above all, develprevious years. In addition, in 2016 Gamesys Limited, a multinational opment of the necessary back we expanded the strategic agreewith extensive experience. This office tools to optimise business ment with the publishing house business-to-business partnership operations. Planeta to include the latest book operates more efficiently, as it by Carlos Ruiz Zafón. centralises all gaming operations Over these twelve months, new under a third party – Gamesys – functionalities were implemented The Misterentradas.com website while Atresmedia takes charge of to boost loyalty and win new cuscontinued its upward trajectory, all aspects of marketing the busitomers. The new tools provided collaborating with Atresmúsica ness. more independent management, through various strategic agreemore streamlined problem-solving ments. This mutual collaboration This strategy can be expected to and greater customer confidence. helped improve the positioning of set the standard for future posiboth companies, while also protioning in this complex sector Throughout 2016, there was a viding new promotional opportuwith regard to other audiovisual continued commitment to televinities for brands and advertisers. operators, as it makes it possible sion and Internet search engines to further specialise and signifias basic axes of communication. NeoxKidz children’s programming cantly decrease business risk for In short, advertising spaces on telproducts were promoted throughAtresmedia. evision were optimised to better out 2016. A good example of this reach a larger target audience. is the series Mutant Busters, the Canalbingo.es offers a wide variety first children’s animation project of up to 70 different bingo, rouby Atresmedia TV, together with lette, slots and blackjack games. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 133 South Summit is a clear example of how we can contribute to position Spain at the top international level and adapt mentalities to the new world in which we live that moves at a high speed. A world in which entrepeneuring becomes the key engine for the generation of wealth and opportunities. To achieve this, it is essential to send correct messages, to convince ourselves that the positive sells, give high visibility to startups, to their successes, to our talent and hard work, and how attractive we are being to international investments. As an example of the quality of our startups, the finalist projects of the South Summit have raised investment funds for more than 700 million euros. María Benjumea Media for Equity: an advertising revenue as these startAt year end, the Atresmedia established model ups become clients of the Group. portfolio included a dozen In 2016, revenue from advertising companies in which it has In just under three years, Atrespurchased by companies in which shareholdings, notably, some media established itself as a key we hold a stake was equal to the of the most promising Spanish player in the Spanish venture amount obtained by Atresmedia start-ups capital sector, co-investing with from the sale of shares in these the top funds. It invested in more companies. than ten high-potential start-ups, which benefitted from the boost provided by their presence on the Music rights management Group’s television channels and radio stations. Musical production of the Irradia library continued to increase. It Media for Equity’s current portnow totals over 240 albums and folio contains companies in 2,500 original titles composed different industries, all with signifby prestigious musicians in this icant growth potential. Highlights country, whose expanding catinclude Promofarma (health and alogue provides very positive beauty), Fintonic (fintech), Job results year after year. Today (employment) and Hundred Rooms (tourism). During 2016, an effort was made to substantially change its image This business model provides two by creating a more useful tool sources of income for Atresmedia. for clients, who operate primarily One, it generates revenue through in television, cinema and adverdisinvestment from and sale of tising. This format made the use companies in which it holds a of music more accessible, with a stake; two, it generates additional future impact on results. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA DIVERSIFICACIÓN | 134 The foreign operations strategy continued to conThis year also shored up the collaboration with Atressolidate its position, with the renewal of the agreemedia Cine, working on such films as El pregón, ment with the main platform for music library use for Tenemos que hablar, Zipi y Zape y la isla del capitán, foreign exploitation of Irradia, of which the US is the Cuerpo de élite and El hombre de las mil caras (Goya main client. Award nominee for best soundtrack), among others. As a result of the success of Atresmedia Group series The development of music groups such as Furious in Italy, with special mention going to El secreto de Monkey House made it possible to establish a presPuente Viejo, the music revenue generated by the ence in the Group’s continuity, films and spots, as well publisher continued to grow for the second consecas on the charts, at festivals and on national radio utive year. stations. Both the national and international versions of the Record label: Atresmúsica programme Atresmúsica consolidated their position, ranking in the top 5 of the most viewed programmes Atresmúsica burst into 2016 with A mi manera, a on Antena 3’s international channel. laSexta programme that produced weekly digital albums and a three-CD compilation, which reached Subterfuge, Blanco y Negro and Universal Music were number 1 on the charts. Other television projects some of this year’s partners in the worlds of elecincluded the new title sequence for Amar es para tronic music, with concepts such as Summertime and siempre, with music by Bustamante, as well as the Planeta Electrónico, and Latin music. title song for Mar de plástico, with Nya de la Rubia, further establishing the record label within the Group. ATRESMEDIA CINE ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 136 Box office success and critical acclaim The films produced by Atresmedia Cine represented During 2016 Atresmedia Cine released a total of twelve films which, 38.4 % of the total box office together with the films released at the end of 2015 and still showing in takings for Spanish cinema with cinemas this year, meant box office takings of €42 million, representing 15 films showing, improving on 38.4 % of the total box office takings for Spanish cinema as a whole, 9 % the 29.5 % seen in 2015 up on the previous year. The box office figures for its film productions kept it in the top spots of the ranking for the cinema industry in Spain, since almost all of the year's releases were in the list of the top 25 highest takings, and five of them were in the top ten. Takings at Ranking Title % Spanish share 31/12/2016 (*) 2 Palmeras en la Nieve 12,179,573.25 11.1 % 3 Villaviciosa de al lado 8,277,612.13 7.6 % 5 Cuerpo de elite 6,396,950.95 5.8 % 8 Hombre de las mil caras, El 2,591,804.30 2.4 % 9 Zipi y Zape y la Isla del Capitan 2,462,562.95 2.2 % 12 Ozzy 2,005,458.73 1.8 % 13 Pregon, El 1,916,439.06 1.8 % 16 Toro 1,711,621.80 1.6 % 18 Que Dios nos perdone 1,386,275.13 1.3 % 19 Tenemos que hablar 1,330,969.54 1.2 % 23 Reina de España, La 1,061,448.80 1.0 % 33 Capitan Koblic 401,754.12 0.4 % 37 Rumbos 282,774.51 0.3 % 184 Desconocido, El 762.20 0.0 % 229 Zipi y Zape y el club de la canica 185.40 0.0 % 42,006,192.87 38.4 % Films released in 2016 28,079,694.59 25.6 % ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 137 During 2016, Palmeras en la in the Spanish box office in its The two highest grossing Spanish nieve continued to achieve great seventh week on screen and was comedies of the year were commercial success, being the showing on 220 cinema screens. Atresmedia Cine productions highest grossing Spanish film up to the month of October. Nacho G. Velilla confirmed his position as one of the most solid In its commitment to comedies, and highest grossing film-makers two of Atresmedia Cine's producin Spain, with each new film taking tions in 2016 were clear box office more than the previous one. hits, becoming the two highest grossing comedies of the year. As usual, Velilla managed to bring together a hilarious group The entertaining Cuerpo de élite of actors and actresses includled the box office for four weeks ing Carmen Machi, Leo Harlem, from its release on 26 August. Macarena García, Arturo Valls, Directed by Joaquín Mazón, it Carmen Ruiz, Belén Cuesta, Jon featured a great cast including Plazaola, Yolanda Ramos, Carlos María León (Carmina y Amén, Allí Santos, Salva Reina, Goizalde abajo), Miki Esparbé (Perdiendo Núñez, Antonio Pagudo, Corina el norte), Jordi Sánchez (Ahora o Randazzo, Bore Buika, Jorge nunca, La que se avecina), Andoni Asín and Javier Coll, also countAgirregomezkorta (Vaya semaning on the collaboration of Julieta ita) and Juan Carlos Aduviri (Oro) Serrano, Tito Valverde and Miguel and the collaboration of Silvia Rellán. Abril, Carlos Areces, Joaquín Reyes, Pepa Aniorte, Rober Atresmedia Cine also focussed Bodegas, Vicente Romero and on producing high quality cinema César Sarachu. and two of the thrillers it produced this year confirm this, becoming The comedy from Nacho G. Velilla favourites with the critics and (Fuera de carta, Que se mueran being nominated for numerous los feos, Perdiendo el norte), awards and recognitions both in Villaviciosa de al lado clinched Spain and abroad, taking part in number one spot in the 2016 several international festivals. comedy releases and continued its meteoric run at the box office. At Following the success of La isla the beginning of 2017 it remained mínima , Atresmedia Cine conamong the ten most popular films tinued its collaboration with the ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 138 award-winning director Alberto and Andrés Gertrúdix complete Released in 2015, “Palmeras de la Rodriguez and was involved in the cast of this police thriller that Nieve” achieved total box-office his seventh film, El hombre de made an impact on the critics. takings of €16.8 million at the las mil caras . Inspired by Manuel end of 2016 Cerdán's non-fiction book Paesa, Also released at the 64th edition el espía de las mil caras , it is a of the San Sebastián Festival, it thriller set in the 90s that revolves won the Special Jury Award for around the life of the Spanish Best Screenplay for Rodrigo Sorosecret agent Francisco Paesa and goyen and Isabel Peña. Roberto his decisive role in the escape Álamo won the Goya award for and subsequent delivery of the Best Supporting Actor. former head of the Civil Guard, Luis Roldán. With five nominations at the Goya Awards, it also produced La reina The film was released at the 64th de España , the sequel to the edition of the San Sebastián Interacclaimed La niña de tus ojos national Festival and won two directed by Fernando Trueba, awards: Silver Shell for Best Actor which reassembled the film's for Eduard Fernández and the original cast of Penélope Cruz, Feroz Zinemaldia Critic's Award Antonio Resines, Jorge Sanz, for Best Film. Winner of two Santiago Segura, Loles León, Rosa Goya awards for Best Screenplay María Sardá, Neus Asensi and and Best Leading Actor, Eduard Jesús Bonilla, who were joined for Fernández. this new film by Javier Cámara, Chino Darín, Ana Belén and the The film has been sold to more director Arturo Ripstein, as well than twenty countries. as the international actors Mandy Patinkin (Homeland), Clive Revill “Que Dios nos perdone”, the third (Avanti!) and Cary Elwes (The feature film from Rodrigo SoroPrincess Bride). goyen, written by Sorogoyen himself and Isabel Peña, stars In its desire to reach all audiences, Antonio de la Torre and Roberto Atresmedia Cine also produced Álamo. Luis Zahera, Raúl Prieto, films aimed at children such as María de Nati, María Ballesteros, the animated film Ozzy and the José Luis García-Pérez, Mónica sequel to the box-office hit Zipi y Ló p ez , Ro c í o Mu ñ ozCob o, Zape y el club de la canica (Zip & Teresa Lozano, Francisco Nortes Zap and the Marble Gang): Zipi ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ATRESMEDIA CINE | 139 y Zape y la Isla del Capitán (Zip ring Ricardo Darín, Inma Cuesta section at Berlinale 2017); and the & Zap and the Captain's Island). and Oscar Martínez. The film was next film by Fernando González Both films were shown at the Grifreleased at the last Malaga FesMolina, director of Palmeras en foni International Festival. Ozzy tival, where it won two awards: la nieve , which will adapt the was nominated for a Goya for Best Award for Best Actor for Oscar first part of the Bazán Trilogy: El Animated Film. Martínez and Best Photography. guardián invisible , with screenplay by Luiso Berdejo. This novel Atresmedia Cine participated by Dolores Redondo (published in local productions including by Destino) has been translated in Releases Tenemos que hablar (We Need more than 30 countries, making it To Talk) by David Serrano and a best seller. in 2017 starring Hugo Silva and Michelle Jener; El pregón by Dani de La Orden with Berto Romero, Andreu Buenafuente and Belén Cuesta; the drama Rumbos (Night Tales) Atresmedia Cine continues its by Manuela Burló Moreno, with a commitment to a variety of great cast including Karra Elejalde, genres, relying on directors with Carmen Machi, Pilar López de significant experience and giving Ayala and Ernesto Alterio, among an opportunity to new talent. others; and Toro by Kike Maillo, a thriller starring Luis Tosar, Mario Among its future releases that Casas and José Sacristan. will see the light in 2017 are Contratiempo (The Invisible Guest) It was also involved in international by Oriol Paulo, starring Mario productions such as Kóblic , Casas and Bárbara Lennie; the an Argentinian co-production next film by Alex de la Iglesia, directed by Sebastián BoresnzEl bar (The Bar), with Mario tein, director of Un cuento chino Casas, Terele Pávez and Blanca (Chinese Take-Away), and starSuarez (official out of competition HUMAN RESOURCES ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 141 Growing our professionals RELEVANT ASPECT Training future High quality professionals employment Equality, Corporate diversity and volunteering work-life balance Health and Professional safety development Atresmedia wants its staff to feel proud of working in the Group. That is why it makes an effort to: • Guarantee high quality employment. • Promote equality, diversity and a work-life balance. • Train and encourage the professional development of its workforce. • Make the know-how of the Group available to future professionals. • Promote corporate volunteering. • Protect the health and safety of the employees. In figures 2014 2015 2016 No. of employees 1,806 1,917 2,022  Average length of service (years) 12.3 12.3 12.2  % of permanent contracts 81.0 78.0 76.5  Voluntary turnover 3.2 2.7 5.3  % of workforce in the union 84.5 85.5 86.6  % of women in the workforce 49.9 49.5 49.5 = % Women in new joiners 62.4 54.4 48.2  Training hours/employee 22.0 26.2 22.1  Employees trained 1,405 1,175 1,974  Investment in training (Euros) 348,661 406,055 727,308  Work placements offered 669 340 410  Volunteering hours 1,772 2,102 2,533  Accident frequency rate 3.2 2.7 2.8  Accident severity index 0.14 0.06 0.05  ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 142 Fulfilling the challenges set for 2016 In 2016, all of the improvement commitments made within area of Human Resources in 2015 have been met, as shown in the following table: 2015 Commitment Level of fulfilment Comments 100 % The project has been successfully launched, increasing Development of the Atresmedia Formación project. the business lines and reaching agreements with several organisations. 100 % The second edition of the Masters has begun with 107 Development of the second edition of the Masters in students. Disabled people are taking part thanks to a Audiovisual Company Management. David Feduchy grant. The signing of contracts has been automated and the Automation of the Human Resources administration 100 % use of the web service contrat@ has also begun, which processes. contributes to saving on paper, consumables and physical storage space. 100 % The collective bargaining agreement for Atresmedia Negotiation of the new collective bargaining agreement Radio in force for 2016 has been negotiated and for Atresmedia Radio. signed. 100 % During 2016 all of the documentation necessary to Adaptation of the Occupational Health and Safety comply with the requirements of the OHSAS 18001 Management System to the OHSAS 18001 standard. occupational safety standard has been produced. Road Safety Week was launched in 2016. This involves Holding of the First Road Safety Week for employees 100 % seven days of awareness raising and training for the of the Atresmedia Group. employees and is aimed at preventing traffic accidents involving the staff. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 143 G4-26, G4-27 High quality employment Number of employees For the fourth year running, Atrespanies, but also those with the per company media's HR policies have earned fewest people not interested in it the title of the most attractive joining a company. company to work for in the communication sector , according The data back up these good to the 2016 Randstad Employer results. Atresmedia's workforce Branding Report. increased by 105 employees in 2016, to reach 2,022 people, of This study, which is the largest whom 76.51 % have a permanent 561 430 independent international analcontract. These figures combined UNIPREX SAU ATRESMEDIA ysis to recognise the companies with the low voluntary turnover that are most attractive to work of 5.3 % results in a high level of for, also ranks Atresmedia as the stability. third most attractive company to work for in Spain, with 64.26 % The majority of the employees, of respondents selecting it as the 48.86 %, are young, aged between 344 302 Company they would like to join 30 and 45; but they also possess ADVERTISING ANTENA 3 NOTICIAS as an employee. The Company a high degree of experience, with leads the ranking in the group of an average length of service of 12.2 young people aged 18 to 24 and years. is the best positioned in the categories of interesting work and Geographically, the majority of the 155 126 UNIPREX TV MULTIMEDIA pleasant working environment , workforce is based in the Commuwhere it holds first place. nity of Madrid (71.12 %), followed by Andalusia (5.39 %) and CataloAtresmedia has also been recognia (3.71 %). However, Atresmedia 59 18 nised as the Spanish Company is present in all autonomous comI3TV TDT CANARIAS with the highest REMAS (Randmunities. The organisation allows stad Employer Attractiveness transfers between its centres at Score), a concept that compares the request of the employees. 12 10 not only the most attractive comANTENA 3 FILMS FUNDACIÓN 3 2 FLOOXER ATRESMEDIA FOTO For the fourth consecutive year, Atresmedia has been recognised as the most attractive company to work for in the audiovisual Permanent contracts (%) sector, and the third most attractive in the whole country, 81 78 77 according to Ranstad  More information about the report 2014 2015 2016 https://www.randstad.es/informe-randstad-award-2016/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 144 In 2016, 410 grants were offered, Atresmedia is involved in the Programa de Primer Empleo run by more than 20 % higher than the the Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (APM) and the Dónde empieza number seen in 2015 todo project run by Banco Santander, to help students gain access to employment and improve their employability Supporting youth employment Atresmedia has an internship pro• Masters in Television (Where it all begins) to help stugramme aimed at young people Journalism, in Digital dents gain access to employment who are studying a vocational Journalism and in Radio Onda and improve their employability. training module in workplaces, a Cero at Universidad Antonio Atresmedia has thus become one university degree or a post-gradde Nebrija. of the companies in which the uate degree. Its objective is to • Masters in Audiovisual university students participating offer students the chance to have Company Management and in in the programme of grants run their first experience of life in the Human Resources at the EAE. by the Bank can carry out their business world, in addition to prointernship. ducing a valuable team of young Moreover, for the last 16 years people that can be drawn upon Atresmedia has been involved in when selecting future workers. the Programa de Primer Empleo Distribution of the workforce Over the year 410 grants were (First Job Programme) promoted by age range offered, of which 11% have subseby the Asociación de la Prensa quently turned into contracts. de Madrid, (Press Association of Madrid, APM), which allows graduIn addition, numerous Atresmedia ates to have a one-year internship professionals share their knowlin one of the Group's companies. edge and experience with future professionals by forming part of As a new development, in 2016 the teaching staff on the different Atresmedia has joined the promasters courses: gramme of grants run by Banco Santander Dónde empieza todo 12 % (20 – 29) 49 % (30 – 45) 38 % (46 – 60) 1 % (> 60) Turnover (%) 5.3 Good practice: Atresmedia has been promoting Proyecto Mañana for four years. The initiative challenges several university students to present innovations for news programmes, both 3.2 television and radio and virtual. The best ideas win a cash prize 2.7 and the group of students presenting the best project has the chance to receive a grant in television, radio and/or multimedia. In 2016 students from the Faculty of Audiovisual Communication at Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona won this initiative with their radio project “A3Beats” 2014 2015 2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 145 Equality, diversity and work-life balance During 2016, Atresmedia has consolidated its comThese objectives are put into practice through spemitment to the objectives included in the Equality cific measures tailored to the particular needs of the Plan: employees and supported by the entire organisation. In this context, during 2017 a new collective bar• Ensure equality of treatment and opportunity. gaining agreement was negotiated which envisages • Improve the work-life balance. improving the existing measures and adding new • Prevent workplace harassment. ones. • Protect maternity leave. The Equality Plan has its own Committee which meets regularly and is responsible for ensuring its fulfilment and approving new initiatives to promote equality. Measures for promoting equality Flexibility of up to 30 minutes in the timetable at the start and end of the working day. Work Reduction of meal times to a minimum of 45 minutes. flexibility Continuous workday on Fridays. Feasibility study for a tele-working system. Supporting Extension of maternity leave beyond that established by the current regulations, up to 17 weeks. maternity Expansion of 3 additional days of nursing leave if complete workdays have been accumulated. Equality plan leave Approval of a maternity and nursing guide. Professional Courses offered that can optimise work performance and update and improve the professional capability of the development employees. Pay advances in those cases where the employee may have financial and family needs that are special, Equality extraordinary, justified and urgent. and gender Expansion of paid leave due to the death or serious illness of relatives who are next of kin, spouse or domestic violence partner registered in the official registry, of up to three days (five if travel is required). Approval of a protocol for preventing sexual harassment that will create a working environment that is respectful of fundamental rights and ensures they are protected. Solidarity Reduction of the workday for victims of domestic violence by court ruling and with young children in their care of up to one hour a day, without a proportional reduction of their salary, during a twelve month period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 146 Promoting integration Among the initiatives launched are grants for people with disabilithe two grants from the Integra ties who have demonstrated a Atresmedia carries out specific Programme which are the result strong desire for improvement so actions to promote integration of an agreement with the Integra that they can take the Masters in and prevent discrimination in any Foundation. These support and Audiovisual Company Managearea of the company. promote the employability of ment run by Atresmedia and the women who have been victims of EAE Business School. Since 2015 Atresmedia has been domestic violence. The result of part of the Red de Empresas this programme of unpaid work The strong commitment of Atrespor una Sociedad Libre de Vioexperience was the hiring of one media to equality translates into lencia de Género (Network of of the women receiving a grant. a workforce made up of 49.5 % Companies for a Society Free The collaboration between Atreswomen and into the integration from Domestic Violence) through media and Integra Foundation into the team of 42 people with signing a collaboration agreement has been renewed in 2016 to offer some type of disability. In 2016, with the Ministry of Health, Social a new Integration Programme 144 women have joined the team, Services and Equality. Through starting in 2017 and increasing the accounting for 48.2 % of new this the Group undertakes to raise number of grants offered. joiners. awareness about this problem and employ women who have been Moreover, in 2016 the Group victims of domestic violence. launched two David Feduchy 2016 percentage distribution (%) 2016 distribution by professional by professional category and Atresmedia is part of the Red de gender category and gender Empresas por una Sociedad Libre de Violencia de Género (Network 708 35.01 of Companies for a Free Society 625 30.91 Gender Violence), meaning that it is committed to employing women who have been victims of domestic violence 165 168 8.16 8.31 122 6.03 84 66 84 4.15 3.26 4.15 ent ns ra he r ent s an ist he r ici tive ra em a Ot em ici tiv Ot ag hn ist ag hn e M Te c Ad an Te c in an min M Ad m  Men  Women  Men  Women ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 147 Good practice: Vive su realidad (Experience their reality): disability awareness days In 2016 Atresmedia held 'Vive su realidad awareness days with the aim of sharing experiences of disability which allow people to understand being different as an inherent characteristic of us all and empathise with this group on discovering the barriers that exist in their daily lives. The workshops were attended by four groups of 10 people formed by Atresmedia employees and other professionals from the sector. The Integra Project aims to improve the employability of women who have been victims of domestic violence and are highly qualified in the administrative area. Work is very important for the self-esteem, personal growth and integration into society of women who have been victims of domestic violence Ana Muñoz de Dios, Director General of the Integra Foundation Ana Muñoz de Dios Director general of Fundación Integra ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 148 Social benefits In keeping with improving the quality of employment and work-life balance, Atresmedia has a programme of social benefits adapted to the particular needs of all the employees. Benefit Content Beneficiaries Life insurance All employees have a personal life insurance policy. All employees Medical insurance Management staff have free health insurance. All management staff In the event of an employee's temporary disability, the Support for temporary disability company supplements the benefit to make up 100 % of the All employees salary. Antena 3 offers a remuneration plan to its managers that Flexible remuneration plan 12 employees in 2015 includes a leased car and specific training. Annual Social Fund which is traditionally allocated to school Employees signed up to the Social Fund grants and dental insurance. Atresmedia Radio Agreement Wage bonus for transport needs caused by a change of Employees signed up to the Distance bonus workplace. Atresmedia Radio Agreement Employees of Atresmedia also have another series of special advantages: Special advantages Content Beneficiaries Atresmedia has agreements established with different external companies, thanks to which the employees can enjoy products and services with advantages: special Special advantages in purchasing rates for services relating to health and well-being, special conditions for training All employees products and services programmes (agreement with ESIC), use of the sports facilities (the Dehesa Boyal de San Sebastián de los Reyes municipal sports centre) and discounts on the purchases of books, travel and restaurants, among others. The employees of Atresmedia have the option to bring their children to filming, Special advantages in the Group's attend their favourite programmes as an audience member and obtain tickets to the All employees activities previews of the productions of the Group. The Atresmedia central office has a company canteen for all employees. The Company canteen company funds 58 % of the cost of the food. Employees who are travelling are given All employees food vouchers. Parking at the workplace The company's facilities have free parking for employees. All employees ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 149 Professional development Atresmedia enhances the personal Investment in training (Euros) The training takes place mostly as and professional development classroom teaching, or e-learning of all its employees by providing 727,308 in the case of languages. In 2016 training tailored to each profile there has been a focus on new and promoting the development methodologies such as gamificaof the individual talent of each tion and learning through serious person. 406,095 games, which have been very 348,661 warmly received. Custom training The 2nd edition of the Masters in Audiovisual Company ManageIn 2016, a total of 43,593 hours ment is currently being given. of training were given (including This is designed by EAE Business those received by partner compaSchool and Atresmedia to provide 2014 2015 2016 nies), 24 % more than in 2015. its employees with the knowledge they need about internal televiThe 2016 Training Plan included sion, radio and internet processes. 438 courses covering a wide range Average training hours per of subjects: languages, IT, multiprofessional category media, legal/finance, marketing/ sales, technical/digital, HD, news, 70 television and occupational health 60 and safety. In 2016, investment 47 in training was Among these we can mention €727,308, which the 55 new courses for this year, represents a 44 % including training that looks to 23 increase compared the future, such as: Latest trends to 2015 19 17 19 18 17 15 17 16 and innovation in the audiovisual sector , Production for all platforms , Ultra HD (4k and 8k) ; Drones and production with en s t an rativ r he aerial cameras , Collective intelliem hn ici ist e Ot ag gence , Development of memory an Te in c Ad M m and Mindfulness: Stress management .  2014  2015  2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 150 G4-26, G4-27 Training hours per course theme 13,817 12,899 11,265 12,225 7,678 7,229 6,641 4,913 3,583 3,358 3,686 3,320 3,022 3,252 2,582 2,174 2,151 1,348 995 383 630 515 556 933 216 224 ica Sk ls ges es es fety ol ici ility her tio il ua ol og ol og es ab Ot n ng i i Sa lp in un Te te d La ch ch an to Su Co m n n h ria st a  2014 m alt Ne w He Ed i an d  2015 CR  2016 Commitment to advancing the sector through training Atresmedia has gone one step matters of interest to the sector: and organised four in-company further in its commitment to the television, radio, cinema, music, courses with AMC Networks, the audiovisual industry and in 2016 etc., as well as to other areas: comregional government of Castilcreated Atresmedia Formación, munication skills, information techla-La Mancha, Secuoya and APM. an initiative designed to train nology, multimedia, etc. 195 students have been trained in future audiovisual media profesvarious audiovisual topics such as sionals and thereby advance and The courses are tailored to the Speaking in front of the camera, develop the sector. needs of the prospective students Making News Programmes, The and are available in different forms: Production and Making of Radio Thanks to the experience and great free, associated and in-company and Behind the Scenes of a News technical and professional capacity training. Programme in 2016. of the Group, Atresmedia Formación has developed a very comThe project currently has leading prehensive and specialised training national collaborators who conoffer, tailored to the working reality tribute both experience and of audiovisual communication innovative methodologies and companies. The catalogue, which techniques that can be applied to Atresmedia Formación, a leading is available on the website www. the training programmes. national initiative that aims to atresmediaformacion.com, contrain future audiovisual media sists of 438 practical and specialIn 2016 Atresmedia Formaprofessionals ised themed courses relating to ción has given 12 free courses ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 151 Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (Madrid Press Association, APM) Atresmedia Formación has signed a cooperation agreement Academia de las Ciencias y las Artes de Televisión with the Asociación de la Prensa de Madrid (APM) to promote (Academy of Television Arts and Sciences) lifelong learning strategies for journalists in the audiovisual sector. The Academia de las Ciencias y las Artes de Televisión has signed a cooperation agreement with Atresmedia to join this The training program includes courses on techniques in news, teaching project. The Board of the Academia de las Ciencias y television, radio, multimedia, IT, marketing and skills, among las Artes de Televisión values this initiative as a way to boost many other areas. continuous training in the audiovisual sector that will allow practitioners to expand their knowledge about the current and future aspects of their profession. IFP Grupo Planeta Atresmedia Formación and IFP Grupo Planeta have teamed up to promote vocational training in the audiovisual sector Universidad Pontificia de Salamanca (UPSA) through a cooperation agreement which provides for the launch in the market in 2017 of Tertiary level training courses The agreement aims to expand the academic programmes with official qualifications on Making audiovisual projects offered by the UPSA with leading entities, such as and shows and Production of audiovisuals and shows . Atresmedia Corporación. Internal communication Atresmedia believes that communication is the basis for improvMASD3 Digital Magazine ing relations with its employees Welcome Manual A monthly multi-device magazine with and therefore has several specific information of interest to all employees channels through which it permain the Atresmedia Group. nently reports on all aspects of interest. Highlights among the different Corporate Intranet Sharing success communication channels are the following: A new intranet is currently being An initiative based on the presentation of developed in the Group, to be launched successful projects led by professionals in 2017. from the Group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 152 Th'nk, an intra-entrepreneurship project created by Th'nk Inspira: 500+ Atresmedia professionals attendees at each event 2016 was the year of the birth of Th'nk, a project conceived and developed by the employees themselves from different areas of the Company, driven by the Corporate General Management and endorsed by the CEO of the Group itself. Th'nk aims to inspire, organise innovation and promote intra-entrepreTh’nk Innova: 800+ neurship in the Group, encouraging cross-cutting work and the manageideas presented ment of internal talent. The project involves three areas of action: • Th'nk Inspira consists of inspiring talks organised on a regular basis, open to everyone working in Atresmedia and given by normal but special people such as Víctor Kuppers, Rodrigo García and Chechu Salas who have already shared their experience and knowledge with the employees. • Th'nk Innova aims to identify, promote, publicise and reward the talent of the professionals working in Atresmedia by running a competition for ideas. It includes three particular challenges: opportunities, efficiency and people. More than 400 employees have contributed 817 ideas across these three categories. The winners will be decided throughout 2017. • Th'nk Crea aims to provide all Atresmedia employees who have an idea they want to explore with the methods and resources needed to polish, evaluate and, if necessary, implement it through running a pilot study. The first Crea projects will be the winning ideas from Th'nk Innova. Th'nk aims to transform the forms of communication from the very start with the use of alternative channels to address employees. The first call, where the project was explained, took place at a special committee convened by the CEO Silvio González, who was the first to join the project, and the meeting broadcast was streamed so that everyone in the Group could find out about it at the same time. Other initiatives included: a countdown on all of the monitors at the Atresmedia headquarters, an offline action involving flooding the Company with Th'nk notebooks, various motivational videos, launch of inspirational phrases, etc. The first date for Th'nk was ground breaking since it took place in the directors' garage, a place that symbolises the starting point for many great ideas. We are in a changing enviroment. There is a lot of talent in Atresmedia and this project makes possible to detect it and to push it so that, together and working transversally and in team, we can find best solutions to every day challenges. Th'nk founder team ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 153 Boosting corporate volunteering In 2016, Atresmedia had 209 Atresmedia has a comprehensive and ambitious corporate volunvolunteers, 32 of them relatives teering programme, which each year enjoys greater participation of Atresmedia employees and involvement from the employees. The programme meets the following objectives: • To contribute to the development of society by offering it the professional skills of Atresmedia's employees. • To channel the charitable spirit of the Group's professionals. • To promote the values of commitment, solidarity and teamwork. • To make society aware of the importance of volunteering, through content in programmes and news bulletins and with specific campaigns using the Group's media organisations. In 2016 Atresmedia offered 15 volunteering activities, which helped 13 different social organisations and involved 209 volunteers (32 relatives) who donated 2,533 hours of their time (24 hours during working hours). Atresmedia Volunteers Volunteering Hours 209 2,533 2,102 1,772 123 99 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Volunteering Activities Investment in Volunteering (Euros) 16 15,408 15,864 15 13,612 11 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 154 In addition, Atresmedia has been a partner of the Voluntare network since 2012. This is an international organisation composed of NGOs and companies to promote corporate volunteering through dialogue and best practices. With the philosophy of spreading the word about volunteering, for the second consecutive year Atresmedia has been a media-partner for International Volunteers' Week, Give and Gain Day from Forética, and was co-organiser of the tenth anniversary of Company Solidarity Day, along with Cooperación Internacional ONG. Atresmedia is a member of the Voluntare network and media partner of the Give and Gain Day organised by Forética, and the Company Solidarity Day organised by Cooperación Internacional ONG. Atresmedia volunteers have participated in the following projects in 2016: ANAA animal protection Grandes profes organisation Grandes Profes is an event organised Santa María Josefa soup kitchen As part of the International by the Atresmedia Foundation to Volunteers' Week Give and Gain honour teachers and recognise their The Santa Maria Josefa soup kitchen Day , Atresmedia has for the first daily work in the classroom. feeds approximately 200 people time become involved in volunteering each day and distributes food to an with animals in partnership with In this year's event, Atresmedia average of 200 families in need. the animal protection organisation volunteers worked on different tasks Atresmedia volunteers have assisted ANAA. During the event, the required to organise the event: in all kinds of tasks: making the volunteers worked on the facilities receiving guests, organising those tables, organising the food and and walked and fed the animals. attending, providing information, etc. serving food. 21 participants 9 participants 40 participants Workshops with children at risk of social exclusion Santa María La Real association The Balia Foundation runs socioLanzaderas de Empleo is a youth educational care and prevention employability programme run projects aimed at young people since 2013 by the Santa María La at risk of social exclusion. Along Real Foundation. In this activity, with the educators from the Atresmedia volunteers joined the Balia Foundation, the children of groups in Arganda del Rey and Atresmedia's employees aged Alcalá de Henares to pass on the ‘Comparte y recicla’ campaign between 16 and 21 helped more benefit of their work experience and than 200 young people through professional knowledge through Toys collection campaign for its giving workshops to reinforce their various workshops. donation to Spanish charitable schoolwork or involve them in crafts organizations within the Comparte y and hobbies. Recicla initiative framework. 8 participants 7 participants 1 participant ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 155 International summer volunteering Atresmedia has an international Volunteering with hospitalised summer volunteer programme children in which the Group's employees spend 3 weeks of their holidays A large group of volunteers, working collaborating on the project run by with Atresmedia Foundation, visited an NGO. In 2016, three volunteers the paediatric areas of about 40 helped with the project run by the hospitals, along with volunteers from Agua de Coco Foundation La the Seur Foundation. 10th Companies Solidarity Day educación motor de desarrollo (Education drives development) in 76 participants The Companies Solidarity Day is an Battambang (Cambodia) that seeks event oriented to promote corporate to reduce school drop-out rates volunteering and sensibilization to and promote the social inclusion of real problems in the society from an vulnerable families. enterprise point of view. In Madrid, a group of volunteers of Atresmedia 3 participants collaborated with the Juan XXIII Foundation in a cooking workshop; another group visited the Railway museum with the Foundation Amigos de los Mayores. In Valencia, volunteers visited the Geriatric Institute and walked with old people by the sea. Te invito a cenar Te invito a cenar (I invite you to dinner) is a charity dinner for 800 17 participants people at risk of social exclusion, which has the support of more than a dozen masters of haute cuisine. Christmas food collection At this dinner, Atresmedia volunteers The Madrid Food Bank is a performed tasks such as organising charitable non-profit organisation tables, helping with the reception whose purpose is to obtain food to and guiding of guests, working as distribute to more than 500 charities waiters, etc. engaged in the direct assistance and care of disadvantaged people within the Community of Madrid. 38 participants For the fourth consecutive year, Atresmedia has organised a large collection on its premises. For a whole morning, Group employees donated non-perishable food items. More than 700 kilograms were collected and delivered to the Food Bank. 5 participants ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 156 Health and safety Atresmedia has a Corporate Health and Safety Policy which sets out the lines of action for the Occupational Health and Safety System. The System's main objective is to ensure the awareness, training and active involvement of its employees, in order to guarantee their own welfare. In 2016, the Group ran a variety of initiatives to implement the Health and Safety Plan. Among these is training in health and safety, risk assessments of new workplaces, monitoring of the implementation of health and safety measures, meetings to coordinate business activities with contractors, regular meetings of the Health and Safety Committee, provision of personal protective equipment and monitoring of its use, campaign of medical examinations and periodic safety inspections. Some of the most notable actions are: Training of 1,095 new workers (318 employees on its payroll, 512 interns, 37 partners and 228 extras) about the possible risks of Training their job, the preventive measures to adopt and the Emergency Plan for the Work Centre. This training was given in person and customised for each worker. During 2016, the documentation for the Occupational Health and OHSAS 18011. Safety Plan has been updated to adapt it to the OHSAS 18011 Occupational standard. New procedures have been developed to improve Health and Safety the management and work has been done to meet all the Management System. requirements it establishes, in light of the forthcoming certification of the system. In 2016, 3,427 people were seen, of whom 93 were emergencies PREVER 2016 recognises and 1,314 workers have been given health education. Of the Dr. Bartolomé Beltrán for people seen, 75 % were Atresmedia Group employees and the his work in occupational Health monitoring remaining 25 % were from other companies (producers and health and safety at contractors). As for the annual health monitoring campaign, 42 % of the workforce have had a medical check-up. Atresmedia Atresmedia offers medical attention 24 hours a day. Dr. Bartolomé Beltrán, In May, a voluntary podiatry campaign was run for the employees head of the Department of the Group and 204 people took part. This preventive action of Prevention and Medical Podiatry campaign served to detect possible pathologies and answer the questions of the participants. 89 % of the attendees rated their overall Services at Atresmedia, satisfaction with the campaign as excellent or very good. has been honoured by the Committee of the National Installation of eight defibrillators in corridors and transit points and International Award around Atresmedia in order to improve health and safety and Installing reduce the risk of cardiac arrests. This initiative has turned the for Occupational Health Defibrillators Group's facilities into a cardio-protected space. In addition, training and Safety (PREVER) with has been given on how to use these defibrillators. the 2016 Prever Award in his individual category. This award is designed to These and other initiatives have led to a reduction in the severity rate in recognise his achievements 2016. In addition, there have been no serious, very serious or fatal acciin the area of the dents or illnesses during the year. Moreover, the absenteeism rates due researching, dissemination to common illnesses and other absenteeism have also fallen. and implementation of occupational health and safety. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 157 In 2016 commuting Frequency Index (FI) Severity Rate (SR) accidents have fallen 4.45 0.26 by 11% 3.44 3.17 3.02 2.69 2.84 2.37 2.25 0.14 1.90 0.09 0.07 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Rate of Absenteeism due to No. of accidents with leave Common Illness Rate of absenteeism 7 3.18 3.21 3.27 2.94 2.96 2.99 6 2.75 2.56 2.46 2.53 5 2.36 2.42 2.18 2.30 4 4 1.75 1.78 1.81 1.86 3 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016  Overall  Men  Women ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | HUMAN RESOURCES | 158 2017 challenges Atresmedia has established the following objectives for the coming year: In addition to the existing Ponle Freno campaign, Atresmedia has increased its efforts to prevent road accidents with the launch of Road Safety Week, seven days of awareness1 raising and training for its employees designed Negotiation of the Atresmedia to prevent traffic accidents involving its collective bargaining agreement. professionals. 2 This initiative had the support of the Dirección Consolidation of General de Tráfico (Traffic Agency, DGT), the Atresmedia Formación. Asociación de Parapléjicos y Personas con Gran Discapacidad Física (Association of Paraplegics and People with Great Physical Disabilities, ASPAYM) and TRAFPOL IRSA, a Spanish association composed of local police 3 Consolidation of the Th'nk project. forces whose purpose is to develop and Certification of the Occupational 4 disseminate road safety activities. Health and Safety Management System in keeping with the OHSAS 18001 The 1st Road Safety Week at Atresmedia had requirements. over 500 participants and included numerous 5 activities for employees under the slogan “Tu seguridad, nuestro destino” (Your safety is our 2nd Road Safety Week. destination). SOCIETY ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 160 G4-26, G4-27 Compromiso Atresmedia: RELEVANT ASPECT Contributing to the well-being and progress of society OUR VISION To place the broadcasting 1 strength of the Atresmedia media channels at the service of society. To promote and achieve positive 2 and tangible changes that contribute to the progress of society through long-term initiatives. Own long-term initiatives To ensure the well-being and education of children and 3 young people, and promote the inclusion of disabled people through the initiatives of Collaboration Fundación Atresmedia. with NGOs Atresmedia is aware of the enormous impact that media has on today's society. Therefore, the Group uses its broadcasting capacity responsibly and places Fundación it at the service of the public so that it can decisively Atresmedia contribute to social progress. This commitment is reflected in Atresmedia's Social Commitment Policy and is implemented through three main lines of action: • The development and dissemination of its own long-term initiatives that promote positive and tangible social changes. • Collaboration with NGOs and other entities in order to jointly contribute to a fairer and more equitable society. • Support for the most vulnerable groups: children, young people and people with disabilities, through Fundación Atresmedia. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 161 This strategy is contained in Compromiso Atresmedia, an umbrella brand that brings together all of the Group's corporate responsibility initiatives. All of these initiatives are real commitments that turn intentions into reality and manage to change things. It is a philosophy within the Group, to which Atresmedia devotes effort, staff and resources. In 2016 Atresmedia allocated more than 80 hours of advertising space to the Group's different Corporate Responsibility initiatives. SPOTS Cumulative audience Coverage 2016 Antena 3 laSexta Neox Nova Mega Atreseries Total Hours (thousands) % Grp's Ponle Freno 739 545 352 632 704 652 3,624 23.5 39,174 92.3 2,455.7 Objetivo Bienestar 1,183 536 714 600 3,033 17.5 37,355 88.0 2,307.2 Constantes y Vitales 893 217 1,110 7.8 32,274 76.0 753.7 Hazte Eco 440 440 2.7 16,889 39.8 191.8 Crea Cultura 207 217 104 179 193 196 1,096 7.5 31,578 74.4 600.1 Fundación Atresmedia 429 520 318 369 411 293 2,340 14.1 38,012 89.5 1,690.1 Tolerancia Cero 183 157 169 140 649 7.2 32,021 75.4 588.3 ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 162 Ponle Freno: target of a zero accident rate on the roads HIGHLIGHTS Project to make road education a mandatory school subject MORE! Ponle Freno Fun-Runs IMPACT Studies on cyclists and road safety + 2,450 GRP´S launched 8th edition of the Ponle Freno awards + 4,290 3.0 Conferences on motorcyclists and road safety radio advertisements broadcast Campaign on distraction as a cause of accidents + 600 news articles uploaded to the website + 3,000 mentions on social media profiles Ponle Freno is one of Atresmedia's main corporate responsibility initiatives. It was launched in 2008 with the aim of reducing the number of + 70 articles and accidents on Spanish roads and, therefore, saving lives. Over all of these mentions on news and TV years the initiative has focused its efforts on raising awareness among programmes Spanish society about road safety, through campaigns, conferences and activities which have directly involved all of the public. Some examples 1,827,497 are the popular Ponle Freno fun-run and the Awards of the same name, page visits to which in 2016 celebrated their eighth edition. ponlefreno.com “The Ponle Freno Platform has more than 110,000 participants”. http://www.antena3.com/ponlefreno/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 163 Fulfilling the Ponle Freno 2016 challenges Challenges Level of fulfilment Comments In March 2016, Ponle Freno came together with the Fundación de Gestores Administrativos (Foundation of 75 % Administrative Managers) in order to join forces on a Promote road education in schools. project to make road education compulsory education in schools, prepared by the Universidad Complutense de Madrid and backed by the Transport Department (DGT) and Atresmedia's own road safety platform. Ponle Freno, together with the AXA Foundation, has implemented an action plan aimed at raising 100 % awareness about distraction as one of the main causes Raising awareness about distraction as one of the main of accidents on our roads. Under the slogan Más causes of road accidents. distracción, menos seguridad (More distraction, less safety), the campaign has issued television spots, radio advertisements and digital content. Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-AXA de Seguridad Vial (Ponle Freno-AXA Road Safety Study Centre) has presented a study on accident rates and bicycle Carry out more research into accidents involving 100 % use, prepared in collaboration with the Universidad de cyclists with a study on raising awareness and training Valencia and the TNS Research Institute. The report this group. highlights alarming figures on the increased accident rate for this group and the lack of knowledge about the rules. Initiatives launched as part of Ponle Freno in 2016 ‘Más distracción, menos seguridad’ (More distraction, less safety) Road safety as a mandatory subject in schools In 2016, Ponle Freno, in collaboration with the AXA Following the petition launched in 2015 to promote the Foundation, focussed on distractions as a determining inclusion of road safety as a mandatory subject in schools factor in most traffic accidents that occur on our roads. and the approval in Congress of a draft law to implement It ran an awareness campaign which, under the slogan this, Ponle Freno has taken another step in this challenge Más distracción, menos seguridad , attempted to show by promoting, along with the Fundación de Gestores the danger posed by this behaviour for both drivers Administrativos, a project to include road safety as and pedestrians. A total of two spots were issued on regulated teaching in schools, prepared by the Universidad all Atresmedia Televisión channels, advertisements on Complutense de Madrid and backed by the Transport Atresmedia Radio and content on a specific micro-site within Department. Meanwhile, Ponle Freno contributes to teaching ponlefreno.com. children about road safety through its driving school at the Micrópolix educational leisure centre in Madrid. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 164 In 2016, Ponle Freno processed more than 300 reports of badly placed signs and poor condition roads thanks to the help of the public. Almost 20 % of them have been resolved 8th edition of the Ponle Freno Awards Ponle Freno has celebrated the eighth edition of the awards that bear its name, aimed at acknowledging the people, actions, entities and public authorities that have actively collaborated most over the last year in improving road safety on a national scale. This edition, composed of five categories following the addition of the Best Occupational Road Safety Initiative award, beat participation records with a total of 95 projects submitted. Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-AXA de Seguridad Vial (Ponle Freno-AXA Road Safety Study Centre) 2016 Winners: • Ponle Freno Citizens Award: Jesús Rodríguez, for In 2016, Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-AXA de Seguridad his training campaign Family Road Safety aimed at Vial continued with its research into preventing accidents providing information on the correct use of child restraint with the publication of various studies, among which we systems should mention Siniestralidad vial y uso de la bicicleta (Road • AXA Award for Innovation and Development in Road accidents and bicycle use), prepared in collaboration with Safety: On Star System from OPEL/General Motors Spain. Universidad de Valencia and the Instituto de Investigación • Ponle Freno Junior Award: Asociación para el Estudio TNS (TNS Research Institute). The document highlights de la Lesión Medular Espinal (Association for the Study alarming figures that show that accidents involving cyclists of Spinal Cord Injuries AESLEME), for its prevention doubled between 2008 and 2013; that only 51.2 % of cyclists campaigns aimed at young people entitled Te puede were wearing helmets at the time of an accident; and that pasar (It could happen to you) and Si controlas, 30 % of cyclists interviewed said that they have never found vuelves (If you control yourself, you will come back). out about the rules on bicycle use. • Ponle Freno Award for the Best Road Safety Action: Stop Distraer (Stop Distracting) Campaign from BP, Castrol and RACE. • Ponle Freno Award for the Best Occupational Road Safety Action: Comprehensive Road Safety Plan from Calidad Pascual. Campaign to report signs and roads Ponle Freno has launched the fourth edition of the Señales y carreteras en mal estado (Signs and roads in bad condition) campaign through which it seeks, through public participation, to have badly placed or defective signs and roads in poor condition reported. Under the slogan Una señal en mal estado es muy mala señal (A sign in bad condition is a very bad sign), Ponle Freno has once again invited the puclic to take a photograph or video of the How to drive on conventional roads signs or roads in question and upload them to the platform hosted on the website ponlefreno.com, together with details To coincide with the mass-movement of people at the start of of their location. Once the reports from the public have the summer holidays, Ponle Freno launched an information been received, Ponle Freno contacts the corresponding campaign on its website with advice and video tutorials administration in order to formally report the problems and on how to drive on conventional roads and how to safely ask for them to be fixed. After this latest edition more than overtake on this type of road, where most accidents are 1,300 reports have now been processed, almost 20 % of which recorded. have been resolved. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 165 Raising awareness about heavy traffic 3.0 Conferences on motorcyclists and road safety As it does every year, Ponle Freno has launched special In September 2016, Ponle Freno brought together four awareness campaigns on television, radio and the website to representatives from the motorcycling sector in its 3.0 coincide with the mass-movement of people during Easter, Conferences in order to analyse road safety for this group, summer and Christmas. In 2016, the issues addressed were one of the most affected in recent years. The objective was to raising awareness about the importance of using restraint analyse the possible causes of the increased accident rate and systems and helmets, and warning on the dangers of alcohol try to find possible solutions. and drugs when driving. Thanks to the Ponle Freno Fun-Runs, over €200,000 was raised in 2016 to support the victims of traffic accidents Ponle Freno Fun-Runs: 1st edition in Vigo, 2nd in Tenerife, 3rd in Vitoria and 8th in Madrid The Ponle Freno Fun-Runs continue to expand across Spain and there are now four cities that host this great road safety event. Madrid continues to be the event with the most participants, attracting 20,000 runners in its eighth edition. Vigo successfully held its first edition, attracting 1,000 runners, and Tenerife and Vitoria have consolidated with their 2nd and 3rd editions respectively. Thanks to these fun-runs, Ponle Freno has managed to raise over €200,000 that has been donated to different projects that support victims of traffic accidents. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 166 How to react to an ambulance Coinciding with the Christmas season when the traffic is heavy in cities, Ponle Freno launched an on-line initiative to publicise how to act as a driver in the presence of an ambulance. Through computer graphics and three videos published on the website, it attempted to clear up what you should and should not do in that situation in order to facilitate the work of the emergency services. Antena 3 Noticias also echoed this initiative, contributing to widening its dissemination. Recognition for Ponle Freno Ponle Freno objectives for 2017 In 2016 Ponle Freno received awards from different public and private institutions that have recognised the work of this initiative and its contribution to road safety: • “Óscar del Motor” from Alcobendas City Council. • Medal from the Local Police of Las Rozas City Council. • “Blogueros del asfalto” Award for the best road safety website: ponlefreno.com. • Award for the best road safety initiative from the Federation of Associations of Automotive To continue working on including Dealers (Faconauto). • 2016 “San Cayetano” Award in the road safety category from the Foundation of Administrative 1 road safety as a mandatory subject in schools, promoting a National Education Agreement. Managers. 2 To integrate sustainable mobility into the initiative's content. 3 Awareness campaign on the use of mobile phones. To update the driving habits study 4 prepared by the Centro de Estudios Ponle Freno-AXA (Ponle Freno-AXA Study Centre) in 2014. 5 Awareness campaign on the effects of some medications on driving.  For more information http://www.antena3.com/ponlefreno/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 167 Objetivo Bienestar: for a healthier life HIGHLIGHTS Broadcasting of content on healthy living habits on TV and radio IMPACT 4th edition of the Coles Activos awards + 2,000 GRP´S launched 5th edition of De Marcha with Objetivo Bienestar Junior + 240 2nd Objetivo Bienestar Conference news articles uploaded to the website Campaign to promote the eating of pulses + 3,000 mentions on social media profiles Its own programme broadcast fortnightly on Nova Weekly section in Espejo público and Tu Objetivo Bienestar is an Atresmedia initiative that seeks to improve the tiempo (Antena 3 TV) health and mental and physical well-being of people through promoting healthy lifestyles and a suitable environment. Own content section on the programme Te doy In terms of children, this objective is of special interest given the high mi palabra with Isabel rates of obesity recorded within this group. For this reason, Atresmedia Gemio, and on the has created the specific initiative Objetivo Bienestar Junior (formerly El programme Más de uno with Josemi RodríguezEstirón) which seeks to promote sport and healthy eating habits among Sierio, both on Onda Cero. children. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 168 Fulfilling the Objetivo Bienestar 2016 challenges Challenges Level of fulfilment Comments Objetivo Bienestar Junior has successfully held the 4th Holding of the 4th edition of the Coles Activos awards 50 % edition of these awards. Although participation did not with increased participation. increase this year, higher quality and more originality in the projects submitted was detected. Continuing with the awareness-raising work through In addition to the usual spaces that the campaign has broadcasting content related to mental well-being, on television through the broadcasting of spots and food and physical activity on different platforms: 100 % its own sections in programmes, this year Objetivo television spots, sections in Espejo público and Tu Bienestar has been extended to radio through its tiempo on Antena 3 and its own programme on Nova, own section on the programme Te doy mi palabra as well as content on the website and social networks. with Isabel Gemio and on Más de uno with Josemi Starting to run the radio campaign (Onda Cero). Rodríguez-Sieiro, both on Onda Cero. 100 % In its second year, the Objetivo Bienestar Conference Holding of the 2nd edition of the Objetivo Bienestar has established itself as a leading event for experts in Conference. health and well-being. nitiatives undertaken as part of Objetivo Bienestar in 2016 4th edition of the Coles Activos Awards 5th edition of De Marcha with Objetivo Bienestar Junior Objetivo Bienestar Junior held the 4th edition of the Coles For the 5th consecutive year, Activos Awards. The awards seek to recognise the schools More than Atresmedia, through Objetivo Bienestar that encourage children to think about how to grow up 9,000 people Junior, held its De Marcha fun walk healthy, through initiatives and projects filled with originality participated event at the Warner Park in Madrid, a and fun. Almost 100 schools from across Spain participated in the 5th large-scale family event with two goals: with proposals that have increased in quality and creativity. edition of health and fun. More than 9,000 people De Marcha took part in this 2.3 km walk designed with Objetivo primarily for children where the aim was The winners were: Bienestar to highlight the importance of physical First Prize: Colegio Andalucía de Vélez Malaga (Malaga) Junior exercise to children and promote ideas Second Prize: Colegio Laredo. Chapela-Redondela to help them grow up healthy. (Pontevedra) Third Prize: Colegio Santísimo Cristo de la Veracruz de Consuegra (Toledo) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 169 Broadcasting of content on healthy living habits on Antena 3, Nova and Onda Cero The strength of the Objetivo Bienestar campaign lies mainly in the broadcasting, through its own spaces, of advice that helps society to adopt healthy living habits. Therefore, in addition to the television spots broadcast daily on Antena 3, the campaign has its own weekly sections on the programmes Espejo público and Tu tiempo de Brasero and a programme on Nova, aimed at both adults and children. As a new feature, in 2016 Objetivo Bienestar made the leap to radio with a presence on the programme Te doy mi palabra with Isabel Gemio and the section with Josemi Rodríguez-Sieiro on Más de uno on Onda Cero. Campaign to promote the eating of pulses In order to mark the international year of pulses established by the FAO, during October 2016 Objetivo Bienestar launched a campaign to promote the eating of pulses, highlighting both their nutritional value and their role in terms of supporting sustainable agriculture. This dissemination focused on broadcasting daily tips that sought to communicate the benefits of pulses in maintaining a balanced diet; a special report in the Objetivo Bienestar programme on Nova, in Tu tiempo de Brasero and Espejo público; and specific recipes on the programme with Karlos 2nd Objetivo Bienestar Conference Arguiñano on Antena 3 and Cocina con Bruno on Nova. Both the Objetivo Bienestar magazine The 2nd Objetivo Bienestar Conference took place at the Madrid and the website included specific content on the Athenaeum in June 2016. In this second edition, the objective was to matter. address the concept of well-being from an angle that is practical and applicable to everyday life, placing special emphasis on issues such as emotional intelligence, interpersonal relations, managing change, searching for happiness and personal growth. The meeting featured speakers of the stature of Luis Rojas Marcos, Silvia Congost, Pedro García Aguado, Mila Cahue, Enrique Rojas, Tomás Navarro, Javier Iriondo and Lary León. Mediterranean Diet Foundation Award Grupo Atresmedia has been recognised by the Mediterranean Diet Foundation for the important work carried out, through the Objetivo Bienestar initiative, to communicate and educate on the dietary guidelines and behaviour required to lead a healthy life, through diet and physical activity . Objetivo Bienestar objectives for 2017 1 Renewal of the collaboration agreement with the Ministry of Health through Objetivo Bienestar Junior, to promote healthy lifestyle habits among children. 2 Awareness campaign on the abandoning of sport among teenage girls. 3 Raising awareness on calcium consumption.  For more information http://www.objetivobienestar.com/A3/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 170 Constantes y Vitales: research and prevention HIGHLIGHTS First steps in promoting a Pact for Science Raising awareness on the use and installation of defibrillators Dissemination of scientific work IMPACTO 2nd edition of the Constantes y Vitales Awards + 750 GRP´S launched + 500 radio advertisements Constantes y Vitales is the initiative of laSexta and the AXA Foundation broadcast aimed at promoting medical and scientific research through awareness raising campaigns and actions that promote advances in these fields. + 650 news articles uploaded to the website Fulfilling the Constantes y Vitales 2016 challenges + 3,000 mentions on social Challenges Level of fulfilment Comments media profiles Due to Spain's political situation in 2016, with no government formed + 660 articles and until November, it was impossible to implement this project. However, mentions on news and Promoting a Pact for 50 % work was done on taking a first step laSexta programmes Science. establishing, together with members of the expert committee, a proposal 170,904 of minimum requirements on which to work for a political consensus that page visits on constantesyvitales.com promotes the Pact. Constantes y Vitales worked on a new and ambitious objective: to ask the autonomous communities to regulate Awareness-raising the use and installation of defibrillators campaign on the 100 % in public areas. To do this, a petition installation of was promoted which, through a spot defibrillators to starring Mamen Mendizábal, received prevent sudden death. the signatures of more than 100,000 people. Another three television advertisements completed the dissemination campaign. After various meetings with the Asociación Española Contra el Cáncer (Spanish Association Against Cancer AECC) and the Alianza Prevention campaign 50 % para la Prevención del Cáncer de for the early detection Colon (Alliance for the Prevention of of colon cancer. Colon Cancer), the project has been set aside for now as it is considered incompatible with the coverage currently offered by the National Health System. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 171 Initiatives launched as part of Constantes y Vitales in 2016 Supporting research on laSexta The news programmes on laSexta (Noticias, Más vale tarde, laSexta Noche, among others) have given visibility throughout the year to the work of Spanish scientists, through 3.0 Conferences on sudden death and the use of defibrillators the news coverage of their achievements and discoveries, and providing support and a voice to a wide range of medical In June, Constantes y Vitales held its second 3.0 Conferences research and prevention initiatives. All with the main objective which, on this occasion, discussed sudden death and the use of bringing science closer to the public and recognising the of defibrillators. The meeting was chaired by Atresmedia's work of the researchers. Director of Medical Services, Bartolomé Beltrán, and was attended by experts and people such as Félix Aguado, manager of the Valdebernardo Sports Centre who saved the life of a person having a heart attack whilst playing tennis and who has become one of the anonymous heroes of the awareness campaign on the use and installation of defibrillators. 2nd Constantes y Vitales awards for biomedical research and health prevention Constantes y Vitales successfully held the second edition of its Awards, created in order to promote, value, support and strengthen the research work of Spanish scientists in the field of biomedicine, as well as health prevention campaigns. The winners of this 2016 edition were: Award for the best publicity campaign in medical prevention: Consejo General de Colegios de Médicos de España (General Board of Spanish Medical Colleges) and Red Española de Investigadores en Dolencias de Espalda (Spanish Network of Researchers on Back Problems) for their prevention campaign on back problems: Prevenir hoy para evitar problemas mañana (Take care today to avoid problems tomorrow). Award for the best biomedical research of the year: Dr. Javier Cortés, from the Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal in Madrid, for his study on breast cancer published in February 7th Popular Heart Fun-Run 2015 in the New England Journal of Medicine. Award for young talent in biomedical research: Dr. Miguel In 2016, Constantes y Vitales held the seventh edition of the López Pérez, for his research on molecular biology and Popular Heart Fun-Run, organised by Fundación Española del physiology of obesity. This category has a prize of €100,000 Corazón (the Spanish Heart Foundation) with the support of to help the winner continue with this research. Sociedad Española de Cardiología (the Spanish Cardiology Award for scientific career: Dr. Carlos Belmonte Martínez, for Society), in order to contribute to the work on preventing his many contributions to the field of science in relation to the cardiovascular illnesses. The run took place in Madrid and nervous system and study of the brain. brought together thousands of people. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 172 2017 Constantes y Vitales objectives Constantes y Vitales has been recognised by the journal New Medical Economics as the Best sociohealth dissemination campaign in recognition of the work and commitment of laSexta to promoting medical and scientific research. New Medical Economics presents these awards to health professionals, companies, administrations and any organisations that significantly contribute to the Awareness campaign on the use and installation of development of biomedicine and health sciences in defibrillators Spain. After reaching its first great achievement, the creation of the More than Agencia Estatal de Investigación 2017 Constantes y Vitales objectives 100,000 (State Research Agency), Constantes people have y Vitales set a new and ambitious joined the objective in 2016: to ask the campaign on autonomous communities to regulate the use and the use and installation of defibrillators installation of in public areas. defibrillators 30,000 people die in Spain each year from cardiac arrest and speed of reaction is vital, as the first five minutes are decisive for survival. In fact, if there were a defibrillator next to each fire extinguisher more than 4,500 lives could be saved each year. In just one month, over 50,000 people joined the campaign 1 by signing the petition and there are now more than 100,000 supporters. Since the launch of the proposal, three Promoting a Pact for Science. communities have signed up to it, announcing measures to become cardio-protected regions: Asturias, Murcia and Madrid. Moreover, thanks to the campaign various private Dissemination campaign for the 2 companies and entities have joined the initiative by installing defibrillators at their premises. prevention and detection of COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary In addition to making Spain a cardio-protected country, Constantes y Vitales wanted to publicise the use of Disease). defibrillators among the public through broadcasting various 3 television spots starring anonymous heroes under the Highlighting the role of women in slogan Todos estamos preparados para salvar vidas (We science through the content of the are all ready to save lives). laSexta Noticias, Más vale tarde and constantesyvitales.com have also dedicated spaces to different media channels. disseminating the issue.  More information at http://www.lasexta.com/constantes-vitales/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 173 Crea Cultura: the value of intellectual property HIGHLIGHTS Generation of a debate on intellectual property through meetings and dialogue forums. Competition, Está en tu mano (It's in your hands) campaign and IMPACT collaboration with Flooxer and Bez. + 3,000 mentions on social Dissemination through the Crea Cultura blog. media profiles + 57,000 page visits 29,967 Crea Cultura is a project promoted by Atresmedia to raise awareness blog visits about the value of cultural creation and artists, as well as intellectual property and the importance of defending it. 56 articles published on the blog In 2016 Crea Cultura managed to create an extensive and plural debate on this problem with all the interested parties, and launched new actions to make progress and find solutions. Included among these was the 1,616 tweets issued holding of four specific Crea Cultura forums, the intense activity on the Crea Cultura blog and the collaboration with Flooxer to promote reading. 905 mentions on Twitter 2,036 RTs (Twitter) 617 likes on Facebook posts 24 comments on Facebook 16 times covered on Onda Cero 12 times covered on Antena 3 Noticias 8 times covered on laSextaNoticias ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 174 Initiatives launched as part of Crea Cultura in 2016 Other Crea Cultura initiatives Organisation and participation in conferences, debates and dialogue forums • Blog competition: A competition for blog subscriptions was launched, with a draw for 10 digital books across the • Pública 2016: Crea Cultura collaborated in Pública 2016, networks. an international cultural management meeting held at the • Está en tu mano (It's in your hands) campaign: Círculo de Bellas Artes in Madrid, with the participation of Crea Cultura launched a new campaign with the aim of Vicente Vallés, editor and presenter of Antena 3 Noticias, transmitting the importance of culture and its responsible and Luz Aldama, director of current affairs programming consumption. Under the brand Está en tu mano , the at Atresmedia Televisión, in the section un café con... campaign aims to make digital consumers aware of their (a coffee with...). responsibility, making them a part of the creation of • Training workshops on intellectual property: During content. The campaign was launched in collaboration with 2016, training workshops on intellectual property were run Google, Fece, Fedicine and Movirecord. for journalists from the newsrooms at Antena 3, laSexta, • Collaboration with Flooxer: Flooxer and Crea Cultura Onda Cero and the digital newsroom. have teamed up to promote reading, a passion for • Crea Cultura Forums: Four dialogue forums were held in books and literature through the Book's Power channel. 2016 with the collaboration of Bertelsmann: Atresmedia's digital platform has developed this project, – Las nuevas plataformas para ver cine y TV en el hogar sponsored by Crea Cultura, which aims to instil the habit (New platforms for watching film and TV at home of reading into young people, as well as teach them the – El universo cultural de la propiedad intelectual en los value of cultural creation and respect for the intellectual videojuegos: del online a los móviles pasando por las property of its authors. consolas (The cultural universe of intellectual property • Agreement with the newspaper Bez: Atresmedia has in video games: from online to mobiles, not forgetting signed an agreement with newspaper Bez through which consoles). Crea Cultura has supported this newspaper's first year – Propiedad intelectual en los libros: entre el reto digital with the sponsorship of a competition aimed at inspiring y la responsabilidad del lector (Intellectual property in the development of texts, cultural creation and intellectual books: between the digital challenge and responsibility property. of the reader). – Una de cada cuatro personas tapa la publicidad online con adbloblockers.' Marcas, medios y contenidos están en riesgo. ¿Cuáles son las soluciones? (One out of every four people stop on-line advertising with adbloblockers. Brands, media and content are at risk. What are the solutions?). Crea Cultura objectives for 2017 • Crea Cultura actively participated in the sponsorship conferences organised in 2016 by the Pons Foundation. • The Jóvenes y propiedad intelectual (Young people and Holding of new Crea Cultura Forums 1 intellectual property) meeting, organised by the Carné to discuss cultural creation, who is Joven (Youth Card) of the Community of Madrid, also benefitted from the participation of Crea Cultura. In this responsible for it and respect for context, Atresmedia and Carné Joven of the Community intellectual property. of Madrid signed a collaboration agreement to defend 2 intellectual property among young people. • Crea Cultura Blog: Throughout 2016, intense activity was also maintained on the Crea Cultura blog www. New awareness-raising actions. blogcreacultura.com, as well as on the social networks of the Atresmedia movement. All of the actions and 3 activities have been disseminated on the Group's media channels. Maintenance of the campaign's spots, blog and social media profiles.  More information at http://creacultura.atresmedia.com/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 175 Tolerancia Cero: against abuse, the power of working together In 2015 and coinciding with International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, Atresmedia Noticias and the Mutua Madrileña Foundation launched the Tolerancia Cero initiative, aimed at raising awareness, encouraging women to report incidents and using education to address this social problem. Since then, Antena 3 Noticias has placed all of its resources and tools IMPACT at the disposal of this initiative with a clear goal: to reduce the number of victims. + 700 During 2016 it broadcast television spots, radio adverts on all of its staGRP´S launched tions and the initiative also appeared on all of the Group's websites and social media. Through its factual programmes, Atresmedia also used + 500 all its communication power to raise awareness among the population, radio advertisements broadcasting pieces and reports relating to the problem of domestic issued violence. In 2016 the campaign focused on the following messages: + 100 news articles on • Zero Tolerance of the abuser. the initiative's micro-site • Control of social networks and mobiles. • Encouraging the reporting of incidents. • Repeating the pattern and children. + 300 mentions on social media profiles Tolerancia Cero also has a strong online presence through a specific website aimed at both the general public with breaking news, reports, spots, campaigns, etc. and the victims of domestic violence with dif+ 70 reports and/or ferent guidelines for action, protection and the detection of abuse. The articles on the news initiative also has a profile on Twitter, @ToleranciaCero, and Facebook, facebook.com/ToleranciaCeroA3/ as an essential part of active listening. + 81 % coverage (women +16) Tolerancia Cero objectives for 2017 + 80 % of the population states that they are aware of Tolerancia Cero and its Filing reports and the aggressor focus. There are many 1 work against domestic women who still do not dare to take the step of reporting violence (Toluna Study) their abuser. It is important to continue sending the message that while it is not an easy path, it does save + 30 bloggers linked to lives. the milestone Control 2 redes sociales y móviles (Control social networks Micro male chauvinist behaviour. The need to bring to and mobiles) light these daily and damaging behaviours. 10 3 + well-known faces linked to the cause Education. There are many teachers and parents who demand the regular presence of this issue in classrooms. 4 Children. Children were not recognised as direct victims of domestic violence until three years ago, and today there  are still many challenges in this regard. More information at www.antena3.com/noticias/ tolerancia-cero/ ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 176 Comparte y Recicla: toys for all the children The Comparte y Recicla campaign aims to give new life to unwanted toys In 2016, Comparte y Recicla by passing them on to other children, thanks to the collaboration of the collected over 34,000 toys families. It is a social initiative with a triple positive impact: promoting solidarity, caring for the environment and involving people with disabilities. Tonnes of toys collected 45 110 16 2014 2015 2016 In 2016, Comparte y Recicla held its third edition with extraordinary results. Thousands of families have once again demonstrated their great solidarity by collaborating with the campaign and, thanks to them, it managed to collect more than 34,000 toys, over 110 tonnes, which have been delivered to those children who need them the most. SOLIDARITY For several weeks over the summer more than 500 points of sale across Spain in El Corte Inglés, Hipercor, Juguettos, Todojuguete, Toysmaniatic and Toys R Us welcomed any toys that the most caring families wanted to share with other children, offering them a second life. RECYCLING Any toys that were not in good enough condition to be reused were sent for recycling thanks to the collaboration of the Ecotic Foundation. In total, 16% of the toys received, around 18 tonnes, were sent for recycling. INTEGRATION The Centro Especial de Empleo Ilade (Ilade Special Employment Centre), run by the association for the disabled called Asociación Despertar de Castalla (Alicante), was the entity responsible for separating the toys received, deciding on whether they were suitable for a second life or were to be recycled. The toys in optimal conditions were sent to various national and international NGOs and associations which distributed them among thousands of children at Christmas, thanks to the collaboration of the SEUR Foundation which was responsible for their transportation. In 2016, toys were sent to refugee camps in the Sahara and Athens and to more than 30 Spanish NGOs and associations including Ningún niño sin sonrisa, Remar, Joguines sense fronteres, Mensajeros de la paz and Asociación de Discapacitados Murgi (Almeria).  Thanks to the dissemination of this campaign in the Grupo Atresmedia media More information at channels, through the broadcasting of a spot on NeoxKidz and a radio campaign on www.comparteyrecicla.com Onda Cero, families were more aware of the impact of the initiative. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 177 Fundación Atresmedia: more than 10 years supporting children and normalising disability Fundación Atresmedia now has more than 10 years of experience chanHIGHLIGHTS nelling the Group's social action and focusing its efforts on protecting the young, particularly children, who are one of the most vulnerable groups, and normalising the situation of people with disabilities. Fulfilment of the Strategic Plan Record participation in the Grandes Profes initiative Looking after children and young people in situations of special need and creating public interest about their issues, needs and interests, relying for that on the skills and Promotion of projects of a resources of the Atresmedia Group. theoretical nature MISSION Raising awareness about disability Being the Spanish foundation with the greatest capacity for social VISION mobilisation and making real changes 10th Anniversary activities in the issues that affect children and young people. VALUES Transparency, Positive Spirit, Commitment, Empathy and Efficiency. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 178 Since 2005, the year in which the Foundation began its life, it has run many successful projects, from campaigns to defend the most basic rights of children and creating the first television channel especially designed for hospitalised children, to projects relating to the employment of young people with disabilities and educational improvement. In 2016, Fundación Atresmedia continued to establish future projects and consolidated the three lines of action set out in its Strategic Plan: Humanising children's hospitals Improving education Normalising disability It also achieved the three main challenges that it had set itself for 2016 and which have enabled it to extend the Hospital Assistance Programme and raise awareness about people with disabilities and the need to improve education. Fulfilling the Fundación Atresmedia 2016 challenges Challenges Level of fulfilment Achievements Extend the Hospital Assistance Programme to 100 % It has been extended to 174 hospitals. 155 centres across Spain. Develop disability awareness initiatives for 100 % Three awareness initiatives have been professionals in the audiovisual sector. carried out. Promote the involvement of society in 100 % Three different awareness pieces have been educational matters. broadcast on television and radio. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 179 More humane children's hospitals Over recent years Fundación Atresmedia has positioned itself as a leading force in humanising hospitals, contributing through its projects to making the time children spend in hospital more pleasant and welcoming. In 2016 it has continued focusing on this work through three main lines of action: • To provide information to hospitalised children about their situation using adapted content, in order to alleviate any stress that may be caused by their illness and condition. • To entertain children during their stay, with content that allows them to have positive memories about their time in hospital. • To raise awareness among the agents involved in the hospitalisation, both the staff there and society as a whole, about the need to promote mechanisms to improve the humanisation of children's hospitals. FAN3 Channel One of the hallmarks of Fundación Atresmedia is the FAN3 Channel, the first television channel designed for hospitalised Hospital entertainment children which combines entertainment content such as series and cartoons with health-related educational segments During 2016, various hospital entertainment initiatives were that inform children in a simple language. In 2016, the Fan3 carried out in more than 165 centres across Spain, including Channel reached 137 hospitals across Spain. celebrity visits, radio workshops, actions to promote reading and drawing competitions. For the second consecutive year it celebrated Día Nacional del Niño Hospitalizado (National Hospitalised Child Day) on 13 May along with 15 other entities, with a mass launch of besos (kisses) in 163 hospitals. A total of more than 170,000 children have benefited from these actions. National Hospital Optimista Awards 9th National Conference on Humanising Children's Hospitals This year the Foundation has also participated as coThe Foundation's coordinating and driving role in humanising organiser in the National Hospital Optimista Awards, which children's hospitals is reflected in the support given in 2016 recognise those initiatives or positive practices that contribute to the 9th National Conference on Humanising Children's to generating a healthier environment in hospitals for patients Hospitals held in Valencia and in its participation in many and their families. More than 150 entries have been received other events that have dealt with this issue during the year. from different centres. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 180 Normalising disability One of the main aims of Fundación Atresmedia is to contribute to normalising disability in the audiovisual sector and society in general. To do this it runs different initiatives that fall within these three lines of action: • To improve the training level of people with disabilities in order to promote their employment within the audiovisual sector. • To contribute to the group's employment through raising awareness and promoting mechanisms so that companies from the audiovisual sector employ people with disabilities. • To raise awareness among all agents involved by using the prescriptive power of the media to promote normalisation through the appearance of disabled people in the content. Awareness-raising actions in the audiovisual sector Throughout 2016, different conferences were run with the aim PRO Project of raising awareness about disability among different agents in the audiovisual sector, such as Human Resources directors, In 2010, Fundación Atresmedia created the PRO Project, the screenwriters, journalists, etc., and bringing reality into their first audiovisual school for people with disabilities that gives daily work. specific high quality training in the different professional roles demanded by the audiovisual sector. In 2016 the initiative has continued to be given content, with the teaching of a University specialist in creating audiovisual scripts course in collaboration with the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos (Madrid) and with renowned professionals on the teaching staff. Agreements with employment services for job placements In order to contribute to the employment of people with disabilities, work has continued on reaching agreements with different employment services and therefore giving visibility to people with different abilities. The Future Jobs in the Audiovisual Sector study has also been promoted in order to research job opportunities for this group. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 181 Improving education Fundación Atresmedia pays special attention to education as it considers this to be one of the issues that most concerns the public and of most importance for building a fair, committed and prepared society. The objective pursued by the Foundation is to contribute to educational improvement and involve society in this task, creating a tide of opinion in this respect and generating real social change. This challenge is comprised of three priority areas of action: • To recognise good teachers and inspire them in their daily work in the classroom, offering them new techniques and tools to add to those they already use on a daily basis when exercising their profession. • To promote vocational training, raising awareness of the many options it offers and encouraging students to enrol in the different training courses. • To involve society, raising awareness about the importance of its role in educational matters and making it feel like an agent for change to achieve the necessary improvements. Grandes Profes! brought together more than 1,400 teachers in person and 3,500 via streaming ¡Grandes Profes! One of the Foundation's most recognised initiatives is the Grandes Profes! event which in 2016 brought together more than 1,400 teachers in person and 3,500 via streaming. The event is aimed at strengthening the image of teachers and providing them with the tools for their daily work in the Grandes profes, Grandes inciativas Awards classroom. To do this, on this occasion it involved speakers of recognised prestige from different fields of knowledge, The Foundation recognises the good educational practices including César Bona, Victor Küppers, Nachi Picas and Nuria of teachers and educational centres through the Grandes Roca, who shared with the attendees their experiences profes, Grandes iniciativas Awards run throughout the and key points in the hope that these would prove to be an school year. In 2016 more than 200 projects were presented. inspiration and an example to follow in their daily work with the pupils. Descubre la FP During 2016 the Descubre la FP (Discover Vocational Training) project was consolidated through its website descubrelafp.org, which aims to publicise vocational Training in Spain and improve its image in society in general. The website explains the different training options and has videos featuring teachers who explain the content of the courses and students who give their reasons for taking vocational training. The website has had more than 120,000 visits throughout this year and more than 4,000 people enrolled on the free course on social and emotional skills offered there ( Rutas para la vida y el trabajo (Routes for life and work)), run by Elsa Punset. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 182 Celebration of the 10th anniversary of Fundación Atresmedia In 2015 Fundación Atresmedia reached its tenth anniversary, and in 2016 it continued celebrating this with different initiatives. Included among these was the volunteering initiative carried out by 122 people, most of whom were employees of the Atresmedia Group, who visited the paediatric departments of more than 35 hospitals and spent an afternoon playing games with the hospitalised children. To do this they used the book Más de 150 juegos para divertirse dentro y fuera del hospital (More than 150 games to enjoy inside and outside of hospital), written by Lary León, director of the FAN3 Channel. Collaborations with entities Fundación Atresmedia is aware that collaborating with other entities allows it to exchange knowledge, improve its understanding of problems and be more efficient in their resolution. Hence the efforts of the organisation to establish alliances. In 2016 the Foundation signed agreements with various entities sharing its social commitment: • The MAPFRE Foundation has participated in the Descubre la FP project. • Santillana has collaborated in Grandes Profes! and in the Grandes profes, Grandes iniciativas • PwC has participated in the Future jobs in the Awards. audiovisual sector study. • The Telefónica Foundation has supported • The Colegio Oficial de Psicólogos (Official Grandes Profes! College of Psychologists) has participated in, • Microsoft has participated in Grandes Profes! among other projects, the FAN 3 Channel. • Samsung has collaborated in the Grandes profes, • The Asociación Española Pediatría (Spanish Grandes iniciativas Awards. Paediatrics Association) has collaborated with • The Ranstad Foundation has supported the the FAN 3 Channel. awareness-raising campaign on normalising • The Abertis Foundation has collaborated with the disability. FAN 3 Channel. • Universidad Rey Juan Carlos has collaborated in • Vygon, OTP and the Wont team from Universidad the University specialist in creating audiovisual Jaume I de Castellón have participated in the scripts course. 'Hospital Optimista' Awards. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | SOCIETY | 183 Transparency in funding Financial information on the resources held by the Fundación Atresmedia has made transparency one of its hallmarks. Foundation, as well as the All information of interest, both financial and technical, is available and documentation from the updated so that any individual or company can consult it publicly on the audit of its accounts and its website http://fundacion.atresmedia.com. governing agreements and standards may be found on Fundación Atresmedia is working to apply principles, standards and prothe website http://fundacion. cedures that ensure that the organisation's management is carried out atresmedia.com/ on a fair and non-discriminatory basis, for both the possible participants and their beneficiaries. 2014 2015 2016 Atresmedia resources(Euros) 300,000 500,000 500,000 Donations (Euros) 573,000 133,344 80,984 Subsidies (Euros) 10,000 0 0 Other income (Euros) 725,194 731,028 693,613 Total revenue (Euros) 1,198,194 1,364,372 1,274,597 Awards and recognitions obtained in 2016 CERMI Award • CERMI Award (Comité Español de Representantes de Personas con Discapacidad Spanish Committee for Representatives of People with Disabilities) in the Corporate Social Responsibility / Disability category. • Sine Dolore Excellence Award for Communication. • Corresponsables Award in the Large Companies and Business Foundations category. • Finalists for the MEDES Awards. Sine Dolore Excellence Award • 1st place in the transparency ranking in the Commitment and Transparency Foundation Report. • Ikaslan Award for its work in broadcasting and raising awareness of vocational training in society. • Inclús Award for the PRO project at the International Film and Disability Festival. Fundación Atresmedia Objectives for 2017 Corresponsables Award 1 Create a working team to measure humanisation in children's hospitals. 2 Raise awareness on disability with the main agents in the audiovisual sector. 3 Ikaslan Award Run a workshop with experts to improve the social perception of vocational training. ENVIRONMENT ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 185 Commitment to sustainability Atresmedia's vision is to contribute to sustainable development through measures that minimise the environmental impact of its activities and raise awareness throughout society. This vision is implemented through the following lines of action. 1 Improving energy efficiency. 2 Responsibly managing resources. 3 Reducing the generation of waste and emissions. 4 Raising awareness in society about the need to care for the environment by making use of Atresmedia's broadcasting power. In figures 2014 2015 2016 Energy consumption Gas 15,308 m3 13,646 m3 12,365 m3  Electricity 27,399,791 kWh 29,276,341 kWh 29,622,523 kWh  Heating oil 469,696 L 489,032 L 481,056 L  Consumption of resources Water 56,863 m3 53,755 m3 49,607 m3  Paper 5,412,000 uds (26,844 kg) 5,557,500 uds (27,566 kg) 5,362,500 uds (26,813 kg)  Toner 667 uds (534 kg) 652 uds (522 kg) 1,147 uds (1,030 kg)  Emissions Direct scope 1 1,505 t 1,562 t 1,552 t  Indirect scope 2 4,384 t 3,513 t 6,221 t  Employee transportation scope 3 635 t 715 t 1,361,32 t  Non-hazardous waste Paper and cardboard 66 t 64 t 59,32 t  Debris 126 m 3 114 m 3 83 m3  SUW 308 t 305 t 337 t  Hazardous waste Televisions 62 uds 78 uds 72 uds  Fluorescent lights 976 uds 1,725 uds 753 uds  Environmental Investment 89,490 € 111,481 € 120,495 €  CDP Rating 58D 93C C* * In 2016 CDP changed the assessment format, removing the numerical rating. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 186 Fulfilment of the environmental commitments In 2015 Atresmedia established some annual environmental improvement commitments whose degree of fulfilment in 2016 is shown below: 2015 commitment Degree of fulfilment Comments Carrying out the third phase in the implementation of 5% The main corridors have been completed and LED lighting in San Sebastián de los Reyes, with changing the remainder is pending for 2017. approximately 5,000 lights in the main building. Continuation with the plan started in 2015 to replace the centralised refrigeration equipment (chillers) with other high 100 % The objective set is 100 % fulfilled. energy efficiency ones. This is expected to be concluded over the next four years. Reducing the volume of Solid Urban Waste (SUW) by 1 % 0% It was not possible to fulfil this objective in compared to 2015. 2016 due to increased internal production. Reducing toner cartridge consumption by 2 % compared to 0% It was not possible to fulfil this objective in 2015. 2016 due to increased internal production. Reducing the volume of paper and cardboard destined for 100 % The objective set is 100 % fulfilled. recycling by 2 % compared to 2015. Hazte Eco Coinciding with the holding of the Marrakech Climate Change Conference in November, in Continuing to raise awareness about the effects of climate 100 % collaboration with Oxfam Intermón Hazte Eco change. ran an awareness campaign on the effects of climate change, which are already particularly affecting the most disadvantaged countries. Under the slogan Voces por el Ártico (Voices for the Arctic), once again this Monitoring and strengthening the Save the Arctic campaign 100 % year Neox, through Hazte Eco, supported with the help of Greenpeace. Greenpeace's campaign to demand the declaration of this area as a protected marine area. During the summer of 2016, Hazte Eco issued Continuing with the fire prevention campaign in collaboration 100 % an awareness raising spot to alert people with WWF. to the danger of fires and also broadcast a special programme on Neox. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 187 Energy efficiency Energy is one of the main sources of well-being in modern society but The energy efficiency measures also the main cause of our planet's environmental problems. The efficient implemented in 2016 amount to use of energy is not an option but rather an obligation for those organover 400,000 kWh of savings isations, such as Atresmedia, that want to maintain a true commitment per year to sustainability. For this reason, the Group adds new actions to its daily operations each year that place it at the forefront of energy efficiency. The following projects were implemented in 2016: • LED lighting: As part of the plan to implement LED lighting in the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes, the lights in the building's main corridors were changed. All other lights will be changed during 2017. • Chillers: One chiller and a cooling tower have been replaced with highly energy efficient equipment, which generates an estimated saving of 367,465 kWh/year. • Boilers: The burners of one of the boilers in studio 7 and of one of the steam generators in the main building have been replaced for others of high energy efficiency. This measure represents an estimated saving of 49,720 kWh/year. In 2016 the Group also carried out an energy efficiency audit in order to be able to identify new energy saving measures. All of these initiatives have contributed to reducing the main consumption figures and improving the Group's overall energy efficiency. The slight increase in energy consumption (1.18 %) recorded in 2016 is a direct result of increased production in television and radio, caused by the special news programmes on the general elections. Moreover, heating oil consumption fell by 1.63 % due to the change of burners in the boilers; and that of gas by 9.39 % due to more efficient use of the kitchen equipment. Finally, petrol consumption increased by 9.3 % due to a greater use of petrol vehicles, which has been offset by a reduction of 5.23 % in diesel consumption. ≈ 367,465 kWh/year savings in cooling ≈ 49,720 kWh/year savings in heat ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 188 Electricity consumption (kWh) Heating oil consumption (L) Gas consumption (m3) 29,276,341 29,622,523 489,032 481,056 15,308 469,696 27,399,791 13,646 12,365 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Petrol consumption for transportation (L) Diesel consumption for transportation (L) 14,352 15,687 51,555 16,802 48,477 45,132 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Note 1. 1kWh = 0.0036 GJ. The consumption of electricity in 2015 was equivalent to 105,394.83 GJ. Note 2. In 2015 the energy consumption corresponding to heating oil was equivalent to 18,741.75 GJ. Heating oil: toe (tonne of oil equivalent) = 1,181 litres // 1.12 toe is equal to 13,020 kWh (Source: IDAE) // 1kwh = 0.0036 GJ. Note 3. The energy consumption corresponding to gas in 2015 was equivalent to 527.61 GJ. Data from the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Source: Gas Natural Fenosa. Note 4. The energy consumption corresponding to transportation petrol in 2015 was equivalent to 465.70 GJ. Automotive petrol: toe = 1,290 litres // 1.10 toe is equal to 12,790 kWh (Source: IDAE) //1kWh = 0.0036 GJ. Note 5. The energy consumption corresponding to transportation diesel in 2015 was equivalent to 1,812.73 GJ. Automotive diesel: toe = 1,181 litres // 1.12 toe is equal to 13,020 kWh (Source: IDAE) //1kWh = 0.0036 GJ. Note 6. Diesel 100 % non-renewable, petrol 100 % non-renewable, gas 100 % non-renewable, electricity 28.2 % non-renewable and 71.8 % renewable (latest energy mix provided by Iberdrola). Note 7. Conversion factors table A7.1 GHG inventory report published by MAGRAMA and the IDAE (Institute for the Diversification and Saving of Energy). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 189 Responsible management of resources The responsible use of resources is the foundation for ensuring Atresmedia's long-term sustainability. Hence its commitment to a rational consumption of materials and to re-use and recycling. This commitment is fulfilled, throughout the entire life cycle of its processes, through specific measures such as green purchasing , recycling paper and using non-reusable toner (original or compatible) that is fully recycled. The main materials consumed by Atresmedia are toner and paper. In terms of white paper, its use was reduced by 3.5 % in 2016 due to the growing use of new digital technologies. During this year, 100 % of paper consumed was recycled (26,813 kg). In 2016 100 % of the paper However, the consumption of toner cartridges increased in 2016 due to used was recycled: more than the increased production of programmes within the facilities. 100 % of 26,000 kg toner cartridges used were sent for recycling. Another of Atresmedia's basic resources is water. Aware of the importance of minimising its consumption, the Company promotes measures aimed at improving the facilities and raising awareness about its responsible use. The consumption of water, which comes entirely from the public network, fell by 4,148 m3 in 2016, which is a reduction of 7.7 %. 88 % of water consumption at Atresmedia occurs at the facilities in San Sebastián de los Reyes. Paper consumption (units) Toner consumption (units) Water consumption (m3) 5,412,000 5,557,000 1,147 56,863 5,362,500 53,755 49,607 667 652 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Note. The data on white paper and toner consumption in 2014 refer to the centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 190 Reduction of waste During 2016 a joint analysis was made, along with the Paper and cardboard reduced by 7.49 % and was waste manager, of the processes carried out in the entirely recycled. The volume of debris also fell by recycling plant. This represents a first step in identi27 %, due to the difference in the type of waste profying improvements and assessing the possibility of duced by the works carried out. installing specific containers for collecting waste in communal areas of the Company. In terms of SUW, this has increased compared to 2015 due to the greater number of staff using the canteen Atresmedia already encourages the use of white at the facilities in San Sebastián de los Reyes (10,000 paper recycling bins and requires its suppliers to more meals served than in 2015) as a result of the remove the packaging used for the materials supplied increased production recorded at the facilities. so that it can be reused or destined for other uses, among other measures. In 2016, the waste generated by the Company was reduced overall. Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste 337 1,725 308 305 976 753 126 114 83 390 66 64 59 220 144 62 68 72 0.53 0.52 1.03 0.54 0.66 0.00 Paper and Debris from Solid waste Televisions Fluorescents Batteries Toner Batteries cardboard (t) works (m3) (t) (units) (units) (units) (t) (t)  2014  2015  2016 Paper and cardboard waste has reduced by more than 7 % compared to the previous year ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 191 Direct CO2 emissions fell by 1 % in 2016 Direct CO2 emissions scope 1 (t) Reduction of emissions 1,562 1,552 1,505 Atresmedia has an Environmental Management Policy which it applies to all of its activities with a dual objective: ensuring strict compliance with environmental legislation and decisively contributing to achieving a more sustainable society. In this context, the fight against climate change poses a major challenge, one to which the Company is committed. Its aim is to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases 2.736 1.580 2.190 0.560 0.170 0.220 0.162 0.053 0.087 (GHG) into the atmosphere to the bare minimum. CO2 NOX SOX CO Breakdown of direct CO2 emissions (t) 2016 Diesel for Petrol for Heating oil Natural gas vehicles vehicles 1,366.11 127.29 35.12 23.81 Note: The direct emissions data are the result of the use of the final energy conversion factors published by IDAE (for diesel and automotive petrol), and the emission factors published in the GHG Inventory Report in table A7.1 (for natural gas and diesel) and in table A8.2 (for automotive petrol). he data on direct CO2, NOx, SOx and CO emissions refer to the work centre in San Sebastián de los Reyes. The data on other contaminant gases is taken from the samples carried out by ATISAE. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 192 In 2016, direct CO2 emissions fell Indirect emissions due to employee by 1 % mainly due to the change of air travel also increased in 2016. burners in the boilers. Lower gas Specifically, they increased by consumption and the ongoing use 90.49 % due to a greater number of mobile units have also contribof long-distance international jouruted. neys (100, 8.62 % more) in order to cover the Champions League In terms of indirect emissions games broadcast by Antena 3 from electricity consumption, the and international news stories increase is due to the variation (elections in the United States, in the data provided by Iberdrola Brexit vote, etc.) and to cover fairs on the source of the electricity outside our borders. supplied to Atresmedia. This indicates that the content of CO2 in kilograms per kWh is 0.21, when in 2015 it was 0.12 kg of CO2 per kWh. Indirect CO2 emissions Indirect CO2 emissions scope 2 (t) scope 3 (t) 6,221 1,361 4,384 3,513 715 635 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Note: Note: To obtain the data on indirect emissions from electricity consumption, the annual information provided by IBERDROLA was used, referring to the source of the electricity supplied and the electric consumption produced. The energy supplied is 55 % renewable and 45 % non-renewable. Note: In order to obtain the data on indirect emissions from air travel, the calculation method used was the website http://carbon-calculator.org.uk/. Note 9. The reduction of indirect emissions from electricity consumption is due to the variation in the data provided by Iberdrola on the source of the electricity supplied to Atresmedia (variation in the energy mix). In 2015 the electricity consumed by the Group was more environmentally friendly, falling from 0.16 kg of CO2 for each kW/h consumed in 2014 to 0.12 kg of CO2 for each kW/h consumed in 2015, which represents a reduction of 25% in the content of CO2. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 193 Environmental awareness Atresmedia considers it part of its responsibility to society to offer spaces and content linked to the environment across the Group's different media channels, in order to raise awareness in society. Hazte Eco: working together for the environment IMPACT Hazte Eco is an Atresmedia initiative launched in 2010 and run by the Neox Channel which ensures the protection and defence of the envi+ 190 ronment and promotes social mobilisation in this area. In its six years of GRP´S launched life, Hazte Eco, in collaboration with the main environmental organisations such as Greenpeace, WWF and Ecoembes, has promoted many + 750 news articles initiatives focussed on tackling climate change, encouraging recycling, preventing the Arctic from melting and preventing forest fires. These uploaded to the website initiatives have also had support in the form of the use of the Group's reporting power. + 3,000 mentions on social media profiles 2016 Hazte Eco noteworthy actions Own programme broadcast every two weeks on Neox Save the Arctic Campaign with Greenpeace Earth Hour Hazte Eco joined the Greenpeace Save the Arctic campaign for yet For yet another year Atresmedia another year. On this occasion Neox supported this action organised by broadcast two spots starring people the WWF, which has now become from the world of film, music and the greatest global initiative to literature who, under the slogan protect the environment. Since 2007 Voces por el Ártico (Voices for the people from around the world have Arctic) asked people to sign Hazte agreed to do the same thing at the Eco's petition, found on its website same time: switch off all the lights hazteeco.es, demanding that the for one hour. Atresmedia's facilities uninhabited area surrounding the joined the blackout and the North Pole be declared a World Group's news programmes covered Heritage Site. Atresmedia's the impact of the event all around media channels helped support the world. Neox also dedicated a the campaign by broadcasting a special slot to the initiative in the special Hazte Eco programme on Hazte Eco programme, and the Neox, providing news coverage on campaign's website and social media laSexta Noticias and broadcasting reported on it. programmes such as Zapeando. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 194 Awareness campaign on climate change, on the occasion of Fire prevention in summer campaign the Marrakesh conference In order to raise awareness about the risk of fires in summer, In 2016 Hazte Eco came together with Oxfam Intermon to Hazte Eco broadcast an awareness-raising spot on Neox launch a message of awareness-raising and action against during the months of July, August and September. Under the climate change through the campaign El cambio climático slogan No dejes que las palabras se las lleve el fuego (Don't afecta más a quienes tienen menos (Climate change let your words go up in flames), on this occasion the message most affects those who have least), on the occasion of the again focussed on humans as the main cause of fires at this Marrakesh Climate Conference. During this international time of year. meeting, Western governments, as the main emitters of greenhouse gases, were asked to fulfil their commitments to financing the most disadvantaged countries so that they can adapt to the consequences of climate change. The awareness campaign consisted of broadcasting a spot on Neox, as well as coverage of the conference in news programmes on laSexta. Moreover, the website hazteeco.es created a specific section for this cause and the Hazte Eco programme on Neox dedicated a special programme to it. Featured programming on protecting the environment Atresmedia includes in its programming a wide variety of content related to protecting the environment, with very specific messages that can help to build a society that is more respectful of the environment. The following spaces from 2016 are noteworthy: National Geographic Channel and Atresmedia Televisión have come together to fight climate change with the première of Before the Flood National Geographic Channel (NGC) and Atresmedia Televisión signed a collaboration agreement to broadcast the Before the Flood documentary, a work produced by Leonardo DiCaprio and Martin Scorsese and directed by Fisher Stevens (Oscar winner for The Cove), whose objective is to send a wake-up call to the world about the state of the environment and the fight against climate change. Enviado especial on El techo del mundo (The Roof of This attractive documentary is a comprehensive look at the World) the way in which society can prevent the disappearance of species in danger of extinction, eco-systems and indigenous In 2016, laSexta aired an episode of the programme Enviado communities throughout the world. especial where the journalist Jalis de la Serna travelled to Through this agreement Atresmedia maintains its The Roof of the World , or in other words to the Doomsday commitment to sustainability and the environment, signing Vault, a bunker under the ice in the Arctic that safeguards the up to the values that the National Geographic Society future of humanity in the event of extreme global warning. has always defended and disseminating these through its Following his extraordinary journey through the frozen sea, television channels: conserving nature, preserving animal life the programme offers a very illustrative perspective, opening and fighting against climate change. the eyes of the viewers and encouraging them to act and reinvent our way of life. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ENVIRONMENT | 195 laSexta Columna Waste management in Spain A serious problem was uncovered following the fire at the tyre graveyard in Seseña and the laSexta Columna analysed this in one of its programmes. In this episode, Spain's waste management policy was examined in depth. Gürtel, Púnica, Brugal, Pokemon, etc. Why do all big corruption scandals have a connection to waste management? Is it more efficient for each council to take care of the rubbish themselves or outsource this to a private Jordi Évole interviews Naomi Klein in Salvados company? Is it enough to recycle more or do we have to generate less waste? laSexta Columna searched for the Salvados interviewed the Canadian journalist and writer answers to these questions. Naomi Klein, who with her books has become a key figure for those who question globalisation and savage capitalism. In Volkswagen: emisión imposible (emission impossible) her conversation with Jordi Évole, Klein reflects on the impact In its fifth season, laSexta Columna also looked at another of the capitalist system on day-to-day life and its possible issue with a serious environmental impact: Volkswagen: alternatives. emisión imposible. The documentary analysed the biggest Is sustainable production possible? Is the market concerned scandal in the history of the automotive industry. The about climate change? Is the fight against climate change a programme answered the questions of those affected and true opportunity to change the system? These were some of explained what to do in the event of having an affected car, the questions raised in the programme. among other contributions. 2017 challenges In 2017, Atresmedia is taking on new challenges in the area of environmental management aimed at improvCarrying out a study on the waste ing sustainability and the environmental awareness removed by the authorised company in 5 of society. one of the compactors (SUW) in order to identify improvements in separating the waste, assessing the possibility 1 Finishing the implementation of LED lighting in the main building. of installing specific containers in communal Company areas. Scheduling of chats and forums with 6 Continuing with the plan to replace the the employees on the importance 2 centralised refrigeration equipment of recycling and looking after the (chillers) with other highly energy environment. efficient ones. This is expected to be completed in the next three years. Hazte Eco • Continuing to support Greenpeace's Finishing replacing the boiler burners Save the Arctic campaign and raising 3 with other high efficiency ones in the awareness about fire prevention in equipment still pending: one boiler in 7 collaboration with WWF. studio 7 and a steam generator in the • Awareness-raising campaign on Company's main building. reducing the consumption of plastics. Analysis of possible improvements to • Collaboration with the Life Natura the waste facilities installed in order 4 2000 Project promoted in Spain by to unify and expand the containers SEO Birdlife. for different types of waste generated within the Atresmedia Group for its deposit. ANNEXES ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 197 G4-18, G4-22, G4-23 About the Corporate Responsibility Report This is the tenth time that Atresmedia has published Materiality: the materiality of the content of this its Corporate Responsibility Report as part of the report has been determined from Atresmedia's own Annual Report, detailing its commitments in matters analysis and from the information received from of sustainability from an economic, social and envistakeholders through the different communication ronmental perspective. channels established, such as the discussions held and the survey carried out for this purpose, among The Corporate Responsibility Report has been prethe other channels explained in the Corporate pared in accordance with the current reporting Responsibility section of the report. demands and trends so that it first complies with the G4 version of the guide for preparing reports from the All relevant material aspects have been analysed leading international organisation Global Reporting to identify their correspondence with the specific Initiative (GRI); and second includes in greater detail content and indicators of the GRI G4 guide, selecting the content recommended by the international framethose sections that truly reflect the interests of the work for preparing Integrated Reports, developed by stakeholders and the strategy of Atresmedia. Other the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). sections of G4 have also been voluntarily responded to since these, while not relevant to the organisation, Coverage and scope: For the fourth consecutive year, contribute to increasing the transparency and underthe report follows the criteria established by the G4 standing of the Company's activity. guide from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its comprehensive option, and has been verified by an independent external organisation. The GRI Media Sector Supplement has also been taken into account in its preparation. The contents included in the report refer to the period between 1 January 2016 and 31 December of the same year and cover the activities of the different companies forming Atresmedia (Atresmedia Televisión, Atresmedia Radio, Atresmedia Publicidad, Atresmedia Digital, Atresmedia Diversificación, Atresmedia Cine and Fundación Atresmedia). The content takes into account the Group's analysis of materiality and under no circumstances are there any intentional omissions of relevant content. Any variations in terms of the scope and coverage of the information are noted in the corresponding section of the report. Likewise, any changes to the formulas used for calculating the data provided are reported. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 198 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32 Relevant aspects for the stakeholders Correspondence with G4 Priority General aspect Specific aspect Aspect Section Quality of content Broadcasting of content Media M2-M5 Protection of minors Society: HIGH G4 SO1 Local communities Social action Social action campaigns Economic performance: Indirect G4 EC7 economic consequences Responsible advertising Quality of the advertising services Advertising management Media M2-M5 Independence between advertisers and content Satisfaction of the advertisers Product: labelling G4 PR5 Broadcasting of content Editorial independence Media M2-M5 Freedom of expression AVERAGE Strategy and analysis G4-1 Economic management Strategic areas and objectives Economic performance G4 EC1, EC4 Media M1 Transparency Governance G4 34-48, 51 Corporate governance Control mechanisms Ethics and integrity G4 56-58 Labour: Internal organisation Human capital development G4 LA9-10 Training and education Shareholder composition Profile G4-7 Economic management Economic performance G4 EC1, EC4 Cost management LOW Media M1 Governance bodies Governance G4 34-48, 51 Corporate governance Regulatory compliance Ethics and integrity G4 56-58 The G4 indicators with a high and average priority are identified with the colour orange in the report's GRI index. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 199 G4-33 EY verification report ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 200 Corporate Social Responsibility Certificate ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 201 GRI G4 index Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or G4-1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance 3, 7 TOTAL Yes, 199 of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Description of key impacts, risks, and G4-2 3-12,42,30-32,38-42,46-55 TOTAL Yes, 199 opportunities Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 2,38 TOTAL Yes, 199 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 38,28-33,40-45 TOTAL Yes, 199 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 2 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the number of countries where the Atresmedia operates in Spain. organization operates, and names of countries where However some of its channels G4-6 either the organization has significant operations or TOTAL Yes, 199 (Antena 3 Internacional) can be that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics watched abroad covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 38 TOTAL Yes, 199 Atresmedia operates in Spain. Report the markets served (including geographic However some of its channels G4-8 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers (Antena 3 Internacional) can be TOTAL Yes, 199 and beneficiaries). watched abroad 38,42-45 Report the scale of the organization, including: 14,40-41 • Total number of employees • Total number of operations 96 % of Atresmedia's net • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net income comes from advertising. G4-9 TOTAL Yes, 199 revenues (for public sector organizations) The remaining income is split • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt between minor activities such as and equity (for private sector organizations) copyright, film productions and • Quantity of products or services provided special initiatives. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 202 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer • Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. • Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. • Report the total workforce by employees and 141-144,146 supervised workers and by gender. • Report the total workforce by region and gender. External and self-employed • Report whether a substantial portion of the employees do not represent a G4-10 organization’s work is performed by workers who TOTAL Yes, 199 significant part of the company, are legally recognized as self-employed, or by so no monitoring is established individuals other than employees or supervised that allows a breakdown by workers, including employees and supervised gender. employees of contractors. • Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Report the percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 143 TOTAL Yes, 199 collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 68-69 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 35-38 TOTAL Yes, 199 • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination . Report whether and how the precautionary approach G4-14 53-55 TOTAL Yes, 199 or principle is addressed by the organization. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 46,53-55,87,115-116 TOTAL Yes, 199 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • Holds a position on the governance body 60-63 G4-16 TOTAL Yes, 199 • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 38 documents. All entities that are listed in the G4-17 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report whether any entity included in the consolidated financial statements organization’s consolidated financial statements or are also listed in the report. equivalent documents is not covered by the report. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 58-59, 197-198 TOTAL Yes, 199 Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 203 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer List all the material Aspects identified in the process G4-19 59,198 TOTAL Yes, 199 for defining report content. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the The material aspects identified G4-20 following two approaches and report either: have been considered for the TOTAL Yes, 199 The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4entire Atresmedia Group. 17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G417 for which the Aspects is material Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization 59, 198 If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, The aspects identified as G4-21 identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for material have been considered TOTAL Yes, 199 which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the for all of Atresmedia's external geographical location where the Aspect is material for stakeholders. the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information G4-22 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such 197 TOTAL Yes, 199 restatements. Report significant changes from previous reporting G4-23 197 TOTAL Yes, 199 periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 56-58 TOTAL Yes, 199 organization. Report the basis for identification and selection of G4-25 56-58 TOTAL Yes, 199 stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 56-58,81,102,107,125G4-26 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication TOTAL Yes, 199 126,143,160 of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and 56-58,81,102,107,125G4-27 TOTAL Yes, 199 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the 126,143,160 stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for G4-28 198 TOTAL Yes, 199 information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 198 TOTAL Yes, 199 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 198 TOTAL Yes, 199 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the G4-31 2 TOTAL Yes, 199 report or its contents. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 204 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Report the reference to the External Assurance G4-32 198 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying This report has been verified by the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of AENOR with Comprehensive G4-33 any external assurance provided. TOTAL Yes, 199 level. Report the relationship between the organization and 199 the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 46-49 G4-34 Identify any committees responsible for decisionTOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the 46-49 G4-35 TOTAL Yes, 199 highest governance body to senior executives and IAGC other employees. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility 46-49 G4-36 for economic, environmental and social topics, and TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 46-49 G4-37 on economic, environmental and social topics. If TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Independence Tenure on the governance body Number of each individual’s other significant 46-49 G4-38 positions and commitments, and the nature of the TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC commitments Gender Membership of under-represented social groups Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder representation Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her 46-49 G4-39 TOTAL Yes, 199 function within the organization’s management and IAGC the reasons for this arrangement). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 205 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Whether and how diversity is considered 46-49 G4-40 Whether and how independence is considered TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: 46-55 G4-41 Cross-board membership TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and 33,46-49 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or IAGC G4-42 TOTAL Yes, 199 mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals Recommendation 8 on Corporate related to economic, environmental and social Governance impacts. 46-49,51-53 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance IAGC G4-43 the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of Standards of Good Governance TOTAL Yes, 199 economic, environmental and social topics. Fundación Atresmedia www. antena3.com/fundación. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such 37-49 G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s 46-49 G4-45 role in the implementation of due diligence processes. TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. 46-49 Report the highest governance body’s role in IAGC reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk G4-46 Standards of Good Governance TOTAL Yes, 199 management processes for economic, environmental Fundación Atresmedia www. and social topics. antena3.com/fundación ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 206 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Report the frequency of the highest governance 46-55 G4-47 body’s review of economic, environmental and social TOTAL Yes, 199 IAGC impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest committee or position that formally IAGC reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability G4-48 Recommendation 7 on Corporate TOTAL Yes, 199 report and ensures that all material Aspects are Governance. covered. Report the process for communicating critical 46-49 G4-49 TOTAL Yes, 199 concerns to the highest governance body. IAGC Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest 3-7,8-13,46-49 G4-50 TOTAL Yes, 199 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to IAGC address and resolve them. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Fixed pay and variable pay: Performance-based pay Equity-based pay Bonuses Deferred or vested shares Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments IAGC: Recommendation 36 on G4-51 Termination payments Corporate Governance. TOTAL Yes, 199 Clawbacks IRC: sections A, B and C Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they are G4-52 IRC: A.2 TOTAL Yes, 199 independent of management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including G4-53 46-49 TOTAL Yes, 199 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. SOCIEDADES PROPORCIÓN ATRESMEDIA 41,47 ADVERTISING 12,83 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation ANTENA 3 NOTICIAS 6,46 for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each FUNDACION 5,30 I3TV 2,86 G4-54 country of significant operations to the median annual TDT CANARIAS 5,68 TOTAL Yes, 199 total compensation for all employees (excluding the UNIPREX TV 4,72 highest-paid individual) in the same country. MULTIMEDIA 7,01 ANTENA 3 FILMS 1,88 ATRESMEDIA FOTO 1,23 FLOOXER 1,35 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations In 2016 there have been no pay G4-55 TOTAL Yes, 199 to the median percentage increase in annual total rises (0) compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 207 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Page / Answer Ethics and Integrity Describe the organization’s values, principles, G4-56 standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 46-47,49-53,81,87 TOTAL Yes, 199 conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and G4-57 46,49-53 TOTAL Yes, 199 matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful G4-58 behavior, and matters related to organizational 46-47,49-53,81,87 TOTAL Yes, 199 integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Disclosures on Management Approach Page / Answer Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA 57-59 TOTAL Yes, 199 The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 208 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ECONOMIC 35,40-41 Yes, 199 ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 35,40-41 Yes, 199 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the basic components as listed below: Direct economic value generated: Revenues Economic value distributed: 14,56 Operating costs Report on audited accounts G4-EC1 Employee wages and benefits TOTAL Yes, 199 (Available at www. Payments to providers of capital atresmediacorporacion.com) Payments to government (by country) Community investments Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’) To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure, including: A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other G4-EC2 A description of the impact associated with the risk or 185,192 TOTAL Yes, 199 opportunity The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organization’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at When that estimate was made G4-EC3 Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension There are no pension schemes TOTAL Yes, 199 liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 209 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organization from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: Tax relief and tax credits Subsidies Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants Awards G4-EC4 Royalty holidays 14 TOTAL Yes, 199 Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) Financial incentives Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation Report the information above by country. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. 0 euros Significant funding and other support received from Report on audited accounts M1 TOTAL Yes, 199 non-governmental sources. (Available at www. atresmediacorporacion.com). ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE 35,40-41 Yes, 199 When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage The starting wage is set by gender at significant locations of operation to the through a collective agreement minimum wage. established for each of the Report whether a local minimum wage is absent G4-EC5 group's businesses with no TOTAL or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender differences, and it gender. In circumstances in which different minimums is higher than the statutory could be used as a reference, report which minimum minimum wage. wage is being used. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the percentage of senior management at 39, CV in http://www. G4-EC6 significant locations of operation that are hired from TOTAL Yes, 199 atresmediacorporacion.com/ the local community. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Yes, 199 Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 14,56,85,161,183 Report the current or expected impacts on Report on audited accounts G4-EC7 communities and local economies. Report positive and TOTAL Yes, 199 (Available at www. negative impacts where relevant. atresmediacorporacion.com) Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organization has. G4-EC8 Report the significance of the impacts in the context 14,56,85,161,183 TOTAL Yes, 199 of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES 65 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of the procurement budget 65-67 used for significant locations of operation spent on G4-EC9 Proveedor Local: proveedor TOTAL Yes, 199 suppliers local to that operation (such as percentage nacional of products and services purchased locally). ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 210 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Yes, 199 ASPECT: MATERIALS 189 Yes, 199 Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products and services during the reporting G4-EN1 189 TOTAL Yes, 199 period, by: Non-renewable materials used Renewable materials used Report the percentage of recycled input materials G4-EN2 used to manufacture the organization’s primary 189 TOTAL Yes, 199 products and services. ASPECT: ENERGY 187 Yes, 199 Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity consumption Heating consumption Cooling consumption G4-EN3 Steam consumption 187-188 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Electricity sold Heating sold Cooling sold Steam sold Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the conversion factors used. 187-188 Report energy consumed outside of the organization, G4-EN4 Consumption accounted for by TOTAL Yes, 199 in joules or multiples. business travel is included. Energy intensity is determined Report the energy intensity ratio. by dividing internal consumption Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio by the number of employees. denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. Gas (m3/employee): 0,34 G4-EN5 Report the types of energy included in the intensity Electricity (kw/employee): TOTAL Yes, 199 ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. 819,30 Automotive diesel (L./ Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed employee): 1,34 Heating oil (L/ within the organization, outside of it or both. employee): 13,31, Automotive Petrol (L/Employee): 0,43 Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or G4-EN6 187-188 TOTAL Yes, 199 multiples. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. Report the reductions in the energy requirements G4-EN7 of sold products and services achieved during the 14,185,187-188 TOTAL Yes, 199 reporting period, in joules or multiples. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 211 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ASPECT: WATER 189 Yes, 199 Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans 185-189 G4-EN8 Ground water All the water used comes from TOTAL Yes, 199 Rainwater collected directly and stored by the the public network. organization Waste water from another organization Municipal water supplies or other water utilities Report the total number of water sources significantly affected by withdrawal by type: Size of water source Whether or not the source is designated as a All the water used comes from G4-EN9 protected area (nationally or internationally) TOTAL Yes, 199 the public network. Biodiversity value (such as species diversity and endemism, total number of protected species) Value or importance of water source to local communities and indigenous peoples Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organization. Atresmedia, due to its business, G4-EN10 Report the total volume of water recycled and reused TOTAL Yes, 199 does not recycle or re-use water. as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY 185, 193-195 Yes, 199 Report the following information for each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas: Geographic location Subsurface and underground land that may be owned, Atresmedia operates in urban leased, or managed by the organization areas that do not affect natural Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, areas, so it does not have an adjacent to, or containing portions of the protected impact on biodiversity area) or the high biodiversity value area outside G4-EN11 protected areas TOTAL Yes, 199 The workplace at San Sebastián Type of operation (office, manufacturing or de los Reyes does not generate production, or extractive) a significant environmental Size of operational site in km2 impact, and nor do the rest of Biodiversity value characterized by: the workplaces. The attribute of the protected area or high biodiversity value area outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem) Listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Ramsar Convention, national legislation) ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 212 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the nature of significant direct and indirect impacts on biodiversity with reference to one or more of the following: Construction or use of manufacturing plants, mines, and transport infrastructure Pollution (introduction of substances that do not naturally occur in the habitat from point and non-point sources) Introduction of invasive species, pests, and pathogens Atresmedia operates in urban Reduction of species areas that do not affect natural G4-EN12 TOTAL Yes, 199 Habitat conversion areas, so it does not have an Changes in ecological processes outside the natural impact on biodiversity. range of variation (such as salinity or changes in groundwater level) Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: Species affected Extent of areas impacted Duration of impacts Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. 185 Report whether partnerships exist with third parties Atresmedia operates in urban to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where G4-EN13 areas that do not affect natural TOTAL Yes, 199 the organization has overseen and implemented areas, so it does not have an restoration or protection measures. impact on biodiversity. Report on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by the operations of the organization, by level Atresmedia operates in urban of extinction risk: areas that do not affect natural G4-EN14 Critically endangered TOTAL Yes, 199 areas, so it does not have an Endangered impact on biodiversity. Vulnerable Near threatened Least concern ASPECT: EMISSIONS 191 Yes, 199 Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. 185,191 G4-EN15 Report gases included in the calculation (whether The calculation includes CO2 TOTAL Yes, 199 CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). gases. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 185,192 in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any G4-EN16 The calculation includes CO2 TOTAL Yes, 199 GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of gases. offsets or allowances. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 213 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude 191,192 any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers G4-EN17 The calculation includes CO2 TOTAL Yes, 199 of offsets or allowances. gases. Report gases included in the calculation, if available. Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. The intensity of emissions is Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio determined by dividing internal denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. consumptionby the number of G4-EN18 Report the types of GHG emissions included in the employees. Yes, 199 intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope Scope 1: 0.04 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Scope 2: 0.17 Report gases included in the calculation. Scope 3: 0.04 Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). 196-197 Report the chosen base year or baseline and the G4-EN19 The calculation includes CO2 TOTAL Yes, 199 rationale for choosing it. gases. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in metric tons of CFC-11 equivalent. Report substances included in the calculation. G4-EN20 191-192 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the emission factors used. Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: NOX SOX Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) G4-EN21 Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) 191-192 TOTAL Yes, 199 Particulate matter (PM) Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Report the source of the emission factors used. ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 190 Yes, 199 Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: Destination 190 G4-EN22 Quality of the water including treatment method Atresmedia sends this to the Yes, 199 Whether it was reused by another organization public sewage network. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 214 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer Report the total weight of hazardous and nonhazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: Reuse Recycling Composting Recovery, including energy recovery Incineration (mass burn) 185,190 Deep well injection The number of units is specified, Landfill G4-EN23 since given the type of waste TOTAL Yes, 199 On-site storage generated, it is impossible to Other (to be specified by the organization) calculate the weight . Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: Disposed of directly by the organization or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor Report the total number and total volume of recorded significant spills. For spills that were reported in the organization’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: Location of spill Volume of spill G4-EN24 There have been no discharges. TOTAL Yes, 199 Material of spill, categorized by: Oil spills (soil or water surfaces) Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces) Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces) Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces) Other (to be specified by the organization) Report the impacts of significant spills. Report the total weight for each of the following: Hazardous waste transported Hazardous waste imported G4-EN25 Hazardous waste exported 185,190 TOTAL Yes, 199 Hazardous waste treated Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped internationally. Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based on the criteria described in the Compilation section below, adding information on: There have been no bodies of Size of water body and related habitat G4-EN26 water or habitats affected by TOTAL Yes, 199 Whether the water body and related habitat is discharges. designated as a protected area (nationally or internationally) Biodiversity value (such as total number of protected species) ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 185 Yes, 199 Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. G4-EN27 185-193 TOTAL Yes, 199 If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalization factors. Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. Atresmedia does not manage G4-EN28 Yes, 199 Report how the data for this Indicator has been products. collected. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 215 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification Indicators Page / Answer ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 185 Yes, 199 Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Total monetary value of significant fines There have not been any Total number of non-monetary sanctions G4-EN29 penalties of an environmental TOTAL Yes, 199 Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms nature. Where organizations have not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: TRANSPORT 185,188 Yes, 199 Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is 193 not provided, report the reason. Atresmedia’s business does G4-EN30 Report how the environmental impacts of transporting TOTAL Yes, 199 not produce significant products, members of the organization’s workforce, environmental impacts. and other goods and materials are mitigated. Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are significant. ASPECT: OVERALL 191 Yes, 199 Report total environmental protection expenditures by: 56,185 G4-EN31 Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and remediation Los costes de tratamiento y TOTAL costs restauración no son significativos Prevention and environmental management costs ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 68, 189 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-EN32 100 % TOTAL Yes, 199 screened using environmental criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to environmental impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts. Atresmedia's suppliers, given Report the significant actual and potential negative their business, have no significant environmental impacts identified in the supply chain. environmental impact. However, G4-EN33 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having TOTAL Yes, 199 suppliers are required to comply significant actual and potential negative environmental 100% with environmental criteria, impacts with which improvements were agreed upon when applicable. as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 193 Yes, 199 • Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. • Of the identified grievances, report how many were: There have not been G4-EN34 – Addressed during the reporting period any complaints of an Yes, 199 – Resolved during the reporting period environmental nature. • Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 216 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT 140 Yes, 199 Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, 141,143-144,146 gender and region. No significant differences G4-LA1 PARTIAL Yes, 199 Report the total number and rate of employee exist in the turnover rate, in its turnover during the reporting period, by age group, breakdown by age and gender. gender and region. Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organization but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: Life insurance Health care G4-LA2 Disability and invalidity coverage 148 TOTAL Yes, 199 Parental leave Retirement provision Stock ownership Others Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. Report the total number of employees that took No. of employees on maternity parental leave, by gender. leave: 33 Report the total number of employees who returned No. of employees on paternity to work after parental leave ended, by gender. G4-LA3 leave: 24 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the total number of employees who returned The number of returning staff to work after parental leave ended who were still and staff retaining their jobs employed twelve months after their return to work, is 100%. by gender. Report the return to work and retention rates of employees who took parental leave, by gender. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS 46,140-147,151-152 Yes, 199 Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected Notice periods are established representatives prior to the implementation in the collective agreement of significant operational changes that could The existing collective G4-LA4 substantially affect them. TOTAL Yes, 199 agreements include the For organizations with collective bargaining consultation and negotiation agreements, report whether the notice period and conditions. provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 155 Yes, 199 Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organization. 155 G4-LA5 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the percentage of the total workforce 100 % represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 217 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by: Region Gender Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational 155-156 G4-LA6 diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee Law 31/1995 on the Prevention TOTAL Yes, 199 rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent of Occupational Risks. contractors working on-site to whom the organization is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by: Region Gender Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. Report whether there are workers who are involved There is no risk of occupational G4-LA7 in occupational activities who have a high incidence TOTAL Yes, 199 illnesses. or high risk of specific diseases. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. G4-LA8 If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which 100% TOTAL Yes, 199 various health and safety topics are covered by these agreements. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 149 Yes, 199 Report the average hours of training that the 149-150 organization’s employees have undertaken during Attendance on training courses G4-LA9 the reporting period, by: TOTAL Yes, 199 shows no significant differences Gender by gender. Employee category Report on the type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. G4-LA10 Report on the transition assistance programs 149-152 TOTAL Yes, 199 provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular Performance evaluations are G4-LA11 TOTAL Yes, 199 performance and career development review during not periodically performed. the reporting period. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 145 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: Gender Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old 145-146 Minority groups The CV's of the members of Other indicators of diversity where relevant G4-LA12 the board of directors are on TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the percentage of employees per employee the corporate website at www. category in each of the following diversity atresmedia.es categories: Gender Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old Minority groups Other indicators of diversity where relevant ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 218 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-LA Indicators of Labor Practices Page / Answer ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN 145 Yes, 199 Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by G4-LA13 significant locations of operation. TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES 65-66 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-LA14 100% TOTAL Yes, 199 screened using labor practices criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labor practices. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices. Report the significant actual and potential negative Atresmedia's suppliers, taking impacts for labor practices identified in the supply into account their business, chain. G4-LA 15 have no existing or potential TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as significant negative impact on having significant actual and potential negative work practices. impacts for labor practices with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 51 Yes, 199 Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: There have been no complaints G4-LA16 Addressed during the reporting period Yes, 199 regarding work practices. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about labor practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: INVESTMENT 65,66,159-160 Yes, 199 Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts There have been no investment that include human rights clauses or that underwent G4-HR1 agreements requiring clauses TOTAL Yes, 199 human rights screening. on human rights. Report the definition of ‘significant investment agreements’ used by the organization. Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights No requirements for training that are relevant to operations. G4-HR2 have been detected in terms of TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the percentage of employees in the reporting human rights. period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 219 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION 62,145 Yes, 199 Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: Incident reviewed by the organization There have been no G4-HR3 TOTAL Yes, 199 Remediation plans being implemented discrimination cases. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE 62,143-144 Yes, 199 BARGAINING Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk 65-68 either in terms of: Atresmedia and its suppliers, Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and taking into account their supplier business, have no risk that G4-HR4 TOTAL Yes, 199 Countries or geographical areas with operations and the employees’ freedom of suppliers considered at risk association or right to collective Report measures taken by the organization in bargaining may be infringed or the reporting period intended to support rights threatened. to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR 62,115 Yes, 199 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: Child labor Young workers exposed to hazardous work 62,140-141 Report operations and suppliers considered to have Atresmedia and its suppliers, significant risk for incidents of child labor either in taking into account their terms of: G4-HR5 business areas, have no TOTAL Yes, 199 Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and significant risk of cases of child supplier labour and young employees Countries or geographical areas with operations and exposed to dangerous jobs. suppliers considered at risk Report measures taken by the organization in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR 62,140-141 Yes, 199 Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor either in terms of: Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and 62 supplier Atresmedia and its suppliers, G4-HR6 Countries or geographical areas with operations and taking into account their TOTAL suppliers considered at risk business areas, have no risk of Report measures taken by the organization in the forced labour. reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES 65-68 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of security personnel who Atresmedia do not have have received formal training in the organization’s security personnel on the human rights policies or specific procedures and payroll. Subcontracted G4-HR7 their application to security. personnel must comply TOTAL Yes, 199 Report whether training requirements also apply with the same Corporate to third party organizations providing security Responsibility clauses as other personnel. suppliers. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 220 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-HR Indicators of Human Rights Page / Answer ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS 60 Yes, 199 Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and actions taken with reference to: Atresmedia operates in Spain G4-HR8 Incident reviewed by the organization and the indigenous population TOTAL Yes, 199 Remediation plans being implemented are not at risk. Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes Incident no longer subject to action ASPECT: ASSESSMENT 62 Yes, 199 Atresmedia operates in Report the total number and percentage of Spain and does not consider operations that have been subject to human rights G4-HR9 compliance with human rights TOTAL Yes, 199 reviews or human rights impact assessments, by as a risk, so no evaluations are country. made. ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 65-68 Yes, 199 Atresmedia does not consider Report the percentage of new suppliers that were its suppliers to be a risk for G4-HR10 TOTAL Yes, 199 screened using human rights criteria. compliance with human rights, so no evaluations are made. Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative Atresmedia does not consider human rights impacts identified in the supply chain. its suppliers to be a risk for G4-HR11 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as TOTAL Yes, 199 compliance with human rights, having significant actual and potential negative so no evaluations are made. human rights impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS 50 Yes, 199 Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: There have been no complaints G4-HR12 Addressed during the reporting period TOTAL Yes, 199 in terms of human rights. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 221 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 159-160 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs, including the use of: Social impact assessments, including gender impact assessments, based on participatory processes Environmental impact assessments and ongoing monitoring Public disclosure of results of environmental and 159.182 social impact assessments Actions benefiting the G4-SO1 Local community development programs based on TOTAL Yes, 199 community are a MATERIAL local communities’ needs aspect for stakeholders Stakeholder engagement plans based on stakeholder mapping Broad based local community consultation committees and processes that include vulnerable groups Works councils, occupational health and safety committees and other employee representation bodies to deal with impacts Formal local community grievance processes Report operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, There are no operation centres including: that have or could have a G4-SO2 TOTAL Yes, 199 The location of the operations significant negative impact on The significant actual and potential negative impacts local communities. of operations ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION 40;50 Yes, 199 Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. G4-SO3 40;50 TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption G4-SO4 46-49 TOTAL Yes, 199 policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anticorruption, broken down by employee category and region. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 222 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents There have been no cases of G4-SO5 when contracts with business partners were TOTAL Yes, 199 corruption or lawsuits. terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY 49-51 Yes, 199 Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by the organization by country and Atresmedia does not make G4-SO6 TOTAL Yes, 199 recipient/beneficiary. contributions of this type. Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR 49-51 Yes, 199 Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding Atresmedia has not received anti-competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust complaints related to antiG4-SO7 and monopoly legislation in which the organization TOTAL Yes, 199 competitive behaviour or has been identified as a participant. similar. Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 49-51,81,87 Yes, 199 Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: Total monetary value of significant fines Total number of non-monetary sanctions Cases brought through dispute resolution G4-SO8 mechanisms 81,87 TOTAL Yes, 199 If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY 65 Yes, 199 Atresmedia does not consider that its suppliers are a risk Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-SO9 in relation to negative social TOTAL Yes, 199 screened using criteria for impacts on society. impacts, so no evaluations are made. Atresmedia does not consider that its suppliers are a risk G4-SO10 Yes in relation to negative social TOTAL Yes, 199 impacts, so no evaluations are made. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 223 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-SO Indicatros of Society Page / Answer ASPECT: GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON 81,87 Yes, 199 SOCIETY Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: There have been no complaints G4-SO11 Addressed during the reporting period TOTAL Yes, 199 about social impacts. Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ASPECT: CREATING CONTENT 65,81,90,107 Yes, 199 Methodology for assessing and monitoring M2 65,81,90,107-111 TOTAL Yes, 199 adherence to content creation values. Actions taken to improve adherence to content M3 65,81,90,107-111 TOTAL Yes, 199 creation values, and results obtained. ASPECT: CONTENT DISSEMINATION 81,90,107 Si, 178 Actions taken to improve performance in relation to content dissemination issues (accessibility and M4 80-90,107-111 TOTAL Yes, 199 protection of vulnerable audiences and informed decision making) and results obtained. Number and nature of responses (feedback/ complaints) related to content dissemination, M5 including protection of vulnerable audiences and 81,87,112 TOTAL Yes, 199 informed decision making and accessibility, and processes for addressing these responses. ASPECT: AUDIENCE INTERACTION 81,87,107,112,125 Yes, 199 M6 Methods to interact with audiences and results. 81,87,107,112,125 TOTAL Yes, 199 ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 42-45 Yes, 199 Report the percentage of significant product and Atresmedia's products have no G4-PR1 service categories for which health and safety TOTAL Yes, 199 risks to health or safety. impacts are assessed for improvement. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: There have been no incidents Incidents of non-compliance with regulations deriving from the breaching of G4-PR2 resulting in a fine or penalty the regulations or voluntary TOTAL Yes, 199 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations codes related to the health and resulting in a warning safety of products and services. Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 224 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 86-87,115 Yes, 199 Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and labeling: The sourcing of components of the product or service Content, particularly with regard to substances that G4-PR3 might produce an environmental or social impact 86-87,115 TOTAL Yes, 199 Safe use of the product or service Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts Other (explain) Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty G4-PR4 87,112,116-117 TOTAL Yes, 199 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period G4-PR5 relating to information about: 69-83,85 TOTAL Yes, 199 The organization as a whole A major product or service category Significant locations of operation Report whether the organization sells products that are: 112 Banned in certain markets Atresmedia does not market G4-PR6 The subject of stakeholder questions or public products that are banned TOTAL Yes, 199 debate or questioned by the Report how the organization has responded to stakeholders. questions or concerns regarding these products. Report the total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: G4-PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations 112 TOTAL Yes, 199 resulting in a fine or penalty Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. ASPECT: MEDIA LITERACY 83 Yes, 199 Actions taken to empower audiences through media M7 83-84 TOTAL Yes, 199 literacy skills development and results obtained. ATRESMEDIA | ANNUAL AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 | ANNEXES | 225 Reason for External Reported Part not reported omission verification G4-PR Indicators of Product Responsibility Page / Answer ASPECT: Customer Privacy 49-51 Yes, 199 Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: Complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization There have been no complaints G4-PR8 Complaints from regulatory bodies about a violation of privacy and TOTAL Yes, 199 Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or loss of customer data. losses of customer data. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE 49-51 Yes, 199 Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and G4-PR9 services. 87,112,116-117 Yes, 199 If the organization has not identified any noncompliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient.
