CSR REPORT 2O16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSABILITY Excerpt from the Registration Document and additional information contents Editorial 1 Presentation of the Group 2 Corporate Social Responsibility at CNP Assurances 6 Offer protection for everyone 11 Contribute to a sustainable economy 17 Be an attractive employer 24 Foster a sustainable society and environment 36 Methodology 46 Concordance table for labour, social and environmental data 48 Additional information 50 Detailed indicators of consolidated subsidiaries 50 Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries 60 Editorial For CNP Assurances, pursuing a long-term vision is not a choice or a virtue, it is an inherent business imperative. As a personal insurer, our commitments to policyholders and insureds extend over very long periods, in some cases a whole lifetime. As an investor, we naturally pay close attention to the very long-term value of our assets. That’s why we play an active role in ﬁnancing the real economy by investing in infrastructure, businesses and real estate, because as a long-term investor, it’s natural for us to focus on the sustainable economy. We were quick to embrace the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility, recognising that they made sense from a ﬁnancial standpoint. Moreover, their ethical dimension gives meaning to our corporate mission for all employees. Frédéric Lavenir CNP Assurances was one of the ﬁrst French companies to pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, promising notably to respect human and labour rights, work against corruption and protect the environment. For some 13 years now, we have been deepening our Corporate Social Responsibility commitments, placing them at the centre of the multipartner strategy we are deploying both in Europe and in South America as a driver of value creation and progress. This CSR Report measures the progress made over the past year. 2016 was a watershed year, with the implementation of our new commitments in the ﬁght against global warming. In addition to closely monitoring direct greenhouse gas emissions, we made signiﬁcant advances in the areas of energy transition and environmental protection, particularly with regard to such major issues as improving the energy efﬁciency of the buildings in our property portfolio, realigning the carbon emissions strategies of industrial concerns included in our equity and bond portfolios, and ﬁnancing infrastructure projects and the green economy. In this latter area, we are pleased to announce that the target of doubling our green investments between 2015 and 2017 has already been exceeded. We intend to do everything we can to ensure that 2017 sees a further notable advance in our “Responsible Insurer Responsible Investor” strategy. Frédéric Lavenir, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 1 Presentation of the Group As an insurer, co-insurer and reinsurer, CNP Assurances provides its customers and partners with unique expertise in protection insurance and savings solutions. Thanks to a multi-partner, multi-channel business model, the Group’s solutions are distributed in Europe and Latin America by its many banking and social economy partners. I Our business, providing I Two continents with personal insurance cover complementary growth drivers CNP Assurances plays a major role in meeting the social By addressing the growing needs of today’s society, our business protection needs of individuals and professionals. New protection model offers considerable development potential, backed by needs are emerging as families become more scattered and a robust, balanced geographic presence on two continents. the population ages. Increasing life expectancy in Europe and We are the market leader in France, in a wealthy and mature demand for insurance among Brazil’s expanding middle class Europe where the ageing population offers signiﬁcant scope for are also driving demand for personal risk insurance solutions in business growth. Europe and Latin America. We also have a strong position in Brazil, in a growing South The CNP Assurances Group is responding to these practical American market. The Brazilian market is experiencing a rapid imperatives by enabling people to protect their future and that of increase in demand for insurance among the expanding middle their loved ones, to conﬁdently undertake projects, and to safely class while, at the other end of the scale, our microinsurance pass on their wealth to future generations. offer meets the needs of the millions of Brazilians who have very low incomes. I Providing solutions across the needs spectrum I Transforming the business model We are stepping up our strategic diversiﬁcation, in terms of One distinguishing feature of our Group is that we work closely partnerships and product mix, and also in terms of geographic with our distribution partners to develop offers geared to the reach in Europe and Latin America. proﬁles of their respective customer bases in terms of age, risk appetite and income. The wide-ranging challenges include Determinedly refocusing on the personal risk/protection helping policyholders to prepare for retirement, pass on their insurance market and on the unit-linked segment of the savings assets to the next generation, ﬁnance long-term care, maintain market, we renewed the distribution agreements with our two their standard of living following the death of a partner or access leading partners, BPCE and La Banque Postale. We also signed dental care. Whatever the need, we offer comprehensive, agreements with two new partners in France, AG2R La Mondiale innovative solutions to our millions of policyholders around the and Klésia, and moved up a gear in open model distribution of world thanks to our expertise in insuring various types of risk. term creditor insurance through our partnership with Santander Consumer Finance, the leading consumer ﬁnance company in Our offers are designed to provide insurance solutions for all ten European countries. budgets. Each product range includes affordable products for customers in all income brackets, including policies with very The ramp-up of digitisation taking place in both Europe and Latin low minimum premiums offered to European customers and a America is having a clear impact on local people, their ways microinsurance offering for the Latin American market. of life and their jobs. This force for change has led to a rethink of personal protection solutions and the design of new types of To enable people with health issues to obtain a mortgage in order services and new methods of delivering them. to buy their own home, we participated actively in discussions to drive further improvement in the AERAS Convention on insurance In 2016 we afﬁrmed our digital strategy through such initiatives and loans for people representing an aggravated health risk. as the inauguration of Youse, Brazil’s ﬁrst 100% online insurance 2016 marked a decisive turning point for cancer survivors, with platform, and the launch in France of an ambitious programme the legal recognition of a “right to be forgotten” and the adoption of investments and partnerships with innovative start-ups in the by professional bodies of a grid standardising the conditions areas of Assurtech, Fintech, Healthcare and the Silver Economy governing their access to insurance. Our term creditor insurance and Insurance-on-demand. rejection rate is very low, standing at less than 0.2% for the past eight years. 2 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP I Key figures Founded over 160 years ago A comprehensive range of social protection solutions Operations in Europe and Latin America, with a strong presence in Brazil No. 1 in France for personal insurance (1) No. 1 in France for term creditor insurance (2) No. 3 in France for group pension plans (3) No. 4 in Europe for personal insurance (excluding health) (4) No. 5 in Brazil for insurance (5) €1,200 million attributable group net proﬁt in 2016 €31.5 billion premium income in 2016 (IFRS) €308.7 billion average technical reserves in 2016 (excluding deferred participation) 35 million(6) personal risk/protection(7) 14 million savings and (6) 5,035 employees insureds worldwide pensions policyholders worldwide worldwide (1) FFSA 2015 data, June 2016 (5) SUSEP Caixa Seguradora, November 2016 (2) Argus de l’Assurance “Les bancassureurs”, April 2016 (6) Estimates partly based on the number of contracts under management, rounded up (3) Argus de l’Assurance “Pensions Top 20”, April 2016 (7) Personal risk, health, term creditor and property & casualty insurance (4) Argus de l’Assurance “2015 results European Top 20”, December 2016 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 3 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP I CNP Assurances’ stakeholders at 31 December 2016 In Europe GERMANY, ITALY, SPAIN, POLAND, AUSTRIA, NORWAY, SWEDEN, DENMARK, FINLAND, IRELAND Personal risk/protection * CNP Santander Insurance • INSUREDS: IRELAND – 4 million personal risk/protection CNP Europe Life insureds* Savings/pensions • INSUREDS: • EMPLOYEES: 61 – 500 savings/pensions • Sales outlets: more than 120,000 • EMPLOYEES: 8 FRANCE CYPRUS/GREECE CNP Assurances MFPrévoyance CNP Cyprus (Consolidated French Group) Insurance Holding • INSUREDS: • INSUREDS: – 16.5 million personal risk/ – 238,000 personal risk/ protection* protection * – 10 million savings/pensions – 41,000 savings/pensions • 444 partners, 22,000 collectivities • EMPLOYEES: 284 and 16,000 companies • Sales outlets: 900 • EMPLOYEES: 3,067 CNP Assurances and consolidated subsidiaries and 541 non-consolidated subsidiaries • Sales outlets: 16,000 SPAIN, ITALY, FRANCE CNP Partners ITALY • INSUREDS: CNP Unicredit Vita – 434,000 personal risk/ protection * • INSUREDS: – 252,000 savings/pensions – 430,000 personal risk/protection • EMPLOYEES: 204 – 415,000 savings/pensions • Sales outlets: 1,172 • EMPLOYEES: 170 • Sales outlets: 1,600 4 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP In Latin America CIVIL SOCIETY • Insurance supervisors and public authorities BRAZIL • Professional bodies Caixa Seguradora • Host communities and subsidiaries • Beneﬁciaries of corporate • INSUREDS: philanthropy – 10 million personal risk/ protection* – 3 million savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 1,179 ISSUERS OF • Sales outlets: 60,000 FINANCIAL ASSETS • 740 government and corporate bond issuers ** • 250 companies in which the Group is a minority shareholder • Asset managers SUPPLIERS • Service providers (administrative, advisory, etc.) • Ofﬁce equipment suppliers ARGENTINA • IT service and equipment CNP Assurances suppliers Compaña de Seguros • INSUREDS: – 3.3 million personal risk/ protection * – 402,000 savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 62 • Sales outlets: 600 * Personal risk, health, term creditor and property & casualty insurance ** And other debt instruments 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 5 Corporate Social Responsibility at CNP Assurances The following report presents the Group’s Corporate Social commerce), and the concordance table makes it possible to Responsibility (CSR) action plan, including the priorities for each ﬁnd the regulatory information. An independent third party has component of the CSR policy and related additional initiatives, performed an analysis to verify the existence and fair presentation with the corresponding ﬁgures. of information that falls within the scope of Article 225 of the French Commercial Code. The most material data were subject The report covers all consolidated entities in the CNP Assurances to tests of details, including those identiﬁed by the √ symbol to Group and therefore features examples of initiatives carried out show that they were reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance across all Group entities (see “Methodology”). It was drafted as to their accuracy. The other data were reviewed for overall in accordance with the provisions of Articles R.225-104 to consistency as indicated in the concordance table page 48. R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code (Code de I The story of our CSR commitment 2003: THE FUNDAMENTAL FIRST STEP, PLEDGING 2011: DEEPENING OUR COMMITMENT TO ACTING TO UPHOLD THE GLOBAL COMPACT AS A RESPONSIBLE INSURER AND A RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR CNP Assurances has always upheld human rights and citizens’ rights, in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and In 2011, we pledged to uphold the United Nations’ Principles more speciﬁcally has always complied with the labour standards for Responsible Investment (PRI), ushering in a new phase in our of the International Labour Organization and the national labour commitment as a responsible investor. In 2015, Caixa Seguradora laws of each host country. signed the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). In pledging to uphold the Global Compact in 2003, we reafﬁrmed our commitment to respecting these fundamental principles, and also to combating corruption and protecting the environment. 2015: COMMITMENTS IN FAVOUR OF THE ENERGY CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, the Caixa Seguradora AND ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSITION group and CNP UniCredit Vita have also pledged to uphold the A signatory of the Montreal Carbon Pledge, CNP Assurances Global Compact. published the carbon footprint of the ﬁnancial portfolio of directly held listed equities in December 2015. It also made a public commitment to reduce its footprint by 20% by 2020. Ambitious 2009: HELPING TO PROMOTE THE ADOPTION OF commitments were also made in respect of its real estate portfolio THESE PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT THE INSURANCE and its “coal” assets. SECTOR We played an active role in launching the Association française de l’assurance’s sustainable development charter in 2009 COORDINATED DEPLOYMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES and have pledged to pursue its core aims of reducing social ALONGSIDE OUR PARTNERS vulnerability, combating climate change, supporting economic Under the Group’s business model, each subsidiary develops development and promoting socially responsible investment. CSR policies in line with Group principles. They are shared with shareholders and local partners, generally the banks that distribute their products. 6 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I The ten principles of the Global Compact Human rights Environment 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights. environmental challenges. 2. Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Labour 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association environmentally friendly technologies. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Anti-corruption 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, labour. including extortion and bribery. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. I Components of the CSR approach For CNP Assurance, being a responsible insurer means acting as W foster a sustainable society and environment: a value-adding ﬁnancial intermediary for policyholders looking to protect themselves by minimising their exposure to the risks of W optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings; everyday life and for the economy by providing funding. Our excellent risk assessment skills and our responsible and long-term W reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products; investment strategy nurture these commitments, which are central to our insurance offer. W manage the local impact. CNP Assurances offers genuine social value-added built on four strong commitments: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) W offer protection for everyone: W promote access to insurance; W design socially responsible products and services; W better satisfy policyholders. W contribute to a sustainable economy: W be a responsible investor; W be a responsible purchaser. W be an attractive employer: W develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy; W create a working environment that fosters well-being and performance; CNP Assurances’ business contributes to several of the W pursue a robust policy on gender equality in the workplace. 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) adopted on 25 September 2015 by the UN member countries, including climate action, reduced inequalities and good health and wellbeing. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES To show the links between the Group’s CSR issues and the In addition to institutional labour relations, diagnostic reviews SDGs, the relevant sections of this report are identiﬁed by the of psychosocial risks performed in 2015 helped improve our corresponding pictograms. Where one or more pictograms understanding of how employees perceive their work environment. are presented at the top of a page, this shows at a glance that In 2016, CNP Assurances rolled out its “Dialog” approach to all information about initiatives contributing to improving the goal(s) employees with a view to encouraging exchanges on working is provided on that page. conditions between each manager and his or her team. For more information about the SDGs, go to: The international subsidiaries also participate in local professional bodies. In 2016, the Caixa Seguradora group http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/sustainablejoined Forum Alança Cerrado, which brings together companies development-goals/ and stakeholders to discuss environmental issues. Similarly, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros joined the “Sustainable Mobility” group in Buenos Aires. STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE CNP Assurances maintains regular dialogue with its main stakeholders, and conducts periodic surveys. Generation Y Observatory To increase its visibility among digital natives and meet In 2015, CNP Assurances launched La Fabrique d’Assurance, their emerging needs in terms of protection and support, which brings together insurers and experts in various ﬁelds to CNP Assurances has implemented a “test and learn” discuss trends in social issues and their impact on insurance. approach to co-construct new solutions, notably with the The resulting white paper outlines several avenues for action to launch of an online community platform. It has initiated develop the microinsurance market in Western countries, and a dialogue with 400 young people by launching a particularly in France. platform for exchanges and conversations around themes Satisfaction surveys are conducted regularly among policyholders of protection and customer service. Accessible 24/7 for and our distribution partners in France and worldwide. These an initial period of seven months on tablets, computers surveys help enhance the Company’s customer service process. and smartphones, the new platform permits the creation, In addition, CNP Assurances and its main subsidiaries conduct hosting and sharing of all types of content. SRI and CSR qualitative and quantitative studies to anticipate the needs surveys have been conducted to gain a clearer view of resulting from social and demographic change (see page 14). how this generation perceives these issues. The results of the work of the Generation Y Observatory will be used in CNP Assurances also engages in constructive dialogue with designing CNP Assurances’ future offers. companies in which it is a shareholder whenever a problem is revealed in the course of the quarterly SRI screening process via our asset managers or directly during the lead-up to Shareholders’ Meetings. CNP Assurances plays an active role THE CSR MANAGEMENT BODIES in the work of the French Insurance Association (Association française de l’assurance AFA) on CSR issues. We are also a CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, member of ORSE, a French CSR think-tank, and its Finance Club, which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and relies on which brings together companies and stakeholders (NGOs and support departments. It also reports to the Board of Directors and unions). In 2014, CNP Assurances joined the Institutional Circle the Chairman on its activities and its objectives. of Novethic, a French media and research centre specialising in responsible investment. In addition, CNP Assurances’ CNP UniCredit Vita set up a CSR department in 2015. It boasts Data Protection Ofﬁcer is the Secretary General of the French an ideas laboratory, l’Orto delle idee, made up of volunteer association of personal data ofﬁcers, while our Director of employees. Sustainable development indicators are included in Sustainable Development has been appointed to the SRI the quarterly indicators reviewed by the Management Committee. Certiﬁcation Committee established by the Ministry of Economy In 2013, the Caixa Seguradora group established the and Finance. Caixa Seguradora Institute, in addition to its Sustainable The cnp.fr website, which is accessible to all, had nearly Development Committee, thereby reinforcing its social, 465,000 unique visitors in 2016, nearly a third of which to the environmental and cultural programmes. section devoted to individuals. In 2016, CNP Assurances put Since the end of 2014, the CSR actions undertaken by great emphasis on promoting interaction with stakeholders on CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros have been blended social networks. Having opened Twitter, LinkedIn, Viadeo and with broader strategic objectives. In July 2015, the Company Facebook accounts in late 2015, it was managing a community of launched its “Multiplicar” CSR programme and created a 33,000 Facebook fans on topics relating to living better together Sustainability Committee. for longer by the end of December 2016. Caixa Seguradora also uses social networks to raise awareness about sustainable As part of a pilot talent development initiative, a group of development and conscious consumption. CNP Assurances CNP Partners employees has worked on deﬁning the Group’s Compañia de Seguros uses them to air short ﬁlms devoted to CSR strategy. prevention, health, sustainable mobility and protection of the environment. 8 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I A measure of CSR performance KEY CSR OBJECTIVES AND INDICATORS We strive to create value for all CNP Assurances stakeholders as a responsible insurer and investor. 2020 climate targets: a very satisfactory performance in the period to end-2016 % of target achieved Objective at end-2016 20% reduction of the carbon footprint of the portfolio of directly held listed equities between 2014 and 2020 70% Double green investments to €1.6 billion between 2015 and 2017 117% Reduce energy consumption of real estate assets by 20% between 2006 and 2020 68% Prohibit the detention of businesses deriving over 25% of their revenue from thermal coal 100% Signiﬁcant progress was made on the key planks W in investment policy: of the CSR approach in 2016 W preparation of the responsible investment report pursuant to Examples of the integration of ESG criteria: Article 173 of the French Energy Transition law, W in the business units: W publication of a ﬁrst moot climate report shortlisted for the 2 Degrees Invest Award by the 2 Degrees Investing Initiative W disclosure of the environmental impact of product digitisation in 2016. in borrower insurance, W training on the requirement under Article 173 of the French W in purchasing and subcontracting: Energy Transition law to communicate on responsible W evaluation of suppliers’ CSR performance (51% of purchases investing, rated at end-2016). W creation of a laboratory on “CSR and digital strategy in the insurance sector” at CNP UniCredit Vita. THE EXTERNAL CSR EVALUATION The quality of CNP Assurances’ Corporate Social Responsibility policy has been recognised by SRI rating agencies. We obtained particularly high scores for our performance in the areas of Human Resources management and community outreach. Summary of CSR ratings of CNP Assurances shares (unsolicited) Rating agency CSR rating Comment Methodology Sustainalytics 83/100 (2014) 5/94 (global insurance) http://www.sustainalytics.com/ Oekom Prime C+ (2015) 1/128 (global insurance) http://www.oekom-research.com/index_fr.php?content=corporate-rating Vigeo 54/100 (2016) 6/42 (European insurance) http://www.vigeo.com MSCI AAA (2016) CDP B (2016) 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 9 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES SRI indices that include CNP Assurances shares CNP Assurances’ shares are included in several European SRI Awards and other external recognition indices. In particular, its presence in the Ethibel Sustainability in 2016 Index Excellence Europe, the Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120 Caixa Seguradora was designated by the Negocios and Europe 120 indexes and the MSCI Global Sustainability da Communicacao magazine as one of the insurance Indexes has been conﬁrmed. Since 2015, the share has been companies that communicates best with journalists on part of the FTSE4Good Index. the basis of such criteria as access, the availability of information and the ease of veriﬁcation. International Award for Best Climate Reporting Investors 2 Degrees Investing Initiative: CNP Assurances was awarded a special mention for its ﬁrst report on the integration of CSR factors in asset management (pursuant to Article 173-VI of the French Energy Transition law on its data for the year ended 31 December 2015). CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings was recognised for the transparency of its products and the implementation of an innovative method to personalise the needs of its policyholders. 10 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Offer protection for everyone CNP Assurances aims to offer all policyholders guarantees that settling an insurance claim to offer policyholders innovative match their daily lives, needs and budgets as closely as possible. services to help them overcome difﬁculties. This is an ambitious goal because of the very wide-ranging situations in our various markets. W Priority No. 1: promote access to insurance. By applying this approach to everyone, CNP Assurances W Priority No. 2: design socially responsible products and services. contributes to the ﬁght against the ﬁnancial exclusion of the most disadvantaged. In some cases, that means going beyond simply W Priority No. 3: better satisfy policyholders. Insurassistance concept Digital innovation created – an offering combining The Active Emploi product for customers: online assistance services and standard is leading prize winner products, prevention tool, financial benefits for its job placement support customer feedback 2002 2008 2010 2013 2015 2016 First Insurance Kit launched The Caixa Seguradora group Generation Y Observatory: for microentrepreneurs becomes the leader dialogue with 400 young people in microinsurance in Brazil to understand the needs of 18-25 year olds I Priority No. 1: promote access to insurance PRODUCTS FOR ALL It is also one of the co-insurers for the foundation’s Basic Insurance Kit contracts offering death/disability and health cover. A total of 193 new Basic Insurance Kit contracts were sold in 2016. In view of the slow takeIn France, an offer aligned with the needs up of this offer, CNP Assurances launched La Fabrique d’Assurance of people with low incomes in 2015, which brings together insurers and experts in various ﬁelds In agreement with our distribution partners, we deliberately offer to discuss trends in social issues and their impact on insurance. The products with low minimum premiums or investment amounts, ﬁrst workshop focused on microinsurance, identifying needs, and despite the weight of ﬁxed administrative costs. The €30 tranche examining obstacles and levers for development. represented 19% of new money invested in life insurance contracts in 2016, and 45% of regular deposits. 2016 was marked by the launch by ATD Quart Monde Since 2010, CNP Assurances has been the insurer for loans and CNP Assurances of a funeral insurance contract for granted by Procilia, a partner to the French government’s 1% people living below the poverty line. Having been drawn Logement low-income housing loan scheme. This cooperation up with the help of the persons concerned, this contract with social economy stakeholders such as Action Logement, takes into account their real needs, offering a basket of local welfare committees (comités sociaux) and microﬁnance guarantees necessary to ﬁnance digniﬁed funerals. The institutions operating according to the pawnbroker principle challenge was to set a monthly fee within the budgets of (crédits municipaux) was pursued in 2016, with the launch of a very poor people (€0.50 per month for young people up term creditor insurance offer with Crédit Municipal de Marseille. to 30 years old, €13 per month for people aged over 70). As the leader in the group life insurance segment, CNP Assurances Unlike conventional contracts, the monthly payments do not enables companies, non-proﬁts, local authorities and hospitals to offer change according to the policyholder’s age. People aged all their employees the same insurance cover at the same price, by up to 80 can take out this insurance, and the guarantee pooling risks and covering different generations under the same policy. comes to an end when the policyholder turns 90, when the solidarity fund created for the contract takes over. CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de la Cité foundation, which aims to help microentrepreneurs obtain insurance. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 11 OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE In Brazil, innovative microinsurance products protocol for other cancers. Health questionnaires have been modiﬁed so as to draw the attention of customers to this scheme. In Brazil, the Caixa Seguradora group was the ﬁrst insurer Moreover, CNP Assurances applies a reference grid allowing to enter the Brazilian funeral microinsurance market, with the it to bring the rates offered to people having been affected by Amparo contract launched in 2011. More than 200,000 Amparo certain diseases, including cancer, closer to the standard rate, contracts have been sold to date. In 2015, Caixa Seguradora and is working with other insurance companies to draw up a launched a microcredit insurance product, Familia Tranquila, which new, extended version. covered 61,200 microentrepreneurs at 31 December 2016. ACCESS TO INFORMATION RISK SELECTION ADAPTED TO EACH POLICYHOLDER’S HEALTH PROFILE Information and product transparency CNP Assurances draws on its exceptionally deep understanding In 2015, CNP Assurances drew up a standard creditor insurance of risks, acquired over its many years’ experience in personal information leaﬂet. In accordance with regulations, this customised insurance, to regularly update and reﬁne its risk selection policy. leaﬂet, provided to prospects before the contract is signed, sets A key aim of this policy, which takes into account the state of out the guarantees offered in a clear and legible manner so as to health of individual policyholders, is to accept and pool invalidity improve the future policyholder’s understanding and to facilitate and disability cover to as great an extent as possible. In addition, comparison with policies offered by other companies. since 2012, the conditions of eligibility for the premium cap applicable to low-income borrowers have been relaxed. On all CNP Assurances products, the level of transparency in respect of the information provided to the public is subject to Our creditor insurance rejection rate has been less than 0.2% for speciﬁc validation by the Compliance department. Since 2015, the past eight years. the inclusion of a legible and balanced presentation of the beneﬁts and risks has been a further requirement. Moreover, a CNP Assurances, covering aggravated health risks dedicated survey has been carried out since 2015 on the degree We are resolutely committed to ensuring that individuals representing of clarity of the letters sent to policyholders. Assuristance was an aggravated risk have access to credit and insurance in line with in this way able to improve and simplify the communication of the provisions of the AERAS Convention. Disability cover is being guarantees to policyholders in 2016. offered on the terms laid down in the convention to customers CNP Partners was selected in 2015 in the category of Best B2C denied incapacity or disability cover under standard policies. In campaign for its communication around the customised Tu Vida addition to these regulatory obligations, we offer disability cover to life insurance solution designed for women in Spain, where civil servants and self-employed workers. family solidarity rests heavily on their shoulders. The winning CNP Assurances has also been involved in the implementation website allows users to test the product’s various options in a of the revised AERAS Convention to incorporate the provisions of quirky, modern and colourful way. the January 2016 French Health Act on the right to be forgotten. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has been awarded a 2016 marked a decisive turning point for cancer patients, with prize for its promotion of the social role played by life insurance the legal recognition of a “right to be forgotten” and the adoption in protecting families. by professional bodies of a grid standardising the conditions governing their access to insurance. These new schemes should under certain conditions avoid their having to declare in the Access to communication future an old disease that has since been cured, thereby saving Insuring all our futures also means providing access to them from higher premiums or exclusions. As such, when taking information for all. After audit, the cnp.fr website was declared out creditor insurance, former cancer patients are covered in 95%-compliant with France’s RGAA web accessibility standards, accordance with the general conditions of the contract, without which cover such aspects as colour contrasts, keyboard being imposed a higher rate or being excluded, ﬁve years after accessibility, alternative texts to images, infobubbles, page titles the end of the treatment protocol for cancers diagnosed in people and prioritisation of information. aged under 18, and ten years after the end of the treatment I Priority No. 2: design socially responsible products and services CNP Assurances continuously updates its offer to adapt to the latest developments in society, by enhancing existing offers and developing targeted prevention services. 12 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE AN OFFER ALIGNED WITH CUSTOMER NEEDS Filassistance offers insurance against the loss of autonomy and cardiovascular risks. It also provides listening and support services for carers and people with long-term illnesses – speciﬁcally Anticipating policyholder needs women with cancer – both medically and socially. In 2015, In addition to studies carried out with distribution partners, Filassistance International implemented solutions designed to the Group’s entities analyse the needs arising from emerging prevent absenteeism among the 12,000 employees of a large social and demographic trends in order to anticipate them. For company. Solutions include assistance in the event of unexpected CNP Assurances, these studies focused in large part in 2015 unavailability of childcare to allow employees to get to work. and 2016 on how the heads of microenterprises perceive their Moreover, its Aide aux Aidants (Assistance to Caregivers) offer activity and their environment, as well as on their expectations in was included on SIACI’s “My Prevention” website, which has respect of online service. The Generation Y Observatory set up received numerous awards for innovation. In 2016, Filassistance in 2016 aims to increase knowledge of the 18-25 age bracket International continued to digitise its offerings by creating, so as to identify the associated risks and offer appropriate developing and promoting 24 digital sites for its partners. protection solutions. Lyfe, the CNP Assurances health services platform Assuristance took a number of actions in 2016, ranging from an analysis of reasons for application refusals to the use of customer More than a year after its launch, the Lyfe platform, an e-health survey feedback, to redesign an innovative and comprehensive prototype, offers nine exclusive services around health, well-being health assistance offer. and ageing well, such as 24/7 health advice giving policyholders access to a doctor online and Allo Expert Dépendence, a Innovative guarantees are available covering the problems of preventative support service targeting loss of independence loss of autonomy, job loss and ageing. In France, for example, in the elderly. Its new partnership with MonDocteur.fr allows in addition to the preventive advice issued by Filassistance Lyfe to offer online registration for appointments throughout International and Lyfe, we offer an unemployment insurance France. Eighty-two percent of members are satisﬁed with the site product with a reduced premium or with advisory services to according to a survey carried out in 2016. help the policyholder ﬁnd a new job. Protection Active Emploi provides ﬁnancial support for 6 or 24 months, plus personalised Speciﬁc prevention campaigns assistance, such as career reviews, training and logistical support. CNP Assurances deploys numerous workplace programmes to promote the health and well-being of local government Since 2016, CNP Assurances has offered psychological support employees. The Caixa Seguradora dental care subsidiary runs service for the return to work. It also offers a preferential tariff for a programme to prevent tooth decay among young children. In entrepreneurs and young self-employed workers. Argentina, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros uses social Since 2014, Caixa Seguradora has offered assistance in networks to post prevention information. ﬁnding a new job to policyholders who lose their jobs, including distribution of CVs and online career advice. Policyholders in the Prevention for everyone in everyday life late stages of a critical illness can claim beneﬁts without reducing In 2015, CNP Assurances launched cespetiteschoses.fr, a the capital built up under their policy, as well as free medication digital platform offering information and support and spreading in the event of hospitalisation or emergency care. awareness on the theme of “living better together for longer”. It was designed to raise awareness, in a fun and interactive manner, of the impact that small, seemingly insigniﬁcant everyday A major innovation: in July 2016, Caixa Seguradora gestures can have on people’s lives. launched a fully digital company, YOUSE. Built with Brazil’s leading InsurTech in a collaborative entrepreneurship model, YOUSE offers 100% online car SERVICE QUALITY AIDS and life insurance policies, with over 1,000 possible combinations to suit each customer. Shared applications: the workstations used by distribution partners of the Group’s entities enhance the quality and efﬁciency of policyholder services, while incorporating the duty to provide advice. New shared and convergent quality initiatives have been developed with CNP Assurances’ partners to improve the quality PROMOTING GOOD HEALTH of service for insurance advisors and policyholders. A single platform for processing health questionnaires: the use A structure dedicated to prevention: Filassistance of the CNPNet platform by banking partners over the last seven International years enabled 69% of health questionnaires to be processed Making life-long support for policyholders its mission, in 2003 electronically in 2016. Since 2013, policyholders have been CNP Assurances pioneered the integration of targeted assistance able to complete the questionnaire at home. In 2016, the and prevention services in life insurance and long-term care application once again saw numerous technical developments insurance contracts, in particular through its Filassistance aimed at facilitating its use. This is how we make life easier for International subsidiary. customers, particularly those who do not have time to visit their 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 13 OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE bank branch, who need their personal medical ﬁle to ﬁll out the Recognised as a pioneer of full-online service in creditor insurance, form, or who are joint borrowers. CNP Assurances was selected in 2015 by ING Direct, France’s leading online bank, for the launch of an online mortgage. The deployment of new technologies makes life easier for policyholders. For example, a website for ﬁling term creditor On top of its fully digital YOUSE solution (see text box on insurance claims set up in 2012 allows policyholders to submit previous page), the Caixa Seguradora group has expanded scanned claim documents electronically and to track the claim’s online assistance at the request of customers. Service delivery status, including by text message. and subscriptions are possible on the Internet, with specialists available via a forum to assist customers during the process. Stealing a lead on the competition, CNP Assurances has since January 2014 offered a full-online term creditor insurance CNP UniCredit Vita’s website gives policyholders direct access to purchasing process for home-buyers who obtain ﬁnance from their insurance accounts, as well as to downloadable information Boursorama Banque, with a legally valid electronic signature and claim forms. system. As well as reducing the time required to complete the A business continuity plan has been drawn up to prepare for the process, the system also offers a secure storage solution for risk of downtime following an incident. Tests are performed each insurance applications and the related documents. year, using different scenarios, to ensure that in all the various departments, normal business operations can be quickly and efﬁciently restored. I Priority No. 3: better satisfy policyholders DOUBLING UP SATISFACTION MONITORING FOLLOWING UP POLICYHOLDER REQUESTS Group entities periodically carry out surveys among both CNP Assurances regularly reviews a sample of letters sent to policyholders and distribution partners so as to obtain a customers in response to requests for information or complaints in comprehensive picture of customer satisfaction. order to assess the quality of such letters. Fifteen checkpoints on their substance and form are used to identify any anomalies. The In 2016, CNP Assurances conducted three quantitative results are presented in reports that are given to the departments satisfaction surveys on individual policy administration processes. that issued the letters to help them constantly improve their service Whether they are carried out as part of a quality certiﬁcation quality. The system’s digitisation is planned in 2017. process, pursuant to a service level agreement or for other purposes, these surveys help to improve customer responsiveness Processing complaints more quickly and to provide feedback to our distribution partners. This year, In 2013, CNP Assurances committed to replying within two the survey on the substance and form of the annual statements of months of a complaint being ﬁled. A complaint is any expression the Amétis network yielded a satisfaction rate of 86%. of discontent by a customer as regards the perceived quality of a In 2016, an online survey software package allowed the Group product or service, whether justiﬁed or not. to conduct simple surveys of policyholders from a computer, Processing times have been reduced thanks to a major tablet or smartphone. The software is also used by Amétis reorganisation carried out in coordination with our distribution advisers to send weekly questionnaires to improve the new partners. Tools have been implemented to ﬁne-tune follow-up, contract acquisition process. to improve the analysis of complaints and to identify ways to CNP Assurances carries out an annual satisfaction survey of over enhance service quality. Complaints received by CNP Assurances 1,000 local authorities and hospitals holding health, death and mainly concern the purchase and claim management processes. disability insurance contracts. Average satisfaction scores are With 10,800 complaints lodged in personal insurance in stable at between 7 and 8 out of 10 depending on the local the ﬁrst half of 2016 (a similar volume to 2015), the number authority. of grievances remains marginal, involving less than 0.1% of Satisfaction surveys are also conducted in the CNP UniCredit Vita policyholders. Nonetheless, each one is analysed in order to and CNP CIH subsidiaries, and as often as monthly in all the understand how we can improve our service quality using the business units in South America. CNP Partners has for several tools referred to above. In 60% of cases, CNP Assurances’ years held monthly meetings with distribution partners in order position was maintained. to gauge their view of service quality. The customer satisfaction In accordance with the marketplace decision, mediation involving score averaged 4.3 out of 5 in 2016. CNP Assurances has since this year been provided by the French Insurance Federation (Fédération française de l’assurance FFA). 14 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE Unclaimed contracts at CNP Assurances years after the death of policyholders or the expiry of contracts, CNP Assurances this year fulﬁlled its obligation to inform The entry into force of the French Eckert law on 1 January 2016 policyholders of these provisions. It transferred 19,334 insurance reinforced provisions in respect of unclaimed contracts. In contracts or capitalisation stocks in the amount of €156.1 million practice, the new provisions have prompted insurance companies to the Caisse des Dépôts in 2016. Transfers to the Caisse des to increase their efforts to ﬁnd beneﬁciaries when policyholders Dépôts will continue on a monthly basis in 2017. die. The publication of the ﬁrst Eckert report on CNP Assurances’ In addition to continuing the efforts and maintaining the website is scheduled for April 2017, as required by the law. resources deployed since 2014 to settle unclaimed contracts, CNP Assurances has developed an internal mechanism to consolidate and publish data, allowing it to prepare the Disputes regulatory reports required under the Eckert law as of the ﬁrst There were 1,488 disputes in progress at CNP Assurances at the quarter of 2017. end of 2016. Seventy-two percent of cases were won in the ﬁrst instance in 2016, 71% on appeal and 73% on submission to the In addition to this work and in order to comply with the obligation highest court of appeal. to transfer to the Caisse des Dépôts any amounts unclaimed ten I Other initiatives PROTECTING POLICYHOLDERS Cybersecurity CNP Assurances, which has boasted a structured approach to Protecting policyholders’ personal data securing its information system for over ten years, uses a security framework aligned with the best practices of ISO 27001 and Personal insurance is based on knowledge of sensitive personal the associated guidelines. Each new IT project is subject to an data. At CNP Assurances, protecting the conﬁdentiality of analysis of the information security risks, which is reviewed and policyholder data is central to our administrative processes and validated by a dedicated committee before the new service the obligations laid down in our code of conduct. Customers’ goes into production. All health data are encrypted for storage medical and personal information is protected by procedures in all information systems and for all transfers to our partners. that comply with local regulations in each host country, and a Since 2008, customers have been able to make contact with the dedicated system has been set up to keep abreast of regulatory Data Protection Ofﬁcer via the cnp.fr corporate website. changes. A privacy-by-design approach is being mainstreamed when designing new products. The new version of the CNPNet In 2015, CNP Assurances undertook a major shift in its platform is a prime example: the requirements of the French Data cybersecurity approach with a view to addressing the Protection Act were factored in from the outset. sharp increase in cybercrime without undermining its digital transformation. In 2016, this process was reﬂected importantly Requests by policyholders for access to their personal information in the strengthening of defensive mechanisms geared towards are facilitated by an application available on the cnp.fr website. ﬁghting new threats, the contribution of the digital management CNP Assurances has a Data Protection Ofﬁcer tasked with team to all new projects, a review of governance arrangements ensuring the protection of the personal data of its prospects, and the running of numerous communication campaigns for customers and employees. Systematically consulted before users. any application involving personal data is launched, the Data In 2016, the Group also updated the charter governing the Protection Ofﬁcer takes part in industry discussions, leads an use of the information system resources to take into account in-house network and circulates procedures, notably through a the numerous technological, usage, regulatory and legal dedicated Intranet. Controls are performed to ensure that the developments, and to set out the rights and duties of information procedures are applied, and the Data Protection Ofﬁcer presents system users. Moreover, in its new information systems policy, an Annual Report to the Executive Committee. The work performed the Group outlines its security approach and the key provisions by the Data Protection Ofﬁcer increased further in 2016, with thereof at Group-level and sets out governance principles. The the organisation of a conference on social networks and the policy can therefore be applied across the Group. presence of an information stand on protecting corporate and personal data in a showroom. A dedicated “data protection” panel discussion emerged on the Yammer corporate network. Implementation in subsidiaries The European subsidiaries comply with the European Data In addition, policyholders must give their consent to the use of Protection directive (95/46/EC) as transposed into national law. their personal email address for communications managed in a Some, such as CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, have included dedicated information system. The Company has undertaken, its provisions in their code of conduct. All employees in Cyprus through the signing of the French Union of Advertisers’ Charter received IT security training in 2016. MFPrévoyance, where on Responsible Communication, to “respect customers’ private medical conﬁdentiality is a particular concern, has a dedicated data when used for marketing and commercial purposes”. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 15 OFFER PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE Data Protection Ofﬁcer. Employees must sign a formal pledge W CNP développement durable (http://www.fongepar.fr/ to uphold their obligation to maintain professional secrecy. DOCS/na_400001.pdf). Medical conﬁdentiality training courses are regularly given to SRI funds were once again promoted by CNP Assurances’ MFPrévoyance employees by the medical ofﬁcer. two major partners in 2016. At the end of the year, nearly The data security policy at Caixa Seguradora is also regularly 157,000 life insurance policies included an SRI fund. SRI assets updated, and all information is categorised by level of totalled €592 million at that date, an increase of more than 9% conﬁdentiality to ensure appropriate treatment. Regular intrusion compared with 2015. tests are conducted to assess the efﬁcacy of the security measures. The inclusion of environmental, social and governance criteria Its health subsidiary has established exclusive channels for the in the management of the assets underlying all our traditional exchange of sensitive information with partners. savings products and own funds portfolios is highlighted to CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has drawn up a good policyholders (see page 17). A brochure on “CNP Assurances’ practice guide on data privacy, notably including its legal CSR Commitment” was sent to several thousand policyholders and aspects, in the aim of entrenching a culture of personal data included in the main materials used to present CNP Assurances’ protection as a component of service quality. offers to its partners. CNP UniCredit Vita updates its security policy governing the In its wealth management offering developed in 2015, protection of customer data in its data protection document on an CNP Assurances offers unit-linked products comprising directly annual basis. It has a Chief Information Security Ofﬁcer (CISO). held securities. Eligible securities offered to policyholders are also In 2016, its Compliance department commissioned further selected by taking into account exclusion rules on environmental internal and external checks. (coal), social (Global Compact) and governance (sensitive countries) issues applicable to ﬁnancial assets (see page 17 – Be Product and service compliance a responsible investor). All of the Group’s entities verify that contractual, marketing and advertising documents are compliant at every stage of the Solutions to raise awareness among policyholders development of new products. Dedicated teams, working closely and partners with legal experts, ensure that insurance products are compliant, W The Caixa Seguradora group describes the social and and that changes in the legal framework are taken into account. environmental challenges it is facing and presents its results on its website. For several years, it has provided its policyholders CNP Assurances and several subsidiaries have obtained with information on responsible consumption. In 2015, it ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of their main business processes. The extended the process to social networks. scope of certiﬁcation is expanded every year, while ensuring that previously acquired certiﬁcations are renewed (in 2016, two W The launch of the fully digital company YOUSE in 2016 allowed activities upgraded to ISO 9001 V 2015). At Caixa Seguradora, Caixa Seguradora to promote collaborative entrepreneurship the quality management system is subject to regular audits. by donating R$1 for every policy sold to a fund ﬁnancing entrepreneurship projects. Measures in support of policyholder health The CNP Assurances Group’s core business does not have a W CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros also uses social networks to raise the awareness of policyholders and brokers direct effect on customers’ health. Nevertheless, the Filassistance on the issues of prevention and health, as well as sustainable International subsidiary has developed a series of preventive mobility and protection of the environment. measures to assist individuals in everyday health and safety issues, in the form of loss of independence and memory loss W Every year, CNP Assurances’ pledge to uphold the United prevention assessments, as well as ergonomic assistance, Nations Global Compact and its responsible investing information services and psychological support (see page 13 for strategy are highlighted in more than 19 million letters sent a discussion of all health prevention services). to policyholders (postal mail, email or position papers available online). Since 2011, the message is communicated to all holders of endowment policies (other than unit-linked contracts), including on the annual policyholder statements. ENCOURAGING POLICYHOLDER COMMITMENT Similarly, Caixa Seguradora places the “Carbon Free” seal on TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT its printed materials, thereby informing its policyholders that the CO2 emissions of its operations are offset. SRI offering In personal insurance, direct action by policyholders in support W In 2014 for SRI Week, we organised an awareness campaign for investors with our partner La Banque Postale. We proposed of a responsible economy and the ﬁght against climate change a special offer for any investment in products from the SRI is reﬂected in the selection of SRI funds in savings products. They range. Our network of 300 travelling advisors also got are offered in each of the ﬂagship unit-linked products available involved in explaining the Group’s investment approach and in the individual insurance offerings from CNP Assurances, such its SRI offer. as: W In 2016, CNP Assurances rolled out a new communications W LBPAM Responsable (http://www.labanquepostale-am.fr/isr/ tool, dubbed the Lettre de CNP Patrimoine, to showcase its notre_offre_isr.html); responsible investor approach and support for the energy transition to partners. W Ecureuil Bénéﬁce (https://www.caisse-epargne.fr/ecureuilbeneﬁces-resp.aspx); 16 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Contribute to a sustainable economy Our Group’s primary ﬁnancial responsibility is to secure the This commitment also extends to suppliers. An audit and commitments made to policyholders. The second is to guarantee improvement programme has been launched by CNP Assurances a steady, optimised performance year after year. In line with the to steadily enhance its suppliers’ CSR performance. belief that including socially responsible investment criteria in the investment selection process optimises the yield-to-risk ratio over W Priority No. 1: be a responsible investor. the long term, ESG screens have for many years been applied W Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser. to the majority of CNP Assurances’ assets and those of its French subsidiaries. I Priority No. 1: be a responsible investor Timeline of CNP Assurances’ responsible investor approach Exclusion of offshore financial centres Assessments 2 Degrees Invest Award: special Best-in-class strategy of energy-efficiency mention for first report on put in place for the entire upgrades on integration of CSR factors in asset equity portfolio Pledge to uphold PRI* property assets management 2006 2008 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 Exclusion of land mines ESG filter systematically Climate strategy and cluster bombs applied to all bonds (carbon footprint, coal manufacturers policy, energy efficiency, green investments) * PRI: the United Nations’ Principles for Responsible Investment IN FRANCE, A STRATEGY COMBINING ESG AND Listed equities CARBON MONITORING DEFINED BY CNP ASSURANCES The approach is based on best-in-class management. The AND IMPLEMENTED BY ASSET MANAGERS establishment of a quarterly monitoring process has facilitated dialogue on securities at risk and the prevailing challenges with CNP Assurances is an insurance group. As such, it manages the SRI analysts at Natixis AM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009. assets backing the rights of its policyholders and its own assets, Dialogue is engaged with companies held in these funds when ESG but does not manage assets for third parties and delegates their issues are identiﬁed, either through our asset managers or directly operational management to external management companies. during the lead-up to the Shareholders’ Meetings. When dialogue For CNP Assurances, the responsible investor approach is deﬁned fails to produce results, other measures can be taken, potentially and managed internally by drawing on the SRI expertise of asset including a suspension of purchases of the Company’s securities or management companies Natixis AM and LBPAM. CNP Assurances’ even their sale or exclusion. strategy is applied to all of its assets and those of its French subsidiaries. The Group’s commitment to socially responsible CNP Assurances’ responsible investor approach in the listed equity investing was strengthened in 2011 when we pledged to uphold compartment supports the goal of energy and environmental the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). transition, particularly through the development of a carbon risk and opportunity approach. In line with our responsible investing strategy, ESG screens are gradually being applied to all asset classes across the entire Since 2008, CNP Assurances has chosen to exclude equities issued portfolio, rounded out in 2015 by the integration of a low-carbon by arms manufacturers whose products include land mines or cluster strategy. At 31 December 2016, the ESG ﬁlter covered 81% of the bombs from its portfolios. Since 2015, it has additionally excluded ﬁnancial assets held by CNP Assurances and its French subsidiaries all extractive companies producing coal and coal-based energy (for details of policyholder investments in SRI funds, see page 16). when more than 15% of their revenue is derived from thermal coal. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 17 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTING STRATEGY (CNP Assurances France at 31 December 2016) 81 % 19 % DEDICATED MUTUAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AND SRI FUNDS PRIVATE EQUITY • Dedicated mutual funds: • Since 2010, ESG rating of OF INVESTMENTS – Exclusion from portfolio or private equity funds during due OF INVESTMENTS ESG SCREENING weighting limited based diligence PARTIAL ESG on compliance with Global • Infrastructure funds required to SCREENING Compact principles submit ESG reports – Policy on coal and sensitive • CNP Assurances invests in private countries equity funds that ﬁnance SMEs • Non dedicated mutual funds: that have difﬁculty in raising OTHER MUTUAL FUNDS equity capital and infrastructure – SRI funds held in general funds invested in renewable • Investigations into controversial CORPORATE BONDS asset portfolios (excluding weapons, tax havens and energy, water treatment and unit-linked) total embargoes waste treatment projects. • Quarterly ESG ratings €2.8 billion, representing Portfolio: €970m 10% of the total mutual • Exclusions or restrictions based fund portfolio on compliance with Global Compact principles • Policy on coal and sensitive countries UNIT-LINKED FUNDS • €902m in green bonds • 157,000 unit-linked contracts Infrastructure and private equity purchased by policyholders include SRI or themed funds. Dedicated Portfolio: €592m mutual GOVERNMENT BONDS and Mutual AND EQUIVALENTS SRI funds funds Unit-linked • Excluded countries: funds – countries rated as “not free” and “partly free” by Freedom Corporate House Equities EQUITIES bonds – countries rated as “corrupt” Property • Best-in-class strategy by Transparency International – Quarterly ESG screening with Forests – Tax havens, AML/CFT SRI analysts at Natixis AM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009 – If ESG screening reveals Government bonds problems and discussions with the issuer are unproductive, FORESTS further purchases may be halted or the existing holding • France’s largest private owner may be sold of woodland, with 54,077 • Vote at General Meetings hectares at end-2016 • Exclusion from portfolio or • ISO 9001 and PEFC-certiﬁed weighting limited based on sustainable management compliance with Global Compact by 50% subsidiary Société PROPERTY principles Forestière since 2003 • Managed by specialised companies based on strict speciﬁcations, • Policy on coal and sensitive • Objectives: safety, biodiversity, countries anticipate effects of climate notably regarding the environment and safety change • Sustainable management charter with Icade, “Green appendices” included in master property management contracts and club deals • Energy efﬁciency assessments for compliance with Grenelle II have been carried out on 143 fully owned property assets 18 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY products include land mines or cluster bombs. Since 2015, it Carbon footprint of the ﬁnancial portfolio has additionally excluded all extractive companies producing coal and coal-based energy when more than 15% of their In line with its commitment under the Montreal Carbon Pledge revenue is derived from thermal coal. in May 2015, CNP Assurances measures and publishes the carbon footprint of its ﬁnancial portfolio. The measure initially concerns the portfolio of directly held listed equities. Withdrawal from the coal sector At 31 December 2016, the footprint is estimated at Since 2015, CNP Assurances has sold nearly €300 million 0.405 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per thousand euros in corporate bonds issued by companies that extract coal invested. CNP Assurances has set the goal of reducing the and produce coal-based energy. Since end-2015, its end-2014 level by 20% by 2020 (a slightly faster pace than portfolio has included no directly held listed entities or the commitments made by the European Union in the Paris bonds issued by companies deriving more than 25% of agreement), notably through dialogue with the companies their revenue from thermal coal. whose shares it holds. While this indicator is useful for tracking the reduction in the portfolio’s carbon footprint, it is ﬂawed by the fact it does not necessarily reﬂect the positive action taken by companies to further the energy transition. Mutual fund units CNP Assurances therefore supports methodological developments in measuring companies’ carbon impact and The decision on which mutual funds to include in the portfolio their impact in respect of the environmental and energy is made by taking into account management companies’ ESG transition, including those related to avoided emissions. commitments and by complying with the Group’s general investment principles: companies speculating on agricultural Note: This calculation is an estimate of Scope 1 and 2 commodities and producers of cluster bombs and land mines greenhouse gas emissions by portfolio companies at the end are excluded. Since 2015, exclusion has been extended to the of 2015 (most recent published data) without adjustment securities of companies that fail to comply with the principles of for overlap, based on the portfolio’s asset value. These the Global Compact and to the issue of coal, as described in the estimates are volatile, and depend notably on the scope and approach taken on bonds (see above). data collection methods used in the various companies and changes in reference emission factors. As such, while the The issue of sensitive countries is also monitored: investigation on 2016 results are very encouraging, CNP Assurances remains the treatment of tax havens and embargoes in 2015, inclusion vigilant and is pursuing its carbon reduction efforts. in the due diligence questionnaire and exclusion from new dedicated mutual funds. Furthermore, CNP Assurances has purchased SRI mutual funds in ESTIMATE OF THE CARBON FOOTPRINT the amount of €2.8 billion, or 10% of assets of all non-dedicated OF THE PORTFOLIO OF DIRECTLY HELD LISTED EQUITIES mutual funds held at 31 December 2016. For details of (IN T.CO2EQ./€ THOUSANDS INVESTED) policyholder investments in SRI funds (unit-linked), see page 16. Target A RESPONSIBLE SHAREHOLDER 0.5 0.47 0.44 2020 0.40 0.38 Since 2005, CNP Assurances has followed a policy of shareholder 0.4 activism by systematically voting at the Shareholders’ Meetings of the listed companies in its portfolio. In 2016, CNP Assurances 0.3 voted at the Shareholders’ Meetings of 99.9% of the French companies in its portfolio. The voting scope was extended 0.2 in 2016 to European companies presenting environmental and carbon risks, reaching 57.5% of assets held. It reviewed 0.1 1,726 resolutions proposed at 92 meetings, voting against 19.4% of them. When we had issues with proposed resolutions, 0.0 we endeavoured to talk to the companies concerned ahead of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 the meetings. Voting principles are laid down by senior management. The core objective is to protect the rights of minority shareholders who are investing to support the investee’s long-term growth. Shaped in part by investor concerns, these principles are pragmatically Bonds applied to all companies in the portfolio, taking into account W Government bonds and equivalents: ESG screening excludes each one’s characteristics, industry and regulatory environment. sensitive countries rated as “not free” and “partly free” by Freedom House, and countries rated as “corrupt” by Transparency International, as well as tax havens. SUSTAINABLY MANAGING PROPERTY ASSETS W Corporate bonds: issuers are given quarterly ESG ratings, and can be excluded from the portfolio or have their weighting With €12 billion in property assets in France based on net book limited on the basis of their compliance with the principles values, CNP Assurances is an important player in this market. of the Global Compact. Since 2008, CNP Assurances has Management of its property assets is entrusted to specialised chosen to exclude bonds issued by arms manufacturers whose companies on the basis of strict speciﬁcations that address 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 19 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY the need to preserve the environment and ensure the safety of CSR reporting is also used for new infrastructure investments. the properties’ users. These include the Sustainable Property In 2016, 56% of our infrastructure funds took part in this reporting Management Charter adopted with Icade in 2008, and the or voluntarily provided us with their own CSR reporting. establishment in 2014 of a “green works charter” to factor in the impact of all co-owned property management agreements on the Investments in funds supporting the energy environment, and on the health and safety of users. and environmental transition At 31 December 2016, CNP Assurances had €34 million Property assets: improved energy performance invested in private equity funds in the clean energy, clean CNP Assurances’ maintenance and renovation programmes for industry and cleantech sectors. Direct and indirect investments in the property assets in its portfolio constantly aim to make the renewable energy infrastructure, sustainable mobility and water properties more energy efﬁcient. Renovation projects are carried and waste treatment represented total assets of €651 million out to the highest environmental standards (21% of property at 31 December 2016. An additional €902 million is invested assets under direct management were certiﬁed to HQE, THPE, directly in green bonds funding speciﬁc environmental projects. BBC or Bream Very Good standards at the end of 2016, a signiﬁcant increase compared with 2015). At the end of 2015, with management company Meridiam, CNP Assurances launched the “Meridiam Transition” infrastructure Since 2009, an environmental audit has been systematically fund to ﬁnance innovative development projects related to the carried out on all newly acquired properties. In 2015, as part energy transition, local services such as heating systems or of its low-carbon strategy, CNP Assurances signed the Energy energy from recovered waste, electricity and gas networks, and Efﬁciency Charter for Commercial Buildings, thereby illustrating innovative renewable energy. A total of €100 million had been its desire to become more involved in the green building sector. committed at 31 December 2015, plus an additional €49 million in 2016. A general audit to determine an energy Thanks to progress in its low-carbon strategy, CNP Assurances performance target achieved its initial goal of tripling its investments in the energy In advance of the requirements introduced by France’s Grenelle I and environmental transition sector a full year ahead of target, and II laws, and pending the publication of the relevant enabling with assets reaching €1.7 billion at 31 December 2016. documents, 143 of CNP Assurances’ wholly owned property MFPrévoyance has meanwhile invested €5 million in funds assets have already been assessed to measure their energy supporting renewable energy projects. efﬁciency. Action plan scenarios adapted to each building have been deﬁned in order to reduce CO2 emissions and energy use. CNP Assurances received a special mention in the ﬁrst international awards for the best climate reporting for investors CNP Assurances has already rolled out a €150 million work in October 2016. programme within this framework. Ultimately, this work will reduce the energy consumption of the entire property portfolio by 20% by 2020, in comparison with 2006. Support for SMEs Operating in the private equity business since 1992, In 2016, CNP Assurances launched a pilot scheme to track CNP Assurances is one of the world’s top 50 institutional investors health, safety and environment (HSE) compliance by one of its (number two in France) in private equity funds (2015 EPI ranking). property management companies. Following a ﬁve-pronged Be they innovative start-ups or SMEs with an established presence diagnostic, the Company’s response to the observations made in their market, operating in the high-tech sector or established during the diagnostic was monitored, yielding a completion rate industrial segments, these companies play a strategic role in of 44% at end-2016. The objective is to carry out an audit of all strengthening France’s economic fabric, creating jobs and attracting assets over three years and track the work that is subsequently foreign investment. Under the OPEN CNP programme launched carried out. in 2016, CNP Assurances plans to devote €100 million over ﬁve years to developing partnerships with innovative start-ups in businesses close to its own. Three investments of various kinds were INFRASTRUCTURE AND UNLISTED EQUITIES, made in 2016. After supporting a crowdlending platform for SMEs, THE RIGHT VEHICLES FOR FUTURE CHALLENGES CNP Assurances chose to support a telemedicine solution to ﬁght against social and geographical inequalities in access to healthcare. Social information used to manage private equity Lastly, a few months ago, it gave support to a new online health and infrastructure investments since 2010 insurance company dedicated to start-ups and SMEs. ESG ratings are awarded based on the due diligence process CNP Assurances also supports businesses in difﬁculty through carried out ahead of any investment in a new private equity fund. speciﬁc funds, with €128 million committed in 2016. Again A total of 27 private equity funds were rated in 2016. In addition, in 2016, CNP Assurances partnered with a long-term loan fund CNP Assurances had invested in several socially beneﬁcial funds on behalf of around 100 European SMEs. It also supports the in a total amount of nearly €135 million at 31 December 2016. NovESS fund, whose objective is to support the transition and Examples include ﬁnancing small businesses that have trouble change of dimension of the Social and Solidarity Economy. raising capital due to social barriers, and supporting SMEs facing ﬁnancial hardship. 20 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY FORESTS: AN ENVIRONMENTAL OPPORTUNITY The climate change issue is a key factor in managing our forests. In order to ensure the long-term health and value of the woodland, the management company selects transitional Integrating environmental issues in woodland tree species adapted to current and future climates and pays management processes increasing attention to the soil moisture reserves in areas where CNP Assurances is France’s largest private owner of woodland, new trees are being planted. with 54,077 hectares at 31 December 2016. Société Forestière, a 50%-owned subsidiary, applies sustainable management techniques Protecting biodiversity that help to prevent ﬁres, promote biodiversity and anticipate Société Forestière continued its actions in favour of biodiversity the effects of climate change. In 2003, in addition to ISO 9001 in 2016. It regularly strives to maintain dead trees in forests, certiﬁcation, all of CNP Assurances’ woodland assets were certiﬁed whether they are still standing or have fallen. Dead trees are by the Pan European Forest Council (PEFC), which guarantees that home to very speciﬁc biodiversity – more than a quarter of animal the timber comes from sustainably managed forests. and fungal forest species – and are of major interest for scientists and NGOs working to protect nature. Another example is the Carbon sinks in France and Brazil management of the Fayez forest in north-eastern France, which In 2016, the growth of CNP Assurances’ trees served to sequester aims to gradually renew beech stands, which are representative 529,191 tonnes of carbon dioxide. After deducting timber sold of habitats that must be protected on this site. or cut down during the year, a net 236,988 tonnes of carbon CNP Assurances’ woodland management also prevents soil erosion dioxide was added to the sequestered total. and ensures water ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. The Caixa Seguradora Since 2007, the Caixa Seguradora group has been offsetting its group’s reforestation operations promote biodiversity, protect water carbon emissions by ﬁnancing NGO Green Initiative’s tree-planting resources and contribute to soil conservation. programmes in the Atlantic forest. The Carbon Free programme has planted nearly 40,000 trees in the space of seven years. The management of these forests in accordance with biodiversity DEPLOYING ESG SCREENING IN INTERNATIONAL principles also provides an income for disadvantaged local SUBSIDIARIES communities and an opportunity for them to acquire new skills. Operations organised by CNP Assurances with employees have The Caixa Seguradora group excludes certain industries from added 5,704 trees to these plantations. its equity and government and corporate bond portfolios. At CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, when choosing between Anticipating climate change investments with equivalent risk and yield proﬁles, priority is given to those with the best social and/or environmental proﬁle. In 2001, in compliance with France’s Forestry Act, At end-2016, 16% of its assets were dedicated to supporting CNP Assurances approved a sustainable management charter SMEs or social infrastructure projects. CNP UniCredit Vita has deﬁning the commitments of Société Forestière, the company in applied the exclusion rules deﬁned by CNP Assurances covering charge of managing its woodland. These commitments include sensitive securities and countries to its euro-denominated managing woodland sustainably, protecting biodiversity and portfolio, representing 46% of ﬁnancial assets at end-2016, as proactively planning for the impact of climate change. has MFPrévoyance. I Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser The Group’s larger entities, CNP Assurances and the Having pledged to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, Caixa Seguradora group, were the ﬁrst to integrate CSR CNP Assurances systematically promotes its commitment to principles into their sourcing policy. human rights among subcontractors and suppliers. Agreements include contractual clauses to protect workers. A CSR assessment of key suppliers is performed by EcoVadis. CNP ASSURANCES – FULFILLING A COMMITMENT Nearly all CNP Assurances’ suppliers of goods and intellectual ON AN EVERYDAY BASIS and other services are located in France. The use of subcontractors is mostly limited to intellectual services, as well as printing, CNP Assurances’ CSR principles are also put into practice mailing, enveloping, archiving, bulk data entry, call centre and by the Purchasing department, with all buyers aware of these maintenance services. issues and most of them trained in CSR compliance. The Group’s Ethical Purchasing Charter and the code of ethics govern buying Average supplier payment terms were 49 days in 2016, a practices. gain of two days compared with 2015, thanks to the various optimisation measures undertaken, such as indexing invoices The main calls for tenders and consultations include a CSR when received and sending targeted reminders depending on the component that proposals must address in order to be considered. payment deadline. This puts CNP Assurances’ “supplier payment 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 21 CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY terms” indicator for 2016 within the standard period of “45 days environmental, social and ethical performance. The information is end of month” (i.e., 45 days from the end of the month in which compiled on a collaborative platform that includes 150 business the invoice is issued, for a maximum payment term of 75 days), sectors and 95 countries. which shows that CNP Assurances respects its commitments to its Following the audit, suppliers receive detailed feedback on their suppliers by paying them within a reasonable time. CSR practices, including a rating in four categories (environment, social, ethics, and responsible purchasing) and a list of their strengths and areas for improvement. THE CAIXA SEGURADORA GROUP – CSR CLAUSES IN ALL CONTRACTS The main suppliers in the Top 200 (CNP Assurances’ 200 biggest suppliers) are subject to assessment by EcoVadis. In 2016, The Caixa Seguradora group includes CSR clauses in its supplier 145 suppliers representing 51% of total purchases were contracts based on the Global Compact principles (ILO, the ﬁght assessed. The average rating was 58/100. In 2017, with the against organised crime and drug trafﬁcking, the environment, deployment of the e-purchasing tool, major tenders and listings combating fraud and money laundering). will be systematically asked for an EcoVadis rating, which has become one of the rating criteria of our offers. The “CNP Assurances’ CSR Commitment” leaﬂet has also been A PLATFORM FOR SUPPLIER ESG AUDITS included in tender documents since last December. CNP Assurances is partnering with EcoVadis in order to have a comprehensive, shared approach to monitoring its suppliers’ I Other initiatives COMBATING MONEY LAUNDERING, CNP UniCredit Vita adopted an organisation and management TERRORISMAND FRAUD model consistent with the new Italian rules in 2016. The application is monitored by a specialised committee. A shared requirement Speciﬁc training As a player in the ﬁnancial sector, CNP Assurances is deeply Newcomers and employees who have changed jobs are involved in the ﬁght against money laundering, the ﬁnancing systematically trained at CNP Assurances (72 employees of terrorism and fraud. Our business model, in which a lot of in 2016). Moreover, an e-learning module developed in transactions are performed by intermediaries, has shaped partnership with the French Insurance Federation (Fédération the related controls. The tasks entrusted by the Group to française de l’assurance FFA) and several major insurers, intermediaries are described in the distribution agreements taken in 2014 by CNP Assurances employees in accordance between CNP Assurances and its partners. Caixa Seguradora, with their exposure proﬁle, has been rolled out to partners the Group’s main subsidiary, carries out an annual external audit offering high-end products. of the risk of fraud. Training on money laundering has been extended to subsidiaries Dedicated teams in recent years. The Cypriot subsidiary annually trains the relevant employees and the branch network on KYC procedures. Supported by 22 employees, a speciﬁc unit is dedicated to these controls at CNP Assurances, and any employee can check the Group-wide anti-money laundering procedures on the ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES Intranet. Similar arrangements are in place in all subsidiaries, in compliance with local constraints and the principles adopted All subsidiaries provide ethical guidelines through their standard by the Group. CNP Partners has an anti-money laundering operating procedures, charters or codes. committee. Codes for all entities Work to bolster the system The prevention of corruption requires the establishment of As part of the new guidelines in the ﬁght against money procedures and training. laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism, CNP Assurances has launched a project aimed at bolstering its system with all of its CNP Assurances’ code of conduct, appended to the internal partners. The aim is to consolidate the organisation of operations rules, is one of the Group’s tools in the ﬁght against corruption. controls and to implement the new requirements set out in the It notably contains rules governing gifts and beneﬁts within fourth and ﬁfth directives. the Company. It is posted on the Intranet and features in the 22 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONTRIBUTE TO A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Employee Orientation Guide for new hires. Flashes are regularly In addition to ethics training, which has been in place for placed on the Intranet to remind employees of the main rules. All many years, corruption risk training was increasingly offered in other entities in the Group also have guidelines, speciﬁcations subsidiaries in 2016, notably in Brazil and Italy following the and regulations. enactment of new anti-corruption laws. Some more exposed professions have speciﬁc codes (purchasing management and sales management): Procedures governing ﬁnancial management and purchases W an ethical purchasing guide provides practical guidance for This ethical vigilance also applies to CNP Assurances’ asset key situations encountered by the Company’s purchasers; management, particularly for government bonds where the W similarly, a speciﬁc code of ethics spells out standards for sales country’s position in the Transparency International index is one representatives of the Amétis network. of three exclusionary criteria. None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political parties. At CNP Assurances, the ﬁght against corruption extends to In countries where such donations are not illegal, subsidiaries purchasing, and purchasing contracts include a standard CSR speciﬁcally prohibit them in their code of ethics or conduct. clause requiring suppliers to commit to combating corruption, including on the part of their own suppliers and subcontractors. Furthermore, a new anti-corruption policy is being implemented at Group level to round out the existing system in accordance with the provisions of the French Sapin 2 law. CORPORATE INCOME TAX The CNP Assurances Group is primarily made up of insurance companies and companies that provide services to individuals, as well as a number of ﬁnancial investment vehicles. Corporate income tax payments Europe 2016 (in € millions) France Latin America excluding France Total Corporate income tax (353) (366) (25) (744) In addition, the Group’s insurance companies in France paid beyond the list of countries prohibited as part of the ﬁght against more than €800 million in taxes on behalf of policyholders money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing and non-cooperation in in 2016. tax matters to include countries identiﬁed as tax havens based on the Tax Justice Network indices, as well as those posing Exclusion of sensitive countries serious problems with regard to democracy, human rights and corruption, as determined by Freedom House and Transparency CNP Assurances formalised its policy of excluding offshore International. ﬁnancial centres at the end of 2014. In line with its commitment as a responsible insurer and investor, and its status as a public All operations in these countries are excluded, and purchases company, CNP Assurances has drawn up a list of prohibited are prohibited across all asset segments. The divestment of the countries covering all of its activities, extending the exclusion remaining assets is planned by 2017. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 23 Be an attractive employer By promoting each employee’s professional development as W Priority No. 1: develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy. part of a Human Resources planning process, CNP Assurances develops the skills that will make the Group successful today and W Priority No. 2: create a working environment that fosters well-being and performance. tomorrow. The Group’s active professional equality policy is used to train young people, notably through combined work-study W Priority No. 3: pursue a robust policy on gender equality in programmes, to help people with disabilities enter the workforce the workplace. and to promote gender equality within teams. I Priority No. 1: develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy The Human Resources planning process, initiated in 2014 and The Human Resources planning agreement irrigates a wide range involving all stakeholders, took shape in the autumn of 2016 of HR policies, including three-year employment management, with the signing of CNP Assurances’ maiden Human Resources career development and management training. planning agreement. HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING PRUDENT EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT Number of Group employees The CNP Assurances Group had a total of 5,035 employees at 31 December 2016, representing an increase of 4.8% compared with 2015 (at constant scope). Headcount by entity √ Country 2016 2015 2014 CNP Assurances France 2,992 3,006 3,009 Caixa Seguradora group Brazil 1,179 863 799 CNP UniCredit Vita Italy 170 163 163 CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Cyprus/Greece 284 285 283 CNP Partners Spain, Italy, France 204 176 164 MFPrévoyance France 75 76 76 CNP Santander Insurance Ireland, Italy 61 44 CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros Argentina 62 65 69 CNP Europe Life Ireland 8 8 10 CONSOLIDATED TOTAL GROUP 5,035 4,740 4,705 √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance CNP Assurances manages its workforce carefully in line with W constant vigilance in replacing people who leave the Company, its Human Resources planning process. CNP Assurances’ depending on changes within the Company, in a constrained permanent workforce contracted by 0.9% in 2016, although and swiftly changing economic environment; targeted recruitments and higher qualiﬁcations mean that this did not undermine the Group’s capacity to continue growing in line W external recruitment targeting new or speciﬁc technical and commercial skills relating to digital and skills-based with its strategy. developments and changes in our growth strategy; The decline in the permanent workforce resulted from contrasting trends: W an active policy of internal mobility, with most vacant positions ﬁlled by internal candidates. W a persistently sizeable number of retirements in view of the age structure and changes in regulations relating to pensions; 24 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Caixa Seguradora data now include its Odonto subsidiary, and 2016. For CNP Santander Insurance, the increase reﬂects which explains the increase in its workforce between 2015 business growth. Characteristics of the Group’s workforce 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Percentage of employees with permanent employment contracts √ 96% 96% 0% 98% Percentage of women √ 59% 60% -2% 100% Average age of permanent employees 43.2 years 43.4 years -0.5% 100% √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance Virtually all of the Group’s employees (98%) are covered by local insurance industry collective bargaining agreements. Age pyramid √ 65 and over 60-64 55-59 50-54 45-49 40-44 35-39 30-34 25-29 20-24 Under 20 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 2016 2015 √ Date reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance CNP Assurances’ workforce includes 117 civil servants seconded manage the workforce in a more constrained environment that from Caisse des Dépôts, 60% of whom have management status. requires more careful management of internal career paths and The average length of service within the Group is 13 years, and to capitalise on in-house knowledge and expertise. This policy is is stable compared with 2015. reﬂected by the fact that the vast majority of vacant positions are ﬁlled by drawing on the skills available within the organisation. With the age pyramid showing a mean age of 46.2 years for Any skills that are lacking are recruited externally. employees with permanent contracts, CNP Assurances strives to employ young people and retain seniors. The share of young As such, internal mobility is boosted by helping employees to people in the workforce is edging up, while the rate of employees develop and implement their career plans, particularly those who aged over 55 exceeds 21%. The end-of-career measurement wish to pursue a degree (see page 27 on training) or those who included in the Human Resources planning agreement will wish to move to or train for a new position. In 2016, 68% of increase CNP Assurances’ visibility on projected retirements in permanent positions were ﬁlled by internal candidates, leaving coming years, thereby increasing its capacity to manage the scope for external hiring to strengthen core skills in order to ﬁll transition. new positions or open up new areas of development (high-end digital skills), or to secure processes and comply with tougher A targeted hiring policy for CNP Assurances regulatory requirements. CNP Assurances has for several years had a policy focused on internal mobility. Its twofold objective is to combine the need to 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 25 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER In 2016, most of the positions open to external candidates With a view to ensuring growth in digital technologies, related to sales, ﬁnance, policy management, actuarial analysis, CNP Assurances increased its visibility as an employer brand risk management and compliance. on social networks in 2016, and is now present on LinkedIn, Twitter and Viadeo. It has also integrated the practice of remote job interviews. Entries into the Group 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Number of new hires √ 651 535 +22% 100% Percentage of new hires with permanent employment contracts 73% 67% +9% 100% √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance Departures from the Group 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Total departures √ 440 462 -5% 100% W dismissals √ 95 88 +8% 100% W terminations by mutual agreement 14 21 -33% 100% W resignations 112 125 -10% 100% W retirements 67 64 +5% 100% W departures at the end of ﬁxed-term contracts 137 154 -11% 100% Turnover rate √ 5.8% 6.4% -9% 98% √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance Turnover within the Group’s entities reﬂects varying situations. It their career development. Various mechanisms are in place to is low at CNP Assurances (4.1%), and declined within several make each employee an actor in his or her skills development, entities in 2016. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, for to foster dynamic career management and to ensure that the age instance, saw the rate slow from 22% in 2015 to 13%, while structure remains unconstrained. CNP Partners logged a drop from 13% to 5% (a rate which is well below the 2015 average for the Spanish insurance sector, Constant monitoring of changes to jobs which was 8.12%). CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings reported a Analysis of the impact on jobs of the Group’s growth strategy turnover rate of 3%, the same as in 2015, despite the economic and economic, regulatory, technological (particularly via process climate. More than one departure of a permanent employee digitisation) and socio-demographic changes has allowed stable out of every two at CNP Assurances was a retirement, which is jobs not exposed to noteworthy change to be ring-fenced from consistent with the age structure. those in which signiﬁcant quantitative or qualitative changes have been observed or are likely within a three-year timeframe. Mergers/acquisitions/disposals/restructuring Jobs deﬁned at being “at risk” receive special attention, As part of the merger between AG2R La Mondiale and depending on whether the underlying challenge is to learn CNP Assurances, 31 employees were seconded to new skills within the Company, to upgrade skills or to redeploy Arial CNP Assurances. employees. All affected employees receive personalised support. Under the Pergolesi project, all employees at the Italian branch CNP Italia on 31 May 2016 were transferred to the CNP Partners The construction of career paths group as of 1 June 2016 through the transfer of individual Alongside the stated policy of opening vacant positions to internal employment contracts between the two companies, with the prior candidates, the professional development of all employees is consent of each employee. backed up by a set of mechanisms focused on making each employee an actor in his or her own skills development. Every year, managers are asked to conduct a performance review with SKILLS DEVELOPMENT – CONTINUOUS INVESTMENT each member of their team. IN LINE WITH CHANGES TO JOBS Across the Group, 92% of employees had a performance The Human Resources planning agreement lists the commitments review in 2016. At CNP Assurances, for instance, the annual made by CNP Assurances to develop the skills essential to the appraisal interview, now paperless, is a special opportunity for implementation of its strategy and to support its employees in dialogue between manager and employee. It allows participants 26 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER to summarise the events of the past year, to highlight strengths In order to update the skills base, CNP Assurances supports its and areas for improvement, and to agree on expectations and employees in developing their career paths and drawing up objectives for the coming year. training plans. In 2016, it focused on management professions and managerial skills. Employees’ professional practices are key At CNP Assurances, in 2016 323 employees beneﬁted from in this approach. internal mobility and 110 were promoted. Sustained efforts to bolster the professional skills of employees and managers 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Number of training hours 112,055 103,346 +8% 100% Percentage of employees who received training 84% 88% -5% 100% At CNP Assurances, the total number of training hours was stable sales and marketing, personal development, management skills in 2016 compared with 2015, despite the non-inclusion this and languages. In addition, during the last four years, targeted year of training delivered within the framework of the qualitative training initiatives have been organised to expand the risk criterion in the incentive agreement, which provides for an management skills base. Individual training needs and requests awareness/training module on a negotiated topic. are generally discussed during annual performance reviews. Group training needs are analysed when the annual training The development of employees’ skills is central to CNP Assurances’ plans are drawn up. priorities, as a means of capitalising on its image and expertise, and facilitating internal mobility. This is evidenced by training Since 2015, the Caixa Seguradora group has offered training budgets, which average approximately 5% of the payroll. programmes in behavioural studies, in organisational culture and In 2016, almost 75% of employees attended a training course, in an online course system. and 43 employees were able to work towards a diploma, with In 2016, CNP Partners developed training courses in a view to achieving their professional goals. Over the past two project management, IT security and management following years, nearly 4% of permanent employees across all levels of the the establishment of working groups with employees. Company and all areas have beneﬁted from individual training CNP UniCredit Vita also continues to provide mandatory leading to a diploma. training, notably in the ﬁelds of anti-money laundering, ethics and At CNP Assurances, training provided in 2016 covered: compliance. The number of training hours increased considerably in Cyprus due to the delivery of two mandatory training courses W managerial topics, including the launch of the ﬁrst class of the for all staff (anti-money laundering and IT security). new management training course for the digital age (ULM); W support for the implementation of strategic development and for the commercial business lines and the associated customer USE OF OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS – relationship workshops; training for new CRM tools and LIMITED AND SUPERVISED OUTSOURCING products; and particular support this year for management proﬁles through technical insurance training; CNP Assurances makes limited use of outside contractors for noncore business activities. There are 44 security staff, 65 cleaners W personal skills training for employees through a range of cross(regional ofﬁces included), 23 maintenance workers and nine cutting courses. receptionists. The total was 149 people, compared with 157 An online training platform was launched in the autumn of 2016. in 2015. IT operations have been transferred to an intercompany At the end of the year, 38 training courses had been delivered partnership established in 2012 (CNP TI), which employs to various audiences via this channel. Their content was varied, 367 people. ranging from anti-money laundering to support for people The use of temporary staff has increased in volume since 2015 with disabilities to events in the life of contracts in individual to support internal teams in the many changes planned within management. the Company. Lastly, the 2016 incentive scheme resulted in further awareness Use of outside contractors is largely conﬁned to the raising for all employees about digital culture via a MOOC Caixa Seguradora group and CNP Partners, which outsource deployed in partnership with the Caisse des Dépôts. their IT operations (249 contractors). Like CNP Assurances, both Elsewhere in the Group, more people received training in all entities ensure that the employees concerned are accorded the entities in 2016. The main training areas were insurance full protection of applicable labour legislation (see page 21 – techniques and Solvency II, followed by computer/ofﬁce systems, Be a responsible purchaser). 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 27 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Priority No. 2: create a working environment that fosters well-being and performance The Group’s Human Resources policy focuses consistently on and proﬁt-sharing. In 2016, CNP UniCredit Vita signed an developing conditions that foster employee well-being at work agreement with union representatives on variable bonuses and and promoting personal enrichment and group performance. It the Caixa Seguradora group signed a proﬁt-sharing agreement. relies on a signiﬁcant social component and the deployment of Spending on social matters for Group employees represented personalised support measures for employees, and employee/ 1.5% of the payroll in 2016. employer relations combining a variety of channels. The European dimension EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER RELATIONS COMBINING The European Works Council met twice in 2016 to present the A VARIETY OF CHANNELS report on the Group’s activities, projects and results. CNP Assurances’ focus on managerial Employee representation and protection communication Social dialogue is a priority throughout the CNP Assurances Group. Since 2015, four principles of action, namely initiative, creativity, There is at least one employee representative in all subsidiaries customer focus and trust, have guided the behaviour of managers except CNP Europe Life, which has only eight employees, and and their teams. the new subsidiary CNP Santander Insurance, acquired in 2014, which has 61 employees. The Caixa Seguradora group does In addition to the HR Intranet, which centralises information not have a staff delegate. However, in accordance with the from the Group on its various Human Resources activities, rules set out in the union of insurance workers’ agreement, an managerial communication is crucial for fostering relations with employee representative and the union president participate in employees. Over the last three years, CNP Assurances has rolled meetings between employee and management representatives. out a number of initiatives to promote the role of managers and Ninety-eight percent of the Group’s employees are covered by help them to communicate with their teams. As such, various an insurance industry collective bargaining agreement (except management circles have been identiﬁed and communication in Ireland and for some employees in Argentina due to local processes established. They include conference calls with regulations). A total of 120 meetings between employees and the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, special seminars and employee management were held at the Group’s various entities. discussion forums. In 2016, the CEO twice had the opportunity to take part in online chats with all employees. Working with employee representative bodies In 2016, a new management approach was rolled out to all at CNP Assurances employees, called “Dialog” in reference to the principle it In keeping with CNP Assurances’ tradition and past agreements promotes. Based on a short questionnaire containing eight on union rights, the Human Resources department maintains questions focused on each employee’s experience at work, this regular, high-quality dialogue with the various employee agile approach encourages managers to open dialogue three representative bodies (National and European Works Councils, times a year with their teams on eight different dimensions of employee representatives and Occupational Health, Safety and quality of work life, as they relate to expected performance. Working Conditions Committee) and with union representatives, From the very outset of the campaign, and to help managers giving due consideration to the roles of everyone involved and appropriate the process, 23 workshops bringing together going beyond compliance with regulatory requirements. 143 managers were held in December. This support will continue with each campaign throughout 2017. Employee representative elections were held at CNP Assurances in the autumn of 2016. PREVENTION OF PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS Agreements to improve employment conditions AND PROMOTION OF SUPPORT SYSTEMS CNP Assurances has agreements covering the main areas, AT CNP ASSURANCES including classiﬁcation and remuneration through the labour adjustment agreement, working hours (ARTT agreement), As a service company, CNP Assurances has paid particular gender equality, employees with disabilities, union resources, attention to preventing stress and psychosocial risks over the psychosocial risks, a PERCO voluntary pension plan and proﬁtlast ten years. Through its various managerial training and sharing. In 2016, CNP Assurances signed a new discretionary other more speciﬁc initiatives (in-house social mediation, outside proﬁt-sharing agreement, an agreement on Human Resources counselling available to all employees, independent occupational planning and agreements relating to the coverage of healthcare health service, etc.), it has created an environment that helps costs for managers and non-managers. limit the occurrence of situations of risk. Since 2016, the new management training offer has included a chapter on “quality MFPrévoyance signed an intergenerational contract in 2016. of work life and prevention of psychosocial risks” offered by the It has 14 collective agreements covering such key social issues Human Resources department. as working hours, the exercise of union rights, work-life balance 28 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER CNP Assurances remains attentive to trends in business conduct, MULTIPLE INITIATIVES IN EACH SUBSIDIARY both in terms of information systems and expected behaviour – as regards digitisation for instance – in a changing work All CEOs worldwide follow stress management training. The environment. The results of the 2012-2015 agreement with trade Caixa Seguradora group has developed broad well-being at unions on this subject highlight the actions taken to identify, work programmes, and organises a “health in the workplace” prevent and manage psychosocial risks, including support for week every year. It also has an internal committee tasked organisational change, communication processes that ensure with preventing accidents, identifying risks and implementing fairness in Human Resources practices, and opportunities for preventive actions. telecommuting subject to certain conditions. MFPrévoyance’s Occupational Health, Safety and Working In addition, the in-house mediation service aims to prevent and Conditions Committee pays particular attention to psychosocial deal with allegations of harassment and discrimination, stress risks, and a special training course has been included in the and everyday conﬂicts. In 2016, it received approximately management training programme. CNP Assurances Compañia 40 referrals concerning requests for advice and support. de Seguros’ code of ethics provides for the implementation of Lastly, all employees also have 24/7 access to a toll-free hotline accident and occupational illness prevention programmes. (Filassistance) all year round if they need to talk to someone. The subsidiary also assesses its workplace health monitoring programme annually. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings has a In 2016, CNP Assurances initiated negotiations on the quality of team dedicated to regularly communicating on workplace health work life aimed notably at factoring in its commitments in terms and safety risks, and has supported the Ministry of Labour’s of psychosocial risks, the right to disconnect and professional “health and safety week” for several years. CNP UniCredit Vita equality. A telecommuting experiment is also underway. introduced stress management workshops in 2016, organised by a group of volunteer employees. Lastly, a mutual insurer The “Dialog” approach described above (see section page 28) covers occupational risk prevention measures for CNP Partners now contributes to this vigilance on working conditions. employees. ORGANISATION OF WORKING HOURS Annual number of hours Annual working hours within the Group range from 1,575 to 2,007, depending on local legislation. At CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance, full-time corresponds to 1,575 hours per year (ARTT agreement of November 2001). 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Percentage of employees working part time 13% 14% -7% 100% Number of overtime hours 31,122 30,534 +2% 100% Percentage of overtime hours 0.37% 0.38% -3% 100% Overtime hours doubled at MFPrévoyance due to the migration balance and organise their working hours in accordance with their of the management IT system and a period of heightened activity professional obligations. resulting from the renegotiation of loan rates. In 2016, CNP UniCredit Vita experimented with a new way of working, called smart working. Its aim is to increase productivity Development of part-time work and ﬂexitime while promoting a better work-life balance. The experiment involved Apart from one employee at CNP Partners, all employees who allowing beneﬁciaries to work from a place of their choice four work part time within the Group’s entities choose to do so. At days every six months. This could be their home, a private place Group level, part-time employees represent 13% of the workforce. (a friend’s house, a holiday house) or a co-working space located For CNP Assurances, 20.9% of the employees worked part time anywhere in the country. Each employee is provided with the in 2016, with almost all of them choosing to work 80% or more necessary technology to work remotely. The results of these analyses of the total working time. Part-time employees are entitled to all were presented to the Executive Committee and then to internal of the same beneﬁts as full-time employees. trade union organisations. In addition, 63.6% of the workforce at CNP Assurances have CNP Partners has also set up a telecommuting experiment personalised working hours to help them achieve a better work-life following the signing of an agreement. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 29 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER REMUNERATION Average annual Average gross salary by country (permanent employees) 2016 2015 Change increase by country France (1) EUR 58,795 EUR 57,698 +2% 0.49% (2) Brazil BRL 78,946 BRL 66,029 +19% 10.6% Italy EUR 55,911 EUR 55,008 +2% 0% Cyprus/Greece EUR 36,837 EUR 37,133 -1% 0% Spain EUR 50,913 EUR 49,099 +4% 2.6% Ireland EUR 68,153 EUR 66,933 +2% 1.5% Argentina ARS 516,618 ARS 382,680 +35% 35% (1) CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance (2) The increase is in part the result of a change in the calculation method For the consolidated CNP Assurances Group, the average pay In 2016, the Group’s remuneration policy was revisited in the rise was 3% across the Board, with variations among countries context of Solvency II to integrate the “Fit and Proper” standards. due to inﬂation, particularly in Argentina. A report detailing the remuneration and beneﬁts received during At CNP Assurances, €6,494,775 was paid out under the the year was issued to every employee at CNP Assurances discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan in 2016, €17,960,483 under in 2016. This report is now a key component of HR policy. the statutory proﬁt-sharing plan, and €446,778 in proﬁt-related Through its customised information, it reﬂects the Company’s bonuses to seconded civil servants. All CNP Assurances and determination to make its remuneration and beneﬁts policy MFPrévoyance employees are covered by supplementary health comprehensible, as part of its commitment to its employees. and death/disability insurance, a separate long-term care In 2016, an electronic safe that can be used to store paperless insurance policy and a life insurance/pension plan with matching payslips and employees’ other administrative documents was employer contributions. They are also eligible to participate in a made available to all staff at CNP Assurances. “time savings account” and invest in a PERCO voluntary pension plan. At 31 December 2016, CNP Assurances employees (excluding seconded civil servants) had invested €104,646,600 in employee savings plans. A total of 1,448 employees held registered shares, of whom 1,171 via the employee savings plan, representing 0.21% of share capital. HEALTH AND SAFETY CNP Assurances has an autonomous health service. In 2016, it implemented new software incorporating digitised medical records. Absenteeism The Group absenteeism rate fell slightly in 2016. 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Absenteeism rate 6.20% 6.35% -2% 100% Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave 5.21% 5.39% -3% 100% 30 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Health and safety There were no deaths resulting from a workplace accident or occupational illness in 2016. 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Number of workplace accidents (with or without lost time) 28 28 +0% 100% Occupational illnesses 1 0 n.m. 100% NUMBER OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS WITHIN THE GROUP Similar initiatives are organised by Caixa Seguradora, including 34 consultations with an on-site nutritionist, assessments of the 33 30 30 programme to prevent workplace risks, and on-site medical 28 28 check-ups. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings has teams in both Cyprus and Greece responsible for informing employees about 23 health and safety risks. CNP UniCredit Vita uses as a reference 19 18 an important Italian law that lays down a strict health and safety framework in the workplace. CNP Partners has outsourced the prevention of health and safety risks to a specialised mutual insurer. Workplace health and safety agreements In all, 98% of the Group’s employees are covered by collective 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 agreements dealing with the main health and safety issues. The Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Almost all workplace accidents took place at CNP Assurances, Committee acts on behalf of all CNP Assurances’ employees and two-thirds of them resulted in lost time. as well as outside service providers working on its premises. It The lost-time accident frequency rate for 2015 measured by meets once a month. Every year, a programme is drawn up to Cramif Ile-de-France was 3.58% for Paris (up signiﬁcantly prevent risks and improve working conditions. A member of the year-on-year), with a severity rate of 0.23%. The rate for 2016 Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee will not be published by Cramif until later in 2017. is now the point person on psychosocial risks and meets with the in-house mediation team at least once a quarter. Another member CNP Assurances is committed to ensuring the health and safety is in charge of a prevention plan for outside service providers. of its employees. Numerous health improvement programmes In 2016, agreements concluded with the trade unions on the have been established by Group entities: CNP Assurances coverage of healthcare costs resulted in the existing scheme has an Occupational Health department on each of its main being made compliant with regulations. sites, and offers employees additional preventative care from specialist doctors. A social worker is also available during ofﬁce In addition to supplementary health insurance, CNP Assurances hours. The Company’s training programme includes road safety employees are covered by death/disability insurance with an training modules for travelling insurance advisors. Prevention optional long-term care formula. Collective agreements with programmes are organised on a regular basis, and include ﬂu MFPrévoyance’s Occupational Health, Safety and Working vaccination campaigns. Conditions Committee also include supplementary health and death/disability insurance. CNP Partners also has an Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee, which met twice in 2016. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 31 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Priority No. 3: pursue a robust policy on gender equality in the workplace Timeline Intergenerational First commitment action plan Agreement on gender to diversity created equality extended 1995 2009 2013 2014 2015 Diversity Label Seventh agreement awarded on the integration of people with disabilities A STRONG GROUP-WIDE POLICY W in accordance with the agreement, employee representatives who devote more than half of their working time to these CNP Assurances is dedicated to integrating young people and duties receive a salary increase each year at least equal to the people with disabilities into the workplace, supporting people average of the individual pay rises of all the employees in their with disabilities and promoting professional equality. It also professional category. constantly strives to prevent all forms of discrimination. A continuous improvement initiative: every year an internal CNP Assurances received the Seal of Diversity in 2009 for its Diversity Steering Committee, put in place in 2010 at clear diversity and anti-discrimination policy, and has consistently CNP Assurances, reviews the actions undertaken in each managed to keep the distinction since then. The status study area of the business to ensure that consistent policies are conducted in 2015, prior to the audit for the renewal of the Seal applied throughout the organisation. Career management and of Diversity, conﬁrmed the degree of maturity attained by the performance review processes uphold the principle of nonCompany in the implementation of its policy to promote diversity discrimination. Conferences on the Arcueil and Angers sites and prevent discrimination. helped managers understand and become aware of stereotypes and how to combat them. Over 300 managers received training, This policy is based in particular on three company agreements particularly on equal opportunity in hiring. Various mechanisms on gender equality, disabilities and union resources, as well as have been put in place to ensure that application of the diversity an action plan on the intergenerational contract initiative. policy is regularly monitored and an annual diversity report is The results of this policy are illustrated not only by the Seal of presented to employee representatives. Diversity but also by several indicators: A commitment applied across the Group: the commitment to W in 2016, CNP Assurances rose from eighth (2015 ranking) ﬁghting discrimination is shared across the Group, and features to second place in the annual list of French companies with in the Caixa Seguradora group’s code of ethics and conduct, the highest proportion of women executives (number one and in CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros’ code of ethics. in the insurance sector) published by the Ministry of Social CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings’ code of service addresses Affairs, Health and Women’s Rights, which highlights the most the issues of discrimination, privacy, freedom of religion, and advanced companies in terms of gender equality; respect for each employee. A collective agreement on this subject was also signed by MFPrévoyance in 2011. A working group W on disability, employees with disabilities represented 7.36% to promote diversity at UniCredit Vita once again implemented of CNP Assurances’ workforce at 31 December 2016, an numerous initiatives, including dedicated training, in 2016. increase of nearly 1 percentage point compared with 2015. In late 2014, it signed its seventh internal agreement on this subject with three union organisations for 2015-2018 – a testimony to its enduring commitment; 32 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Proportion of female management-grade staff 50% 50% 0% 100% Proportion of female senior executives √ 33% 33% 0% 99% Average male/female income ratio by category 110% 109% * +1% 98% * The 2015 data have been recalculated due to a methodological difference compared with previous years. The level has remained unchanged since 2014 √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance CNP Assurances constantly strives to reduce any observed group. Continuing the actions taken in the previous year, the gender gaps in remuneration and promotion. Company pursued its active membership of both networks in 2016. At 31 December 2016, 44% of Board members were women. The proportion of women directors has increased steadily in After signing the corporate parenthood charter in 2012 and recent years, and women now also occupy 38% of positions joining the Corporate Parenthood Observatory in 2013, on the Executive Committee. To advance the cause of women CNP Assurances held a Family Day at its headquarters for the ﬁrst in the workplace, CNP Assurances belongs to Financi’Elles, a time in 2016. Aimed at strengthening ties between employees network for female management-grade employees in banking, and managers through parenthood and helping facilitate change ﬁnance and insurance, and Alter Égales, the network for female in the representations of parenthood in corporate settings, it was management-grade employees within the Caisse des Dépôts a successful initiative attended by 150 children and their parents. THE EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Number of employees with disabilities 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Number of employees with disabilities (permanent employment contracts) 160 140 +14% 99% CNP Assurances’ disability programme has now been in in 2016. As of 2016, CNP Partners employs two people with place for 20 years. During these years, the Company has disabilities. implemented a proactive policy to help people with disabilities enter the workforce. A seventh agreement was signed in 2014, committing the Company to helping people with disabilities enter FIGHTING AGE DISCRIMINATION and stay in the workforce over a period of four years from 2015 to 2018. Including the 141 disabled employees on permanent contracts (up 13.7% compared with 2015) and the employees Hiring young people of the 199 sheltered workshops used by the Company, the CNP Assurances makes every effort to help young people to ﬁnd proportion of disabled employees was 7.36% of the workforce employment. In 2016, permanent employees aged under 25 at 31 December 2016. accounted for 3.6% of the workforce, a slight increase on the previous year. The Human Resources planning agreement sets Disabled access audits have been conducted at all out the Company’s commitments to employ young people for CNP Assurances’ facilities, in liaison with the Occupational permanent positions and on combined work-study programmes. Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee. An In 2016, CNP Assurances continued the efforts that it has made accessibility audit carried out in 2011 at the two main Paris sites in this area over recent years, hiring 12 young people aged found that they were respectively 77% and 73% accessible to the under 25 on permanent contracts, a hundred on combined disabled. In 2014, before CNP Assurances employees moved work-study contracts and 73 as interns. MFPrévoyance signed into a new building in Paris, an accessibility audit was carried a new intergenerational contract with employee representatives out and the audit recommendations were implemented. in 2016. The Caixa Seguradora group frequently uses organisations that promote employment of people with disabilities to circulate job Employing seniors offers. It develops awareness initiatives to help teams welcome The Human Resources planning agreement is based on the goals these employees, and has also established partnerships with set for hiring or retaining seniors previously laid down in the institutions that support their integration. At CNP UniCredit Vita, intergenerational contract. CNP Assurances had 29 seniors employees with disabilities represented 5.4% of the workforce on ﬁxed-term contracts at end-2016. Seventeen seniors with expertise were hired in 2016. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 33 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER PROMOTING DIVERSITY THROUGH Awareness initiatives and training are conducted to ﬁght COMMUNICATION stereotypes, prejudice, discriminatory language and attitudes, and to convince employees of the advantages of having a The internal diversity communication plan is reviewed annually. diversity policy. To maintain this momentum, which is now well Employees may also report any complaints or problems involving entrenched, the “40 minutes to understand discrimination” selfsuspected or actual discrimination. The procedure is available training module, originally released in 2011 as part of the on the Intranet. Various articles on the implementation of the incentive campaign, has been updated. It is distributed to all diversity policy, as well as external links, are also available on new arrivals. the CNP Intranet. I Compliance with and promotion of the fundamental ILO conventions In keeping with their commitment to the Global Compact, that employee representatives enjoy the same training and CNP Assurances, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, the promotion opportunities as other staff members. Caixa Seguradora group and CNP UniCredit Vita ensure that Furthermore, compliance with ILO standards is reﬂected in laws and regulations are complied with in each country where dealings with suppliers and their own subcontractors (see they operate. page 22), the inclusion of CSR criteria in the investment strategy All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles of (81% of ﬁnancial assets of the French entities, 100% of the respect for human rights, freedom of association and the right Brazilian entity, 46% in Italy) and the management of property to collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and assets. the promotion of equal opportunity. Each one submits an Annual Report on their HR performance to the parent company, with a special focus on these four criteria. Measures guaranteeing THE ABOLITION OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY respect for civil and political rights at CNP Assurances include LABOUR AND EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD the Company’s internal code of conduct, the appointment of LABOUR a liaison ofﬁcer for dealings with the French data protection agency (CNIL) and agreements on union rights. Neither CNP Assurances nor its subsidiaries are directly concerned by forced or child labour. However, the Group pays Employees are covered by an insurance industry collective particularly close attention to this issue in its purchasing policy bargaining agreement (excluding Ireland and certain categories (see page 21). in Argentina due to local regulations). CNP Assurances ensures I Building employee awareness of sustainable development issues through training Sustainable development challenges are the subject of on eco-driving. In 2015, 900 employees took part in an awareness/training initiatives to embed them in the corporate interactive serious game on issues related to the environmental culture and everyday practices. and energy transition. In 2016, a conference was held in Paris for all employees on the results of a study on the life-cycle assessment of an insurance product; AWARENESS RAISING W in 2016, a toy drive in favour of charity Rejoué was organised during Sustainable Development Week on CNP Assurances Several Group entities have a section on their Intranet dedicated sites (Paris, Arcueil, Angers). The toys collected were to sustainable development. For several years, regular events and subsequently given to underprivileged children at a Christmas activities have been organised in each entity to raise employee charity event. On top of the items collected from employees, the awareness about sustainable development challenges: Company made a donation to Rejoué, as well as to Iniciativa W each year, CNP Assurances organises competitions, surveys Verde, an NGO working in favour of the reforestation of the and conferences, shares guidelines and raises awareness Atlantic forest; 34 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER W the 2016 Responsible Finance Week was marked by the TRAINING publication of information on current affairs via the Intranet: video to raise awareness on the concept of ethical investments CNP Assurances offered 25 employees two half-day workshops in employee savings plans, results of an online survey of on responsible investment in 2016. Generation Y members on responsible investment, and integration of ESG and climate issues into asset management; The Caixa Seguradora group offers e-learning courses on socio-environmental responsibility for all staff, with 878 people W the 2015 Sustainable Development Week was also an trained in 2016. In Argentina, all employees received training opportunity to raise employee awareness on the issue of or attended lectures at monthly staff meetings on such issues as discrimination in employment through the launch of our waste sorting, mobility, microinsurance and the UN sustainable partnership with “Our Neighbourhoods Have Talent” (Nos development goals. quartiers ont des talents NQT). This association connects young graduates from priority or disadvantaged neighbourhoods CNP UniCredit Vita continued to provide diversity training during with volunteer sponsors in the Company. Their aim is to help the year and also offered courses on CSR, ethics and responsible and guide them in their search for their ﬁrst job; ﬁnance. In 2016, it also launched its ﬁrst digital laboratory, under the name “CSR and digital strategy”, in collaboration W various awareness campaigns focused on eco-gestures within with the University of Milan. The project’s dual purpose was to the Group’s entities: MFPrévoyance raised its employees’ train young talents on issues related to CSR and the world of awareness about waste sorting. The Caixa Seguradora group insurance, and to raise employee awareness on the importance rolls out intense employee awareness campaigns every year of sustainable development in corporate strategy. Students and and in 2016 focused its efforts on electronic waste and plastic staff worked together to come up with a project, which they then cups. CNP UniCredit Vita created an online campaign to presented to the Executive Committee. The most innovative ideas encourage its employees to reduce energy, paper and water were chosen to form the foundations of a new commercial offer. consumption, and holds monthly diversity workshops. In Argentina, the “Multiplicar” programme established in 2015 aims to reinforce responsible employee behaviour through awareness raising and training; W MFPrévoyance hosts a “Quality of Work Life” page on its Intranet. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 35 Foster a sustainable society and environment Every year, when renewing their membership of the UN Global and the Caixa Seguros Institute underscore the importance the Compact, CNP Assurances and its main signatory subsidiaries Group places on its impact on the world around it. conﬁrm their determination to manage their impact on civil society and the environment. W Priority No. 1: optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings. The implementation of environmental policies within the Group, the desire to disclose its environmental impact on a very W Priority No. 2: reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products. comprehensive basis, the annual monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and the activity of the CNP Assurances Foundation W Priority No. 3: manage the local impact. I Priority No. 1: optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings Reducing the environmental footprint is a goal shared across the CNP UniCredit Vita entrusts its approach to the CSR department entire CNP Assurances Group. Its main focus is managing the tasked with handling environmental issues in collaboration three major sources of direct emissions: business travel, ofﬁce with other services, including the L’Orto delle idee (formerly building management and paper use. Employees have adopted Green Group) ideas laboratory, which is made up of volunteer a number of waste-sorting practices. Similarly, train travel is employees. Since 2013, key CSR indicators have been included being used more instead of air travel, and video conferencing in the Company’s management reports. has become another regular habit. The Caixa Seguradora group set up a Sustainable Development Committee in 2007 to address environmental issues. This Committee, comprising 11 representatives from various sectors STRUCTURES FOR ADDRESSING within the group, is led by the Chairman of the group’s Executive ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Committee. The initiatives in the environmental programme help to instil a culture of sustainable development within the group. Environmental issues are handled locally with a system structured in accordance with the size of the entity. Group subsidiaries report to the parent company on their environmental performance GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AUDIT on an annual basis. CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. It assists the CNP Assurances’ greenhouse gas emissions support departments in charge of environmental issues, namely CNP Assurances’ emissions of CO2 equivalent have been purchasing, workplace environment and property investment. monitored for six years. Since 2012, they have been measured The Building Management department monitors regulatory in accordance with Article 75 of France’s Grenelle II law of developments. Each year an external audit ﬁrm prepares an 12 July 2010. In 2016, ADEME very signiﬁcantly revised the assessment of regulatory compliance and a monitoring tool for baseline emission factors used for the audit. As such, to highlight equipment at risk. variations between 2015 and 2016, the chart below shows the 2016 emissions measured with the same method as in 2015 and To mark the launch of its new “Multiplicar” CSR policy, the 2016 emissions measured using the new method. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has established a Sustainability Committee comprising employees who take part in the development of proposals for action. 36 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT CNP ASSURANCES GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (IN T.CO2EQ.) 2,673 Scope 1 Direct emissions 2,394 2,379 2,246 Scope 2 Indirect emissions 2,594 related to energy use 2,265 Scope 3 16,485 Other indirect emissions 17,153 assets *) 28,770 * See page 42 2015 2016 at constant methodology 2016 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are immaterial. Even after For other indirect emissions (Scope 3, excluding ﬁnancial assets), optimisation efforts, their volatility is inevitable: lower direct 93% of the gap between 2015 and 2016 stemmed from the GHG emissions (Scope 1) are the result of the renegotiation of upward revaluation (between 200% and 300%) of emission the contract with EDF in connection with the supply of fuel oil to factors associated with services and the provision of intellectual Parisian generators. The slight increase in indirect GHG emissions services. At constant methodology, Scope 3 emissions would related to energy use (Scope 2) is attributable to climate events. have amounted to 17,153 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2016, a level close to that of 2015. Major emissions sources at CNP Assurances 2016 emissions for Share in total CNP Assurances emissions Level of uncertainty Purchase of services and provision of intellectual services (Scope 3) 17,690 t.CO2eq. 53% High (> 50%) Computer hardware (Scope 3) 3,376 t.CO2eq. 10% Average (20-50%) Business travel (Scopes 1 and 3) 3,030 t.CO2eq. 9% Low (< 20%) Energy (Scope 2) 2,265 t.CO2eq. 7% Low (< 20%) Paper (Scope 3) 735 t.CO2eq. 2% Low (< 20%) TOTAL 81% Other than the proportion attributable to the purchase of services ANALYSIS OF THE MAIN SOURCES OF GREENHOUSE and the provision of intellectual services, the key sources of GAS EMISSIONS AND ACTION TAKEN TO REDUCE CNP Assurances’ emissions are the use of computer hardware, THEM business travel and the consumption of electricity and paper. These emissions sources are consistent for a company operating in the service industries. Business travel Car travel is a big part of CNP Assurances’ carbon footprint. Detailed information by source as reported to the French As the potential economic and environmental gain is signiﬁcant, authorities is available in French at www.cnp.fr. In addition, training and awareness campaigns on road risks and eco-driving CNP Assurances has reported its greenhouse gas emissions to were established for all employees in 2013. In 2014, new the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2005. employees in the sales network attended speciﬁc personalised modules. Caixa Seguradora group’s greenhouse gas emissions Expanding video conferencing The Caixa Seguradora group’s carbon footprint, measured in The use of video and audio conferencing is now widespread terms of emissions related to business travel and buildings (based within the Group to limit business travel. The Caixa Seguradora on the GHG Protocol), totalled 2.07 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per group encourages its employees to reduce travel and to use any employee. With its emissions offset by reforestation in the Atlantic alternatives available to them. Since 2013, CNP UniCredit Vita forest carried out with Iniciativa Verde, Caixa Seguros Holding has included tracking indicators for video and audio conferencing has earned Carbon Free certiﬁcation for several years in a row. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 37 FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT hours, as well as for air and train travel, in its quarterly report Commuting presented to the Management Committee. As part of its Business Travel Plan, CNP Assurances updated the In 2016, 15,470 hours of video conferencing were recorded commuting survey in 2013. Commuting by car was down (by across the Group, an increase of 32%. between 9% and 30% depending on the site), while journeys by motorcycle or scooter and carpooling were up (by 8% for employees working at Paris Montparnasse). In all, greenhouse gas emissions related to commuting have been reduced by 13% in three years. Business travel 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Million km travelled by plane 16.1 15.6 +3% 97% Million km travelled by train 4.6 3.7 +24% 97% Million km travelled by car 8.7 10.2 -15% 90% The increase in air travel is attributable chieﬂy to CNP Assurances The nature of business travel by CNP Partners employees has and Caixa Seguradora. Air travel was either steady or down at changed since 2015 following the establishment of a travel the other Group entities. In Brazil, air travel is justiﬁed by business policy in the previous year. The use of planes and cars has been expansion and the size of the country. reined in (kilometres travelled down 22% and 4% respectively) in favour of trains. CNP Assurances has prepared a written travel policy, providing a framework for employee practices to reduce their impact on the environment, while continuing to ensure the comfort and safety Consumption of ofﬁce supplies of travellers. Train travel relates mainly to CNP Assurances. The CNP Assurances Group’s operations are entirely in the ﬁeld of Employees travelled 4.4 million kilometres by train, of which insurance. As with other ﬁnancial services, paper is the principal more than 40% between the Company’s main sites in Angers and raw material consumed. For several years now, many initiatives Paris. CNP Assurances encourages the use of public transport. have been deployed by Group entities to reduce paper use. Taxis can be used under certain conditions, and in this case, Since 2013, for instance, CNP UniCredit Vita has made paper hybrid vehicles have been given priority by the booking ofﬁce consumption a key indicator in the monthly report presented to since May 2013. Accordingly, hybrid vehicles accounted for the Management Committee. Since 2014, CNP Partners has 42% of taxi journeys in 2016, up from 40% in 2015. posted a guide to good practice on its Intranet to reduce paper use by employees. This year, a large number of subsidiaries again cut back on business travel or opted for cleaner modes of transport. As such, CNP UniCredit Vita continues its work to raise employee awareness (train vs plane and public transport), offering staff annual subscriptions at reduced rates. A reduction in Group-wide paper use for internal operations 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Paper use for internal operations (equivalent A4 sheets) 29.4 million * 32.6 million -10% 99% Proportion of recycled paper used for internal purposes 14.9% 19.4% -23% 97% * Estimate At CNP Assurances, following a steady reduction over several The paperless management of claims and services within years thanks to the commitment of employees (savings of 11% CNP Partners enabled the subsidiary to reduce its paper use by in 2012, 5% in 2013 and 6% in 2015), the deployment of 39%. multifunction printers across all sites helped further reduce paper CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP Europe Life use only recycled use in 2016 by several million sheets. The implementation of such paper for internal purposes. equipment also has a positive impact on energy consumption due to its better performance. Green ofﬁce supply purchasing This year, 37% of ofﬁce supplies ordered by CNP Assurances were labelled “green”. 38 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Ofﬁce building environmental management Controlling energy use Energy use by the CNP Assurances Group corresponds to heating and cooling systems in its ofﬁce buildings, ofﬁce equipment used by employees and IT servers. Electricity is the main type of energy used. 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Electricity consumption √ 22.7 million kWh 22.1 million kWh +3% 99% Gas consumption 2.18 million kWh 2.21 million kWh -1% 99% Fuel oil consumption 11,953 litres 87,945 litres -86% 59% √ Data reviewed to obtain reasonable assurance A total of 6 million kWh of heating supplied by the CPCU district W following the purchase of a new ofﬁce building in Paris heating network in Paris was used to heat CNP Assurances’ Paris in 2014, multi-annual renovations of the control system ofﬁces in 2016. Fuel oil consumption, which is occasional and not continued, with the installation on three levels of new terminal material, relates exclusively to the power generators at the main units to control fan convectors and the replacement of ﬂexible sites in France. The signiﬁcant decline in fuel oil consumption heating water supply pipes on six levels as part of work to stop this year resulted from the renegotiation of the contract with EDF. water leakage; CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed W replacement of lighting in IT rooms, ofﬁce areas and part of to help buildings operate more efﬁciently. For example, improving the technical area at SIC Beaucouzé by the installation of LED how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning lighting resulting in lower power consumption and reduced and ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert heat emission. management of programmable time settings. The Group has also Furthermore, in accordance with Article L.233-1 of the French established control procedures for room temperatures and fan Energy Code, CNP Assurances conducted an energy audit of coil unit settings, whose efﬁciency has been improved by a vent its operating buildings before 5 December 2015. This audit closure system. was carried out at the headquarters and on the site in Angers, CNP Assurances now also routinely includes energy performance thereby covering 65% of energy bills paid by the Company. The clauses in contracts for the operation and maintenance of operation of buildings was studied, and measurements of their air conditioning equipment. The objective is to optimise the consumption were taken. management of facilities with a view to reducing consumption CNP Assurances’ subsidiaries have also gradually adopted and sharing the ﬁnancial gains made in this way between the measures to reduce electricity use, notably for lighting, heating owner and the operator. and IT servers. The Caixa Seguradora group moved its The concept of energy efﬁciency is systematically integrated into headquarters to a more energy-efﬁcient building equipped with work and maintenance speciﬁcations. presence detectors, LED lighting, glass façades (less artiﬁcial light) and a more efﬁcient air conditioning system. CNP Assurances Signiﬁcant work has been carried out to reduce energy use. For Compañia de Seguros’ buildings were renovated in 2015 example: and 2016. They are now more open, more user-friendly and W as part of a comprehensive plan to reduce energy costs at more energy efﬁcient. New features include natural light, LED the Saint Serge building in Angers, and on the basis of the bulbs, double glazed windows and doors, and a more efﬁcient energy performance assessment, a four-year programme air conditioning/heating system. (2014-2018) has begun to renovate the refrigeration system. The installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of The work will allow compliance with regulations, via the Caixa Seguradora’s headquarters has resulted in the removal of R-22 and the replacement of open air-cooling establishment of a renewable energy plant. The buildings housing towers, which consume large amounts of water, with closed the other Group entities are not currently equipped with systems towers, which, by virtue of their design, do not consume water. for generating renewable energy. A new stage of the project began in 2015, with the aim of fully renovating the ventilation and air conditioning system. For Awareness campaigns have also been conducted among this, a management system and control equipment have been employees in the Group’s entities (see page 34 – Building established. This year, the waterprooﬁng of the terraces of the employee awareness of sustainable development issues Saint Serge building was restored, with the addition of highthrough training). performance thermal insulation; 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 39 FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Water use 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Water consumption in cubic metres 63,491 63,205 +0.5% 99% The cleaning of the water supply facilities of CNP Partners’ The Group’s consumption fell signiﬁcantly between 2014 buildings has contributed to the reduction of water consumption, and 2015, following the modernisation of the air conditioning while losses and leaks have been identiﬁed and repaired. system at the headquarters of the Caixa Seguradora group, before stabilising in 2016. The very slight increase observed this year can be ascribed to the very hot summer in France. Waste management and commitment in favour of the circular economy 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage Proportion of employees with access to waste sorting 99% 95% +4% 98% Tonnes of waste paper and cardboard recycled 235 237 -1% 83% Waste-sorting systems allow Group entities to recycle printer raise employee awareness, training on sorting was given by an cartridges and paper used in ofﬁces for internal purposes. The association employing people with disabilities. The subsidiary ﬁnancial beneﬁts of recycling are donated to NGOs in France. also organised a campaign to replace individual bins with Each Group entity has conducted campaigns to teach employees collective bins, and it gives all waste computer hardware to a about recycling. Caixa Seguradora’s move into a new building specialised association. in late 2014 provided an opportunity for a diagnostic review of CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a plastic bottle compaction system, waste management. including caps, in one of its communal areas. The CNP Assurances recycling system was extended in 2011, with the addition of a dedicated process for ofﬁce furniture. The Pollution main sites have established systems for the collection of batteries Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no and light bulbs. This year, the volume of waste batteries increased water or soil pollution, and emits very few greenhouse gases sharply on the Paris site due to the scrapping of numerous other than CO2. In the management of its woodland assets, it accumulators and batteries used to protect computer equipment uses techniques that prevent soil erosion and ensure water in the event of power outages. ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. Computer equipment is also a signiﬁcant source of waste. The Group’s entities do not cause noise or other forms of pollution. CNP Assurances sells or gives away nearly 40% of its obsolete Several entities have installed lighting in their ofﬁces that switches equipment, and the rest is dismantled for recycling by a off automatically. specialised ﬁrm. None of the Group’s entities have been convicted of any CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has made waste environmental violations or have been the subject of any nonmanagement one of the major planks of its new CSR policy. To monetary environmental sanctions. I Priority No. 2: reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products The ﬁght against climate change is only effective if it is made Caixa Seguradora incorporated the management of central to business. A signatory to the Kyoto Statement of the environmental risk resulting from its activities and operations Geneva Association, CNP Assurances has worked hard into its sustainable development policy in 2015, which covers since 2015 to gain the fullest picture possible of the carbon identiﬁcation, assessment of negative impacts, mitigation and impact of its products, on the insurance side and on the investment control. side alike. It also gave noteworthy support to the “Declaration on climate change by the Paris ﬁnancial marketplace”. 40 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT IMPACT OF AN INSURANCE PRODUCT The estimated cradle-to-grave greenhouse gas emissions associated with a death and disability insurance product were revised in 2015, in line with the carbon analysis method®. For example, a Trésor Prévoyance Garantie Autonomie policy generates 22 kilograms of CO2 over its lifetime, as follows. CLAIMS MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT Time spent managing dependency payments, Time spent by marketing/invoicing documents and mail sent to and from 13% 1% teams on product development. POLICY ADMINISTRATION 6% 4% MARKETING Time spent managing the policy over Printing of documents its entire term, documents and mail sent annuallly to and to sales teams. 1% 2% ACCEPTANCE TRAINING Time spent by teams selecting risks for 74% Training for sales teams analysis and acccepting customer and business travel. requests. DISTRIBUTION Time spent by sales teams on policy subscriptions and sending documents and mail to customers. We used the results of this analysis to set priorities for action, These ﬁndings were conﬁrmed in 2015 by measuring the resulting in ongoing work to reduce the environmental footprint environmental impact of the online subscription in place in of our internal operations, and promote paperless solutions and creditor insurance for over a year. The results are very positive, online tracking. particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emission reductions. Paper use for communication with customers 2016 2015 Change Level of coverage (1) Paper consumption for customers (equivalent A4 sheets) 128.5 million (2) 116 million +11% 99% Proportion of paper certiﬁed as environmentally sustainable (3) 91% 89% +2% 97% (1) Including paper used for contractual documents and claims management (2) Estimated number of sheets (3) All paper, excluding chemical carbon paper required for contractual documents The increase in the consumption of paper products is the result (account statements, new products or contract liquidation). Two of several factors. For CNP Assurances, the change in corporate actions were undertaken in 2016 by the Italian subsidiary to identify and the launch of a new product line requiring a large reduce its paper consumption: lobbying with the National volume of prints accounted for most of the increase observed. Association of Italian Insurers on the number of pages of account statements and an awareness raising campaign among customers At CNP UniCredit Vita, increased paper consumption was to promote the use of their private space on the Company’s attributable chieﬂy to an increase in customer correspondence website to obtain personal information. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 41 FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT In 2009, the switch to double-sided printing for informative a reminder (see page 21 – Forests: an environmental opportunity), documents sent to CNP Assurances customers helped reduce the the growth of CNP Assurances trees allowed the sequestering volume, with the number of printed sheets down 42% in 2009 of 529,191 tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2016. After deducting and 26% in 2010. Customer correspondence has been printed timber sold or cut down during the year, a net 236,988 tonnes of in part on recycled paper for the last three years. carbon dioxide was added to the sequestered total in 2016. The Company responsible for managing CNP Assurances’ forestry For several years, some Group entities, including the assets has been considering how these woodlands can be Caixa Seguradora group, CNP Partners and MFPrévoyance, have adapted to cope with projected climate change over the coming outsourced the printing of their contractual documents and/or decades. customer correspondence. Moreover, 91% of paper used by the Group (including for A ﬁrst measurement of the carbon footprint internal purposes) has a sustainable management label such as and strong commitments to ﬁght against FSC, PEFC or EU Ecolabel. For the ﬁrst time, CNP Assurances climate change Compañia de Seguros used paper sourced from sustainably managed forests in 2016. After nearly ten years of monitoring the carbon sink formed by its forests, CNP Assurances has elected to measure the greenhouse gas emissions from its equity securities since 2015. These Paperless operations a rapidly expanding emissions, despite being indirect, are far more signiﬁcant than approach the carbon footprint emissions. Their measurement highlights The digital conversion of certain documents and procedures has the role of investors in the ﬁght against climate change. increased at CNP Assurances: the Amétis network started going It is a symbol more than a scientiﬁc measure. Nevertheless, paperless for marketing correspondence in 2011. Virtually all CNP Assurances has set itself the goal of reducing the level applications for La Banque Postale products are now paperless. reached on 31 December 2014 by 20% by 2020. At end-2016, This has helped eliminate the use of carbon paper (a saving the carbon footprint of its directly held equities was 0.405 tonnes of 1 million sheets). Semi-annual customer statements are now of CO2 equivalent per thousand euros invested (see page 19). paperless, reducing the number of items sent by the Caisse As there is still scope to improve the methodology, CNP Assurances d’Epargne and La Banque Postale networks by 3 million and supports the Carbone 4 methodological developments, notably 1.9 million respectively. CNP UniCredit Vita launched two with a view to better identifying companies that emit large amounts projects to make its contractual and aftermarket documents of greenhouse gases while at the same time being highly committed paperless in 2015. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros to CSR, via the “avoided emissions” approach. Furthermore, this sharply reduced the printing of contractual documents last year, measure and the associated reduction commitment strengthen the notably by establishing a customer extranet. Group’s role as a responsible shareholder and reinforce dialogue with issuers. Investor leverage is becoming credible with the proliferation of market commitments to which CNP Assurances THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF FINANCIAL has subscribed since 2015: gold sponsor of the “climate ASSETS ﬁnance days”, signatory to the Montreal Carbon Pledge, actor in the “Declaration on climate change by the Paris ﬁnancial As a ﬁnancial intermediary, CNP Assurances’ main challenge in marketplace”, pioneer alongside the Caisse des Dépôts group respect of controlling CO2 emissions is its assets. in its commitment to provide multi-year data on the reduction in its GHG emissions, and direct dialogue in 2016 with the major The environment as an investment criterion French energy companies. CNP Assurances applies environmental screens to all of its equity Continuing its commitment to the Montreal Carbon Pledge, and corporate bond portfolios, thereby prioritising, in the same CNP Assurances calculated the carbon footprint of all its way as CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, companies with corporate assets in 2016, estimating the share held directly in a good environmental performance and taking into account the shares and bonds in proportion to the balance sheets of the carbon risks and opportunities (see page 17 – Be a responsible respective companies. Greenhouse gas emissions were estimated investor). It has also developed CNP Développement Durable, by taking solely into account the disclosures made by portfolio an SRI fund focusing on environmentally responsible investments, companies in respect of their Scope 1 and 2 emissions, without which is marketed through the Amétis network. adjusting for overlap. As a large number of companies do not Since mid-2009, Green Rating energy efﬁciency assessments provide this data, the estimate covers 62% of the portfolio. It have been carried out on all newly acquired properties in order amounted to 0.120 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per thousand euros to estimate the cost of upgrading the properties to meet the invested at 31 December 2016. current standards. The Caixa Seguradora group has a policy of A special report outlining the provisions of Article 173-VI of the not investing in property projects that pose a potential danger to French Energy Transition law requiring institutional investors to the environment. integrate CSR issues into their asset management strategy will be As the largest private owner of woodland in France, available before June 2017 on the cnp.fr website. CNP Assurances helps to capture a signiﬁcant quantity of CO2. As 42 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT I Priority No. 3: manage the local impact LOCAL IMPACT All sectors of the economy receive support to foster long-term development. CNP Assurances promotes Corporate Social Responsibility among the companies in the portfolio, through Local employment its policy of being a responsible investor and shareholder CNP Assurances has been providing employment in its host regions (see pages 17 to 19). Similarly, Caixa Seguradora’s ﬁnancial for close to a century: 91% of CNP Assurances employees work investments are carried out entirely in Brazil. at either the Paris, Arcueil or Angers facilities. Expatriate workers represent 0.5% of headcount at foreign subsidiaries. These Initiatives to support local communities companies also participate in their local job markets, including The Group’s entities also contribute to resolving current social for senior management positions: at 31 December 2016, 84% issues. For example: of Executive or Management Committee members had been hired locally. Its Age d’Or Services subsidiary, which for over W Filassistance’s assistance and prevention services meet the 25 years has specialised in personal services (home help, needs of people made vulnerable by age, disability or illness transport support, meal deliveries, remote assistance, etc.), has (see pages 12 and 13); more than 1,600 employees and created more than a hundred jobs in 2016. W the Caixa Seguradora group actively helps local communities, with programmes such as Jovem de Expressao, which is CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de la supporting human development during the current period of Cité foundation. In addition, the new focus of CNP Assurances’ demographic and epidemiological transition in Brazil (see sponsorship – supporting the inclusion of young people in www.jovemdeexpressao.com.br). Through this campaign, the education and civic service – and the partnership established with Group seeks to reduce violence by fostering access to jobs, Our Neighbourhoods Have Talent (NQT) offer practical solutions and to cut exposure to sexually transmitted diseases among in ﬁnding jobs. Similarly, the Caixa Seguradora group has for young people. This programme was recognised in 2010 for several years been organising expression and entrepreneurship its innovative character, and received an award for its actions workshops for young people from disadvantaged areas (1,700 in the ﬁght against AIDS/HIV in 2015. These actions were in 2014 and 2015). Its events and discussion groups attracted shared internationally at the 2015 United Nations Congress on nearly 14,000 participants in 2014. In 2015, the Company Crime Prevention in Doha and a conference on sex education established a partnership with various Brazilian institutions to in the United States. The related fund, “positHIVo”, which support small and microenterprises, and in 2016, it sponsored Caixa Seguradora co-founded, funded 15 projects carried out the Brazilian start-up movement. by youth organisations throughout Brazil in 2016; Lastly, and less directly, several insurance products include W in 2014, CNP Assurances invested in DomusVi, a major assistance in ﬁnding work. Examples include, in France, an provider of residential and home care services for the elderly; unemployment insurance product with a reduced premium or advisory services to help the policyholder ﬁnd a new job W in 2016, the Caixa Seguradora group joined Forum Alança Cerrado, which brings together companies and stakeholders and, in Brazil, the job search support service offered by to discuss environmental issues related to the Cerrado, the Caixa Seguradora. Brazilian savannah (regulation, research and funding); Impact as an insurer and long-term investor W in Cyprus, Cyprus CNP Assurance Holdings supports local actions in favour of ﬁre prevention and road safety in schools. By making its products widely accessible, in terms of both affordability and medical screening, the Group is helping to combat ﬁnancial exclusion. These topics, which are an essential Lobbying part of the Group’s CSR approach, are discussed further Group companies participate in their local insurance industry’s in pages 11 to 13. professional bodies and the international subsidiaries also attend events organised by the local French consulate, but they do With over €300 billion in investments, CNP Assurances plays a major not conduct any lobbying per se. The Group helps to address role in ﬁnancing the economies of its host countries. It stepped up the the challenges facing society by contributing to research and pace of its support for SMEs sharply in 2016 with the OPEN CNP discussion, notably on the topics of retirement and long-term care project, and by supporting SME loan funds and NovESS funds in France. designed to help companies in the Social and Solidarity Economy (see page 20). The NovESS project also includes the creation of a monitoring tool for measuring social impact. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 43 FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT CNP Assurances never acts alone. It systematically acts through ultimately help develop faster and more effective diagnostic tools industry organisations, in particular the FFA and European bodies in oncology, cardiology and neurology. in the insurance sector. Experts sit on its speciﬁc committees. Since CNP UniCredit Vita in 2016 launched its “CSR and digital January 2015, the Director of Sustainability at CNP Assurances strategy in the insurance sector” laboratory in collaboration has chaired the FFA’s Sustainable Development Committee. with the Catholic University of Milan. Four days of training and CNP Assurances is also involved in the Paris Europlace SRI working groups brought together staff and students to identify the Commission, and is also a member of ORSE, a French CSR new opportunities offered by digital technology. think-tank, and its Finance Club, which brings together various stakeholders (NGOs, unions and trade associations). W Integration The CNP Assurances Group has a long history of introducing By way of illustration, CNP Assurances took an active part in young people to the world of work. At the end of 2016, development of the “Declaration on climate change by the Paris CNP Assurances had 109 employees on combined work-study or ﬁnancial marketplace” signed by seven associations, including apprenticeship contracts, as well as 190 interns and 197 young ORSE, Paris Europlace and the FFA, in 2015. people on insertion contracts. None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political parties. Since 2015, CNP Assurances has also supported Our In countries where such donations are not illegal, subsidiaries, Neighbourhoods Have Talent (NQT), an association that aims such as CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, speciﬁcally to foster informal exchanges between young graduates from prohibit them in their code of ethics. priority neighbourhoods or disadvantaged backgrounds. Over 20 CNP Assurances employees voluntarily and willingly work with the association to help these young people ﬁnd employment. CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY AND OUTREACH CNP Assurances is also a founding member of the Entrepreneurs PARTNERSHIPS de la Cité foundation, and co-insures the entrepreneurs helped by the foundation. The Group is also involved in the Cités Corporate philanthropy operations are carried out in partnership Partenaires II Business Angels investment fund dedicated to with non-proﬁt organisations following calls for projects. In helping entrepreneurs from disadvantaged areas. France, some projects are partly driven by employees, or by higher education institutions. Employees in Brazil and Italy take The Caixa Seguradora group is heavily involved in the Jovem part in organising corporate philanthropy initiatives. Furthermore, de Expressao programme (see Local impact), and signed a the Caixa Seguradora Institute, which manages the philanthropic cooperation agreement with UNESCO in 2011 to develop work of the Brazilian group, has cooperation agreements with community-based communication and promote youth health UNODC and UNESCO as well as service agreements with the initiatives as part of this outreach programme. In October 2016, NGO Iniciativa Verde. the associated training programme trained 25 young people on policy and technical issues relating to sustainable development The subsidiaries are involved in many philanthropy programmes, goals. essentially social ones: CNP Partners sponsors a solidarity association, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros undertook CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros supported an NGO to assist a disadvantaged community through its “Multiplicar” working in the poor districts of Buenos Aires in 2016, notably by programme in 2015, and CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings donating school supplies and computer hardware. supports local actions in the ﬁelds of ﬁre and accident prevention. Similarly, the group of CNP UniCredit Vita employees in charge A high level of cultural and artistic patronage completes the many of sponsorship devoted its 2016 budget to the education of actions taken by Caixa Seguradora. children and adolescents around the world. Speciﬁc initiatives CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation W Training/research CNP Assurances made a signiﬁcant commitment in 2016 in CNP Assurances maintains close relations with ENASS, France’s favour of public health through its corporate foundation. Extended leading business school specialised in the insurance sector. for three years, its new €2.4 million multi-year action programme It also ﬁnances training centres and apprenticeship centres is devoted exclusively to the projects it supports in two areas: (CFAs) such as IFPASS and ADAPT, and helps schools through the apprenticeship tax. As part of its philanthropic activities, W a foundation aimed at helping to reduce social inequalities in healthcare: CNP Assurances ﬁnances several research chairs, including the Risk Foundation’s “Demographic Transitions, Economic By promoting prevention and better health and acting on its Transitions” chair. It is also supporting Institut Europlace de social determinants, the Foundation aims to help promote Finance in the creation of a research initiative devoted to longbetter living and health among young people at risk of social term asset allocation. In 2015, CNP Assurances also supported vulnerability. In this context, the Foundation has adopted a a 3D cardiac imaging technology research project that will dynamic approach to the joint development of national projects with partner organisations such as Unis-Cité, Bibliothèque Sans 44 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTER A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Frontières, FAGE and the Alliance for Education (Alliance pour Tax Justice Network indices and those posing serious problems l’Éducation); with regard to democracy, human rights and corruption, as determined by Freedom House and Transparency International. W a foundation committed to the treatment of cardiac arrest: Since 2009, the CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation has A message communicated to stakeholders initiated and provided support for projects emanating from The signing of the Principles for Responsible Investment reinforces French local authorities wishing to install deﬁbrillators in public CNP Assurances’ commitment, notably among issuers and places and to provide ﬁrst aid training to larger numbers companies of which it is a shareholder. (ﬁnancing the implementation of more than 3,200 deﬁbrillators and raising people’s awareness of the importance of ﬁrst aid in The signing of the French Union of Advertisers’ Charter on more than 2,200 cities and towns); Responsible Communication conﬁrms and promotes responsible communication by developing and implementing fair and ethical W a foundation close to CNP Assurances employees: practices, including respect for diversity and a commitment to The CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation also calls for respect customers’ private data when using it for marketing projects in which CNP Assurances employees are personally and commercial purposes. CNP Assurances discloses details of involved (such as projects in the areas of social inequalities in actions implemented each year. respect of healthcare, education and disability). In addition, in supplier relations, the standard CSR clause in CNP Assurances’ purchase contracts stipulates that the supplier HUMAN RIGHTS must undertake to combat human rights violations, notably by upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as The guiding principles of the Global Compact the conventions of the International Labour Organization. In line with the 2003 pledge to uphold the UN Global The Human Resources Intranet provides information for Compact, CNP Assurances ensures that each local organisation CNP Assurances employees about their rights, and includes complies with human rights laws and regulations. Following sections on the collective bargaining agreement, social dialogue, the lead of CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros and the professional diversity and stress management. A union section Caixa Seguradora group, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged on the Intranet allows continuous communication from the unions to uphold the Compact in 2010. The Caixa Seguradora group to staff. commissions annual CSR audits by Ethos to verify compliance with the Global Compact principles. It signed up to the UN PSI Dedicated procedures (principles for sustainable insurance) in 2015. All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles of Each year, these companies reafﬁrm their commitment to respect for human rights, freedom of association and the right upholding the Compact’s principles and encourage their asset to collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and managers and suppliers to follow suit. the promotion of equal opportunity. Each subsidiary submits an This commitment is reﬂected in the integration of environmental, Annual Report on their CSR performance to the parent company, social and governance criteria into ﬁnancial asset management with a special focus on these fundamental criteria. strategies. Respect for human rights has been one of the criteria Neither CNP Assurances nor the Group’s subsidiaries have used to select equity and bond investments, as well as to determine recourse to forced or child labour. The Group pays particularly “sensitive countries”, since 2014. In line with its commitment as close attention to this issue in its purchasing policy (see page 21) a responsible insurer and investor, and its status as a public and in its property management processes. company, CNP Assurances has drawn up a list of prohibited countries covering all of its activities, extending beyond the CNP Assurances Group procedures to guarantee respect for list of countries prohibited as part of the ﬁght against money civil and political rights include internal codes and standard laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing or non-cooperation in tax operating procedures, agreements on union rights, and data matters to include countries identiﬁed as tax havens based on the protection procedures. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 45 Methodology Group reporting methodology Group, excluding the branches in Italy and Denmark and the Previsul sub-subsidiary. The CSR report covers a total of 96.5% Progress in sustainable development performance is tracked of the consolidated Group’s employees at 31 December 2016. through the use of dedicated indicators and by identifying outstanding accomplishments. The CNP Assurances Group Change is the percentage difference between 2015 and 2016. discloses its CSR indicators in accordance with the provisions It was noted that the aforementioned change of scope did not set out in Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French materially inﬂuence the rate of change. In the event of major Commercial Code. The notes set out these indicators in detail for adjustments to the scope explaining a particular rate of change, each country. the rate of change is also presented at constant scope. Guidelines and deﬁnition Reporting period The indicators and reporting processes have been deﬁned for all Indicators mapping movements cover the period from Group entities. This process serves as a reference for the various 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (excluding people involved in preparing this section at CNP Assurances and CNP Assurances business travel and certain environmental at all subsidiaries. It describes the issues, roles, indicators and data for Caixa Seguradora, which are presented over trailing data collection processes, as well as the main identiﬁed risks and 12-month periods from 1 November 2015 to 30 October 2016 the system for controlling and managing these risks. and from 1 December 2015 to 30 November 2016 respectively). Indicators of stocks are as at 31 December 2016. The process was set up using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. The reference indicators are presented on the GRI website: https://www.globalreporting.org. Historical data and changes in scope La Banque Postale Prévoyance was deconsolidated in 2015. Scopes Slight variations in scope can appear when indicators have not been provided for an entity or sub-entity in 2015, but have been The indicators cover all fully consolidated entities in the in 2016. CNP Assurances Group, namely, unless otherwise stated, CNP Assurances (for environmental data excluding 2,054 sq.m. at regional sites), CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV, CNP International, Reporting, control and consolidation method MFPrévoyance, CNP Partners (for environmental data excluding Indicators are reported by operational departments (HR, Building ofﬁces in Italy and France), CNP Assurances Compañia de Management and Purchasing), and are broken down by facility Seguros, Caixa Seguradora group, CNP UniCredit Vita, where necessary. The accounting consolidation system is also CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, CNP Europe Life and used for CSR reporting. A CSR Ofﬁcer is appointed for each CNP Santander Insurance and their consolidated subsidiaries. entity (a total of 15 CSR Ofﬁcers) and prepares the ﬁrst level of Indicators for the Group’s consolidated subsidiaries are consolidation within the entity concerned. Twelve validators check presented on a 100% basis. La Banque Postale Prévoyance was the data from their entities. The CNP Assurances Sustainable deconsolidated in 2015. Development department is responsible for overall consolidation and carries out consistency checks on all the information collected The term “CNP Assurances” covers the legal entities from these CSR ofﬁcers. CNP Assurances, CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV and CNP International. The scope for water and energy use includes Implementing CSR reporting in 2006 has led to a steady the facilities in Paris, Angers and Arcueil, but excludes regional improvement in the quality of non-ﬁnancial data, particularly ofﬁces; this corresponds to 91% of CNP Assurances employees. environmental data. Certiﬁcation by the Statutory Auditors and use of the Group consolidation system for CSR reporting From 2016, the Caixa Seguradora data include the Odonto in the past four years have served to secure quality standards. sub-subsidiary acquired in 2014. In addition, the Italian A dedicated collaborative web platform was set up in 2015. branches of CNP Assurances and BVP Italia are now These developments have helped to drive progress in the Group’s consolidated by the CNP Partners group. CSR programme by making it easier to manage initiatives within The level of coverage for each indicator is presented in the tables. each business. It represents the headcount of entities included in the calculation Consolidated ratios for all entities are calculated by weighting of the indicator divided by the total headcount of the consolidated reported ratios based on each entity’s headcount. 46 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES METHODOLOGY Limitations to the completeness and reliability in foreign subsidiaries, and certain deﬁnitions, such as those for of information absenteeism, training and remuneration, were harmonised from one subsidiary to the next. Estimates have been used for certain environmental data where more exact information is not available (for instance when Veriﬁcation consumption is included in the rental charges). This applies in particular to water and energy consumption data for buildings, An independent third party body performed an analysis to verify which are sometimes estimated on a pro-rata basis based on the existence and fair presentation of information that falls within the number of square metres (Arcueil, CNP Europe Life sites). the scope of Article 225 of the French Commercial Code. The Furthermore, the deﬁnitions of social indicators may differ slightly most material data were subject to tests of details; the other data between countries. However, the consolidated indicators used are were reviewed for overall consistency. consistent and material. The guidelines were deployed in 2014 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 47 Concordance table for labour, social and environmental data The table below reviews in detail the indicators found in Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code and covered in this report. Pages 6 to 45 fall within the scope of the veriﬁcation; the level of veriﬁcation is speciﬁed in the table. Labour indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of veriﬁcation a) Workforce W Total workforce and breakdown by age, gender and geographical area Detail tests W Hires and terminations Detail tests W Remuneration and changes in remuneration Detail tests b) Working hours W Organisation of working hours Detail tests W Absenteeism Detail tests c) Employee relations W Organisation of social dialogue (employee information and consultation procedures and negotiation processes) Detail tests W Review of collective agreements Detail tests d) Health and safety W Workplace health and safety conditions Detail tests W Health and safety agreements signed with trade unions and other employee representatives Consistency W Workplace accidents, frequency, severity and occupational illnesses Detail tests e) Training W Training policies Detail tests W Total number of training hours Detail tests f) Equal opportunity W Measures taken to promote gender equality Detail tests W Measures taken to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities Consistency W Anti-discrimination policy Detail tests g) Promotion of and compliance with the International Labour Organization’s fundamental conventions concerning: W The right to exercise freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Consistency W The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Consistency W The elimination of forced and compulsory labour Consistency W The effective abolition of child labour Consistency 48 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONCORDANCE TABLE FOR LABOUR, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Environmental indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of verification a) General environmental policy W Structures for addressing environmental issues Consistency W Employee training and awareness initiatives for the protection of the environment Consistency Excluded in view of the Group’s activities W Resources allocated to preventing pollution and other environmental risks as a service provider No provisions or guarantees W Environmental provisions and warranties Consistency b) Pollution Excluded in view of the Group’s activities W Measures to prevent, reduce and remedy air, water and soil pollution seriously affecting the environment as a service provider W Measures to address noise and other forms of pollution speciﬁc to an activity Consistency c) Circular economy i) Waste prevention and management W Prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and elimination of waste Consistency Excluded in view of the Group’s activities W Initiatives to combat food waste as a service provider ii) Sustainable use of resources W Water use and supply in relation to local restrictions Consistency W Raw materials use and the measures taken to use them more efﬁciently Detail tests W Energy use and the measures taken to improve energy efﬁciency and increase the use of renewable energies Detail tests W Land use Consistency d) Climate change W Signiﬁcant sources of greenhouse gas emissions generated due to the Company’s operations, including the use of goods and services it produces Detail tests W Measures taken to adapt to climate change Consistency e) Biodiversity protection W Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity Consistency Social indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of verification a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the Company’s operations W In terms of employment and regional development Consistency W On local residents and communities Consistency b) Relations with people or organisations that have an interest in the Company’s operations W Dialogue with these people and organisations Consistency W Partnership or philanthropy initiatives Detail tests c) Subcontractors and suppliers W Integration of social and environmental issues in purchasing policy Detail tests W Outsourcing and the importance of including CSR in dealings with suppliers and subcontractors Detail tests d) Fair practices W Action taken to prevent corruption Detail tests W Measures taken to promote the health and safety of consumers Consistency e) Other action taken to promote human rights Consistency 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 49 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Detailed indicators of consolidated subsidiaries I Offer protection for everyone PROTECTING POLICYHOLDERS W Âge d’Or Expansion’s services have been “NF Service” quality certiﬁed since 2011; CNP Assurances and several subsidiaries have obtained W activities related to user acceptance of individual insurance ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of their main business processes. The management applications. certiﬁcation scope is expanded each year while ensuring that previously acquired certiﬁcations are renewed. W CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros’s ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁcation of its management system has been regularly W CNP Assurances: certiﬁcations ISO 9001:2015 renewed since 2016. It is the ﬁrst life insurance company in W the entire term creditor insurance process; Argentina to obtain certiﬁcation for both the underwriting and administrative management of insurance policies. W activity of operating and processing data to customer. W CNP Assurances’ certiﬁcations: ISO 9001:2008 W Since 2000, CNP Partners’ UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008-compliant quality management system covering the design, underwriting W the periodical policyholder information process for individual and administration of life insurance policies and pension plans insurance and group pension policies; has been AENOR and IQNet-certiﬁed. W Caixa Seguradora process management and services ISO 9001:2008. I Contribute to a sustainable economy ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES W an ethical code incorporated into CNP CIH’s code of service, with details of the sanctions applied in the case of corruption All subsidiaries provide ethical guidelines through their standard with cap amounts and reporting of gifts; operating procedures, charters or codes: W cap on the value of gifts at MFPrévoyance (added to the W a code of conduct at CNP Assurances with cap amounts and internal code of conduct in 2014); reporting of gifts; W a code of conduct signed by all CNP Partners employees; W a code of ethics at CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros; W a new code of conduct at Caixa Seguradora, signed by all W an ethics charter and code of conduct in Italy, the organizational employees. model is monitored by a specialised committee; 50 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I Be an attractive employer PRIORITY NO. 1: DEVELOP SKILLS IN LINE WITH THE GROUP’S STRATEGY Human Resources planning: percentage of employees under permanent contracts, percentage of women, average age, geographic distribution Percentage of employees under Percentage permanent contracts of women Average age Geographic distribution 62.5% Paris 12% Arcueil 16.2% Angers 8.8% in regional CNP Assurances (France) 94% 61% 46 ofﬁces MFPrévoyance (France) 88% 68% 45 100% Paris 81.4% Brasilia Caixa Seguradora (Brazill) 100% 56% 36 18.6% in regional ofﬁces 76.8% Cyprus CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 99% 70% 45 23.2% Greece 67.1% Madrid 31.9% Milan CNP Partners (Spain) 93% 59% 43 1% Paris 96.7% Ireland CNP Santander (Ireland) 100% 39% 35 3.3% Italy CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 99% 41% 41 100% Italy 98.36% Buenos Aires CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 98% 47% 35 1.64% in regional ofﬁces CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 88% 37% 44 100% Dublin AVERAGE 96% 59% 43 WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN BY AGE (%) 100 90 80 70 65 and over 60-64 60 55-59 50 50-54 45-49 40 40-44 30 35-39 20 30-34 25-29 10 20-24 0 Under 20 e) e) l) azi ) ece ain ) ly) gur d) r nde (Franc (Franc (Br Gre Sp (Ita os lan nta s/ ner ita Se (Ire Sa nce ce ora pru s( it V de Life s évo rad art ia CN P ura yan egu (Cy PP niCred pan ope Ass MF aS CIH CN PC Eur CN Pr PU om CN P Ca ix CN P CN CN P 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 51 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES BREAKDOWN BY PROFESSION AT CNP ASSURANCES 5.8% 5.2% 2.7% 7.8% 3.2% 2.3% 1.7% 17.4% 29.2% 1.4% 10.9% 12.4% Actuaries/statisticians Finance, accounting, budget control Project management support Policy administration Building management/logistics Legal Sales/marketing including Amétis network Management Communication Human Resources Research and advisory Secretarial Hiring New hires CNP Assurances (France) 223 MFPrévoyance (France) 33 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 316 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 13 CNP Partners (Spain) 26 CNP Santander (Ireland) 24 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 11 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 5 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 TOTAL 651 Annual turnover, departures, dismissals and resignations Number Number Number Annual turnover of departures of dismissals of resignations CNP Assurances (France) 4.1% 237 20 33 MFPrévoyance (France) 11.52% 34 1 5 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 10% 124 67 48 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 3.2% 14 0 8 CNP Partners (Spain) 4.8% 12 3 6 CNP Santander (Ireland) 11.5% 7 0 7 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1.2% 4 0 1 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 13% 8 4 4 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0% 0 0 0 TOTAL 5.8% 440 95 112 52 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Average length of service Average length of service (in years) CNP Assurances (France) 17 MFPrévoyance (France) 9 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 6 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 15 CNP Partners (Spain) 9 CNP Santander (Ireland) 2 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 8 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 6 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 6 AVERAGE 13 CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES, BY LENGTH OF SERVICE 8.4% 12.4% 19.6% 12.8% 21.9% 25.3% Less than 3 years 16-21 years 3-9 years 22-27 years 10-15 years 28 years and over Use of outside contractors Outside contractors CNP Assurances (France) 149 including 65 for cleaning, 44 for security, 23 for maintenance, 9 for reception 367 for IT (CNP TI intercompany partnership) MFPrévoyance (France) 25 including 17 for IT Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 352 including 33 for cleaning, 11 for security, 3 for reception, 7 for maintenance and 201 for IT CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 48 including 17 for cleaning, 1 for security, 12 for maintenance 15 pour IT and 3 for administration CNP Partners (Spain) 50 including 48 for IT CNP Santander (Ireland) 1 for cleaning, 1 for maintenance CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 26 including 6 for cleaning, 3 for security, 2 for reception and 11 for IT CNP Assurances Compania 17 including 3 for cleaning, 1 for security, 2 for reception, 1 for maintenance and 10 for IT de Seguros (Argentina) CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 for cleaning 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 53 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Training Percentage of the workforce Number of that received training training hours CNP Assurances (France) 75% 56,178 MFPrévoyance (France) 53% 689 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 99% 39,169 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 98% 3,084 CNP Partners (Spain) 98% 4,762 CNP Santander (Ireland) 100% 244 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 98% 6,018 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 100% 1,500 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 100% 410 TOTAL 84% 112,055 PERCENTAGE OF CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED TRAINING BY CATEGORY 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 5 Class 6 Class 7 Senior managers PRIORITY NO. 2: CREATE A WORKING ENVIRONMENT THAT FOSTERS WELL-BEING AND PERFORMANCE Social dialogue: number of meetings and agreements signed in 2016 Number of meetings Agreements signed in 2016 3 – Proﬁt-sharing agreement, human resources planning agreement CNP Assurances (France) 68 and health care costs coverage agreement MFPrévoyance (France) 19 1 – Intergenerational contract Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 2 2 – Proﬁt-sharing agreement and working time agreement CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 2 CNP Partners (Spain) 6 CNP Santander (Ireland) 9 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 10 1 – Agreement on variable bonuses CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 4 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 TOTAL 120 7 54 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Organisation of working hours Number of hours per Percentage of full-time employees part-time employees CNP Assurances (France) 1,575 21% MFPrévoyance (France) 1,576 8% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 2,007 0% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 1,800 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 1,700 < 1% CNP Santander (Ireland) 1,950 2% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1,598 5% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 1,920 0% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1,695 13% AVERAGE 1,704 13% Health and safety: absenteeism 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 e) nce) l) azi ) ece ) ain ly) ros d) er and anc Fra (Br Gre Sp (Ita egu lan (Fr e( s/ s( ita eS (Ire ant ces ra pru ner it V ia d Life PS ran anc ado art CN ssu voy gur (Cy PP red pan pe Pré Se IH CN niC om uro PA MF xa PC PU PC PE CN Cai CN CN CN CN Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave Maternity leave absenteeism rate Remuneration Average annual 2016 across-the-board remuneration pay rise CNP Assurances (France) €59,170 0.49% MFPrévoyance (France) €43,820 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) R$78,946 10.56% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) €36,837 0% CNP Partners (Spain) €50,913 2.61% CNP Santander (Ireland) €68,567 1.5% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) €55,911 0% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) Ars516,618 35% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) €65,000 0% 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 55 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES AVERAGE ANNUAL REMUNERATION (IN EUROS) FOR CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES 60,000 59,000 58,000 57,000 56,000 55,000 54,000 53,000 52,000 51,000 50,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Promotion of gender equality in the workplace Percentage of women Average male/female income Percentage of women managers senior managers ratio by category CNP Assurances (France) 52% 36% 105% MFPrévoyance (France) 49% 0% 97% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 46% 13% 125% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 38% 25% 112% CNP Partners (Spain) 45% 46% 114% CNP Santander (Irlande) 38% 0% n/a CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 36% 22% 103% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 50% 0% 119% Europe Life (Irlande) 0% 0% n/a AVERAGE 50% 33% 111% Employment and integration of employees with disabilities Percentage of disabled employees CNP Assurances (France) 7.4% MFPrévoyance (France) 2.7% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 0.5% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 1% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 5.4% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 0% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0% AVERAGE 4.8% 56 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I Foster a sustainable society and environment PRIORITY NO. 1: OPTIMISE THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF THE GROUP’S INTERNAL WORKINGS Video conferencing connection hours 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) 8,247 6,179 MFPrévoyance (France) 0 0 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 3,032 8,713 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 122 150 CNP Partners (Spain) 230 200 CNP Santander (Ireland) n/a 150 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 76 78 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 35 n/a CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 0 TOTAL 11,742 15,470 Air travel (in million km travelled by plane) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) 3.30 2.73 3.48 3.20 3.33 MFPrévoyance (France) 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 8.48 7.99 8.91 11.16 11.88 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.30 0.40 0.29 0.29 0.31 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.65 0.51 0.52 0.44 0.34 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.13 0.24 0.18 0.13 0.08 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 0.06 0.05 0.25 0.20 0.17 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.08 0.10 0.08 0.05 0.01 TOTAL 13.4 12.3 13.90 15.55 16.14 Car travel (in million km travelled by car) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) n/a n/a n/a 9.43 7.69 MFPrévoyance (France) 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.04 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 0.11 0.1 0.11 0.12 0.59 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.34 n/a n/a n/a n/a CNP Partners (Spain) 0.21 0.31 0.36 0.38 0.37 CNP Santander (Ireland) n/a 0 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 0.13 0.1 0.11 0.06 0.07 TOTAL 0.98 0.72 0.88 10.22 8.75 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 57 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES Reducing consumption of ofﬁce supplies Percentage of Paper use for internal purposes (2016) In millions of sheets recycled paper CNP Assurances (France) 18.9 18.5% MFPrévoyance (France) 0.25 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.24 0% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) * 6.68 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 0.66 0% CNP Santander (Irlande) 0.20 n/a CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.96 100% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 0.51 3% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.02 100% TOTAL 29.4 14.9% * Including paper used by CNP CIH agents Computer consumables (number of cartridges) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) 8,288 7,860 6,151 6,919 9,376 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a n/a 64 106 105 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 406 n/a n/a n/a n/a CNP Partners (Spain) 80 110 115 166 131 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 135 145 128 91 149 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 48 n/a 180 120 144 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 12 14 13 11 15 TOTAL 9,048 8,213 6,731 7,485 9,920 Electricity Electricity use (in millions of kWh) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) 18 18.34 16.93 17.70 18.27 MFPrévoyance (France) 0.35 0.36 0.30 0.29 0.32 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.32 1.19 1.61 1.22 1.36 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.34 1.36 1.52 1.50 1.44 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.31 0.31 0.30 0.28 0.28 CNP Santander (Ireland) 0.05 0.09 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.63 0.67 0.61 0.75 0.76 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.13 0.13 TOTAL 21.2 22.5 21.6 22.07 22.66 58 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES District heating system used by CNP Assurances (in millions of kWh) 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Water use Water use (in thousands of cubic meters) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 CNP Assurances (France) 43.5 41.1 32.9 27.7 33.6 MFPrévoyance (France) 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.8 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 35.5 39.9 28.2 24.3 17.8 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) n/a n/a 2.9 3.0 3.2 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.7 0.9 1.5 1.7 1.2 CNP Santander (Irlande) n/a 2.1 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1.5 3 3.2 3.6 3.4 CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros (Argentina) 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.5 1.3 TOTAL 84.2 88.2 71.9 63.2 63.5 An analysis of local restrictions on the Group’s water use, based high water-stressed areas, 5% in low to medium water-stressed on the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas (World Resources Institute), areas and 30% in low stressed areas (see the area deﬁnitions shows that 3% of its water use is in extremely water-stressed and methodology at http://www.wri.org/publication/aqueductareas, 2% in highly water-stressed areas, 60% in medium-toglobal-maps-21-indicators). PRIORITY NO. 2: REDUCE THE CARBON AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS Business paper Proportion of paper certified environmentally Business paper use (2016) In millions of sheets sustainable CNP Assurances (France) 114.5 99.96% MFPrévoyance (France) 1.0 100% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 4.4 100% CNP CIH (Cyprus) 2.7 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 0.2 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 5.4 100% CNP Assurances Compania de Seguros(Argentina) 0.3 90% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) < 0.1 100% TOTAL 128.5 91.27% 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 59 Environmental and social indicators at the non-consolidated subsidiaries For CNP Assurances, social responsibility extends beyond the companies consolidated for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. As of 31 December 2016, three companies that were at least 50%-owned but were not consolidated – Assuristance, CNP TI and Âge d’Or – were also monitored for CSR compliance. Scope W 18 Âge d’Or employees (excluding franchisees) in Troyes and other locations (286 sq.m.). W 156 Assuristance employees in the Saint-Cloud ofﬁces (3,295 sq.m.), of which 67 from Filassistance and 89 from W 367 CNP TI employees based in CNP Assurances ofﬁces Garantie Assistance. (environmental data included in CNP Assurances ﬁgures). I 2016 social indicators for the three subsidiaries combined Employees Training and career development A total of 11,884 hours of training were offered in the three Workforce Percentage of women Average age French subsidiaries, with a sharply increased budget representing 541 37% 44.8 years over 5% of payroll. The number of employees has remained stable. Use of outside Since 2014, CNP TI has been pursuing the “Skills” project, based contractors mainly concerns ofﬁce cleaners and IT operations. on an analysis of the match between each employee’s existing skills and career objectives, as expressed during the annual The proportion of women has remained at around 60% for the performance review, and CNP TI’s strategy. By highlighting the insurance/assistance companies. It is lower in the IT sector, at most appropriate development opportunities, this approach is 26%. helping employees to advance more rapidly in their career. Human Resources planning and development Employee dialogue Average length Number of Number A total of 110 meetings were held by the three subsidiaries of service Turnover separations of new hires in 2016, including 11 meetings of the Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committees and 99 meetings 14 years 4.12% 64 64 with employee representatives. Part-time employees represent 13% of the total. Nearly Several internal agreements with employee representatives 7,000 overtime hours were recorded in 2016. Separations were signed at CNP TI, covering such issues as the primarily corresponded to ﬁxed-term contracts coming to an discretionary proﬁt-sharing scheme and across-the-board pay end (37) and resignations (8). Four dismissals were recorded rises. Work began on developing a formal Human Resources in 2016. planning process. Health and safety Equal opportunities Total absenteeism rate (excluding CNP TI: Absenteeism rate Percentage of women not available) excluding maternity leave Percentage of women managers senior managers 34% 13.4% 7.9% 3.2% Four occupational accidents were recorded in 2016. Between them, the three subsidiaries employed seven people with disabilities. At CNP TI, 21 people were employed under Around 15 meetings of the psychosocial risk prevention vocational training contracts. In its intergenerational contract, commission were organised at CNP TI in 2016, and eight CNP TI has committed to hiring employees aged under 31, initiatives addressing technical and psychosocial risks were including students reaching the end of their work-study contracts, examined by the “single report” working group based on the while ensuring that employees aged 57 and over represent at results of the 2015 employee satisfaction survey. least 13% of its workforce. 60 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INDICATORS AT THE NON-CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I 2016 environmental indicators Like other Group companies, these three subsidiaries operate Waste in the service sector and their environmental impact is therefore Assuristance operates a collection system for batteries (7 kg), limited. paper (2.6 tonnes) and ink cartridges, and in 2016, the system As CNP TI’s teams are based in CNP Assurances’ ofﬁces, was expanded to include small electrical appliances and neon environmental data covering their paper and electricity use and light tubes. Age d’Ôr has purchased waste sorting bins for its waste production are included in the ﬁgures for CNP Assurances employees in Troyes. and excluded from the following statistics. Measures taken to reduce the environmental Consumption impact Filassistance has adopted the “green letter”, an economical and Paper Electricity eco-friendly mail delivery service. For urgent deliveries of letters 1,053,000 sheets 373,335 kWh and parcels in Paris and the surrounding area, Filassistance uses a bicycle courier service, with which it has signed a code of ethics Paper use declined by 15% in 2016, compared with 2015 which and social responsibility, as a means of reducing CO2 emissions. saw an increase in the production of advertising documents for Âge d’Or. In 2016, the removal of individual printers at Assuristance contributed to a one-third reduction in paper use. All three units have adopted recto-verso printing and are expanding the use of electronic forms, while also optimising their printing resources. 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 61 62 2016 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Find us at cnp.fr Whether you’re an individual, a professional, a candidate, a journalist, a shareholder or an analyst/investor, you can access the pages dedicated to you directly. You can also download our publications, including the Annual Report, the CSR report and the Registration Document. Follow us @CNP_Assurances cnpassurances.ofﬁciel Linkedin.com/company/cnp youtube.com/c/CnpFr_ofﬁciel Have fun in French with cespetiteschoses.fr The site, in French only, reminds us about the little Watch our videos: things that help us to live well, for a long time. #ATousNosAvenirs With these four inspiring stories ﬁlmed by journalist Olivier Delacroix, CNP Assurances pays homage to all those who have had the courage to do something different with their lives. April 2017 – CNP Assurances – Sustainable Development department Cover design and production: Cover photo credits: © Kei Uesugi, Peshkov/Getty Images – Ref. CNP/2017/B-RSE2016/DVD CNP Assurances | Registered ofﬁAssurances CNP SiègeDautry, ce: 4, place|Raoul social : 75716 4, placeParis RaoulCedex | Tel.:Paris 1575716 Dautry, +33(0) 1 421518 Cedex 88 88 | Tél. 18 88 88 | Caisse des Dépôts Group www.cnp.fr : 01|42 www.cnp.fr | Groupe Caisse des Dépôts
