Communication on Progress 2016 CONTENTS Comments from the CEO 3 People and sustainability 5 Transcom Cares – our global sustainability program 6 Reinforcing our company culture 9 A sustainable supply chain 10 Environmental care at Transcom 11 Data protection and security 12 GRI Index 13 Comments from the CEO “Talent management and training are absolutely central to our people and sustainability strategy.” Transcom’s customer experience specialists handle 1.5 million immense amount of data is collected on millions of customer interinteractions with our clients’ customers every day. We hire and train actions every day. This information can offer crucial insights for thousands of new people every year. So the way we take care of Transcom and our clients in terms of enhancing the understanding and develop our people lies at the core of our strategy and activiof customers, and the drivers of loyalty and disloyalty. Our clients ties. By the same token, people are at the focus of Transcom’s susentrust us with their customers’ and their own data and they expect tainability strategy. Our stakeholder dialogues have confirmed our us to protect it well. Ensuring customer data protection and secuview. Transcom’s sustainability program, Transcom Cares, was rity, as well as taking proactive measures against fraud, are clearly launched in 2013, focusing on people development, equality & very important sustainability issues for us. diversity and community engagement. While the focus of our susGetting involved in the communities in which we operate not tainability efforts remains unchanged, we reviewed and calibrated only strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our our priorities during the year. We also strengthened the program’s license to operate in the markets where we choose to compete. governance and processes for target follow-up. Community engagement has been a part of Transcom’s culture Talent management and training are absolutely central to our since the beginning, and it is clear that our activities in this area people and sustainability strategy. Promoting diversity and equal support recruitment and staff retention. I am proud to say that opportunity is equally important to us. We strive for gender equality many of our community engagement projects depend on our on all levels, and are dedicated to providing equal opportunity employees’ passion to contribute their time and energy. employment. We are focused on attracting top talent and retaining At Transcom, we strive to reduce the environmental impact of people to build a truly global company that is prepared to meet and our operations, with a particular focus on managing e-waste, limitdeliver towards diverse business cultures in all corners of the world. ing business travel and lowering energy consumption in our faciliTranscom adds value to our clients’ businesses by supporting ties. We conduct training and support local initiatives with our the creation of outstanding customer experiences, while reducing employees in order to encourage greater environmental responsicost and helping to drive growth. The customer care industry is bility in our workplaces. Our environmental policy, which is in exceptionally data-driven. In order to run the business efficiently agreement with the precautionary principle, guides us in lowering and track our performance against key performance indicators, an emissions from air travel, supports us in selecting goods and serTranscom Communication on Progress 2016 3 vices produced with respect for the nature and constitutes a tool for and communication on sustainability at Transcom. This year, we pushing our environmental demands throughout our supply chain. are taking an important step in further improving our reporting by In addition to the sustainability focus areas we have defined, publishing our first sustainability report in accordance with the Transcom fully supports the ten principles of the UN Global GRI Standards (Core option) of the Global Reporting Initiative. Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, environmental You will find the GRI Index on page 12. We have started to report care and anti-corruption work. These principles are an integral on a number of new KPIs, not least in our focus areas People part of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-to-day Development and Equality & Diversity. operations. Therefore, as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an outstanding customer experience in a global sustainable society, Transcom is a signatory of the UN Global Compact. Stockholm, June 2017 We are whole-heartedly committed to ensuring that we comply with the UN Global Compact and its principles. Johan Eriksson, Finally, we are committed to offering transparent reporting President & CEO of Transcom Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 4 People and sustainability Every day, our 29,000 customer experience specialists handle a holder in question. Transcom’s Group Executive Management multitude of interactions with our clients’ customers in more than team is responsible for defining what stakeholders to engage with. 33 languages all over the world. People truly make all the differThe table below summarizes the most important sustainability ence in our business. Our ambition to deliver an excellent customer issues to each key stakeholder group. Transcom’s Group Executive experience in every single interaction depends on an engaged, Management prioritizes amongst material sustainability aspects in skilled and highly motivated workforce. Our ability to attract people order to allocate adequate resources to achieve the highest impact. with the right attitudes and mindset, in combination with efficient A number of internal and external factors are analyzed when training methods and processes to drive performance, is essential assessing whether a sustainability topic is material, mainly to achieving our goals. This year, Transcom has chosen to produce Transcom’s overall mission and strategy, and the concerns a sustainability report in accordance with the GRI Standards (Core expressed by our stakeholders. Broader interests and topics are option) for the first time. also considered, not least in the environmental area. We organize specific stakeholder dialogues with our employees, LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS e.g. through web-based surveys and feedback meetings. In addiAt Transcom, we believe it makes sense to focus our sustainability tion to this, we conduct an annual employee satisfaction survey, strategy on people, a decision which our stakeholder dialogues and “Voice of Our Employees”, which is open to all employees, includmateriality analysis support. In a people-intensive business like ing temps and agency workers. Gathering feedback from our ours, long-term success largely depends on the ability to attract, employees on their satisfaction is critical in order to continuously develop and retain the right people. improve our workplace and make it a great place to work. The Transcom conducts stakeholder dialogues and materiality analresults of the survey are analyzed and discussed on the local as yses in order to identify which sustainability aspects are considered well as on the global level, and action plans are created in order to to be most material. The identification and selection of which address the findings. stakeholder groups to engage with is based on the degree to which The list below summarizes the most important sustainability Transcom’s operations depend and have an impact on the stakeissues to each key stakeholder group. Most important aspects to each stakeholder group Employees Equity analysts • Be an equal opportunity employer • Be transparent with financial reporting • Be transparent with financial reporting • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Work proactively with anticorruption • Be an equal opportunity employer Owners ESG analysts • Provide continuous training for employees • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Be transparent with financial reporting • Uphold freedom of association and right to collective ­bargaining • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction Investors Clients • Provide continuous training for employees • Have fair and transparent recruitment practices • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Be an equal opportunity employer • Ensure high degree of customer satisfaction • Focus on fair working conditions for employees • Focus on health and safety management for employees Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 5 Transcom Cares – our global sustainability program At Transcom, sustainability means that we always do our utmost to as well as the ability to attract new employees and retain our taldo the right thing by our clients, our people and our communities. ents. In order to ensure that we are successful in finding the right We are convinced that our commitment to sustainability also helps people, the company has a clear goal of becoming an employer us to attract, retain and develop the best people, which is critical to of choice in our industry. Besides offering a stimulating working our long-term success. experience, competitive compensation and robust training, the Transcom Cares is the overarching governance program for opportunity for career development is one of the key factors that Transcom’s sustainability activities, which are an integral part of our attract new talents to the company. day-to-day business. Transcom Cares was initially started several Programs for continuously upgrading our employees’ skills are years ago as a concept for our community engagement activities an important part of people development at Transcom. These proin the Philippines. In 2013, Transcom Cares was established as a grams also facilitate continued employability of our people in situaglobal program with a broadened scope in order to provide tions where their employment at Transcom is ended. Examples of strengthened governance and coordination for Transcom’s sustaintraining courses organized during 2016 include stress resistance, ability focus areas: people development, equality & diversity, and soft skill trainings, team leader development training, communicacommunity engagement. While the overall focus of our sustainabiltion skills, COPC training, sales training, information security ity efforts remains unchanged, we reviewed and calibrated our priawareness, and project management. orities during 2016, as summarized in the position pyramid below. We offer unique opportunities for our employees to develop in In 2016, we also strengthened the program’s governance and their roles. There is a clearly defined career progression, either as a processes for target follow-up. Each material sustainability topic line manager or in a specialist role. There are hundreds of examhas a topic owner, responsible for the implementation of agreed ples of senior leaders at Transcom who started out as agents or in actions, and the collection and compilation of data on key sustainajunior support roles. bility KPIs. Topic owners also have an important role in engaging their team members, communicating the value and purpose of Country Manager Support functions, Transcom’s sustainability initiatives. In addition, Transcom’s Head e.g.: Contact Center Manager of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the audit committee and –IT Business Manager –Quality the Board of Directors, has a formal role in the company’s sustaina–Operations –HR bility governance structure. Internal audit is responsible for followTeam Leader –Finance ing up on agreed activities and targets, and also evaluates the Agent effectiveness of the management approach for each material sustainability topic based on results achieved. Please visit blog.transcom.com for stories about people who have chosen to build their careers with us. The absolute majority of our first line management positions, as Topics that are critical • Endorse training and talent management / People development well as functional specialist roles, are filled by internal candidates. to building trust • Promote equal opportunity and diversity among employees For example, over 90% of our Team Leaders are internally recruited, and almost three out of four Business Managers. Important • Support community engagement • Have transparent reporting and communication on sustainability When recruiting externally, many candidates come to us focus areas • Ensure customer data protection and security • Take proactive measures against fraud through referrals from employees. At the same time, Transcom actively develops the company’s presence on various social netBasic areas • Reduce and have proper disposal of e-waste works in order to enhance the company’s employer brand and that need to • Take proactive anti-corruption measures • Initiate energy reduction at offices attract highly skilled candidates. One key project in 2016 was to be managed • Have ethical and enviromentally-friendly suppliers establish a global career page on LinkedIn. Performance and Talent Management PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT Transcom relies on value-driven, high-performing people with the High performing, skilled and motivated people are the key ingreright skills to provide value to our clients. Our Performance Managedient in providing excellent customer experience, and it is therement Program is very important in this context. 99% of our employees fore critical that we have a process to support high performance receive regular performance reviews. There is no difference by gender. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 6 Two years ago, we launched a special Talent Management Protechnology skills; they become product specialists, handle conflicts gram with the objective of identifying internal talent and developing and, in turn, are rewarded for a job well done. Transom is proud of high-potential employees. This program is an important part of the role we play in the lives of our current and former employees. succession planning in that it supports the identification of potenTranscom’s Board of Directors currently consists of 83 percent tial future leaders at all levels in order to ensure the sustainability of men and 17 percent women. The ratio is the same for the Group the organization. Our employees can directly influence the Talent Executive Management team. Management process, not least through Individual Development 50 percent of Board members are between the ages of 30 and Plans. The program enables us to attract and retain the most tal50, and 50 percent are over 50 years old. 67 percent of the memented people, while also making sure that we can quickly identify bers of the Group Executive Management team are between the available talent when job opportunities arise. ages of 30 and 50, and 33 percent are over 50 years old. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We believe that being an employer that provides equal opportuniLocal community engagement is how Transcom Cares started. ties to all is an important key to our future success. It is our peoPeople want to work for a company that has a sustainable ple’s skills, knowledge and attitudes that matter. We have zero approach to business and that contributes to building communities. tolerance for discrimination Local community engagement is how Transcom Cares started. At Transcom, there is no difference between women’s and People want to work for a company that has a sustainable men’s basic salary and remuneration. This holds true for all approach to business and that contributes to building communities. employee categories. Many of our community engagement activities depend on our We have collective bargaining agreements in place in five counemployees’ passion to contribute their time and energy. It is clear tries: Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Sweden. The total numthat these activities support recruitment and staff retention. Getber of employees in these countries amounted to 9,562 at the end ting involved in the communities in which we operate not only of 2016, corresponding to 35 percent of the total number of strengthens our employer brand, but also maintains our license to employees in the Transcom Group. operate in the markets where we choose to compete. A unique position that Transcom is proud to fill in many markets Transcom also runs programs to make life easier for our is that of a platform for career development for young people and employees. On-site child care centers, pharmacies, and employee new graduates. In many countries, we are a top employer of people microloans are some examples. aged 18-26. Our agents learn about direct client interaction in a 95 percent of Transcom’s senior managers are hired from the dynamic environment, strengthening their communication and local community. Gender distribution, all employees Gender distribution, managers Men 41% Women 59% Men 52% Women 48% In addition to the focus areas of our sustainability as part of our on-going pledge to deliver an program, Transcom fully supports the ten princi­outstanding customer experience in a global ples of the UN Global Compact with respect to ­sustainable society, Transcom is a signatory of human rights, labor rights, environmental care the UN Global Compact. We are whole-heartedly and anti-corruption work. These principles are an committed to ensuring that we comply with the integral part of our corporate strategy, business UN Global Compact and its principles. culture and day-to-day operations. Therefore, Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 7 INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS English-speaking North Eur. Continental Eur. markets & APAC Corporate Total Permament employees – female 1,515 4,141 6,083 109 11,848 – male 1,560 1,716 5,006 160 8,442 TOTAL PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 3,075 5,857 11,089 269 20,290 Temporary employees – female 897 3,562 33 6 4,498 – male 1,010 1,883 22 4 2,919 TOTAL TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES 1,907 5,445 55 10 7,417 Full-time employees – female 1,395 3,564 5,131 77 10,167 – male 1,523 1,738 4,244 116 7,621 TOTAL FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES 2,918 5,302 9,375 193 17,788 Part-time employees – female 1,012 4,139 985 38 6,174 – male 1,052 1,861 784 48 3,745 TOTAL PART-TIME EMPLOYEES 2,064 6 000 1,769 86 9,919 Note: Latin America is excluded, as Transcom is exiting Latin America. At the end of 2016, there were a total of 1,141 employees in Latin America. Transcom uses SAP to store and analyze personnel data. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 8 Reinforcing our company culture Our core values – Passion, Excellence and Innovation – guide us as CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT a company and the behavior of the professionals who make up our Transcom’s Code of Business Conduct is a summary of our ethical workforce. But a company’s culture is more than a set of guiding platform, outlining the high standards of honesty, integrity and ethprinciples. It is brought to life by the employees who embody the ical conduct that we expect from all our employees. An introducvalues on a daily basis. Given that we hire thousands of new people tion to the Code of Business Conduct is part of the each employevery year, it is important that we continuously reinforce and ee’s induction. Historically, all our managers have received regular communicate our company culture. This is why we, during 2016, refresher training to ensure awareness of all principles in the code. focused on clarifying our employee value proposition, leadership In 2016, we decided to extend the scope of the training to include style, and core values. all employees. As a result of this decision, we delivered a webThe objective of this effort is to make sure that our organizabased training course during the year, which 100 percent of our tional culture supports strategy implementation. We view culture employees successfully completed. In addition to the policy docuas an important enabler in achieving business success, and being ments, employees were presented with a number of hypothetical recognized as a global leader in customer experience. For this reasituations illustrating key principles. Everyone had to complete a son, we believe that it is important that our leaders take active part quiz to confirm their knowledge and understanding. in shaping our culture, ensuring that it benefits Transcom’s goals Sustainability at Transcom is an integral part of safeguarding and also our employees. not only our values but also the reputation of the clients that A new global intranet platform, One Transcom, was launched choose to partner with us. during 2016, which facilitates communication and employee To combat all forms of corruption, we have the following govengagement, and promotes a shared understanding of the company’s erning documents in place: Supplier Code of Business Conduct, strategy, goals and culture. Sustainability is an integral part of Code of Business Conduct for employees and our Whistleblower Transcom’s strategy and culture, not least our standards for ethical reporting policy & mechanism. We have received positive feedback behavior. In 2016, we invested in strengthening communication from the investor community, our employees and our partners on and training in this area (see below). our dedicated efforts to uphold the highest ethical standards in our operations and to push the boundaries of responsibility throughout our value chain. Transcom makes a corruption risk assessment annually, covering all countries of operation, based on Transparency International’s corruption perception index. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 9 A sustainable supply chain Transcom adheres to principles of sustainable procurement, and We regularly carry out sustainability assessments of our key we have processes to evaluate the sustainability performance of vendors by a third party through web-based self-assessments our suppliers. covering all ten principles of the UN Global Compact on human Transcom’s supply chain consists of its operating functions rights, labor rights, environmental care, anti-corruption and inforand facilities, as well as its extensive network of vendors and stramation on their implementation of ethical governance practices. tegic partners. This network is mainly comprised of suppliers in A systematic evaluation of the responses is done to ensure a fair three categories: IT, temporary staff and recruitment agencies, judgment on the replies against internationally ratified convenand facilities-related suppliers. Roughly two-thirds of Transcom’s tions and declarations and OECD guidelines for multinational suppliers are located in Europe, with the remainder situated companies. mainly in North America and the Asia-Pacific region. The supplier assessment process enables us to take quick We have assessed the inherent overall CSR risks at a medium action if any malpractice or breach of our supplier code of conlevel from a supply chain perspective based on the principles of the duct is identified. Our escalation process consists of three main UN Global Compact. Respect for human rights as well as equal and steps; dialogue and learning, visits and relationship building and, fair working conditions for all employees are among the top priorities. as a last step, contract termination. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 10 Environmental care at Transcom While Transcom’s operations have a relatively limited environmenCarbon emissions tal impact, we strive to reduce the effect our own operations have Year 2016 2015 on the environment, with a particular focus on reducing e-waste, CO2 emissions, business travel (tonnes) 882.4 1,017 limiting business travel and decreasing energy consumption in our CO2 emissions, per employee (tonnes/employee) 0.031 0.034 facilities. We conduct training and support local initiatives with our CO2 emissions, by Revenue (tonnes/million euros) 1.51 1.62 employees in order to encourage greater environmental responsibility in our workplaces. Our employees are committed to minimizing the impact and to working together to contribute to a better Transcom continues to make efforts to minimize our carbon emisenvironment. Our environmental policy guides us in lowering emissions, e.g. by reviewing the meeting needs in the company and cresions from air travel, supports us in selecting goods and services ating suitable alternatives to travel. In 2016, electricity consumption produced with respect for the nature and is a tool to push our enviin our facilities was essentially flat compared to 2015, while CO2 ronmental demands throughout our supply chain. Transcom folemissions from business travel decreased by 13 percent. CO2 lows the precautionary principle by managing risks of negative emissions per employee were also slightly lower compared to social and environmental impact in accordance with international 2015 (from 0.034 ton per employee to 0.031 ton). guidelines. We also promote environmentally friendly technologies and Electricity consumtion equipment. The fact that Transcom’s business model is IT enabled Year 2016 2015 means that ITor e-waste management is an important issue for Electricity consumtion by employee the company. Transcom’s objective is to acquire, manage and dis(kWh/ employee)* 1,206 1,227 pose of electronic and electrical equipment in an environmentalElectricity consumtion by revenue (kWh/million euros)* 54,292 58,001 ly-friendly manner. We adhere to the Directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE Directive) and other country-­ * Electricity consumtion in contact centers. Excluding Latin American operations. specific e-waste regulations. Wherever possible, we aim to procure hardware from ENERGY STAR-labeled vendors. We also try to We are committed to encouraging, educating and promoting minimize the generation of e-waste by extending the useful life of a sustainable business model that keeps environmental impact computers. Most of our country organizations already dispose of at a minimum and reduces the carbon emissions at a steady pace e-waste via specialized e-waste management companies. for us today and, most importantly, for generations to come. We are committed to encouraging, educating and promoting a sustainable business model that keeps environmental impact at a minimum and reduces the carbon emissions at a steady pace for us today and, most importantly, for generations to come. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 11 Data protection and security CUSTOMER DATA CONTROLS AND MEASURES Our clients trust us with access to information about their key Our Code of Business Conduct, Information Security policy, Priassets, i.e. their customers. With the evolution of the industry, we vacy policy, along with other policies provide a robust framework have experienced that more and more customer data resides on for the protection of personally identifiable information. We have client’s networks and systems. Service providers like Transcom are implemented various measures to handle and safeguard data provided with managed access, thereby reducing the inherent risk. appropriately, including but not restricted to information security There are cases where Transcom stores and processes personally controls (e.g. access controls, password controls, virus and malidentifiable information of customers in accordance with client ware protection, etc.), physical controls (e.g. restricting physical contracts. access, paperless environment, etc.) and controls in the area of human resource management (e.g. background checks of appliCLIENT/VENDOR DATA cants). Furthermore, regulatory controls, e.g. PCI-DSS, are also We store and process personal data related to our clients and venimplemented where relevant in order to protect confidential and dors in the normal course of business, e.g. for invoicing, payments sensitive information. We also provide periodic information security and managing collections. awareness trainings and Code of Business Conduct training sessions for all our employees in order to reinforce awareness of: EMPLOYEE DATA • Ethical standards and values We store and process personal data related to our employees in • Regulatory and client requirements the normal course of business, e.g. for staffing, scheduling, manag• Types of security incidents that may arise ing and improving performance, which is integral to our business • Preventive controls, i.e. how to prevent incidents from happening model and our value proposition of delivering outstanding cus• Which actions to take if such security Incidents were to occur tomer experience. We also carry out assessments and mock drills to evaluate awareness and enhance preparedness. Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 12 GRI Index Indicator/UNGC Principle More information Fulfillment GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102-14 Statement from the CEO CEO Statement 2016 Fulfilled GRI 102-1 Name of the organization Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Fulfilled GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Annual report 2016, pages 6-7 Fulfilled GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Stockholm, Sweden Fulfilled GRI 102-4 Location of operations Annual report 2016, pages 8-9 Fulfilled GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual report 2016, note 1.1. (page 20), list of top Fulfilled ­share­holders (page 13) GRI 102-6 Markets served Annual report 2016, pages 6-9 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual report 2016, pages 4, 6, 7, 15, 17 Fulfilled GRI 102-8, Information on employees and other workers Employee-section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 6 GRI 102-41, Collective bargaining agreements Equal opportunities section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 3 GRI 102-9 Supply chain Supply chain section on 2016.transcom.com ­Fulfilled GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Annual report 2016, page 1 Fulfilled supply chain GRI 102-11, Precautionary principle or approach Environment section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 7 GRI 102-12 External initiatives Transcom is a signatory of UN Global Compact since 2008 Fulfilled GRI 102-13 Membership of associations Almega – the Employers’ Organization for the Swedish Fulfilled ­Service Sector. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Annual report 2016, note A14 (page 48) Fulfilled statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-48 Restatements of information This is Transcom’s first report in accordance with the Fulfilled GRI Standards. GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Materiality analysis section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting This is Transcom’s first report in accordance with the Fulfilled GRI Standards. GRI 102-50 Reporting period The information provided refers to the 2016 financial year Fulfilled (January – December 2016). GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report This is Transcom’s first report in accordance with the Fulfilled GRI Standards. GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle Transcom’s reporting cycle is annual. Fulfilled GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Stefan Pettersson, Head of Group Communications, Fulfilled stefan.pettersson@transcom.com GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the Fulfilled GRI Standards GRI Standards: Core option. GRI 102-56 External assurance This report has not been externally assured. Fulfilled GRI 102-18 Governance structure 2016 annual report, pages 59-65, People & Sustainabilty Fulfilled on 2016.transcom.com GRI 102-16, Values, principles, standards, and norms Transcom’s Code of Business Conduct, available on Fulfilled UNGC Principles 1-2, 10 of behavior www.transcom.com, Code of Business conduct section on 2016.transcom.com Transcom Communication on Progress 2016 13 Indicator Specific Standard Disclosures More information Fulfillment ECONOMIC Management approach GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled Economic performance GRI 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Annual report 2016, note 1.18 (page 23) and note 20 Partially ­retirement plans (page 34) ­fulfilled Market presence GRI 202-2, Proportion of senior management hired from Community engagement section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 6 the local community Anti-corruption GRI 205-1, Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Code of Business conduct section on 2016.transcom.com, Partially UNGC Principle 10 Annual report 2016, page 67. ­fulfilled GRI 205-2, Communication and training about anti-­ Code of Business conduct section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 10 corruption policies and procedures ENVIRONMENTAL Management approach GRI 103-1, Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principles 7, 8 GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled ENERGY GRI 302-3, Energy intensity Environment section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 8 EMISSIONS GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principles 7, 8 SOCIAL Management approach GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its ­Boundary People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach People & Sustainability section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled Sub-category: Training and Education GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and People development section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled ­transition assistance programs GRI 404-3, Percentage of employees receiving regular People development section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 6 ­performance and career development reviews Sub-category: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405-1, Composition of governance bodies and breakEquality & diversity section on 2016.transcom.com Fulfilled UNGC Principle 6 down of employees per employee category Transcom WorldWide AB (publ) Gjörwellsgatan 30 SE-112 60 Stockholm Sweden Company registration number: 556880-1277 www.transcom.com
