C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2015 ∙ 16 ▼ REPORT INDE X C O R P O R AT E S O C I A L RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2015 ∙ 16 Newrest is committed to its employees, customers and suppliers, with a focus on essential NEWRESTʼS points: tasty, well-balanced meals; high-quality, CO M M I T M E N TS … hygienic products and services; TO I T S C L I E N T S respect for human rights and working conditions; AND CONSUMERS P.02 respect for the environment and the fight against corruption. TO I T S E M P LO Y E E S  P.08 TO I T S PA R T N E R S  P.14 TO I T S S O C I A L E N V I R O N M E N T  P.16 TO T H E P L A N E T  P. 21 Meals Development ‒ Catering for CPAM Versaille, France ▶ 02 03 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 N E W R E S T ’ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS C L IEN TS A N D CO NS U M ER S Meal produced for VIP service – Inflight catering A PA SSION FOR TA S TE ▶ At Newrest, we believe that a meal is more than just nutrition: it is an experience for the taste buds and an enjoyable moment of well-being. the entire French rail network: wheat salad with vegetables and feta, penne with squash, mushrooms and green aspergus amongst others in addition to the G ROUP ∙ TA STE COMMIT TEE (1) favorite dessert of Michel Sarran: Berthe’s apple and honey inspired by his grand mother. “I want to creAcross all business sectors, Newrest has set up a ate tasty food that tickles the palate. If I can stir up committee responsible for tasting the dishes offered emotions through my cooking, then I have achieved to consumers before they are served. This tasting my goal in sharing a pleasurable experience”, the chef process enables us to evaluate the organoleptic claims. characteristics of our food and to tailor them to customer needs. The frequency of tasting varies according to business sector. At our Remote sites, ALGERIA ∙ ‘L A SEMAINE each meal is tasted beforehand by a Chef and by DU GOÛT’(3) the Newrest team before being served to employees. As part of la ‘Semaine du Goût’ (literally Taste Week), children from the ‘École d’Hydra’ (PEH) in Algiers took FR A NCE ∙ NE WREST part in Taste Workshops organized by the Newrest WAGONS LITS (2) Algeria team. All day long, over 100 pupils learned to recognize the four basic tastes and the five senses. A Since September 1st 2016, Newrest Wagons-Lits in taste test was organized and everyone passed. MisFrance has made ‘Bistro de Chef by Michel Sarran’ sion accomplished! products available for its client SNCF. The brand was created for the Newrest Group, specifically for TGV. Michel Sarran — French Chef, owner of a MicheSPAIN ∙ GOURMET ME ALS lin-starred restaurant and jury member on reality AND VIP SERVICES (4) cooking show “Top Chef” in France — signed an excluNewrest offers gourmet meals daily for VIP services, sive contract with Newrest Wagons-Lits. A choice of events, and for first-class and business class airline sandwiches, salads, hot dishes and desserts will be passengers. Newrest in Spain and the VIP services for available for passengers to enjoy in the TGV bar along 7,594 1,037 10 Emirates Airlines welcomed journalists and clients in the VIP meals chefs employed new ISO 9001 or ISO 22000 served per day by the Group certifications in 2015 In all our kitchens and restaurants, our employees ensure that consumers are served balanced, varied, tasty meals, while following hygiene standards to the letter. 04 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS 05 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 exclusive VIP lounge at the Santiago Bernabéu stadium dish is displayed, enabling every customer to put 5,000 meals every day. Five key areas are conhigh-impact projects for the daily well-being and (home of Real Madrid FC) to enjoy culinary delicacies together a menu that is best suited to their nutricerned by this campaign: choosing a sport, adopting health of children, act against hunger and promote usually reserved for first class passengers. Guests were tional needs. At some sites, a nutritionist is regularly a healthy diet, being more active, adopting better better education. also able to enjoy one of the best Champagne vintages, present to offer personalized advice to those who eating habits and taking care of the heart. These such as the 2005 Dom Perignon and the 2003 Dom Perwish, including sports and recommendations for a themes are introduced by way of activities and chalignon Rosé, both of which are served on Emirates flights. better lifestyle. lenges, with rewards offered as a bonus. This year, Newrest representative, Nicola Monaco, highlighted the discussion will be aimed towards building awareness considerable challenge met by the cooks who prepare about topics such as balanced diet, body hydration, sumptuous meals at 35,000 feet in altitude. FRENCH P OLY NE SI A ∙ LE A RNING the need to exercise and the reduction in oil and salt A B OUT NUTRITION (5) intake. VIP lounge at For nursery school week, the Taharuu school in the Santiago For the last year, over 2,000 team members have Bernabéu ‒ Papara organized health-themed events. Newrest Madrid participated in sporting activities, and 673 medical dieticians visited the school to host a food and taste ▶ visits have taken place at 105 sites where Newrest workshop. At the Taharuu school in Papara, nursery Wacasco is present. school children learn to recognize different foods with the help of a dietician. Photos are shown to the children, who are then asked to categorize it as an animal or plant species: “Is an apple an aniOP TIM A L QUA LIT Y mal?” asks Vaina Tsong who works for Newrest. The company actively caters to schools and junior high A ND H YGIENE schools in Papara. “No,” the children answer in choCONDITIONS rus. “The children often recognize cooked chicken HE ALTH Y NUTRITION presented on a plate, but they don’t really know what Newrest Group applies it looks like. They also don’t know that apples have very strict Health and Quality Newrest develops programs seeds,” she explains. This workshop is part of ‘Nursstandards required by everywhere in partnership with ery School Week’, which is currently underway in the region. Every day, Newrest delivers 1,500 meals the Catering sector. its clients to promote healthy to elementary and junior high schools in Papara. eating. According to Bernard Mauze, President of the comNewrest has developed a Quality Management system that includes very strict processes, taking We have set up a nutrition campaign at our Caterpany’s board of directors, find fresh local produce in MOROCCO∙ BUILDING into account all the stages involved in meal prepaing and Remote sites, entitled ‘Marcel & Linda’ for large quantities is sometimes difficult. “But we often AWA RENES S A B OUT HE A LTH ration. Our Quality Management system is an inteadults and ‘Madeleine’ for children. A poster camuse vegetables grown in Papara and fresh catches of A ND NUTRITION grated one that enables the Group to acquire new fish,” he specified. paign is being run to build awareness among staff Newrest in Morocco runs awareness campaigns certification when requested by clients in specific about healthy eating, the importance of physical about nutrition and health for its clients. Every year, business markets. activity and of preventing cardiovascular problems Newrest also organizes preventive health events during etc. Along with this information, consumers often anti-smoking days or during the World Diabetes Day. receive a nutritional assessment. M A DAG A SC A R ∙ 83 % 55 % + 16 % THE IMPORTA NCE OF A VA RIED of our turnover certified ISO 9001 of our turnover ISO 22000 certified of certifications between 2015 and 2016 19,000 58 100 % DIE T ( 7 ) children trained nutrition of our meals created in 2015/16 in the school campaigns by nutritionnists for For almost two years now, in partnership with catering sector in 2015/16 Newrest Restauration Aéropartage and B’SaN Asso, Newrest in MadaG ROUP∙ 2016 QHSE SEMINAR gascar has been supporting a food diversification The QHSE department’s annual seminar was held in project offered to 294 children in the village of TanToulouse from 8 to 10 March. Quality, Health, food G ROUP ∙ HELPING OUR CLIENTS SULTA N ATE OF OM A N ∙ THE NE W jondroa, located at approximately 25 km from the Safety and Environmental respect are key themes for TO LI V E HE ALTH Y LI V ES ‘HE A LTH Y LI V ING’ (6) capital. This program, which seeks to promote prothe Group. This annual seminar enables Quality mantein and calcium-filled nutrition, is supported by a Newrest offers a special-nutrition menu option — no agers from different countries to pool their work and The new ‘Healthy Living’ campaign operates in the monthly donation of food products supplied by the animal fats or red meat — at the majority of its resideas in order to maintain continuous improvement. 105 sites managed by Newrest Wacasco and is subsidiary. The main objective of the program is taurants or Remote sites. The calorie count for each designed for the 1,600 employees who serve almost always the same: use existing resources to develop 06 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS 07 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 CUSTOMER and enables teams to create detailed menus according to each client’s specific needs, create recipe A LONG -TERM VISION SATISFAC TION sheets with the details of all required foods and to Newrest’s strategic choices are determine the nutritional impact of every dish. Since Newrest has implemented its implementation in 2012, teams have been able based on a global vision that various means of identifying to optimize food stocks considerably. ‘Winrest’ includes taking calculated risks its customer satisfaction index. is used in 60% of the countries where we have Caterand promoting sustainable ing and/or Remote site activities and should be For Inflight catering, Newrest Group created a shared rolled out in 80% of countries by the end of the year. opportunities and long-term database for all airlines where any reported incident Newrest also develops specific IT tools while remaininvestments. could be listed. However, when Newrest is in direct ing in tune with the needs of its clients This year, Newrest celebrated its 10th anniversary contact with customers, as is the case at our Remote sites, personalized satisfaction surveys help identify OPER ATIONAL and the company continues to promote a long-term vision of its activities on a managerial level. Newrest any areas for improvement. OPTIMISATION A N D G ROUP ∙ A M A N AGEMENT SOF Tis constantly seeking to ensure transparency and WA RE PACK AGE DEPLOY ED CO M P U T E R TO O L S In order to manage and optimise Facilit’rail subsidfairness. 80 % 70 % To optimize its operations iary logistic, the Group has set up Winlog a WMS G REECE ∙ NE WREST CELEBR ATES of client audits of renewed contracts (Warehouse management system). scored over 90% in countries in 2015/16 and increase responsiveness, 10 T H A NNIV ERS A RY (1 0) It is a software package for managing and optimizNewrest uses specific computer ing warehousing as well as physical and computer To mark its 10th year anniversary, Newrest in software tools that improve streams. This tool helps standardize operational proGreece organized an event on Monday 23 May. A lively, friendly atmosphere reigned at the ‘Residence TUNISI A ∙ CUSTOMER daily work management. These cedures in real time, maintain perfect traceability for de France’, where there was a concert and a dinner S ATISFAC TION FOLLOWUP tools are called ‘Winflight’ and stock and control stock levels. reception. Everything went smoothly and the setting Until recently, Newrest in Tunisia conducted satisfac‘Winrest’. was perfect for the event. All the guests seemed tion surveys every two years with its clients. Since FR A NCE ∙ NE WREST happy to be there. During the concert, Greek singer 2015, these have become quarterly surveys. This To optimize its operations and increase responsiveWAGONS LITS TESTS THE CLICK Irini Karaianni took to the stage, accompanied by facilitates a better understanding of client needs and ness, Newrest uses specific computer software tools & COLLECT SER V ICE FOR TG V (9) Dimitris Yakas. creates an opportunity for more recommendations, that improve daily work management. These tools The application is currently being experimented. Passuggestions and feedback, in order to improve the are called ‘Winflight’ and ‘Winrest’. sengers will be able to order meals without leaving services provided. their seats using their smartphone and can also enjoy a priority line at the bar car. Passengers on some G H A N A ∙ RECOMMENDATIONS 2,694 75 % trains can even have meals delivered to their seats. A ND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS (8) training hours on of countries use Newrest’s click & collect app has already been tested ‘Winflight’ and ‘Winrest’ ‘Winflight’ and in 2015/16 ‘Winrest’ in Madagascar and is currently being rolled-out in Newrest in Ghana received an official letter of recother countries where the Group conducts business: ommendation from the Embassies of France and France, Costa Rica, Peru, Bolivia, Uganda, Gabon and Israel, as well as from SWISSPORT. The company Angola, among others. also received thank you emails from CFAO Ghana after organizing events for them. ∙ W inf light With this software, users can create menus for each airline company, print the corresponding recipe QATA R ∙ ROLL OUT OF sheets, update needs according to seat occupancy THE ‘HA PP Y OR NOT’ SUR V E Y on flights, manage stocks and the cost of foodstuff The Newrest Gulf joint venture has implemented a and offer menus tailored to each passenger’s dietary ‘Happy or Not’ system at many of their sites. The syspreferences (gluten-free, vegetarian, etc.). tem uses a computer terminal that allows consumers to rate their satisfaction level in terms of meal quality. Any customer can add their input and this ∙ W inre s t provides the company with daily reports about the Formerly known as ‘Unirest’, this software was quality of services provided. designed for the Catering and Remote site businesses 08 09 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 N E W R E S T ’ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS EM PLOY EE S Employees preparing meals in the production EQUAL OPPORTUNIT Y & ANTI-DISCRIMINATION unit ‒ Newrest Morocco ▶ AND RECRUITMENT POLICIES Newrest is committed to respecting and treating each of its employees equally. Its recruitment policy focuses on the experience and enthusiasm of candidates, giving each one an equal chance. COSTA RIC A ∙ RECRUITMENT AND SOCIAL ACTION Newrest in Costa Rica works in partnership with The graduates have shown their involvement and an action centre to recruit persons in difficulty: desire to share the values that have been and constudents or young people from socially fragile famtinue to be the foundation of Newrest’s success. We ilies (drug-addict or alcoholic parents, for example) wish them great success in their future endeavours in order to help them reintegrate themselves into and a long, fulfilling career with the Group. society. MADAGASC AR ∙ HIRING 20,354 34 % 494 GROUP ∙ AVIATION CAREERS FORUM AGREEMENT SIGNED employees trained of employees are from youth hired on apprenticeship On August 4th, 2016 Alexandre Lelièvre, Managing in 2015/16 25 to 34 years of age programs in 2015/16 Newrest was present at this forum which focused Director of Newrest in Madagascar, and Noromaon professions in the aviation sector and was held nana Rabenitany, Director of the National Tourism in Réunion island. The objective was to inform secand Hospitality Institute (INTH), signed an agreeondary school students about the various careers ment to strengthen relations between these two possible in air transport and aeronautics, give them organisations. This agreement aims to improve advice about training and stir up interest in the field. employment opportunities for INTH students. In order to offer top-quality service to its clients, Newrest has been Based on staffing needs, Newrest will offer these highly vigilant in terms of human resources. The cornerstones of the students the chance to begin their careers within MOROCCO ∙ HIRING AGREEMENT Group’s strategy are optimal staff management and the development SIGNED (1) the Group. Since 2006, Newrest has opened up wonderful career opportunities to the young talof every employee’s talent. Considering the respect for working Conscious of how essential it is to use young talented Malagasy students, in the fields of Catering conditions as a basic principle, the Group is committed to motivating ent to inject growth into the Group and guarantee and Remote site management. The Tourism Minisits teams and promoting continuous training for staff. its future success, Newrest has made an ambitious ter, Roland Ratsiraka, supported the partnership graduate program available since 2014. We would between the INTH and Newrest. He was present therefore like to present to you the first graduating during the signing of the agreement. class of 2014/2015 from the ‘Newrest Academy’ and also take this opportunity to congratulate them on their definitive inclusion into the Group. 10 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS EMPLOYEES 11 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 R E S P EC T F O R W E L LB E I N G THE NE THERL A NDS ∙ place to offer them customized SUMMER B A RBECUE (3) training, regardless of hierarchiW O R K I N G CO N D I O F E M PLOY E E S To celebrate the summer, Newrest in the NetherTIONS AND lands organised its first summer barbecue on July cal position. Newrest pays close attention to WORK SAFET Y the health and well-being of its 14th, 2014. Employees, clients and suppliers were invited to enjoy a lively, friendly gathering with deliThese training opportunities concern general The Group is mindful of respectemployees. The Group has done cious food. A swimming pool was built to make the subjects (languages, IT, team management, etc.); event even more enjoyable, and everyone was able ing labour law to the letter and everything within its power to to relax and soak in the summer sun while listening subjects specific to food preparation (food safety, HACCP, kitchen production, food allergens, traceaoffers its employees a comprovide the best possible access to to music from a DJ truck. Guests had a very good bility, etc.); subjects specific to aviation professions fortable, healthy, safe working time and the organisers are already looking forward (aviation safety, aircraft door safety procedures, health care, especially in the develto hosting a second edition next year. environment. aviation approach to airline handling, etc.), subjects oping countries where it operates. specific to Remote sites. These training sessions are provided either outside or inside of the company by our QHSE managers, site managers or 20 % 34 % GH A N A ∙ IN HOUSE MEDIC A L training managers. of occupational accidents between 2014 and 2016 of accident frequency rate per month SER V ICES in 2015/16 Newrest in Ghana provides health coverage for its employees, creating a special space for medical G ROUP ∙ TOOLB OX MEE TINGS consultations to take place. An on-site doctor does ‘Tool box’ meetings got their names from construcUG A NDA ∙ RESPEC T preventive work, covering risks of disease transmistion sites’ discussions which occured at the beginFOR SOCIAL REGUL ATIONS (2) sion, dietary habits, and healthy lifestyle. This action ning of the day. Workers were, in the olden times, On October 12th, 2016 Newrest in Uganda won the enables employees to have better access to health settled down on their tool boxes to talk about their title of ‘Best employer in Entebbe’.This award was care and to medical information. day’s program. The term “toolbox meeting” is now given to Newrest in Uganda by the ‘Sécurité Sociale used to refer to almost daily meetings dealing with Ougandaise’ (literally National Social Security Fund). a wide range of topics related to quality, safety or It acknowledges companies that respect social reguSULTA N AT OF OM A N∙ BRE A ST well-being on the job. These are short but intense lations in the Entebbe district. C A NCER SCREENING INITIATI V ES opportunities for information and discussion that can CONTINUE prove to be very educational. A NGOL A ∙ INTERN ATION A L For the second consecutive year, Newrest Wacasco WORK S AFE T Y DAY in Oman and the Burjeel Medical Centre provided a A N G O L A ∙ ACCES S TO T R A ININ G program for free breast exams. Screening currently Newrest in Angola was thrilled to celebrate an entire plays an important role in the health and well-being FOR A LL EMPLOY EES accident-free year on April 28th, 2016. This date coinof women. This is why Newrest Wacasco and the Newrest in Angola trained all of its employees, an cided with the international work safety day. To mark Burjeel Medical Centre are always on the lookout effort that amounted to a total of 3,800 hours of the event, the subsidiary organised an exhibition at for new opportunities to take part in humanitarian training. These sessions concerned level 1 (basic) the HSE forum hosted by its client Total EP Angola. initiatives for the good of society and to help build food safety, level 2 (intermediate) food safety, awareness about all aspects of health. assisted HSE training, risk assessment, etc. The subsidiary also organises toolbox meetings every day. SPAIN ∙ EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION E M PLOY E E T R A I N I N G SUR V E Y TUNISIA ∙ TR AINING Every four years, Newrest in Spain conducts a psyIn a constantly moving, FOR ALL T YPES OF EMPLOYEES chosocial survey with its employees. It helps betNewrest in Tunisia used 90% of its training budget ter identify various work-related problems and also changing market, expertise must to train as many employees as possible, with both improves professional life. The company can then also evolve. Newrest is very permanent or temporary status. The 88 training sescarry out new measures: discounts for highly-insions focused on first aid, HACCP, waste managevested employees, implementation of additional trainmindful of its employees’ profesment, firefighting procedures and food handling. ing or organisation of a company Christmas party. sionalism and puts everything in 12 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS EMPLOYEES 13 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 THE NE THERL A NDS ∙ In 2015/16 More than TE A MS FOR INTERCOMPA N Y 69% 20,000 TOURN A MENTS (6) toolbox training of our employees received sessions for more than training sessions 5,000 employees Newrest and Airshop employees in the Netherlands formed a bowling team and two volleyball teams. The bowling team meets once a month and is training for the Business League. In October, Newrest in the CROATI A ∙ SPECIFIC TR A INING Netherlands took part in the ‘bedrijventoernooi’ an FOR V IP SER V ICES inter-company volleyball tournament. Three teams 6 Newrest in Croatia trained 40% of its employees, espefrom Newrest in the Netherlands participated in cially chefs, team members and managers involved in this tournament that included 16 companies. The VIP services.These training sessions accounted for Newrest Centrum team was the overall tournament NE W RE S T HE A D QUA R TERS ∙ 450 hours for the year 2015/16. They enable employwinner. PA RTICIPATION IN THE ‘CORRIDA ees to meet the needs of VIP clients while maintaining GABON ∙ JUNIOR NEWREST CUP (5) PÉDESTRE’ (8) the highest standards of excellence. Newrest teams laced up their running shoes for the Newrest in Gabon organized a golf tournament for ‘Corrida pédestre’, a 10 km night race through the children that took place in February 2016. The ‘Junior heart of Toulouse that took place on July 1 st, 2016. SPORTS-BASED Newrest Cup’ kicked off the competition season at the Golf School in Port-Gentil. The tropical heat was Eleven runners from the Toulouse headquarters and M OT I VAT I O N no obstacle for the young Gabonese champions, who Blagnac teams set off on the Company challenge and proudly wore the Newrest colours for the race proved they had a taste for competition. that gathered over 4,700 people The entire Group participated in various sporting events over the 2015/16 period. G ROUP ∙ CONTINUED PA RTNERSHIP WITH FABRICE AMEDEO (4) The Group renewed its partnership this year with the skipper Fabrice Amedeo, who has been displaying SPAIN ∙ PARTICIPATION IN THE the ‘Newrest-Matmut’ flag proudly on his IMOCA ‘POWER ADE MTB NON STOP boat. Amedeo set off on his first ever ‘Vendée Globe’ SERIES’ 2016 (7) in November. The race is a source of excitement and The non-stop, team relay mountain bike race from emotion for a large number of employees who follow Madrid to Lisbon took place from Friday September it closely. In fact, Newrest’s slogan for the race is “A 30 th to Sunday October 2nd, 2016. After covering skipper at sea, a crew of 28,000 on share.” 200 km per week for 3 months to train for the big event, 4 cyclists from the Newrest Servair team in Madrid alternated every 80 km to get to Lisbon from Madrid. They decided to adapt the race to greet their Newrest Servair colleagues at the start and their Newrest Lisbon colleagues after passing the finish line. The cyclists did not sleep for two days in order to cover the 770 km separating the Spanish and Portuguese capitals. They clocked a time of 45:48:11 and finished 103rd out of 274 teams. 14 15 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 N E W R E S T ’ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS PA R T N ER S Meeting for supplier no staff member has participated in unfair business PERU ∙ CENTR A LIS ATION choice ‒ practices initiated by suppliers. OF PURCH A SES Headquarter Newrest Morocco All purchases are centralised via a special depart▶ S W ITZERL A ND ∙ NO GIF TS , ment located in Lima. Calls to tender are completed from this office. This system enables Newrest to NO PRI V ILEGES apply a single methodology when selecting its potenNo gift can be accepted from any supplier or collabtial suppliers. It also enables better control during orator. Dinner invitations, concert tickets or invitathe purchasing process. tions to other events are systematically refused. SPA IN ∙ RIGOROUS SELEC TION PHOTOS ? PROCES S FA I R CO M PE T I T I O N When Newrest in Spain launches a call to tender, a meticulous task of comparison is involved. The requireDuring calls to tender involving ment of at least three different suppliers is respected. Product samples are then blind-tested, and quality, Newrest, unfair practices price and compliance with ISO standards are also are forbidden. verified before closing off negotiations. Contracts can only be won as part of normal comPHILIPPINE S ∙ INTEGRIT Y petition between the different tender participants. CHA RTER Regardless of the country involved, Newrest collaborators must maintain Social dumping and pricing practices non-compliant Our suppliers are selected based on a strict probusiness relations rooted in transparency and honesty. This requirement holds with market regulations are not tolerated. Prices are cess, and must provide the relevant documents especially true for our suppliers, since unfair competition is also frowned upon. studied independently. No agreements whatsoever concerning their company and products. Repreare made with competing parties. The offers prosentatives from Newrest SOS conduct on-site visits posed for all contracts are evaluated collectively by to suppliers if necessary. country directors, zone directors and sales directors The Newrest SOS joint venture signed an integrity in relation to their sphere of business charter against corruption. This charter is renewed every year. Our success with the ‘TRACE’ certifiA N T I CO R R U P T I O N to overlook any breaches of hygiene rules. All of cation is proof of our commitment to transparent POLICY these principles are valid in all the countries where we operate, regardless of whether corruption is a CHOICE OF SUPPLIERS business practices which bear testimony to the fact that we are a trustworthy business partner. common local practice. Newrest has implemented Suppliers are selected via exterThe Group strictly prohibits checking procedures for persons susceptible to be drawn into corrupt practices: sales managers and nal audits. To obtain accreditaMOROCCO ∙ HOLDING its employees from offering gifts SUPPLIERS TO HIGH STANDARDS sales directors. These persons are monitored by tion suppliers absolutely or money to representatives national directors, zone directors and internal audiAs part of its supplier selection process, Newrest tors. The latter check the figures from each country must respect certain rules. of its clients or to officials, every month, and verify procedures during regular in Morocco checks the references of every one of its potential collaborators. Suppliers must provide with the aim of facilitating on-site visits. An anti-corruption charter has been Product quality, stock management, freshness, transproof of financial security and show their efficiency drafted and translated into several languages. port system, and cold-chain management are the only the signature of contracts. criteria that determine our choice. Supplier audit proand quality of work. Suppliers are also requested to provide a certain number of documents to show cedures and questionnaires have been created and are Similarly, it is prohibited to accept any gift from supME XICO ∙ TR A NSPA RENT used in all countries of operation. For all tenders, each that they have complied with the required amount pliers or accredited collaborators (or collaborators in A NTI CORRUPTION OPER ATIONS country must obtain a price from at least 3 different of public contributions. Newrest in Morocco checks the tax certificates and social security contribution the process of obtaining accreditation) offered with With corruption still rampant in Mexico, Newrest in suppliers and this process must be conducted at least certificates for each supplier. the aim of acquiring a market or a discount. FurtherCancun has stepped up its vigilance. The operations every year for all product groups purchased. Evidently, more, it is prohibited to pressure health inspection conducted by the subsidiary are transparent and a contract is always drawn up locally to guarantee a staff in any way or offer gifts to encourage inspectors the Group has been able to confirm once more that legal connection between Newrest units and suppliers. 16 17 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 N E W R E S T ’ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO I TS S O C I A L EN V IR O N M EN T Celebration with people from MOROCCO ∙ PROMOTING LOC A L communities around B U Y I N G LO C A L AGRICULTUR A L COOPER ATI V ES & CO L L A B O R AT I N G San Cristobal – Bolivia Newrest in Morocco promotes national and regional ▶ W I T H CO O PE R AT I V E S purchases by collaborating with COPAG, an agricultural cooperative that groups 39 farmers from the Taroudant region in the heart of the country. In order to support local prodOur Moroccan subsidiary now purchases 12% of its ucts, Newrest has developed goods from this cooperative, which supplies it with milk, dairy products and fruit juices. partnerships with agricultural cooperatives and local manufacPERU ∙ COMMITMENT TO LOC AL turers all over the world. COMMUNITIES (1) Newrest in Peru continues to solidify its local involveThe products purchased in cooperatives can reprement in relation to the Huagayoc mine. In 2015/16, sent up to 13% of purchases as has been the case in Newrest continued collaborating with community famMorocco for 2 years. The products purchased from ilies for all of its purchases. These families are involved cooperatives are mostly fresh produce: fruits and in resale but not production. Each product category vegetables, dairy products and eggs. (meat, legumes, fruits and vegetables) comes from a different family, which enables the Group to provide In 45% of our countries Up to income to a larger number of families. Newrest also works with the community for its vehicles and rents 100 % 13 % pick-ups and trucks from local citizens. of purchases of local purchases come are made locally from cooperatives COS TA RIC A ∙ 10 0 % LOC A L IN V O LV E M E N T I N PURCHA SES LO C A L CO M M U N I T I E S Newrest in Costa Rica is continuously strengthening Everywhere the Newrest Group its partnerships with local suppliers. operates, it is involved in the life All produce is purchased within a radius of under 150 km from Newrest production units. This helps of local communities and the support local production. surrounding villages. 4,800 481 70 % We hire staff from areas close to our operation sites and we implement training and collaboration individuals have benefited employees of purchases from Newrest charity involved in social within 150 km to improve daily community life. (direct actions or donations) actions of the units 88 % 26 of our countries hire more actions were conduced than 95 % of their staff in 2015/16 Newrest gets involved in the social environment of every country within local population in local communauties where the Group operates. Our compliance with the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights has led us to support PHILIPPINE S ∙ IT EQUIPMENT the initiatives carried out by NGOs in countries where we operate DON ATED TO A SCHOOL or to implement our own actions. In October 2016, Newrest in the Philippines donated 1 IT equipment to the Bethany School of Technology 18 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT 19 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 and Humanities. Thanks to this initiative, students and professors can benefit from new academic and educational tools. PERU ∙ SUPPORT FOR THE LOC A L HUDB AY COMMUNIT Y (2) In 2015, Newrest in Peru began community action at the first training centre for sustainable development. Located in Hudbay, close to the Constancia mine, this centre offers different theoretical and practical classes in cooking, food hygiene, cleaning and maintenance, led by Newrest employees, among others. Our Peruvian subsidiary is extending its action with families from the Huaylla Huaylla community by providing information about the nutritional benefits of vegeta3 bles and plants grown in their own kitchen gardens. SOCIAL 4 RESPONSIBILIT Y In the countries where it operM A DAG A SC A R ∙ DON ATION SOCIAL ACTIONS ates, Newrest Group is involved FOR CI V ILIA N PROTECTION in social actions which are very On Friday June 3rd, 2016, Ambatovy and Newrest FOR CHILDREN important to the Group. inaugurated the new Civilian Protection camp in 2 Tamatave. Ambatovy built a portion of the buildings For the last few years, FR A NCE ∙ SUPPORT and provided vehicles and equipment to this corps Newrest Group has been of the Malagasy army. Newrest, for its part, donated B OLI V I A ∙ E V ENT PL A NNED FOR THE SNSM (4) a camp for the soldiers’ accommodation. The Prescommitted to reducing its budget FOR COMMUNITIES CLOSE The SNSM, ‘Société Nationale de Sauvetage en Mer’ ident of the Republic of Madagascar, Hery Rajaonfor advertorials and paid adverTO THE S AN CRISTOB AL MINE (3) (national sea rescue association) has over 7,000 memarimampianina, presided over the event. Alexandre Once again this year, Newrest in Bolivia is participatbers including 4,400 volunteer on-board rescuers. In Lelièvre, General Manager of Newrest in Madagastising, and has been using these ing in local events organised by communities located 2014, the association had 219 stations in France and car, gave the President a tour of the camp donated savings for social initiatives, close to the San Cristobal mine. The foundation of in the French overseas departments, as well as 32 by Newrest. Since November 2012, Newrest Remote our subsidiary in Bolivia continues its local involvetraining and intervention centres. Newrest began its sites has managed accommodation and catering especially those that benefit ment by providing food or gifts to celebrate the three support of the SNSM in 2015 for the ‘Transat Jacques services for Ambatovy, a nickel and cobalt refinery children. neighbouring communities. Vabre’ race. In 2016, for the ‘Vendée Globe’ race, in Madagascar. Some 6,000 meals are served every an initiative was carried out to collect funds to help day at the different sites. ‘Les Sables d’Olonne’ station acquire suitable rescue CHILE ∙ SUPPORT FOR UNDERequipment. This material enables rescue operations PRI V ILEGED CHILDREN for sailors, fishermen/fisherwomen and amateur S W ITZERL A ND ∙ COMMITMENT In a school located very close to the Newrest unit in sailors. TO ‘PA DDLE FOR C A NCER ’ Chile, some of the children in attendance between In August 2015, our Swiss joint venture, Newrest the ages of 6 and 13 years old come from poor famCanonica, renewed its support for the ‘Paddle for ilies. A team helps them to discover the opportuniGREECE ∙ FO ODSTUFF DONATED Cancer’ association, which organizes an annual sailties available in terms of employment and provides Newrest in Greece, in collaboration with the Greek ing race, the proceeds from which are donated to career guidance. Association of Philanthropy, created a sort of food the ESCA (English Speaking Cancer Association) in bank to collect unused food stores and donate them Geneva. Newrest Canonica supported the event by 3 to approximately 300 underprivileged families. providing lunch boxes for participants 20 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO ITS SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT 21 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 N E W R E S T ’ S CO M M I T M E N TS TO T H E PL A N E T 6 M A DAG A SC A R ∙ PA RTNERSHIP C A MERO ON ∙ SUPPORT WITH THE ‘ENTENDRE FOR CHILDREN’S HOMES LE MONDE’ A S SOCIATION (5) Newrest in Cameroon organised the distribution of The ‘Entendre Le Monde’ association, created 10 food and overall everyday care items at the ‘Foyer du Planting years ago in partnership with Newrest in MadaSoleil’ Levant, a home for mentally challenged chilof an organic gascar, conducted a mission to Madagascar from dren. Newrest in Cameroon also collaborated with kitchen garden – Newrest Peru November 8th to 13th, 2015. The president of this the ‘Foyer Saint-Nicodème’ home for orphans to ◀ association, professor Bertrand Gardini, ENT surgeon organise a rugby-initiation day for 60 orphans ages 5 at Toulouse, journeyed to Tamatave, Madagascar to 12 years old who enjoyed playing the sport. accompanied by another surgeon (Dr. Calmels) and 2 anaesthesiologists. The mission was carried out at the Morafeno and Analakininina university hospitals. PERU ∙ A S SISTA NCE FOR 29,375 7 20 % meals prepared every day countries ISO 14001 of our subsidiaries decreased The doctors screened for hearing problems — mainly CHILDREN FROM THE HUDB AY with organic products certified their waste in 2015/16 in children — examined 35 patients, selected and COMMUNIT Y (6) operated on 3 children, formed medical-surgical As part of its support initiative for communities close teams and provided medical equipment. This misto the Constancia HudBay mine, Newrest in Peru sion is a long-term one, since, via the internet, the helped children get ready for the new school year. members of the mission in Toulouse will remain in The Peruvian subsidiary distributed back-to-school contact with the doctors in Tamatave for patient kits to children from different villages around the follow-up and analysis of difficult cases. Furthermine. The kit included a backpack, school supplies Ever conscious of the importance of sustainable development, more, the ‘Entendre Le Monde’ association plans Newrest ensures that essential environmental values are upheld and a little snack. In addition, teams from Newrest in to return to Tamatave once or twice a year in order to continue training for local teams and to provide Peru took the opportunity to explain the basics of a within the Group. Using local products in season, treating balanced and healthy diet. medical equipment. This is the fourth field mission and reducing waste, as well as the ‘Zero paper’ policy, conducted in Madagascar since 2012, when approxare examples of how company behaviour illustrates imately 50 patients were cared for by the ‘Entendre le Monde’ association. Catering and the Ambatovy the Group’s ecological mindset. site are managed by 620 employees from Newrest in Madagascar, who provides logistical, financial and human resources to support this mission. 22 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 23 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 I S O 1 4 0 01 using pesticide-free methods, pitched in from the beginning of the project until it Our waste awareness campaign, particularly targeting was finished. They managed the treatment of organic food waste, is still active. The use of ‘Winflight’ softC E R T I F I C AT I O N Newrest encourages sustainable waste to create a compost, while ensuring — with the ware for inflight catering and ‘Winrest’ software for POLICY and responsible farming. help of gardeners — that the crops were correctly Catering and Remote sites, enables several countries managed so that the products used to make meals to adjust their production as closely as possible to suit were truly organic. consumption. ‘Winflight’ enables real-time forecasts In 2014, Newrest launched of the number of meals to be produced, allowing for a major campaign for ISO 14001 29,375 45 % optimal use of raw materials. meals prepared ever y day with organic products of our countries use pesticide-free S W ITZERL A ND ∙ ME A L S certification for its units. products C A RRY ‘FOURCHE T TE V ERTE’ A ND ‘RÉGION TERRE D’AV ENIR ’ A LG ERI A ∙ ISO 14001 is an environmental L A BEL S EN V IRONMENTAL COMMITMENT (3) management standard. FR A NCE ∙ PA RTNERSHIP As part of its Catering activities, Newrest CanonNewrest Algeria has been rewarded for its work on the WITH M A RE VA G A L A NTER ’S ica, our joint venture in Switzerland, has been using Touargas project. On ‘World Environment Day’, the BR A ND ‘GOOD ORG A NIC ONLY ’ (2) the ‘Fourchette Verte’ and ‘Région Terre d’Avenir’ QHSE department from Tecnicas Reunidas rewarded It is based on the principle of continuous improveAlmost one third of the products offered by Newrest labels for a year now. Most of its sites offer a ‘spethe employees from Newrest in Algeria working on ment in environmental performance by controlling in France have already acquired the organic label cial organic’ meal. This balanced and organic meal the Touargas project for their environmentally-friendly the environmental impact of a company’s activity. and are therefore produced pesticide-free. The aim is accompanied by awareness campaigns and quizrecycling and waste-reduction operations. As part of the certification, 7 country units are now is to increase this proportion continuously. ‘Good zes to help introduce consumers to local products. ISO 14001-certified: Austria, Bolivia, Greece, PortuOrganic Only’ contributes to this effort: the brand It should be noted that over 30% of purchases are gal, Switzerland, Cyprus and Tunisia.(1) offers organic and gluten-free meals and juices. It conducted in the cantons where the Group conducts was created by Mareva Galanter (Miss France 1999) business. to meet a steadily growing need for such products. Newrest works in partnership with ‘Good Organic NE W C A LEDONI A ∙ Only’ for private VIP flights departing from Le BourSUSTA IN A BLE FISHING get airport with destinations all over the world. Regular flights departing from Charles de Gaulle and Orly All suppliers of fish to Newrest in New Caledonia will soon also benefit from having gluten-free and practice certified sustainable fishing. Sustainable organic meals and juices served on board. fishing is a method that seeks to encourage ecofriendly fishing, by limiting the volumes of fish caught, in order to protect species and by prohibiting certain 3 techniques that are harmful to the ecosystem. 1 CHILE ∙ REC YCLING R EC YC L I N G & W A S T E A ND THE ORG A NIC WA STE REDUCTION POLICY DIGESTER LO C A L PR O CU R ENewrest in Chile is already conducting a recyA major line of action in minimisMENT & ORGANIC cling process where oils are 100% recycled, paper 50% and cardboard 100%. At the Alma obsering our environmental footprint PRODUCTS vatory site, an organic waste digester has been 2 is reducing and recycling waste. installed. This is a container that acts as a sort of In order to minimize environmenartificial stomach where organic matter is broken down thanks to enzymes and bacteria. This tal impact, one of the Group’s G ROUP ∙ TA KING A STA ND action transforms waste into clean water that can PERU ∙ COLL A BOR ATION AG A INST FOOD WA STE fundamental principles is proper TO CRE ATE A N ORG A NIC be used for vegetation in the Atacama desert, All our sites and production units have systematically where water is extremely rare. The digester also purchasing management: by KITCHEN G A RDEN implemented a waste sorting process. This makes helps reduce the volume of waste as well as odour. reducing transport time and optMaintenance and catering teams from the Platanal it possible for us to reuse a large quantity of waste, Since December 2016, this system has also been electrical plant (Celepsa Group) have successfully such as cardboard, glass, paper, electronic appliinstalled at Newrest’s unit in Chile. ing to purchase foods produced completed an organic kitchen garden. All teams ances, green waste, etc. 24 NE WREST’S COMMITMENTS  TO THE PL ANET 25 Corporate Social Responsibilit y Repor t 2015 ∙ 16 TUNISI A ∙ REC YCLED CO OKING UNITED KINGDOM ∙ LEDS HE ADQUARTERS ∙ 70% OIL USED TO M AKE BIOFUEL S LIGHT THE WAY RECYCLED PAPER FOR PRINTING (4) Newrest in Tunisia is leading an anti-waste and Our Newrest subsidiary in the United Kingdom took Since 2012, any paper printing at Headquarters uses pro-recycling campaign. For this initiative, the commeasures to significantly lower its energy consumpnon-toxic and 100% biodegradable ink. The paper pany has found new uses for cooking oils. The oils tion. One of the steps taken was to replace classic used is 70% recycled and 100% recyclable. Using this are collected by certified agents who pass them on lightbulbs with LEDs (light-emitting diodes). The type of paper for printing this activity report allows to factories so that they can be transformed into main difference between these two light sources is us to save approximately 396 kg of CO2. Our printing biofuels. The production of biofuels aims to reduce their electricity consumption. To produce the same agency is mindful of its environmental responsibiligreenhouse gas emissions and to fight against the amount of light, an LED bulb uses 90% less electricity ties, and carries the ‘imprim’vert’ label: it does not depletion of the world’s fossil fuel reserves. than an incandescent bulb. use toxic products, it monitors energy consumption and it limits, sorts and reuses its waste, especially in NE W C A LEDONI A ∙ G ARB AGE terms of paper volume. CLE AN UP REDUCING Green boxes MGN, partner of Newrest in New Caledonia, conPA P E R US E to recycle the used papers – Toulouse, Headquarter France ducts a clean-up campaign once a month to pick up all types of garbage and debris. The clean-up zone is Since it was founded, Newrest ◀ located on a public road that sees very heavy vehicular traffic. has maintained a policy to reduce paper printing. The Group opts for digital media and uses ecoREDUCTION friendly material when the use of paper is inevitable. OF ENERGY In this case, the basic rule is one printout in black and white, using both sides of the sheet of paper. CO NS U M P T I O N The sustainable development FR ANCE ∙ INSTA LL ATION plan maintained by the Group OF DIGITA L PL ATFORMS Newrest Wagons-Lits in France has put a number of includes strict measures IT tools in place to reduce the use of paper. A blog to reduce the use of electricity called ‘SAB Ensemble’ was created to communicate AUSTRIA ∙ REC YCL A BLE with all of the subsidiary’s 1,500 employees. SimiPACK AGING ON BOA RD and fuel. larly, absences have been tracked since 2015 by a ÖBB TR A INS Simple actions have already helped the Group digital platform. New printers were purchased that For service on ÖBB trains board, our Austrian subsidreduce its ecological footprint in previous years: sysprovide more optimal use of ink. iary continues to use 100% recycled and 100% recytematically closing doors as well as turning off lights, clable coffee and tea cups. Garbage bags are also computers, heating and ventilation systems at the made from biodegradable materials. Cups are made end of the day. from organic and reusable plastic, and biodegradable packaging is used for cutlery. This initiative enables CONGO ∙ LOWER ENERG Y our subsidiary to reduce waste by 20 tonnes every CONSUMPTION year. Newrest in Congo has implemented an awareness campaign and toolbox meetings for its employees, to help reduce its energy consumption. This campaign has been used on different sites to reach clients via informative material. Over the 2015/16 period, Newrest in Congo reduced its paper consumption by 16%, fuel by 6% and electricity by 7%. 26 V IS I T OUR WEBSITE Newrest Activity Report 2015/ 16 is available on our website: www.newrest.eu EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT OFFICE 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot 310 0 0 Toulouse ‒ France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 88 Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70 C O M M U N I C AT I O N Dominique PIL AT TE Communication Direc tor 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot 31000 Toulouse ‒ France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 79 Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70 I N V E S T O R S R E L AT I O N S Matthieu JE ANDEL V ice President Finance 61, boulevard Lazare Carnot 31000 Toulouse ‒ France Phone: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 78 Fax: +33 (0)5 62 89 39 70
