ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia 15 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia 3 SUMMARY 04. ABOUT THE REPORT 06. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 08. SECTOR CONTEXT 16. MAP OF OPERATIONS 18. GOVERNANCE 30. CAPITAL PERFORMANCE 34. SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 40. NATURAL CAPITAL 50. HUMAN CAPITAL 58. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS CAPITAL 70. INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL 74. KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL 80. FINANCIAL CAPITAL 88. CONTENT INDEX GRI 114. ASSURANCE STATEMENT 4 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia About the Report 5 1 ABOUT THE REPORT G4-22 G4-23 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 CPFL Energia publishes its Report annually with a view to mapped topics according to the results of the Vision 2030 maintaining a transparent relationship with all of its stakeprogram and megatrends in the sector, based on the criholders and reporting the actions, projects and results of teria of current importance for management. The tool has the holding company. The information contained herein been further refined throughout 2016, with the aim of facilirefers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2016 tating the methods of monitoring indicators so as to demand covers all of the companies controlled by the Group, onstrate action plans for improving performance. with the exception of RGE Sul1, unless otherwise indicated. The material topics, as defined by the Platform, provide In its pursuit of excellence in management of the the framework of this Report. The first section of the report short-, mediumand long-term topics of greatest relcontains a summarized description of our model of business evance to the company, CPFL Energia has operated a and governance, as well as a review of the past year in the Sustainability Platform since 2014. This sustainability tool message from the CEO. The second section presents inforis integrated with the Group's strategic planning and its mation about our management and performance in the performance is guided and monitored by the Board of form of an Annual Report, guided by the fourth version of Executive Officers, Sustainability Committee, Managethe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the International Intement Processes, Risks and Sustainability Committee and grated Reporting Framework (IIRC) and the Principles of the reported to the Board of Directors. United Nations´ Global Compact. Responses to the indicators The Sustainability Platform encompasses a series of can be found on page 88, in the Context Index (online verindicators that are used for the management of material sion only), which also shows which indicators were submittopics through targets. ted for external assurance by the independent auditors SGS. The platform is currently in use and being constantly G4-32 G4-33 improved. In 2013-2014 the company undertook a robust For suggestions regarding the content of the Report, consultation process with internal and external stakeholdplease contact us by email at sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br. ers to identify the topics of greatest relevance to short-term G4-32 G4-33 management, as well as benchmarking the most important topics for the sector. In 2015, CPFL sought to align these short-term priorities with mediumand long-term visions and trends in the sector. To do so, the Group analyzed the 1 RGE Sul was acquired by the CPFL Group in the second half of 2016. Tanquinho Solar Power Plant SP 6 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Message from the CEO 7 2 It is in this context that the competitive advantages of CPFL Brasil), distributed power generation, Energy efficiency (CPFL Energia make a difference. Our integrated strategy and corpoEficiência) and energy infrastructure services (CPFL Serviços) as rate management and our financial robustness prepare us to important vectors for the future of the Group. play a leading role in these new areas of evolution in the market. We have also evolved in the area of energy generation from Our corporate platform is well prepared for new routes to alternative sources such as solar, wind, biomass and small hygrowth and the modernization of the sector. The operating dro (SHPs). Last year, CPFL Renováveis reached the milestone model that we adopt is formed of three integrated pillars: the of 2 GW of installed capacity, consolidating itself as the largest first is the corporate structure, which is responsible for strategic renewables company in Latin America. and financial formulation, as well as sustainability, communicaIn addition to the advances achieved by our businesses, tion and human resources guidelines. The second pillar is our it is important to mention that we also oversaw an importshared services center, which manages the supporting activiant and planned transition in the management of the Comties common to all of the Group companies, such as payroll and pany in July 2016. I became the new CEO of CPFL Energia, information technology services. The third pillar consists of the succeeding Wilson Ferreira Junior, who has been in charge of MESSAGE business units. This model enables us to capture synergies with the Company for 18 years. The year 2016 has been a challenging year for most compagreater agility and guarantee the continuous improvement of The other very important change that took place was the FROM THE CEO nies with operations in Brazil. The Brazilian economy faced the quality of service provided to our customers. sale of the control block of CPFL Energia to the Chinese compaone of its most severe crises, with a slowdown in economic Allied to our integrated corporate management we have ny State Grid. It is the largest public utility company in the world activity and political instability. a healthy capital structure that is compatible with the risks and and has already been operating in Brazil since 2010. State Grid G4-1 G4-2 Nevertheless, the business environment in the Brazilian powchallenges of a company in our sector, enabling us to access comsets the benchmark for the global power sector, with a strong er sector showed a significant improvement after overcoming petitive lines of financing appropriate to our investment profile. focus on new technologies and a high financial capacity. With a regulatory issues fundamental to the stability and attractiveness Our results in 2016 reflected the synergies of integrated long-term vision for business, State Grid has shown great confiof the sector. Furthermore, a new vision has come to the fore in business management and the robustness of our capital strucdence in the CPFL Group platform and its professionals. the government’s direction of national energy policy, with the ture. Our EBITDA remained stable from 2015 and totaled R$ 4.13 Given the scenario of positive changes in both the Brazilian team appointed to the energy area showing a closer alignment billion, while net income also remained stable, reaching R$ 879 power sector and CPFL Energia itself I am convinced that our with the modernizing trends of the global power sector and million. These results demonstrate the importance of the divermanagement model, the priorities we have chosen and our vision greater openness to the dynamics of the market. sification of our business. We reduced our leverage to 3.21x Net for the future will enable us to offer the best solutions for our cliThe past year was marked by frequent discussions about the Debt/EBITDA, an appropriate level for a company of this nature. ents and consolidate our leading position in the Brazilian market. new forces that are guiding the evolution of the power sector, In 1H16 we began a new cycle of consolidation of the enFinally, I would like to thank the commitment and dedicafrom the way that companies do business to how they relate ergy distribution sector in Brazil, with the acquisition of AES tion of our employees, who are the main reason for the results to consumers. We will experience a period of transition from Sul, now RGE Sul. The transaction was concluded in November that CPFL Energia has achieved throughout its history. the classic power supply chain to a more open and dynamic and represented an investment of R$ 1.7 billion. This takeover market that is more digital, closer to the customer, more comadded 1.3 million customers to our base, which now exceeds petitive and much more technological. In addition to focusing nine million consumers. In addition, we have also moved foron building new power plants, power grids and transmission wards with our growth strategy for the Group’s non-regulated lines, the most successful companies in this new context will business, which will allow us to participate in and influence the be those that best are able to meet the needs of consumers. evolution of the free market and the expansion of solar energy Thank you very much. in Brazil. We see our businesses in the areas of trading (CPFL André Dorf 8 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Sector Context 9 3 SECTOR CONTEXT G4-2 The resumption of business in the Brazilian power sector can be considered one of the highlights of the year 2016. The country went through a period during which the policies being developed created institutional insecurity and generated losses for public and private companies. Towards the end of 2015 more positive news began to emerge with the renewal of the concesThe new rules defined by the Brazilian Electricity Regulatory Agency (Aneel) for the renewal of concessions for distributors indicated the trend towards market consolidation, leading domestic and foreign companies and investors to prepare for a new phase in the Brazilian market. Another relevant action on the part 0.5 MW and 3 MW that are obliged to purchase energy from Small Hydropower Plants or from special incentivized sources (wind, biomass or solar). With 2,102 companies associated to the CCEE last year, the segment represented 91% of new admissions to the free market. Free market companies currently sions of 41 distributors and the Generation Scaling Factor (GSF) agreement. of the government was the approval of the so-called Provisional account for about 27% of consumption. These two decisions allowed companies to plan their management for 2016 Measure for the power sector, which opened the door for the The severe economic crisis experienced by Brazil had a based upon a more predictable scenario. privatization of state-owned distributors, which were federalized. significant impact on the power sector. Data from the BrazilThe migration of customers from the captive market to the ian Energy Research Company (EPE) indicate a drop in energy free market was another important event for the Brazilian powconsumption of 0.9% in 2016, totaling 460,001 Gigawatts-hour er sector in 2016, as well was confirming itself as a trend in the (GWh), mainly driven by industry (-2.9%). market. In pursuit of reducing costs from one of the primary In this context, the distributors faced a scenario of FOR POWER GENERATION, THE PUBLICATION OF MP 688 PAVED THE WAY TO inputs for their activities, 2,303 companies opted to migrate over-contracting of energy. The Brazilian Association of SOLVE THE GSF ISSUES, CREATING PROCEDURES TO REDUCE THE RISK AND to the free energy market. In 2016, the Electric Energy Trading Electricity Distributors (Abradee) predicts that the effects of Chamber CCEE registered a 25-fold increase in the number over-contracting will be felt by companies until 2021, with the RENEW THE ATTRACTIVENESS OF THE SECTOR FOR INVESTMENT. of approved applications for consumer admissions when comworst prediction for 2018. The Electric Energy Trading Champared to 2015 (93 in total). ber (CCEE) estimates that distributors will face an average of This movement was mainly driven by the admission of 109.1% of demand contracted in 2017, similar to the percentspecial consumers, companies with a demand of between age registered up until November. 10 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia How the Power Sector works 11 4 HOW THE POWER SECTOR WORKS How does the energy supply chain work? Players Who are the main players in the market that interact with CPFL’s business Level of concession, regulation, supervision, planning and monitoring CNPE Captive consumers buy energy from the distribution utilities to which they are connected. Each consumer unit only pays a monthly energy bill. The tariffs are regulated by the Government, and the price is the result of a mix National Council Regulated Market for Energy Policy of long-term contracts (auctions). Taxes and Charges Flow of Government Revenue from Service CMSE MME EPE money of Distribution Remuneration Remuneration for Single Monitoring Energy according to transmission services electricity bill Ministry of auction contract Committee for the Research Revenue from Service of distribution Mines and Energy Electricity Sector Company Generation Transmission Distribution Consumer Portion A Portion B Energy Operating purchasing Costs Flow of energy Transmission Depreciation ANEEL quota Sector charges Remuneration ONS of investment National Electrical controls energy Energy Agency generation Destination: destino: Destination: Generation, geração, Transmission transmissão Distribution Indicates price Indicates quantity and Governe governo energy of energy ment Contracting supply auction Total of electricity bill = portion A + portion B ONS CCEE mechanisms MME ANEEL CCE Level of services defines price ceiling conducts the auction operationalizes and agents National System Electrical Energy Operator Trading Chamber Free consumers purchase energy directly from generators or retailers through bilateral contracts with freely negotiated Free Market conditions such as price, time period, volume, etc. Each consumer unit pays a bill to the local utility (regulated rate) for the distribution service and one or more bills for the energy purchased (negotiated contract price). Defines the country’s energy policy with the objective Taxes and CNPE charges Bill from Distributor + Bill from Generator of ensuring the stability of energy supply. Flow of Government Responsible for the planning, management and money MME development of legislation for the sector and the possibility 1 Direct contract between Remuneration for Remuneration for consumer and generator transmission services distribution services supervision and control of implementation of policy guiding energy development. Conducts planning for the expansion of generation Flow of Generation Transmission Distribution Consumer EPE and transmission for the MME, and provides technical energy support for the auction process. Supervises the continuity and reliability of CMSE electrical supply. Flow of Regulates and supervises the generation, transmission, energy ANEEL distribution and retail of electricity. Sets transport and consumption tariff rates and ensures the economic possibility 2 and financial balance of utilities companies. Retailer Controls the operation of the National Interconnected Contracting ONS System (SIN) to optimize energy resources. mechanisms Manages transactions in the energy market and Energy supply CCEE conducts official auctions. contracts via retailer 12 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CPFL Energia’s Business Model 13 CPFL Renováveis CPFL Geração 1 5 CPFL ENERGIA’S BUSINESS MODEL CPFL Energia is the holding company for the CPFL Group, operating in the Brazilian power sector through Directly or Indirectly Controlled Subsidiaries, Jointly-owned Subsidiaries and Affiliates. The CPFL Group operates through the promotion of electricity distribution, generation, transmission and trading projects and related activities. In addition, it also provides business services related to electricity; technical, operational, administrative and financial support to Controlled Subsidiaries and to third parties; energy efficiency consultancy and management; and the study and development of research and development projects. Business Model for the Regulated Market CPFL Revenues from Generation, Transmission and Distribution are regulated Eficiência by ANEEL. Maintaining a rigid strategy for growth and financial discipline, CPFL Energia generates value through: Consumer 3 1 Efficient management of existing assets In-depth knowledge of CPFL 2 Complementariness of business activities to mitigate risks from the electric sector efficiency drivers for the customer Transmissão outsourced suppliers 2 Understanding of customers’ reality CPFL CPFL Brasil Serviços 2 Quality of energy supply CPFL Distribuição CPFL 2 Renováveis Mitigation of risks from outsourced companies (compliance, safety) and quality of works 1 Renewable energy supply with guarantee Business Model for the Non-Regulated Market Existing and new business platforms focused on final 2 customer service. Generates value through: Expertise in CPFL customer services Total Consumer 1 Composition guarantee for the retailer 2 Expertise in negotiating with free consumers and CPFL other free market agents Atende 3 Integrated solutions in energy supply and use 14 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CPFL Energia’s Business Model 15 Retail Group Companies Distribution Retailers are companies operating in the Free Contracting Environment (ACL) whose main role is to act in the intermediation of electricity supply contracts. This reduces the so-called transaction costs, creating an efficient bridge between generators and consumers and assisting Free Consumers and Generation companies to contract electricity with conditions that meet their particularities. At present there is one company in the Group with this mission CPFL Brasil. It conducts auctions for the purchase or sale of elecDistribution companies are the Group companies that deliver tricity where the proposed sellers or buyers compete for the enerenergy to the final consumer via distribution lines. In addition to gy among themselves in a transparent and competitive manner. providing transport infrastructure (poles and wires), the distribuCPFL Brasil provides an electronic trading environment. tors provide all network maintenance services (including pruning trees) and network repairs in the case of power outages. ConsuServices mers receive electricity bills in the name of the distributors. CPFL is a leader in this segment with a 12.4% market share and 9 distribution companies: CPFL Paulista, CPFL Sul Paulista, CPFL Leste Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Santa Cruz, RGE Sul and RGE. The mission of service companies is to improve the customer experience in the energy sector. They provide solutions that meet the needs of both CPFL Group companies and other companies in the electricity sector: support for implementation of energy transmission lines from design through to construction, and maintenance, manufacturing and recovery of equipment, etc. Increased productivity and competitiveness through adoption of the efficient use of resources, intelligence in technical evaluation and the search for the best financial framework for project implementation, fleGeneration xible contractual alternatives for customers, and management of the supply chain are services offered by CPFL Eficiência. Other services that take advantage of the experience and knowledge of the Group in the sector are offered by CPFL Atende (contact center and customer service) and CPFL Total (Account payment services). Transmission Generation companies are the Group companies that produce energy from various sources. CPFL is the 3rd largest private player and leader in the renewable energy sector in Brazil. CPFL Geração: operates with a focus on power generation from conventional sources such as hydroelectric power plants (HPPs) Transmission companies are the Group companies that transport and fossil fuel-powered plants (TPPs). energy via transmission towers and transformers (structures known as the Basic Network) from the plant where it is generated to the disCPFL Renováveis: works exclusively with generation from alternatribution substations from where it is distributed to end consumers. tive sources such as wind (wind farms), sun (photovoltaic plants), sugarcane (biomass plants) and rivers (Small hydroelectric plants). Transmission is a new business for CPFL, still small in scale and born out of synergy with other businesses. Its main function is to ensuCPFL is looking to expand its installed capacity and diversify the re a high-quality energy supply to the Group’s distributors, acting sources used for generation, as well as maintaining the operatioselectively through complementary assets within the distribution nal efficiency of its generating facilities. network. At present there are two transmission companies in the Group: CPFL Transmissão Piracicaba and CPFL Transmissão Morro Agudo. 16 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Map of Operations 17 6 MAP OF OPERATIONS G4-3 G4-7 G4-5 G4-8 G4-6 1 2 3 GENERATION HPP Luis Eduardo Magalhães HPP Serra da Mesa HPP Foz do Chapecó 10 CE 10 RN 11 8 PB MT TO 1 4 HPP Campos Novos 9 DF 5 HPP Barra Grande 2 6 Ceran complex: HPPs Monte Claro, Castro Alves and 14 de Julho GO 7 8 SHPs: 6 (SP) e 2 (MG) 8 2 UTEs (PB) 38 SHPs: 17 (SP), 8 (MG), 6 (SC), 9 4 (RS), 2 (MT) and 1 (PR) 33 Wind Farms: 19 (RN), 10 10 (CE), 4 (RS) 7 MG 11 8 Biomass: 5 (SP), 1 (RN), 1 (MG) and 1 (PR) 11 DISTRIBUTION 7 9 12 1 Solar Power Plant (SP) 9 SP 11 12 8 9 11 RETAIL PR SC 3 4 9 9 5 6 RS 10 SERVICES MARKETS SERVED BY THE DISTRIBUTORS OF THE CPFL GROUP (representation in terms of energy sales) G4-8 Others Residential Industrial Free Customer Commercial Nect Serviços / Authi 16.7% 28.7% 11.4% 28.7% 14.5% 18 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 19 7 GOVERNANCE G4-34 20 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 21 ORGANIZATION OF CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDERS G4-4 G4-17 Free Float 54.6% 45.4% DISTRIBUTION RETAIL SERVICES GENERATION 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 59.93% 99,95% 100% 5.94% Investco Tanquinto Substation in Campinas SP CPFL Centrais Geradoras 2 1 51.54% Serra da Mesa HPP CPFL Energia's corporate governance model is founded on • IBOVESPA: Bovespa Index 65% the principles of transparency, fairness, accountability and • IBRX: Brazilian Index of 100 shares with greatest liquidity Nect Serviços / Authi 25.01% corporate responsibility, always in line with best practices in • ISE: Corporate Sustainability Index of the BM & FBovespa Brazil and abroad. • ITAG: Special Tag Along Stock Index 48.72% In 2016, CPFL completed 12 years since its IPO on the São • IGC: Special Corporate Governance Stock Index 53.34% Paulo Stock Exchange (BM & FBovespa) and on the New York • IEE: Electric Energy Index Stock Exchange ( NYSE ). The Company has operated in Bra• Dow Jones Brazil Titans 20 ADR Index 51% zil for over 100 years and its shares are listed on the Novo • MSCI: Morgan Stanley Capital International Mercado of the BMF & Bovespa and ADRS Level III of the • IBX50 of BM & FBovespa NYSE, differentiated listing segments that unite companies • Carbon Efficiency Index (ICO2) of the BM & FBovespa RENEWABLES adhering to the best practices of corporate governance. All 51.61% of CPFL´s shares are common stock, i.e. they give the right to CPFL Energia is part of a select group of 15 companies that vote and the shareholders are entitled to tag along of 100% make up the Latin American Companies Circle on Corporate in the event of the sale of the controlling interest. Governance, an initiative of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation Notes: PARTICIPATION IN THE MAIN INDICES and Development (OECD), for the purpose of promotion and (1) 51.54% of availability of capacity and energy from the Serra da Mesa HPP, referring to the Energy G4-15 G4-16 encouragement of the improvement of best corporate goverSupply Agreement between CPFL Geração and Furnas; • Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index nance practices in Latin America. (2) CPFL Energia owns a stake in RGE Sul through CPFL Jaguariúna. 22 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 23 GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS* Good governance practices presuppose an ongoing process of ment for its shareholders and create value in the long term, At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on February 16, 2017, 6 new improvement. One of the differentials of CPFL Energia's goverpromoting a culture centered on the values and principles members were elected (5 members representing State Grid, new controlnance structure is that it permits strategic decision-making to of the organization. ling shareholder, and 1 new independent member), replacing the membe both responsive and in line with international best practices. bers representing the former controlling shareholders. As a result, the The Administration consisting of the Board of Directors and BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board has two Independent Advisers. On April 28, the members of the the Board of Executive Officers represents the interests of all The Board of Directors of CPFL Energia is attentive to present and Board of Directors were reappointed, except for Mrs. Ana Maria Elorietta. shareholders and other agents with which the Company and its future opportunities in the market. Responsible for the strategic diMr. Marcelo Amaral Moraes was elected in her place. G4-38 Directly or Indirectly controlled Subsidiaries, Jointly-Controlled rection of the holding company and its subsidiaries/affiliates, it acts Subsidiaries and Affiliates are related, with the goal of preservin accordance with the responsibilities attributed by the Bylaws ing the perpetuity of the CPFL Group’s business. G4-39 and the Corporate Governance Guidelines and defines an Annual Yuhai Hu Daobiao Chen The mission of the Administrators is to protect and Calendar of meetings. Every month it is presented with the topics value the Company´s assets, optimize the return on investto be deliberated upon in the following quarter. G4-47 Marcelo Amaral Moraes COMPOSITION Yang Qu Campinas SP OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Antonio Kandir Yumeng Zhao Andre Dorf The term of office of the Board Members is one year, with the possibilCHAIRMAN ity of re-election. The Corporate Governance Guidelines define that the VICE-CHAIRMAN Board Members be selected from senior professionals occupying upperADVISER management positions, with a proven reputation and experience in the power sector or in their respective areas of activity and should come from ADVISER diverse backgrounds. G4-40 ADVISER The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors establish the procedures INDEPENDENT ADVISER for assessing the Board Members, under the leadership of the Chairman of INDEPENDENT ADVISER the Board of Directors and their replacement by their respective alternates, which may only occur in the case of impediments to the availability of the Board Member with prior notice given to the Company. G4-44 * The Board of Directors composition until February 16, 2017: Murilo Cesar Lemos dos Santos Passos, Décio Bottechia Júnior, Francisco Caprino Neto, Albrecht Curt Reuter Domenech, Deli Soares Pereira, Licio da Costa Raimundo, Ana Maria Elorrieta. 24 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 25 BOARD OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS G4-36 In order to ensure the alignment of governance practices, the The remuneration of the Administration (Executive Board Executive Officers hold positions on the Boards of Directors of and Board of Directors) is established by the General Sharethe companies that compose the CPFL Group and nominate holders' Meeting, based on a survey of the market carried out their respective statutory directors. The Board of Executive Ofby a specialized company and submitted for prior appraisal by ficers is composed of the Chief Executive Officer and six Senior the Human Resources Management Committee. This payment Vice Presidents, all with a two-year term. consists of a monthly fee. G4-52 The Executive Board is composed of professionals identiVariable pay is determined based on criteria defined in an fied by the Company’s succession process or selected from Annual Targets Plan and a Long-Term Incentive Plan. The definithe market from eligible candidates that stand out in their tion of the targets and the assessment of the performance of the respective areas of action. All Executive Officers are senior executive officers, as well as the Company's Succession Plan, are executives with ample experience and outstanding performonitored by the Human Resources Management Committee. mance in their respective areas of expertise. G4-51 G4-52 Sede CPFL Energia SP Andre Dorf CEO The Board of Directors is advised by three committees directly purchase and sale agreements with Parties Related to the conCarlos da Costa Gustavo Estrella subordinate to it: G4-35 G4-36 trolling shareholders for amounts equal to or greater than the Parcias Júnior CHIEF FINANCIAL AND • Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability Committee minimum value falling within the responsibility of the Board of CHIEF BUSINESS INVESTOR RELATIONS OFFICER DEVELOPMENT OFFICER • Human Resources Management Committee Directors, as set out in the Company's Bylaws. This ensures that • Related Parties Committee market conditions are observed and no benefits or advantages of any kind are provided to a Related Party. Members: Ding The coordinator of each of these committees reports back on Hongwu, Li Fu and Marcelo Amaral Moraes. their activities at the regular meetings of the Board of Directors. G4-35 G4-36 The Human Resources Management Committee reguBOARD OF EXECUTIVE larly monitors and reports back to the Board throughout the year on the development of the Succession Plan for the key Wagner Luiz Luís Henrique G4-40 The Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability Comexecutives of the Company and assessment processes for short-term and long-term corporate and individual targets for Schneider de Freitas CHIEF PLANNING AND CORPORATE OFFICERS Ferreira Pinto CHIEF REGULATED mittee is responsible for supporting the Board of Directors in the the Board of Executive Officers, which are defined based on MANAGEMENT OFFICER OPERATIONS OFFICER evaluation and monitoring of the Internal Audit, risk management the strategic plan and metrics of the Shareholder Value Genand compliance activities, supervision of the Sustainability Platform eration System (GVA). Members: Chen Daobiao, Zhang Li and and Ethics System, including the External Grievances Channel, as Daniela Sguassabia Domingues. well as improving business management processes. Members: Liu Whenever necessary, ad hoc Committees are set up to advise Luiz Eduardo F. do Karin Regina YunWei, Fu Zhangyan and Fabio Fernandes Medeiros. the Board of Directors on issues such as strategy, budgets, new Amaral Osorio Luchesi The duties of the Related Parties Committee include evalbusiness and financial policies. In the evaluation of the Board of DiCHIEF LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL CHIEF MARKET RELATIONS OFFICER OPERATIONS OFFICER uation of the selection process for suppliers and service prorectors, the solid corporate governance structure is a priority to enviders for provision of works and procurement of supplies and sure transparency and accountability to stakeholders. In 2016, two services. The Committee also monitors the signature of energy committees were established: Strategy; and Finance and Budget. 26 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 27 ETHICS MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM (SGDE) ETHICS MANAGEMENT 1 2 AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM The Ethics Management and Development System is made up of seven components that jointly aim to strengthen the effectiveness and integrity of the management of ethics at CPFL. 7 3 FISCAL COUNCIL G4-36 The Company's Fiscal Council is a collegiate body elected by 1 CODE OF ETHICAL CONDUCT SGDE the General Shareholders' Meeting, with a unified term of one The Code has been updated for reguyear. It is composed of three effective members and their relatory compliance and as a result of spective alternates and is responsible for supervising the acts changes to the company and to the of the Administration and verifying the fulfillment of its legal and statutory duties. It has a permanent status and a schedule business environment of the CPFL Energia Group. The update also sought 6 4 of activities that includes periodic meetings with External Auto simplify the structure and language ditors and the Company's main executives. The Fiscal Council of the Code, using shorter and more exercises the activities of an Audit Committee in compliance with the rules of the Sarbanes Oxley Act (SOX) applicable to forconcise text to facilitate understanding among the group's stakeholders. 5 eign companies listed on US stock exchanges, including meeting periodically with the Internal Audit, the Risk Management 2 ETHICS COMMITTEE 4 EXTERNAL ETHICS CHANNEL 5 R EPORTS PROCESSING COMMISSION Management and Development System. and Compliance Department and the Accounting Department. The composition of the Committee has For the first time in its history, CPFL EnerThe Reports Processing Commission was It is the company's responsibility to disOne of the Fiscal Council Members qualifies as a Financial Exbeen revised and it now contains five gia has established an external channel for created with the aim of strengthening seminate ethical principles, guiding and pert, as defined in the SOX. members, of which three are senior vicereceiving ethics-related reports inquiries, the process of investigating complaints preparing its employees at all levels with presidents of CPFL Energia and two are suggestions and reports of ethical transreceived by the Ethics Committee. It is regards to the conduct expected in each Independent External Members. The gressions. The solution a benchmark for composed of three executives of CPFL situation that involves ethical issues. COMPOSITION OF THE FISCAL COUNCIL Internal Audit area also participates in a the market for this type of platform is Energia and the investigation of com• Pan Yuehui listening-only role. accessible 24 hours a day, seven days a plaints is carried out by a team of inter7 DISSEMINATION • Reginaldo Ferreira Alexandre week. It guarantees privacy and confidennal investigators, trained in investigative This aspect includes ongoing actions to 3 INTERNAL RULES OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE tiality of information and the anonymity techniques and specialized in the actividisseminate the ethical guidelines of the For more information on the competencies and attributions of The Internal Rules have been revised of the user and permits permanent monities under their responsibility. Within the CPFL Energia Group, through communithe Members of the Board of Directors, Fiscal Council and Comand define the following, among other toring of ethics-related reports, from their structure of commissions supporting the cation campaigns and other initiatives to mittees and the Executive Officers of CPFL and to view their aspects: the duties and responsibilities appearance through until their resolution. Committee, Local Ethics Commissions increase awareness of ethical guidelines resumés, consult the Investor Relations/Governance. of the Members of the Committee and continue to carry out activities to supamong stakeholders, including suppliers its commissions; its dynamics of opera• Telephone access through the number port the dissemination of ethical guideand partners in society. tion; the processes and deadlines for the 0800 601 8670 lines in the Group's companies and now ETHICAL CONDUCT G4-57 G4-58 treatment of ethics-related reports (in• Electronic access through the website: carry out investigative activities only Complaints from employees are now Ethics is seen as an essential guiding value for the business of quiries, suggestions and grievances); the www.contatoseguro.com.br/cpflenergia when requested to by the Reports Proreceived and reviewed by an external the CPFL Energia Group and for the conduct of its employees. At system for recording the deliberations (Portuguese only) cessing Commission. body, which follows a protocol to asa company, ethics are manifested through the daily fulfillment and other activities of the Committee; •Electronic access through the applicasess whether there has been a breach of concrete tasks. At CPFL Energia, the Code of Ethics is primarily and the periodicity of reporting the action Contato Seguro, available from the 6 TRAINING of company rules and/or national laws. a map of values, a set of major guidelines and a benchmark for tions of the Committee to CPFL Energia's App Store and Google Play The training of company employees, eiUpon completion of the process the inmoral and ethical conduct to guide the actions and decisions of Board of Executive Officers, Board of Di• Electronic access via e-mail: eticacpfl@ ther in person or through e-learning, is a formation is sent to the Ethics Board for all employees, regardless of their hierarchical level. rectors and Fiscal Council. contatoseguro.com.br key element for the success of the Ethics application of the appropriate measures. 28 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Governance 29 RISK MANAGEMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE (EXECUTIVE LEVEL): RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE G4-14 G4-45 G4-47 AND COMPLIANCE DEPARTMENT The Risk Management and Compliance Department reports international standards and aligning policies with the Comto the Vice-Presidency for Financial and Investor Relations and pany’s business planning. To implement these activities the THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK is responsible for coordinating risk management, ensuring company has created two management areas: Compliance AT CPFL ENERGIA the compliance of CPFL Energia's processes with national and and Risk Management. According to the established risk management model at CPFL limits set and taking the necessary measures to prevent risk Energia it is up to the Board of Directors to deliberate on the exposure from exceeding these limits. In the case that risk risk limit methodologies recommended by the Board of Execulimits are exceeded this should be reported to the Board of PRESIDENCY tive Officers and become familiar with exposures and mitigaDirectors, alongside possible mitigation actions. G4-46 tion plans in the event of exceeding these limits. The Advisory The Board of Executive Officers of CPFL Energia is assisted in Committees to the Board of Directors should understand the this function by the Management Processes, Risks and SusVICE-PRESIDENCY FOR risk models, exposure to risk and control levels (including their tainability Committee. The Committee, after receiving inforFINANCIAL AND INVESTOR RELATIONS CPFL ENERGIA EXECUTIVE EXECUTIVE effectiveness) to provide support for the Board of Directors in mation provided by the control areas and business units, underRISK COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL monitoring risk. G4-46 takes technical and in-depth discussions of exposure to business CONTROLS DEPARTMENT The Board of Executive Officers of CPFL Energia is responrisks and reports the points of greatest relevance to the Board of sible for conducting the CPFL Group's business within the risk Executive Officers with its recommendations. G4-46 A multi-disciplinary group that receives information from the control areas and RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE business units, promotes in-depth and AREA MANAGEMENT AREA technical discussions on exposure to business risks and reports the most relevant points to the Executive Board with its recommendations FISCAL BOARD COUNCIL OF DIRECTORS In addition to identifying, measuring and monitoring busipractices and audits, follows legal procedures and investigates ness risks, this department works as a supporting body for the complaints forwarded from its relationship channels. There decision-making of the Board of Executive Officers and the Board were no well-founded cases of corruption related to CPFL EnADVISORY of Directors, playing a key part in maintaining the company's ergia's business, as defined by CPFL Energia´s internal policies. COMMITTEES strategy. To achieve this, the area works with a Risk Map divided G4-SO5 into categories (Financial, Energy Market, Operational, Legal, Sector Regulation, Environmental, Image and Sustainability), which BOARD OF consolidates the set of events that can affect the strategy and opPrevention and responsiveness EXECUTIVE OFFICERS erations of the Company, which in turn are regularly monitored The Corporate Communication and Institutional Relations area impleby indicators/models and exposure limits (risk appetite). mented a Crisis Management System (CMS), which will be supported by two Committees: Strategic and Operational. The CMS allows the ComINFORMATION DELIBERATION ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES pany to quickly identify crisis situations and their possible impacts on G4-SO3 G4-SO4 operations, management and relationships with stakeholders. To create Law 12,846/13, known as the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Law, the system the hired consultancy firm interviewed 27 executives to help brought important advances by providing objective accountabilmap the Group’s crisis risk scenarios. The interviews also provided inforEXECUTIVE RISK ity for companies that practice harmful acts, committed in their inmation for the preparation of the CPFL Energia Crisis Manual, which will COMMITTEE terest or for their benefit against national or foreign governments. be used by employees who participate in the management of a crisis. In order to meet the requirements of the Law, CPFL Energia The Strategic Committee is composed of the CEO, the Chief Corporate has developed an Integrity Program that is applied and updated Communication and Institutional Relations Officer and the Senior Execuaccording to changes in the characteristics and risks of its busitive Officer of the affected area. It is responsible for assessing whether ness. The Company periodically re-assesses corruption-related there is a crisis situation and what the Company's operating guidelines risks to CPFL's organizational units and to suppliers. Based upon will include. Under the management of a leader who will be appointed SUPPORT these assessments, prevention measures are implemented and by the area involved in the crisis the Operational Committee will define the Integrity Program is improved. actions for control and resolution of the crisis. The CMS will have a Crisis RISK AND In order to ensure that its employees or third parties acting Room to ensure the integration of the professionals responsible for actions, EXTERNAL INTERNAL BUSINESS COMPLIANCE AUDITOR AUDITOR MANAGERS on its behalf act in accordance with the principles of its Code the efficiency of decisions and, if necessary, confidentiality of information. MANAGEMENT of Ethics, the Group executes and monitors internal control 30 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Capital Performance 31 8. 8 CAPITAL PERFORMANCE 32 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Capital Performance 33 INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITAL KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL CPFL Energia’s infrastructure is administered based on the The CPFL Energia Group uses natural resources such as water CPFL Energia is alert to the big picture for identifying tendencies and CPFL Energia considers its human capital to be the main factor principles of operational safety and excellence. This applies and fossil fuels as raw materials for some of its business, bedetecting developments in the Brazilian electric energy sector, in this influencing the positive results of its operations. As a result, the both to the expansion and maintenance of its assets, which cause they can be transformed into energy. The allocation of way, promoting the creation and expansion of businesses, which Group works to maintain the appropriate profile of employees consist of facilities, sites, networks and equipment. Allocated the company’s financial capital considers the positive impact of contribute to the creation of value for the Company. This capital based on technical capability, diversity, productivity and work financial capital is used to fund innovative technologies, in ormaintaining biodiversity in the areas where CPFL operates. The represents knowledge generated by the employees not only on culture focused on meeting the goals of the strategic planning der to reduce potential environmental impacts, improve the biodiversity maintained in these areas is not directly involved the functioning of the business and the sector but also in relation and adherence to company values. eco-efficiency index and comply with environmental legislain energy production but helps to ensure the availability of the to operational excellence and strategic intelligence. This knowledge, tion in the country. water supply and has social and environmental heritage value. together with the internal management systems and corporate This is an action that creates value for the Group’s stakeholders. culture, is fundamental to the growth of the business. THE CAPITAL RESOURCES • The Company ended 2016 with 10,195 employees, 22 % women THE CAPITAL RESOURCES and 78 % men. Considering the employees of the recently ac• Assured energy: 14,188 GWh EU2 THE CAPITAL RESOURCES EU1 EU4 THE CAPITAL RESOURCES quired RGE Sul, the total number of employees will reach 12,879. • Energy generated: 15,713 EU2 CONSUMPTION OF • R$ 20.2 million invested in Research and Development in 2016 • Turnover was 17.80% (19.90% in 2015). G4-LA1 2015 2016 • A group of Cambridge University students participated in the • 32% of employees are under 30 years of age. NATURAL RESOURCES EU1 EU4 update of the CPFL's innovation pipeline Energy consumption by CPFL Conventional Generation: 64,200,453.44 65,660,172.38* • The Solar Roofs Project a large-scale lab of distributed photoAll employees of the CPFL Group are covered by collective barEnergia (in GJ) G4-EN3 • 8 Hydroelectric Power Plants, 2 Thermal Power Plants voltaic generation will receive an investment of R$ 14.8 milgaining agreements, excluding the CEOs, Senior Executive Of• Installed Capacity (MW) 2,199 MW Water consumption at the head lion until 2018. The entities responsible for the projet studies ficers and Statutory Directors. G4-11 151 161 offices (in m3) G4-EN8 for the project include CPqD and Unicamp. Renewable Generation*: Electricity consumption • 39 Small Hydroelectric Plants, 8 Biomass Thermal Power Plants, 3,939 3,886** (in GWh) G4-EN3 43 Wind Farms, 1 Solar Plant • Installed Capacity (MW): 1,060 MW * considering power consumption by RGE Sul: 68,602,304.9 ** considering electric energy consumption of RGE Sul: 4,641 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL Distribution: The quality of the stakeholder relationship is fundamental for The management of CPFL Energia’s financial capital is based on a • Distribution networks: 315,538 Km ensuring the financial sustainability of the business and the conservative financial policy, with the Group's stability considered IMPACTS GENERATED 2015 2016 • Distribution transformers: 450,247 license to operate. The CPFL Energia Group is constantly upthe priority. The investments made by the different areas of the • High-voltage distribution lines between 34.5 kV and Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) grading its systems and processes for effective engagement company are always aligned to strategic planning and established 116 200* 138 kV: 12,181 Km (thousand tCO2e) G4-EN15 with its stakeholders, including consumers and clients, govtargets, considering the creation of value for the business and its • Highto medium-voltage transformer substations for subseGreenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) ernment and non-government entities, suppliers, partners, shareholders. Financial balance creates the necessary conditions quent distribution: 523 490 318** local communities among others, thus stimulating the Comfor the development of new businesses and acquisitions, with the (thousand tCO2e) G4-EN16 • Total transforming capacity: 17,316 MVA pany’s role as protagonist in the sector. aim of expanding the customer base and increasing the return to Class 1 waste generated (in tons) investors, whose profile is long-term. The company’s solid risk man72.72 105.77 G4-EN23 THE CAPITAL RESOURCES agement policy enables the implementation of strategies for the * considering direct emissions of RGE Sul: 231 • 4,592 suppliers, of which 107 are strategic (representing more preservation of liquidity, as well as extending the profile of its debt. ** considering indirect emissions of RGE Sul: 381 than 80% of CPFL Group’s costs with suppliers) and 53 critical (besides being strategic also implying operational/reputationTHE CAPITAL RESOURCES * proportional to shareholder participation. In 2016, investments in the environment amounted to al risk). G4-12 CONCILIATION OF NET 2014 2015 2016 R$ 132.37 million. G4-EN31 • 9.224 million clients. EU3 PROFIT AND EBITDA (R$ MILLION) • R$ 870 thousand invested in the Philanthropic Hospital ModNet profit 886 875 879 ernization program, to attend 20 hospitals in Barretos and Depreciation and Amortization 1,160 1,281 1,292 Marilia regions. Financial Result 1,089 1,408 1,453 Income Tax/Social Contributions 624 579 501 EBITDA* 3,759 4,143 4,126 * EBITDA is calculated according to the CVM Instruction 527/12 (more details available at: www.cpfl.com.br/ir). 34 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Sustainability Management 35 9 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Usina Hidrelétrica Castro Alves RS 36 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Sustainability Management 37 SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM G4-37 G4-18 G4-19 What do we want for the future? CPFL Energia uses its Sustainability Platform, developed in 2013 formance of the various different areas of the company and definiand 2014, as an integrated tool for strategic planning, definitively tion of medium-term targets (five years). The data generated by the incorporating sustainability as one of the determining factors for Platform is monitored by monitored by the Board of Executive OfVISION 2030 – FORCES THAT ARE INFLUENCING THE ELECTRIC SECTOR the future of its business. The Sustainability Platform generated ficers, Sustainability Committee, Management Processes, Risks and 1 2 3 monthly reports throughout 2016, permitting analysis of the perSustainability Committee and reported to the Board of Directors. G  reater power for Movement towards Introduction of the customer sustainability disruptive technologies SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM G4-18 G4-19 Customers are more demanding as regards Increased environmental commitment is By 2030, technology such as smart grids, quality of service and more aware of their transforming how energy is consumed distributed generation, and energy rights and the negative socio-environmenin the world. Agents are increasingly storage will be even more developed and tal impacts generated by companies. They concerned about the sustainability of disseminated across the electric grid and 2020: The company in the electric sector that captures the most value from sustainability will begin to influence the regulator when consumption and economic growth and will impact the traditional business of defining rules and policies for the sector. seeking more conscientious ways of electricity distributors. + Together with stakeholders, Identify improvement and coexisting with the environment. Lever performance through define the relevant best practices opportunities, key indicators and targets, sustainability topics to guide based on worldwide linked to strategic planning our actions benchmarks SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM + MEGATRENDS 1. Climate Change Strategic 2. Community Relations Value Levers Planning SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM (SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM) 3. Health and Safety KPIs and Indicators 4. Supplier Development Sector Targets Challenges 5. Personnel Management 6. Reverse Logistics TOPICS RELATED TO FUTURE What do we want for the future? BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Main risks, challenges LONG TERM Megatrends and opportunities Topics related to future for CPFL business environment PRINCIPAL RISKS, CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR CPFL IN THIS ENVIRONMENT Vision 2030 Long term strategic goals and KPIs Board of Directors | Board of Executive Officers LONG TERM STRATEGIC GOALS AND KPIs Sustainability Committee | Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability Committee 38 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Sustainability Management 39 The main frame of reference used by CPFL for measuring corporate sustainability performance in the creation of the Platform indicators was the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) questionnaire for companies that seek to participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. Continuous analysis of performance results allows the implementation of action plans to improve the Company's management system. In 2016, CPFL participated for the fifth consecutive year in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index, attributed to 10% of the companies with the best sustainability performance in the world in their respective segments. Comparing the results of 2015 and 2016, the Group witnessed an evolution in the economic, environmental and social dimensions, with the overall score for the period rising from 80 to 85 points (of a total of 100). This result groups it among the 20 most sustainable utilities companies in the world. Complexo Rosa dos Ventos Wind Farm CE 40 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Natural Capital 41 10 NATURAL CAPITAL Hydropower Plant Campos Novos SC Usina Hidrelétrica Castro Alves RS 42 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Natural Capital 43 In all of its business activities the CPFL Energia Group In 2016, environmental investments totaled the Energy and Climate Group, coordinated by strives to minimize environmental impacts, promote R$ 132.37 million: with R$ 43.97 million related to CPFL, has encouraged companies to take a leading CPFL at COP 22 the intelligent use of natural resources and contribthe production/operation of the company and R$ role in the discussion of issues such as mitigation, ute to environmental preservation, through projects 88.40 million going to external programs/projects. adaptation and carbon pricing. One of its strateCPFL Energia’s Chief Legal and Institutional Relations Officer, Luiz and awareness-raising activities aimed at the variG4-EN31 gies is to articulate with other corporate initiatives Eduardo Osorio, made a presentation at COP Marrakesh on the ous stakeholders that make up the value chain. The relating to climate and promote joint actions such Corporate Climate Initiative´s (Iniciativa Empresarial em Clima IEC) management of natural capital is an aspect of the as the development of studies and position stateposition statement on carbon pricing mechanisms. The presentasustainable growth strategy, which is supported by CLIMATE CHANGE ments and participation in the UN Conferences tion took place during the Global Climate Finance Action Summit, an the ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management on Climate (COPs), among other events. At the official event of the 22nd Conference of the Parties to the Framework System, the Environmental Policy (applied since MANAGEMENT international level it is aligned with the Caring for Convention of the United Nations on Climate Change (COP 22) and 1997), and the Group's Sustainability Policy. CPFL incorporates the issue of climate change into Climate platform, a Group which seeks to foster the World Economic Forum for Young Global Leaders. In 2016, CPFL received 5 infraction notices resultall business strategy and into the development of partnerships and projects in areas including enThe position statement, released in October last year, supports ing from non-compliance with environmental laws projects aligned with business initiatives and comergy efficiency and increasing renewable sources the definition of a methodology for carbon pricing in Brazil, invites and regulations. The total value of fines paid in the mitments on the international and national levels. in the country. companies to engage in this debate and informs the government and year was R$ 1,029.47, for an infraction notice issued Aware of the impacts of climate change on its busisociety of the IEC’s willingness to contribute to this agenda. in 2014 for failure to submit accompanying docuness and of its influence and representation in the CARBON PRICING G4-EU5 The document points out that at a time of crisis carbon pricing mentation for the transplantation of trees at the power sector, CPFL contributes to promote a low One of the CPFL Group´s lines of action for climate can help boost economic growth. At the same time it also represents Campinas Headquarters in 2009 (TCRA 6035/2009). carbon economy. The Company's main achievechange management is carbon pricing, which aims an efficient and effective alternative to reduce emissions of greenThe environmental management mechanisms ments in 2016 were: to set a price for consideration in its business plans. house gases (GHGs), in the context of coping with increasing global adopted by the Company enable it to identify opCPFL is a member of the C4C Carbon Pricing Chamtemperatures post-Paris Agreement. portunities for improvement in various operational ENERGY AND CLIMATE GROUP OF pion and the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition The IEC is formed of CEBDS, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), Envolvprocesses, including the participation of the EnviTHE GLOBAL COMPACT (www.carbonpricingleadership.org/). erde, GVCes, Instituto Ethos and of the UN Global Compact Network Brazil. ronment area in the planning of construction works, With the aim of being a hub of influence in society environmental licensing and the reuse of materials and a proactive group in the search for knowledge, after use. G4-EN29 44 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Natural Capital 45 Equipment Refurbisher of CPFL Serviços SP CLIMATE RISK In 2016, the Sustainability and Risk Management teMore than 99% of the CPFL Group's GHG emisams defined a framework for risks related to climate sions inventory is concentrated in its generation and REVERSE LOGISTICS change. Throughout 2017 this structure will be indistribution activities. About 80% of the impact from corporated into indicators that consider operational, power generation is related to the use of fuel oil in MANAGEMENT G4-EN27 financial and reputational risks. the generators. Meanwhile, about 80% of emissions from power distribution are associated with techniHAZARDOUS WASTE (CLASS I) – PCBS PERFORMANCE OF GREENHOUSE GAS cal losses. These emissions are indirect, since they WASTE MANAGEMENT G4-EN27 EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT originate from inputs of fossil fuel-based generation The waste management program identifies and classifies the DISPOSED OF (T) To monitor its performance with regards to greenhoucomponents to the National Interconnected System. main waste materials generated by the different processes of se gas (GHG) emissions, CPFL Energia has carried out a The activities classified as corporate emissions are transmission and distribution of energy. For each of the different TYPE OF WASTE 2015 2016 GHG inventory every year since 2007, the same year in common to all divisions of the business. waste materials identified especially for hazardous waste (class PCBs 193.3 393 which it started its carbon credits projects. The Sankey diagram shows the proportions of I) the CPFL Energia Group has established storage and transConsidering the operational control approach to GHG emissions in tons of CO2 equivalents, according portation standards and determined appropriate forms of discalculating emissions, the Group emitted 615,865 to the size of the bars. In addition, this type of disposal, taking into account the current legislation. G4-EN23 CLASS 1 WASTE GENERATED tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), while play relates the different classifications of scope and Since 2006, CPFL has carried out management and moniwith the equity share approach total emissions recategory of the GHG Protocol, units and precursor of toring of all equipment identified as contaminated with Ascarel DISPOSED OF (T) ached 914,748 tCO2e. emission sources. (PCB), contained in a disposal plan duly submitted to environmental agencies to meet the applicable legal requirements. TYPE OF WASTE 2015 2016 The Company is progressively replacing and disposing of such TOTAL EMISSIONS AND BY SCOPE (CO2e, THOUSAND) G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 Contaminated gravel 3.78 16.347 waste in an environmentally appropriate manner. In 2016, 393 tons were disposed of. CPFL is committed to disposing of 100% 2015 2016 Batteries 3.40 1.313 of its PCB liabilities by 2020 and annually disposing of at least Scope 1 116 200* 80% of other Class I waste generated during operation and Other contaminated 41.37 69.003 maintenance of its assets. material Scope 2 490 318** Oily emulsion 14.35 11.672 Scope 3 17 4 Total 624 522*** Contaminated PPIs 0.91 4.928 * considering direct emissions of RGE Sul: 231 Insulating oil 8.91 2.511 ** considering indirect emissions of RGE Sul: 381 Total 72.72 105.77 *** considering emissions of RGE Sul: 616 46 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Natural Capital 47 Reverse Supply Chain BIODIVERSITY MANAGEMENT In the process of replacing equipment used in the electrical syslogistics, through which used materials removed from the tems that it administers, the CPFL Energia Group has adopted network, such as metals, cables, insulators and bulbs are G4-EN12 G4-EN13 G4-EU13 a methodology to avoid environmental risks while promoting reused, recycled or sent for treatment. value creation, in line with its business strategy. CPFL Serviços The scrap resulting from dismantling operations, has facilities in São José do Rio Pardo from where it provides such as steel, copper and other materials, is sold to services of maintenance, refurbishment, logistics and transport the market. Equipment that is reusable is reintroduced GENERATION PROJECTS G4-EN27 of electrical equipment throughout Brazil. It has more than 700 into CPFL systems or auctioned off to other companies. The generation projects in which the CPFL Energia Group has porting 55 projects in the region of the Campos Novos Hydroof its own highly trained and specialized technicians and engiThe difference with this management model impleinterests include investments in socio-environmental programs electric Power Plant, and investing more than R$ 2.8 million neers with market experience and who receive constant trainmented by the Group is the monitoring of the entire and actions aimed at conserving the vegetation surrounding from funds allocated for incentive laws and corporate funds. ing to develop the best solutions for companies. It operates process, with the maximum utilization of materials, reservoirs and regenerating and preserving biodiversity in proThe Conservation Program for Permanent Preservation Areas from eight operational centers, strategically located and with identification and proper disposal of biodegradable tected areas close to the plants, as well as conducting studies (APP) continued for the 5th consecutive year with the residents cutting-edge equipment and modern operational processes. and non-biodegradable substances and verification of and systematic monitoring of native fauna and flora. The Combordering the HHP Campos Novos reservoir, with awards for the CPFL has already implemented an internal reverse the licenses of scrap dealers for the purchase of scrap pany also encourages the development of initiatives aimed at top five initiatives. The positive results of the Program earned supply chain program for materials selected for reverse metal, among other measures. raising awareness in the local community of the importance of the company the Fritz Müller Award 2016, considered the most proper use of natural resources and environmental protection. important environmental award in the state of Santa Catarina. In the case of conventional generation hydro and thermal In partnership with Epagri, Senar and local Agriculture Depart– the Group has no new projects, with all plants currently in ments, the company supported fruit and fish farming projects the operating phase. As a result there was no significant new with the aim of contributing to the development of the local Hydropower Plant 14 de Julho – RS environmental impact. economy and providing alternative income for farmers in the The main activities related to the topic in conventional genregion. In addition to financial support from Enercan, particieration plants include various types of monitoring, including pants receive free courses in cooperativism, associativism, farm monitoring of permanent preservation areas (APPs), fish popmanagement, entrepreneurship, and specific skills such as proulations (ictiofauna), surface water and erosion, among other duction and management techniques. activities including maintenance of tree plantings and service Sustainable Durability strips. The implementation of hydroelectric projects can require HPP Barra Grande (BAESA) Up until 2010, 100% of the crosspieces used in CPFL’s the formation of reservoirs. In the areas belonging to hydroelecIn 2016, the Socio-environmental Responsibility Program supprimary distribution networks were made from native wood tric plants in which CPFL has an interest there are a total of 121.9 ported several projects in municipalities within the area of influand their useful lifetime was approximately 10 years. From square kilometers of permanent preservation areas, representence of HPP Barra Grande. The initiatives target income genera2011 onwards, CPFL began introducing pilot batches of ing 41% of the total land area and 76% of the total flooded area. tion, the environment, culture, sport, public security and social crosspieces manufactured from other materials, including G4-EN11 development, and receive investment of resources from the lightweight concrete, polymers and fiberglass. The new company, shareholders and local partners. The 5th edition of crosspieces do not use forest materials in their composition SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AT THE POWER the Incentive Program for the Conservation of the Permanent and have an expected useful lifetime of at least 20 years. PLANTS G4-EN13 G4-EU13 Preservation Area of the reservoir was implemented, recognizThis initiative has led to a gradual reduction in the use of ing the actions of local residents in the preservation of vegetawooden crosspieces between 2011 and 2016, with only 0.1% HPP Foz do Chapecó tion. Ten residents received awards at a ceremony held during of wooden crosspieces acquired in 2015, alongside 48% of During the 2015/2016 reproductive cycle 547,850 curimbatá BAESA´s 8th Sustainability Week, an event that annually highlightweight concrete and 48% polymer. fingerlings were released, with the aim of restocking the Urulights environmental projects developed in the municipalities New contracts no longer contemplate acquisition of woodguai River. The fingerlings were reared at the Águas de Chapecó of the area covered by the HPP Barra Grande. BAESA, in parten crosspieces, only lightweight concrete and polymers. By Fish Farming Station, through an agreement between the nership with the Pinhal da Serra Municipal Government and 2019, CPFL’s purchasing planning considers zero participacompany and Instituto Goio-En. The “Biofábrica” plant nursery IPHAN, inaugurated the Pinhal da Serra Archaeological Park, tion of wooden crosspieces in the purchase mix. This initiaincreased its capacity from 30,000 to 70,000 seedlings, allowlocated on the São Jorge Line. The park gathers archaeologitive has the potential of saving CPFL R$ 66 million by 2032*. ing it to increase the distribution of seedlings of a high genetic cal artifacts collected before, during and after the implementaquality to farmers benefitting from the project, which aims to tion of HPP Barra Grande, revealing some of the history of the * Analysis considers the end of the useful lifetime of the first polymer generate income and improve the quality of life of the populaancient inhabitants of the region, who have occupied the site crosspieces installed and the cash flow method discounted. tions affected by the construction of the power plant. for around 700 years. Transparency and correctness in the declaration of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions earned BAESA the HPP Campos Novos (Enercan) Gold Seal of the GHG Protocol. The Gold Seal is the highest recIn 2016, ENERCAN supported various actions for the cultural, ognition awarded by the Program and attests to the transparenvironmental and economic development of the region, supency of information in BAESA´s 2015 Inventory. 48 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Natural Capital 49 Preserva Program G4-EN27 Preserva Program arose from the need to add greater ing the current scenario of national biodiversity through robustness and efficiency to the mandatory reforestalearning from critical analysis and appropriation of actions tion process related to the expansion of CPFL’s Electrical that can change the way companies mitigate their impacts. System and which had previously been conducted in This leads to a transition to new business models so that small and dispersed areas. As a way to not only mitigate society can enjoy the benefits provided by the manageenvironmental impacts but also to reduce costs and ment involved and replicate such initiatives in any other give greater environmental significance to mandatory compensation/offsetting schemes. reforestation, CPFL approved a new methodology with Furthermore, this method contributes directly to reducCETESB (environmental protection agency for the State ing the effects of climate change, permits the use of the of São Paulo) to allow the unification of environmental areas by society and encourages research into the restorarecovery commitment agreements, directing planttion of the country’s most degraded biomes: the Cerrado ing schemes to sites of ecological interest defined in a (Savanna) and Mata Atlântica (Atlantic Forest). Financial mutual agreement with the environmental agency. It was pillar: contributes to the establishment and consolidation concluded that the most interesting scenario would be to of larger areas, achieving economies of scale with suppliers CPFL’s Transmission Towers create Seedling Banks for planting larger areas. This new and approximately 40% reduction in costs. Expandability: model promotes a significant reduction in costs for the any company that is required to reforest an area can adopt Company: the reforestation of 100 hectares through the the CPFL methodology. All actions can be replicated, TRANSMISSION LINES AND DISTRIBUTION Preserva Program economizes about R$ 1.79 million over requiring only an ideal, an alignment of the organizational G4-EN12 G4-EN27 eight years considering the contractual values or R$ strategy and the company's commitment. The good results One of the concerns of the environmental managetablishing a ranking and a plan of action for 223,748 per year compared to reforestation costs for the obtained with the two seedlings banks have encouraged ment of the CPFL Group concerns the impact of its improvements. For situations of environmental previous model. The CPFL Energia Group also obtained CPFL to expand the initiative, seeking to build new partpower lines on the rural environment. As a result, emergency the distributors have contracts with approval for its offer of offsetting through the registration nerships in other regions of São Paulo such as the Baixada procedures have been defined to develop projects specialized companies, as well as environmenof excess areas of legal reserve, with the same ecological Santista (Santos lowland area), where it contributes to the that guide the choice of routes for construction of tal insurance. For smaller-scale occurrences, the characteristics and within the same watershed. conservation of Atlantic rain forest. new power networks. Priority is given to avoiding Advanced Stations and vehicles with hydraulic This compensation mechanism contributes to the In 2016 the CPFL Energia Group consolidated the new forest fragments and isolated trees so as to avoid the equipment have environmental emergency kits maintenance of forest remnants and their biodiversity model of environmental offsetting through the registration need for removal of individual trees. In some specific for immediate use. and preserves large amounts of carbon stored in mature of the surplus legal reserve (area exceeding the mandatory locations of high ecological interest and where it is In 2016, the companies CPFL Paulista, CPFL forests with vegetation in medium and advanced stages of area) and the management of exotic species in conservanot possible to change the layout of the networks Santa Cruz and RGE started the Arborização + Segrowth. Therefore, this mechanism enables efficient comtion units. This methodology is necessary as a result of the the practice of raising the height of structures and gura (Safer Tree Planting) Program, an initiative to pliance with environmental laws and provides a financial large number of areas dominated by these species, which poles has been established. As a result of the mearevitalize urban tree planting in partnership with contribution to rural landowners who already protect the include Pine (Pinus), Eucalyptus and Braquiaria grass spesures adopted the need for removal of vegetation municipalities in its concession area. natural vegetation, ensuring the preservation of forests, cies, within the limits of the conservation units. These areas has been significantly reduced. In situations that do The urban tree planting projects of the Group’s biodiversity and water resources, as well as acting as a tool prevent the spread and growth of native species, hindering not permit the adoption of these measures and in concessionaires not only consider the tree spefor implementing public policies for the environment and the full performance of ecological functions and preservacases where there is a need for vegetation managecies most suitable for each site but also monitor sustainable development. Environmental pillar: increased tion of the biodiversity of flora and fauna. This offsetting ment under the existing lines the suppression of the growth of the plants in partnership with local ecological significance of larger areas of tree planting, project has been approved and included into the governvegetation is authorized by environmental agencies, governments. In addition to the typical benefits greater diversity of species planted due to the size of the ment of the State of São Paulo´s Programa Nascentes with the condition of offsetting the impacts of this of well-treed towns and cities experienced with areas; generation of greater awareness of environmental Headwaters Program , formerly known as the Programa suppression through heterogeneous plantations this type of program another advantage is the improvement in society; increased resilience of areas of Mata Ciliar Riparian Forest Program . This program aims proportional to the impact caused. decreased need for pruning, with reduced envitree planting and minimization of the risk of irreversible to increase the protection and conservation of water Advanced Stations are regularly assessed for ronmental impacts and contribution to the beaubiodiversity loss, etc. Social pillar: important role in changresources, as well as biodiversity. environmental risks and legal requirements, estification of towns and cities. 50 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Human Capital 51 11 HUMAN CAPITAL 52 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Human Capital 53 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT G4-LA11 A PERFECT MATCH BETWEEN THE PROFILE OF THE EMPLOYEE AND THEIR OCCUPATION The Group adopts an assessment system to analyze the overall planning, through which employees are invited or summoned performance of its employees at different hierarchical levels. to participate in initiatives to develop their positions and caThis process covers 100% of eligible professionals and includes reers. The focus is on employees, but it may also extend to the stages of evaluation of skills and targets, feedback, Individual entire value chain. In addition, the university directs its activiDevelopment Plans and development of targets for the next ties in line with the Company's business activities through its cycle. Called Personal Value, the system allows the creation of schools of Leadership, Specializations and Customer and the Individual Development Plans (IDPs) in which personal goals Market, as well as supporting all other areas with common and are established and areas for improvement are identified to be supporting processes through Training Support and Corporate overcome with training sessions and other forms of learning. In Qualification. G4-EU14 addition, the Group has a technical and behavioral assessment In 2016, the focus of the Corporate University was on strengthsystem aimed at identifying the match-up between of the emening the technical skills of the Group's employees. Actions taiployee's profile and the technical and behavioral requirements lored to the needs of executives included Qualifications for Memfor the position occupied. This assessment is performed by the bers of the Board of Directors and MBAs at reputable universities immediate superior and feeds the professional profile in the Caabroad, among others. For other employees, improvement opreer Portal, helping to identify gaps for development and also portunities are offered through the technical tracks denominated to guide the development of the employee’s IDP. In the particiRegulatory Affairs and Energy Management. G4-LA10 TALENT MANAGEMENT pating companies, 100% of employees were assessed through For all employees including those at the management the Personal Value program. The companies CPFL Serviços and level – the technical tracks in 2016 were focused on business Instituto CPFL are in the implementation phase of this process. skills: the Energy Management Track and the Regulatory AfGROWTH FOR ALL EPASA, which represents just over 1% of the workforce of the fairs Track. With an excellent turnout, this work facilitated the Attentive to providing opportunities for the professional growth ond group of the Talent Management Program is underway, with CPFL Energia Group, does not participate in the assessments of management and expansion of critical knowledge. The tracks of all of its employees, the CPFL Group provides its employees 18 professionals participating in accelerated development activithe Personal Value program. relied on the work of internal educators who are specialists in with a structured program that encourages each individual to ties, such as Leadership Workshops and projects arising from the these respective subjects, with the aim of ensuring the contibe the protagonist of their own development. Vision 2030 Program, which looks to build the necessary actions nuity of this knowledge within the organization. This is in line In its Career Management Program, CPFL has laid out a catafor a long-term vision for the energy sector. G4-LA9 with the Knowledge Management Program and the developlogue of requirements and qualifications so that employees know DEVELOPMENT OF HUMAN CAPITAL ment of professionals with regards to issues of critical importhe skills required to occupy different positions in the company. SUCCESSION FOR SUSTAINABILITY tance to the organization's business. Training in the area of The Career Portal provides access to this catalogue, as well as an Another important program for the development of talent at CPFL CORPORATE UNIVERSITY Integrity and Anti-Corruption Regulations was also offered to overview of all the processes in the company and descriptions is the Succession Plan. Tied to the Calibration Committee and Another important point for CPFL is the training of its employall groups, both in person or through distance learning, and of the activities and responsibilities of each position, allowing in operation for five years, it maps potential successors with the ees. Therefore, the Corporate University conducts training in Corporate Governance training was provided for the leaderfor comparison of the individual’s professional profile with any guarantee of fairness in the process and approval by the Board of the classroom or through an online platform linked to strategic ship, taught by internal experts. G4-LA10 existing positions at CPFL and permitting them to express their Directors. This model of assessment and management of succesinterest in a desired career. All expressions of interest are stored in sion is focused on the sustainability of the CPFL Group's business, a database, which feeds the internal recruitment process for the as well as providing career development opportunities for its talent positions available. All leaders of the organization are trained and pool. In 2016, four positions for executive officers were occupied qualified to guide the career development of their teams. by professionals mapped in the Succession Plan, as well as manCPFL also developed a Career Primer that communicates conagement positions. In this system, the Calibration Committee is cepts, tools and success stories from the company. The company responsible for collectively assessing the performance of managalso operates a Talent Management Program, which internally ers and enables the optimization of human capital. The Commitidentifies professionals with potential and aspirations for leadership tee holds a structured meeting annually, conducted by a mediator, positions. The program promotes accelerated develop activities for in which it reflects upon and analyses professional potential and the employee to be better prepared when an opportunity arises. performance objectively and effectively. At the end of the process In 2016, the first group of the Talent Program (2014-2016) was a realistic analysis is obtained regarding the current performance concluded, in which 19 talents were selected. During the prolevel and the future capacity observed amongst the professionals. gram there was a 79% retention rate, 58% career advancement In 2016, CPFL held 8 Committee meetings for Managers and and 42% of talent was promoted to leadership positions. The secExecutives, with a total of 180 assessed. 54 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Human Capital 55 PROFESSIONAL EXCELLENCE PROGRAM As part of its move to modernize and to meet its strategic objectives, CPFL Energia created its Professional Excellence area in 2016. Supported by three pillars processes, projects and HEALTH AND SAFETY Accident frequency rate (employees) quality (management) the new area will become the principal 3.5 disseminator of the Company´s procedures, policies and guide3.02 3.07 REDUCTION OF ACCIDENTS, CULTURE lines through the standardization of processes in all areas of AND SAFE BEHAVIOR, HEALTH 3.0 2.67 the company and at all sites of operation. Implementation will 2.5 be intensified in 2017, with the inclusion of the units that have 1.77 not yet been reached. With this objective in mind, the team of Key performance indicators G4-LA6 2.0 professionals implementing the program has been expanded 1.5 from five to 20 specialists in processes and project manage1.0 ment. With the implementation of the Professional Excellence program, CPFL Energia can disseminate and oversee the adop0.5 tion of new management practices, processes and projects in 0 the more than 700 municipalities in which it operates and with 2013 2014 2015 2016 its more than 13,000 employees. Accident Seriousness rate Fatalities involving own employees 1,200 1,073 School for Electricians 2 1,000 2.0 To speed up the selection process for electricians and train professionals in the skills required to engage 800 Talent for Innovation in the activity, CPFL has run a School for Electricians 1.5 600 1 The areas of Human Resources and Innovation at CPFL (Escola de Eletricistas) program since 2012. The project 414 1 1 384 338 1.0 Energia have developed a plan to stimulate the comis run in partnership with recognized training centers 400 pany's talents to find solutions as part of the actions and aims to train people from the communities in that make up the 2030 Plan. The 47 activities foreseen CPFL's concession area to work as network electricians. 200 0.5 in the 2030 Plan were distributed to the employees Through the initiative CPFL has been able to shorten 0 0 who were selected for the company´s Annual Talent the time required for the admission of electricians and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Program. The initiative challenges employees to proreduced costs. The traditional hiring process takes 120 pose innovative solutions, stimulating their creativity days, from the identification of the need through to and professional commitment. the professional reaching the field. It takes 30 days Every two months the program's members particifor selection and hiring and another 90 days for the pate in a workshop and present their ideas and results practical and theoretical training. Lost days Fatalities involving Outsourced workers to three of the Company directors. With this initiative, Through the School for Electricians, students are they gain visibility and have an opportunity to demonprepared before the vacancies open, eliminating the 3 20,000 3.0 strate their skills and the progress of the actions that time used for the selection and training processes. As 18,211 they are proposing. a result the time required to fill the vacancy now de2.5 CPFL also continues to run the Usina de Ideias pends only on the admission and Service Center tests, 15,000 2 2 (“Ideas Plant”), an online platform where any emreducing the time between the vacancy appearing 2.0 ployee can make suggestions for improvements to and the electrician entering into the field to 20 days. 7,357 10,000 1.5 processes and innovations. In three years of existence, By the end of 2016 the School had trained 215 new 7,271 6,938 1 the Usina de Ideais has accumulated over a thousand electricians and 143 of these were hired. Of a total of 482 1.0 proposals. Most refer to everyday processes at the electricians hired by CPFL between 2012 and 2014, 17% 5,000 0.5 company and their implementation results in financial were trained by the School. Considering the projected benefits. But for the company, it is not so much figure of providing 20% of the demand for electricians via 0 0 the financial return, but rather the engagement of the School for Electricians by 2020, this initiative provides 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 employees with the company's initiatives that really potential annual savings of R$ 850,000 in the hiring procounts. Every year, the best ideas receive prizes. cess, representing total savings of R$ 3.6 million by 2020. 56 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Human Capital 57 CPFL Energia considers the health and safety of its workers to be a core value of the organization. Since 2013 the Company has run the Primeiro as Pessoas (“People First”) program to facilitate actions to prevent accidents and promote health, working with various actions related to the Health, Safety and Quality of Life of employees, partners and customers. In 2015, Phase 1 of the Sinto Segurança (“I Feel Safe”) Behavioral Program was implemented. In addition to strengthening and spreading a Safety Culture throughout the organization, the program pursues excellence in the management process through concepts such as operational discipline, a sense of ownership of the area and visible and perceived leadership. This methodology, developed by DuPont, enables awareness-raising and encourages the commitment of different members of the institution in terms of the importance of their participation for the consolidation of this culture and the proper functioning of the integrated management system. The main phases of the program involved interviews with executives, workshops with senior leadership and managers and coaching for behavioral observers. Behavioral observation tools and a safe practices index (IPS) were also implemented. In addition, a survey of the cultural perception of safety was conducted and used as a base to establish targets, indices and measures of evolution for the organization in this area. The Sinto Segurança Behavioral Program continued in 2016, with the aim of strengthening and disseminating a Safety Culture throughout the organization. The year also saw the Go-live of the Primeiro as Pessoas (“People First”) System (SPAP). This is a robust platform providing monitoring, management and etc. Through our Internal Accident Prevention Committees also performed outstandingly in 2015. To further value the em• CEO of CPFL Paulista and Piratininga; provision of information on Health and Safety for the entire (CIPAs) and their members we took the message of preventive ployees that were outstanding for more than one year in a row, • CEO of RGE; CPFL Energia Group (Leadership and Employees), permitting safety with the power grid to the population during events stars were added to the stickers that indicate this recognition. • CEO of CPFL Santa Cruz and Jaguariúna; improved traceability of information with additional features which were carried out on a voluntary basis by our employees. G4-EU24 • CEO of CPFL Serviços; allowing the sending of information to the eSocial. The SIPAT Internal Week for Accident Prevention involved It is also important to note that since the launch of the Pri• CEO of CPFL Geração; Safety audits are carried out in partner companies on a the participation and involvement of 83 CIPA's and the particimeiro as Pessoas ( People First ) program, the Executive Health • Director of Strategic HR; quarterly basis in order to develop a culture of prevention and pation of employees to reflect on the theme Your Family, Your and Safety Committee (CSS) has been formed, with the role of • Director of Distribution Operations; corrective actions in necessary Health and Safety processes. Future, Your Safety (“Sua Família, Seu futuro, Sua Segurança”). deliberating on and promoting strategic actions and operation• Director of Engineering; With regards to the Safety of the population, alongside variAnother important program is the outstanding safety al directions to be introduced to the CPFL Group. • Director of Procurement and Infrastructure; ous mass communication efforts CPFL has promoted the Exemployee, which aims to recognize the employees who per• Director of Corporate Communications and ternal Campaign for Prevention of Electrical Accidents (CEPAE) formed exceptionally in the safety assessment criteria during The CSS is officially composed of: G4-LA5 Institutional Relations; throughout 2016 through lectures, informative booklets and the year. The idea is to value safe behavior, with 876 employees • Chief Regulated Operations Officer; • Safety, Health and Quality of Life Manager; actions in schools, construction companies, sugarcane mills, performed outstandingly in the year 2016, of which 270 had • Chief Market Operations Officer; • Human Resources Development Manager. 58 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 59 12 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS CAPITAL 60 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 61 Changes to the IT Platform CPFL Energia undertook a major overhaul of its Technology and Information Master Plan in 2016, resulting in actions that will help to determine the Company's future. The decisions made included the expansion of automation and wider adoption of the digital world. The schedule began in 2016, with the approval of the project and the choice of strategic partners. The implementation of the changes is scheduled for 2017 and will take place in stages. The plan is to begin with implementation in the human resources and commercial areas. MANAGEMENT OF The changes will be implemented based upon the existing governance structure at CPFL Energia, STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS with a pipeline of solutions being proposed for each Department. When it comes into operation the system will provide increased flexibility and CPFL Energia´s relationship with its stakeholders Code of Ethics for employees by developing and facilitate interaction with its nine million consumers. reduce the exposure of process structures to risk, represents one of the most important pillars for implementing its Ethics Management and DevelopIn addition to the applications, which can be acadapting them to the expected scenario for 2030. generating value and a positive reputation for the ment System. At the regulatory and governmental cessed by tablets, computers and smartphones, CPFL The new IT platform that resulted from the Company. The Company adopts ethical procedures, levels it contributes to the development of public also provides customer service by telephone and will changes to the Technology and Information Master policies of respect for human rights and good manpolicies that bring improvements to the energy seclaunch a new website in 2017. Its objective is to meet Plan puts CPFL at the forefront of the energy sector. agement practices in all of its interactions with emtor. The company has a Standard for Engagement the demands of its customers and anticipate their The Genesis Project, as developed for the commerployees, customers, suppliers, communities, reprewith Stakeholders in order to strengthen relationneeds with even greater rapidity, comfort and safety. cial area, for example, is unique among Brazilian sentative bodies for the industry, regulatory bodies ships and interactions based on trust and transparWith investments in the training of its customer serenergy companies. To develop it, CPFL Energia and government. The Company continuously refines ency. The company also developed a detailed relavice staff and modernization of its tools the company looked to benchmarks in the international market, its policies for third-party management, generating tionship matrix for each of its stakeholder groups. seeks to provide its customers with a positive experiespecially in European countries and the United a positive impact among its suppliers and lower risk G4-26 G4-27 ence in every single contact. Furthermore, it updates States. With the information obtained from this for the company. The Company invests in projects to its customer service channels by integrating new research and based on its strategic plan the Comimprove the quality of life of the population and to RELATIONSHIP WITH CUSTOMERS products and services as they become available in the pany has developed its own solutions, appropriate promote the socio-environmental development of CPFL Energia continually invests in improving its relamarket. All of the solutions that will be implemented to its business model and its customer profile. the communities located in its concession areas. In tionship with its customers. The Company has develin 2017 were developed based on a survey that con2016 the company further facilitated access to the oped a new customer service system that will further sidered all of the Company's customer profiles. 62 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 63 ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROGRAM Recognition for its work In order to disseminate the use of smart energy (“CPFL in Schools”) and the Educational Program consumption and energy efficiency, the CPFL for Energy Efficiency in Industry. These programs CPFL Energia was one of the winners in the 2016 edition of Group annually develops its Energy Efficiency Probenefited 32 municipal and state schools, with the Abradee Award. The utilities companies CPFL Paulista, gram for its customers: residential, commercial and 14,032 students and 2,392 teachers in 32 municiSATISFACTION SURVEYS G4-PR5 CPFL Piratininga and CPFL Leste Paulista, which operate in services, industrial, government and public agenpalities received training, with investment of over CPFL conducts a series of customer satisfaction the state of São Paulo, won in two categories. cies, hospitals and charities, rural, etc. CPFL Energia R$ 4.9 million. 39 public buildings, 19 schools, 34 surveys, including the ABRADEE survey of residenCPFL Paulista and CPFL Piratininga together serve implements projects aimed at replacing obsolete hospitals and 17 philanthropic institutes also retial customers, a survey of large consumers and an more than 5.8 million consumers in 261 municipalities equipment with more efficient models, promoting ceived energy efficiency makeovers, with investimage and branding survey, as well as participatof São Paulo and won in the operational managetechnological innovation. It also implements projment of over R$ 5.7 million. The bônus residencial ing in the satisfaction survey conducted by ANEEL. ment category for utilities companies with more ects related to sustainability and cultural and eduproject resulted in the replacement of 7,053 reThe ABRADEE Survey of residential customers is the than 500,000 consumers. CPFL Leste Paulista, which cational changes to reduce waste and encourage frigerators and 43,617 light bulbs, with investlargest one and serves as a basis for comparison besupplies power to 57,000 customers in seven towns safe and legal energy use. ment of over R$ 12.8 million. More than R$ 78,900 tween companies in the sector, with the participaand cities in the state of São Paulo, won the award for In 2016, the Company invested more than R$ was invested by CPFL in four municipal energy tion of the largest companies in the country. social responsibility for distributors with less than 97.7 million in this area, with R$ 54.0 million for management projects; more than R$ 3.6 million 500,000 customers. projects aimed at low-income consumers. This rein three commercial projects; and R$ 4.2 million RGE Sul, a distributor that serves more than 1.3 milsulted in the regularization of 3,057 customers, the in three industrial projects. Public lighting projlion customers in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, won exchange of 5,746 refrigerators and 188,135 light ects were responsible for replacing 1,618 light the Largest Growth for Utility Company 2016/2015 bulbs for more efficient models (LED in the case fixtures, at a total investment of over R$ 2.0 milcategory in the IASC Award (Aneel Consumer Satisfacof light bulbs) and the installation of 5,275 solar lion. Of the grand total invested (R$ 97.7 million), tion Index) 2016. The IASC Award is granted by the water heaters, 3,500 heat exchangers and 6,438 R$ 87.3 million was invested in customers and R$ National Electricity Regulatory Agency (ANEEL), where E-Power electronic controllers to reduce energy 10.4 million was provided in accordance with Law the awards ceremony took in Brasília (DF), attended by consumption by electric showers. The Company 13,280/2016, to be passed on to PROCEL in due authorities and agents of the power sector. also ran the educational projects CPFL nas Escolas course. G4-EN7 G4-EC8 Social Inclusion: Efficient Communities Program CPFL Energia developed the Comunidades refrigerators with new, efficient models and reEficientes (“Efficient Communities”) Program placement of electric showers with more efficient With the objective of promoting smart energy technologies and the installation of solar heaters. consumption and replacing obsolete domestic Public awareness actions are also carried out to equipment with efficient new models. It involves promote the smart, safe and lawful use of energy a set of projects for residential customers with through talks, courses and educational activities. low purchasing power. With the adoption of these measures the rates of One of the projects implemented involves return to irregularity are low and the company's eliminating illegal hook-ups, which generates presence in poor communities creates a special new customers and promotes citizenship relationship with gains for all parties involved. Enamongst the beneficiaries. The selection of gagement is undertaken in a structured manner the beneficiaries occurs through a diagnostic/ by community agents, who act as a go-between prospecting process and to receive the benefor the community and CPFL Energia. They are fits consumers must possess an NIS document trained and equipped with uniforms and tablets (Social Identification Number), be registered and able to negotiate the correction of illegal for the Social Electricity Tariff and have their connections and outstanding debts, together bill payments up to date. The program also with the company. This occurs alongside the includes the replacement of obsolete light bulbs principal objective of teaching everyone how to with efficient LED models, replacement of old use energy correctly and safely. 64 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 65 RELATIONS WITH LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO1 G4-EC8 Tauron G4-EU6 CPFL Energia’s Sustainability and Social Investment Geekie Project aims to reduce the gaps based on games. In 2016, the project nas. Investment was R$ 980,000, financed guidelines are intended to ensure the perpetuity in student learning and provide trainreached 7,600 students from nine pubwith funds from BNDES Social Sub-credit. The overarching objective of the Tauron program is to increase of the business and create and share value with ing for teachers and regional managers lic schools in Sumaré-SP. The investthe productivity of the company and improve the quality of all of its stakeholders. The guidelines are based on through the implementation of an online ment was R$ 811,000, financed with Community Libraries (Bibliotecas Coservices provided through the insertion of technology into the material topics identified and prioritized by platform for adaptive learning. In 2016, the funds from BNDES Social Sub-credit. munitárias) Project aims to democits processes. The program comprises three major Smart Grid the company and its stakeholders. All programs projected reached 5,900 students from 15 ratize access to reading materials and projects: Operation and Mobility, Telemetry of Group A and and activities to promote the development of the public schools in Botucatu-SP. Investment ToLife Project Implementation of a contribute to the effectiveness of Law Automation of Distribution Networks. communities where CPFL operates are designed was R$ 586,000, financed with funds from system for classification of clinical risk 12,244/10, which states that by 2020 all The Operation and Mobility project has implemented a to strengthen public policy and promote social the Brazilian Development Bank´s (BNDES) and organization of patient flow in of the country's educational institutions management system for power outages and the intelligent leadership, as defined in its Private Social InvestSocial Sub-credit scheme. Emergency Care Units of public hosmust have a library. Implementation bemanagement of the workforce. The field teams have begun to ment Policy, available online. The social investment pitals and/or hospitals that accept pagan in 2016 for three libraries in the cities use smartphones and cars with wireless devices. Work orders activities are divided into five areas: Culture, Sport, Tamboro Project aims to implement tients from the Public National Health of Marilia, Bebedouro and Campinas-SP. were previously sent by voice via radio but through the project Education, Public Management and Community new educational methodologies through System (SUS). In 2016, the project assistInvestment was R$ 140,000, financed have begun to be sent via data messages. The project has Development. All of CPFL Energia’s operations for the use of an adaptive learning platform ed six health units in the city of Campiwith funds from BNDES Social Sub-credit. improved logistics for field teams by using geo-referenced which the issue of communities is significant have maps, speeding up the restoral of electricity and reducing travel implemented programs with the communities time by optimizing routes, as well as allowing online progress and follow the guidelines established in the Social updates during field work. These changes have been made for Investment Policy. G4-SO1 100% of the teams that respond to emergency and commercial orders for the eight distributors of the CPFL Group. Revitalization Program for The Telemetry project replaced conventional electronic mePhilanthropic Hospitals ters with smart meters for Group A customers, which are those Running since 2005, this program helps to raise served by medium and high voltage supply. Consumption the administrative performance of philanthropic information is automatically collected via CPFL’s own telecomhospitals and improve the services provided to the munications network, thus eliminating the need for teams to community. In 2016, the program benefitted 20 travel to the location to take a reading. This project, in addition hospitals in the regions of Barretos and Marília. Into allowing remote readings, also permits the analysis of the vestment totalled R$ 870,000. G4-EC8 load curve, fraud detection, measurement malfunctions and power supply interruptions in real time. The project ended with Support for Municipal Councils for the Rights of the installation of 26,783 smart meters. Children and Adolescents – CMDCA (1% Income The Automation of Distribution Networks project enables Tax – I.R.) In 2016 the Group companies earmarked the remote control from distance of the medium voltage R$ 1,483,660.00 for the Municipal Fund for Children reclosers installed across the entire distribution network of the and Adolescents in 12 municipalities in the conCPFL Group, thereby increasing the supervision and visibility cession area. The transfer will support situational of the network and allowing field teams to act to re-establish diagnoses and action plans developed in 2015/16. supply with greater assertiveness, reducing the time required G4-SO1 G4-EC8 to normalize the situation. In 2017 we expect to begin the implementation of the Automation of Distribution project in Support for Municipal Councils for the Rights of our seven distribution companies located in the state of São the Elderly IDMC (1% Income Tax – I.R.) Paulo. The goal is to reach 100% of reclosers in the distribution In 2016 the Group companies earmarked R$ network with the RF Mesh network (radio frequency network) 1,030,600.00 for the Municipal Fund for the Elderly and improve the availability and reliability of communications in three municipalities, to support the pilot projto reduce the Equivalent Outage Duration index. ect City for All Ages (Cidade para Todas as Idades). G4-SO1 66 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 67 In 2016, 45 actions were carried out involving about 1,700 volunteer participations. The actions carried The Semear Program has a new out in seven cities in the concession area benefitapproach, Pro Bono volunteering. ed approximately 5,400 people directly and about 20,000 indirectly. The program has had some imporThe term derives from the Latin for the tant milestones such as the Pro Bono volunteer pigood and is a form of volunteering in which lot module in an institution in the city of Campinas. SEMEAR PROGRAM a professional service is provided free of G4-SO1 This program was structured to facilitate the volcharge for a non-profit organization (NGO). untary activities of employees, align their actions Volunteers transfer their knowledge to and promote the development of all of the stakeorganizations, working together with them to holders involved, both internally and externally. Its build new models, business plans, strategies main objective is to publicize the culture of voland products. The result are solutions that unteering; creating a participatory movement that strengthen the management of NGOs in areas engages employees and partners in social actions such as human resources, accounting, law, that change the reality of the communities where finance, communications, information technolthe company operates. ogy and others. To promote and realize Pro The main strategic bases are: mobilization, trainBono volunteering, the Semear Program works ing, interaction and management. These all contribin partnership with Phomenta, a non-profit ute so that the whole process of planning, organizorganization founded in May 2015 and made ing and implementation of voluntary actions by up of people who want to impact the notthe CPFL Energia Group achieves the desired result: for-profit sector in the interior of São Paulo. sharing of value. PROFILE SOLIDARITY VOLUNTARY + PROFESSIONAL SOCIAL PROTAGONISM FRONT BELONG SHARE TRANSFORM MOBILIZATION DISSEMINATION INTERFERENCE INSTITUTO CPFL G4-SO1 ACTIONS SPECIFIC CAMPAIGNS TRANSFORMING ACTIONS INTERFERRING ACTIONS MORE ATTENTION TO THE COMMUNITY Instituto CPFL was created in 2015, following the conated in 2016 and will support the transfer of the • Easter Campaign • Actions: Good with the Network • Local Diagnosis temporary trend to create autonomous structures to management of the Group´s social projects to In• Winter clothing campaign • Actions: Good with the Environment • Social Projects aggregate and perpetuate the social responsibility stituto CPFL, which until now only ran projects in • Actions: Good with the Account • Management Support of organizations. The Institute has centralized CPFL the areas of culture and sport. The first phase of • Child / Elder Campaign Energia's culture, sport and quality of life programs, this transition will occur in 2017, when the volun• Christmas Campaign • Day of Doing Good • Public policy including Café Filosófico CPFL, Cine CPFL and the teer programs and programs of support for chil• Nota Fiscal Campaign Contemporary Music program. dren, adolescents and the elderly, among others, • Recycling Campaign From 2016, CPFL Institute has further expanded will be run by the Institute. The change will permit the promotion of activities targeting the commuthe Institute to grow and will optimize the allocanity by bringing the Circuito Energia (Energy Circuit) tion of the company´s human, financial and infrato the interior of São Paulo State. structure resources to these projects. More inforThe Social Management Center was also cremation: www.institutocpfl.org.br (portuguese only) 68 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Social and Relationships Capital 69 SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT The relationship with suppliers is seen as providing and the search for joint solutions, as well developing ergia aims to encourage its supply chain to adopt tegic. Through this area, the company began anaan important channel for the Company to promote new partners in national and international markets. social and environmental responsibility practices, lyzing the monthly compliance of these suppliers improved business management and technical and In 2016, the Supply Base Management (SBM) of including adhering to work safety standards and with regards to labor laws, checking 27 types of operational development in its supply chain. DurCPFL´s strategic suppliers has been enhanced with social responsibility initiatives, respect for envidocuments related to the obligations of the coming the year 2016, the challenge was to ensure the new risk management practices through the applicaronmental and labor laws and commitments to panies with relation to their employees. In this continuity of delivery and the quality of goods and tion of a routine that includes a complete analysis of contribute to social development. G4-EN33 context, CPFL began to monitor approximately services purchased, despite the economic context the monthly performance of suppliers, their financial G4-LA15 6,000 of the 7,500 suppliers that provide services and its impact on many of these suppliers. health and their compliance with tax obligations. This The best practices and best performances disto the CPFL Group. CPFL Energia has developed a special project methodology is currently applied to the 100 strategic played by companies are recognized by the CPFL Last year, CPFL did not identify any cases among called Rede de Valor (Value Network) to prevent dissuppliers that represent the largest portion of annual Mais Valor Award. The Award was in its 8th year in its suppliers of threats to the rights of employees ruption to the day-to-day running of the company as supply costs from among the 4,592 suppliers regis2016 and 15 companies were recognized across 15 to freedom of association or collective bargaining. a result of interruptions in the supply of material and tered for centralized purchasing. categories of materials, services and sustainability. This finding is based on periodic assessment visits, services. The project has supported its 100 largest tradAlongside the evaluation of the quality and efIn addition, a new area was created to manage during which social responsibility requirements are ing partners in the implementation of best practices ficiency of delivery of goods and services, CPFL Enthe documentation of suppliers regarded as straanalyzed in relation to the regulations. 70 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Infrastructure Capital 71 13 INFRASTRUCTURE CAPITAL 72 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Infrastructure Capital 73 GENERATION CPFL Energia continued its expansion in the Generaconstruction, with the following schedule for beginning tion segment in 2016, with a 4.2% increase in its inoperations: 48.3 MW in 2018 and 26.5 MW in 2020. Efficiency and responsiveness stalled capacity from 3,129 MW to 3,259 MW, considerIn May 2016, SHP Mata Velha in the municipality of in customer service ing its 51.61% share in CPFL Renováveis. This increase Unaí/MG began operating with 24 MW of installed caTwo projects that are part of the changes to CPFL´s IT platmeasures will enable CPFL Energia to speed-up the service resulted from the expansion of CPFL Renováveis. pacity. Work on the Campo dos Ventos (São Domingos, form began operating in 2016, with completion of implemenand increases its efficiency. The second initiative is called the G4-EU1 Ventos de São Martinho and Campo dos Ventos I, III and tation due to occur in 2017. The first, called Transforming CusEfficiency in Combatting Non-Payment and Efficiency in On December 31, 2016, the portfolio of CPFL V) and São Benedito (Ventos de São Benedito, Ventos tomer Service has involved the revision and modernization Combatting Losses Project. Its implementation will enable Renováveis totaled 2,054 MW of installed capacity in de Santo Dimas, Santa Mônica and Santa Úrsula) wind of the Company's entire customer service system. The plan CPFL Energia to optimize the management and prevention of operation, comprising 39 SHPs (423 MW), 43 wind farms farm complexes in the state of Rio Grande do Norte foresees an increase in the retention rate (automatic solution) non-payment and losses as a result of fraud. The system feeds (1,260 MW), eight thermal biomass plants (370 MW) ended in December 2016, with the start of commercial of customer demands by the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) back the information available on the nine million Company and one solar plant (1 MW). There are currently two operations of all of its 110 wind turbines; the combined from the current 40% to 60%. This rate is above the internacustomers and their behavior, helping decision making and wind farms (48.3 MW) and one SHP (26.5 MW) under installed capacity is 231 MW. tional average of 55% retention. In addition, a new custhe implementation of faster preventive actions to avoid tomer service website is due to be launched in 2017. These damage to the company. INSTALLED CAPACITY /GW The following tables show the results achieved by the duration (in hours) of interruptions per customer dur3.5 distributors for the main Brazilian indicators measuring ing the year and the Equivalent Frequency of Outages quality and reliability of electricity supply. The Equivalent (FEC – Portuguese acronym for Frequência Equivalente 3.0 Duration of Outages (DEC – Portuguese acronym for Dude Interrupções) indicates the average number of interração Equivalente de Interrupções) measures the average ruptions per customer during the year. 2.5 2.0 SMALL HYDRO BIOMASS 1.5 DEC AND FEC INDICATORS 2016 (ANNUALIZED VALUES) G4-EU28 G4-EU29 WIND 1.0 CPFL CPFL CPFL CPFL LESTE CPFL CPFL SUL CPFL THERMO RGE PAULISTA PIRATININGA SANTA CRUZ PAULISTA JAGUARI PAULISTA MOCOCA 0.5 HYDRO DEC1 7.62 6.97 14.44 5.65 8.01 7.58 15.20 10.56 0.0 SOLAR 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2018 (p) 2020 (p) FEC2 5.00 3.80 7.56 4.09 5.73 6.13 11.76 6.63 DISTRIBUTION (1) measures the average duration in hours of outages per consumer in the year (2) average number of outages per customer in the year On December 31, 2016, the distribution companies had the growth in the market, in operational infrastructure 7.9 million customers, or 9.1 million considering RGE and in customer services, alongside other areas. Sul.The distribution network consisted of 315,538 km The Group continued its strategy of stimulating the of distribution lines (69,102 km of extra lines; 3,550 km dissemination and sharing of best management practicexcluding RGE Sul) including 450,247 distribution transes and operations within the distribution companies, in BALANCE OF LOSSES G4-EU12 EVOLUTION OF OVERALL LOSSES G4-EU12 formers (increase of 80,721 transformers; 13,847 new order to increase operational efficiency and improve the 14.0% transformers excluding RGE Sul). The nine distribution quality of services provided to customers. G4-EU6 PERFORMANCE TYPE OF LOSSES subsidiaries had 12,181 high-voltage distribution lines The company is focusing considerable effort on % GWH 12.0% 10.88% 10.06% 9.82% 10.08% 10.29% of between 34.5 kV and 138 kV (increase of 2,196 km of reducing commercial losses from illegal connections, Overall 9.15 5.618 10.0% 9.58% lines; 138 km excluding RGE Sul). G4-EU4 fraud or billing errors. Therefore, in each of the eight Technical 6.28 3.857 8.0% 7.51% On that date, CPFL had 531 high-voltage to medisubsidiaries there are trained technical teams that um-voltage transformer substations for subsequent conduct inspections, improved monitoring of irregular Non-technical 2.87 1.760 6.0% 4.63% distribution (increase of 71 substations; 9 substations consumption and increasing replacement of obsolete 4.0% excluding RGE Sul) with total processing capacity of measuring equipment. Software was also developed 17,316 MVA (addition of 2,451 MVA; 448 MVA excludto discover and analyze irregular billing. A total of 2.0% GLOBAL LOSSES 2016 ing RGE Sul). Investments were made in the expansion, 341,899 inspections took place in 2016, which is be0.0% GLOBAL LOSSES 2015 CPFL CPFL RGE CPFL CPFL CPFL Sul CPFL CPFL maintenance, improvement, automation, modernizalieved to have led to an estimated recovery of receivPaulista Piratininga Santa Leste Paulista Jaguari Mococa tion and strengthening of the electrical system to meet ables of more than R$ 47 million. GLOBAL LOSSES 2014 Cruz Paulista 74 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Knowledge and Skills Capital 75 14 KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS CAPITAL EU8 76 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Knowledge and Skills Capital 77 A BENCHMARK IN ELECTRIC MOBILITY Through the electric vehicle project CPFL Energia seeks to position itself as a leader in the Brazilian market, both on the technological level and by providing support for the regulation of the sector in the form of studies of technological standards and The Brazilian power sector began to consolidate tail Trader). These are examples of some of the acnorms. The company has 16 cars in operation and certain trends in 2016 that have high potential to tions adopted by CPFL Energia in pursuit of new is evaluating their performance in a real laboratory impact the established business models created in routes to growth in a world of more distributed in Campinas and the surrounding region. A minimal recent decades. Discussions on a more liberalized energy. The company has also adopted a process recharging infrastructure has been set up in the market have advanced. In addition, the consolidaof special treatment for startups in 2016, enabling city with 16 charging points and partnerships have tion of Distributed Energy Resource (DER) technolthese projects to develop in accordance with been formed with intensive car users (fleet owners) ogies, such as electric vehicles, distributed generatheir management needs and without having to to introduce them to the electric car technology, tion, energy efficiency and demand management follow the same administrative principles as the enabling them to test the cars and give feedback to (typically beyond the meter ) has opened up large and traditional businesses of the Group. the company. This pilot project anchors a number of new business opportunities and new forms of In its R&D program, CPFL has upgraded its technical studies aimed at preparing the sector and relationships between companies and their custrends radar and been involved in innovative projthe company for electric mobility. A range of scetomers. This new way of operating is based upon ects that aim to prepare the sector and the comnarios for the penetration and use of electric cars are the search for sustainable energy and the greater pany for the future. being formatted to support network planning, staninvolvement of customers in decisions about radardization and modernization of plugs. As there is tional energy consumption. no standard international recharge Brazil can make CPFL Energia´s approach to this scenario is to TECHNOLOGICAL ROADMAP its own choices and CPFL is evaluating the techniadopt a position of readiness to allocate its human TO DEFINE PRIORITIES cal and economic advantages and disadvantages of and financial resources to capturing the potential CPFL Energia updated its technological roadeach model. Standardization is important to avoid new market opportunities that are appearing. The map in 2016. The mapping aims to define the increased infrastructure costs. Company's strategy is to accelerate the developpriority projects in innovation, research and dement of new business models, products and servelopment for the next five years. The Company vices through the creation of startups and the concluded that it should continue to develop study and development of innovative technolofundamental pillars such as Mobilidade Elétrica gies through R&D resources. (Electric Mobility). With regards to this issue, Agreement with the In its work to create companies focused on the company has structured a project which University of Cambridge innovative business models, CPFL has developed aims to study the impacts, technical standards several new projects in the areas of generation, and models of business, with development exThe remodeling of CPFL's innovation pipeline renewables, transmission and distribution. The pected to be finalized in 2018. has included the participation of a group of highlights include: (i) CPFL GD, a company foAnother highlight is the Solar Roofs project. students from the University of Cambridge. cused on the sale of distributed solar generation CPFL Energia met its target for 2016 with the instalThrough an agreement the students, guided to large commercial and industrial customers lation of 200 solar roofs in a single region. One of the by the Company, supported the rethinking of (wholesale segment), which also began operatgoals of the projects is to assess two of the areas in the themes and priorities of the company's ing with residential customers and small traders which the mass use of solar energy would affect the innovation projects in view of the 2030 Plan. (retail segment) in 2016; and (ii) CPFL Covar (Redistribution company: financial and technical. The idea of the partnership was to acquire information from which to re-evaluate market trends in order to guide any adjustments in the search for R&D projects. This initiative will help CPFL Energia to prepare itself in advance for the changes ahead. CPFL’s Electric Car 78 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Knowledge and Skills Capital 79 FUNDS INVESTED IN SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R$) 2014 2015 2016 Alternative electricity generation sources 7,578,556 4,222,356 941,707 The Environment 401,442 777,064 0 INVESTMENTS IN R&D Safety 877,466 2,223,876 2,660,476 One of the goals of the CPFL Group is to continuOne of the highlights is a CPFL initiative within Energy efficiency 117,703 0 115,745 ously pursue innovation in processes, products, serANEEL´s Research and Development Program called Planning of Electrical Systems 4,535,237 8,016,378 7,917,816 vices and business models, with the clear objective the Telhados Solares (Solar Roofs) Project. The goal of of maintaining competitiveness and excellence in the project is to construct a real-life laboratory for Operation of Electrical System 5,350,879 2,764,191 3,362,660 its service to the market. CPFL Energia´s continuous large-scale distributed solar photovoltaic generaSupervision, Control and Protection of Electrical Systems 2,564,430 2,896,023 1,926,321 investment in Research and Development (R&D) has tion in one region, in the district Of Barão Geraldo in set a benchmark for innovative companies. Campinas. Real data will be gathered on the various Quality and Reliability of Electricity Services 1,034,803 1,449,377 104,723 Brazilian regulations for the electricity sector applications and implications of the technology, alMetering, billing and prevention of commercial losses 256,592 116,263 0 require companies operating in power distribulowing further study and deeper understanding of tion, generation and transmission to invest 1% of the impacts of this type of generation on the sector. Others 7,691,700 2,678,915 1,660,122 their annual net operating income in research and The study began in 2014 and will receive approxiTotal 30,156,147 26,744,383 20,164,535 development and energy efficiency programs. The mately R$ 14.8 million in investment by its concludistributors invest 0.5% of income in research and sion in 2018. The studies developed incorporate a development (R&D) projects and 0.5% in energy efglobal and systemic vision of how the subject is ficiency programs. The Generation companies invest approached in different parts of the world, which 1% of their income in R&D. With these resources it is enables the identification of the specific challenges possible to improve current technology and CPFL’s to be faced in Brazil. The entities responsible for the expertise in the segments that are already consoliexecution of the project are CPqD and Unicamp. dated and lead the development of technologies The topics studied include determination of the CPFL SERVIÇOS focused on new business models. impacts caused by distributed photovoltaic generaIn 2016, CPFL´s investments in Scientific and Techtion on energy distribution networks; analysis of ecoCPFL Serviços´ move into its own headquarters in 2016 has nological Research and Development totaled nearly nomic and financial feasibility from the perspectives particular significance in terms of how the Group´s new busiR$ 20.2 million. It is the responsibility of the compaof the distributor, society and the user; proposals for nesses are developed. The new startups maintain the innovative ny's innovation area to establish a culture that stimutariff models that mitigate the risks involved for the and pioneering spirit of CPFL Energia but are allowed to develop lates the development of actions and projects of this business and support the adoption of the technolaccording to their own characteristics and needs, without confunature. To achieve this, its work is divided into two ogy; identification of technical requirements and sion with the management of the core business, and with the fronts of action: management of innovation projects safety conditions for the installation, operation and generation of new opportunities. and financial and regulatory management. maintenance of photovoltaic generators distributed CPFL Serviços went through a two-year re-structuring process, Projects are now classified as “structural” or “opon roofs; identification of possible business models for which began with an audit and the setting of targets for profitabilerational excellence”: the distributors and companies in the Brazilian Power ity, physical expansion and productivity, etc. The survey conducted Structural: those long-term projects that preSector; and the generation of knowledge for review by Accenture in 2014 pointed out 195 points to be resolved during pare CPFL and the electricity sector for the future, and adaptation of technical norms and standards. The the reorganization of the company. By the end of 2016 CPFL Serincluding the Tanquinho Solar Power Plant, Mobiliproject has installed 3,390 panels as part of 231 phoviços had exceeded all of its targets and moved from the responsidade Elétrica (Electric Mobility) and A Energia na Citovoltaic systems, representing an area equivalent to bility of the New Business area to Market Operations. dade do Futuro – Visão 2030 (Energy in the City of the one football field. These panels have the potential to The good results have resulted in the need for a 36% increase Future Vision 2030). produce 850 KWp, enough to supply the consumpin the number of employees and represented growth of 40% in Operational Excellence: related to the day-totion needs of all of the 231 customers in the year. The revenues. Four new operational bases were also inaugurated: day activities of the company, such as Trafo Verde customers/partners have different consumption proBotucatu, Araraquara, Lins and Bauru, in addition to the head(Green Transformer), Virtual Training and Mechafiles, including homes, closed condominiums, small quarters in Campinas. nized Pruning. businesses and industries and non-profit institutions. 80 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Financial Capital 81 15 FINANCIAL CAPITAL G4-EC1 82 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Financial Capital 83 Amortization, mainly due to the increase in the Distribu• Financial expenses: increase of 4.0% (R$ 103 million), tion segment (R$ 17 million) and at CPFL Renováveis (R$ from R$ 2.551 billion in 2015 to R$ 2.654 billion in 2016, 13 million), basically due to assets beginning operations mainly due to the following factors: (i) increase of 3.3% (R$ over the past 12 months; 58 million) in the debt charges in local currency; (ii) Impact • Increase of 24.9% (R$ 15 million) in the Pensions item of including RGE Sul in our consolidation of November and due to updates to the actuarial report; December 2016, following completion of the acquisition of Partially offset by: the company on October 31, 2016. Total financial expenses • Reduction of 17.8% (R$ 54 million) in the item Amortiin relation to RGE Sul (which was not included in our conMeter zation of Intangible assets under Concession. solidation in 2015) totaled R$ 39 million for November and December 2016; (iii) increase of R$ 24 million in updates to sectorial financial liabilities; (iv) Increase of 1.1% (R$ 7 milEBITDA lion) on monetary and foreign exchange updates; REVENUE (calculated according to the CVM Instruction 527/12) Partially offset by: (v) increase of 48.2% (R$ 22 million) in Gross operating revenue in 2016 was R$ 30.785 billion, reppurchased for resale in relation to RGE Sul (it was not inThe operating cash flow, measured as EBITDA, was R$ capitalized interest (expense reducer); (Vi) Reduction of R$ 3 resenting a fall of 10.3% (R$ 3.518 billion), mainly due to: (i) cluded in our consolidation in 2015) totaled R$ 288 million 4.126 billion, a reduction of 0.4% (R$ 18 million). This million in other financial expenses. the variation of R$ 4.601 billion in sectorial financial assets for November and December 2016; (v) Reduction of 19.8% mainly reflects a reduction of 7.2% (R$ 1.487 billion) in and liabilities, from R$ 2.507 billion in assets in 2015 to li(R$ 237 million) in PIS/Cofins tax credit (cost-reducing) net operating revenue and an increase of 21.9% (R$ 736 abilities of R$ 2.095 billion in 2016; (ii) a reduction of 52.7% generated from the purchase of energy. million) in operating costs and expenses, including ex(R$ 207 million) from updating the financial assets of the • Charges for the use of the transmission and distribupenses with private pensions and concession infrastrucconcession; and (iii) a reduction of 1.0% (R$ 37 million) in tion system totaled R$ 1.351 billion in 2016, 7.8% (R$ 114 ture construction costs. These effects were partially offset the generated electricity sold. This was partially offset by million) less than the previous year, as a result of the folby a 15.9% (R$ 2.112 billion) reduction in electricity costs increases of 1.8% (R$ 421 million) in the electricity distriblowing factors: (i) reduction of 35.9% (R$ 200 million) in the and charges and an increase of 43.1% (R$ 94 million) in uted, 29.4% (R$ 307 million) in revenue from construction System Service charges ESS; (ii) reduction of R$ 44 million income from equity interest. of concession infrastructure and 19.1% (R$ 600 million) in in charges for use of the basic network and the distribution other operating revenue. system; Partially offset by: (iii) Increase of 95.3% (R$ 52 milFINANCIAL RESULT Deductions from operating revenues amounted to R$ lion) in Reserve Energy Charges EER; (iv) the impact of the The financial result recorded net expenditure of R$ 1.453 bil11.672 billion, a decrease of 14.8% (R$ 2.031 billion). Net operinclusion of RGE Sul on the consolidated result in November lion, a 3.2% (R$ 46 million) increase. The items that explain ating revenue was R$ 19.112 billion, representing a decrease and December 2016, following completion of the acquisithis variation in the Financial Result are: of 7.2% (R$ 1.487 billion). tion of this company on October 31, 2016. • Financial Revenue: increase of 5.0% (R$ 57 million), from R$ 1.143 billion in 2015 to R$ 1.201 billion in 2016, COST OF ELECTRICITY OPERATING COSTS AND EXPENSES mainly due to the following factors: (i) Increase of 40.6% The cost of purchasing electricity amounted to R$ 11.200 Operating costs and expenses totaled R$ 5.389 billion, (R$ 192 million) in income from financial investments; (ii) billion, down 15.9% (R$ 2.112 billion). The factors that excompared to R$ 4.642 billion in 2015. This represents an Increase of 22.7% (R$ 28 million) on monetary and foreign plain this variation are as follows: increase of 16.1% (R$ 743 million) and is a result of the exchange updates; (iii) Increase of 9.1% (R$ 20 million) in • The cost of energy purchased for resale totaled R$ following factors: additions and late payment fines; (iv) increase of R$ 14 9.849 billion in 2016, 16.9% (R$ 1,998 million) less than • PMSO costs totaled R$ 2.669 billion, up 18.3% (R$ million in other financial income; (v) the impact of the inthe previous year, as a result of the following factors: (i) 413 million). Excluding RGE Sul, the increase would have clusion of RGE Sul in our consolidation for November and reduction of 31.5% (R$ 904 million) in the cost of energy been 14.2% (R$ 320 million). The breakdown is as follows: December 2016, following completion of the acquisition from Itaipu; (ii) reduction of 9.3% (R$ 852 million) in the (i) Personnel up 16.5% (R$ 155 million); ii) Materials up of the company on October 31, 2016. The total financial cost of energy acquired in the regulated environment and 35.7% (R$ 50 million); (iii) Outsourced Services up 16.2% income in relation to RGE Sul (which was not included in through bilateral contracts; (iii) Reduction of 74.7% (R$ 767 (R $ 92 million) and (iv) Other costs/expenses up 18.7% our consolidation in 2015) amounted to R$ 6 million for million) in the purchase of energy in the spot market/costs (R$ 116 million); November and December 2016; with PROINFA; Partially offset by: (iv) the impact of the in• Increase of 23.0% (R$ 240 million) in construction costs Partially offset by: (vi) reduction of 76.9% (R$ 125 milclusion of RGE Sul in our consolidation in November and for the concession infrastructure; lion) in updates to sectorial financial assets; (Vii) reduction December 2016, following completion of the acquisition • Acquisition of RGE Sul (R$ 97 million); of 61.4% (R$ 52 million) in judicial deposits update; (viii) Reof this company on October 31, 2016. The cost of energy • Increase of 3.7% (R$ 37 million) in Depreciation and duction of 43.8% (R$ 25 million) in tax credit updates. 84 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Financial Capital 85 NET INCOME For more information on the consolidated financial perforIn 2016, net income for the year reached R$ 879 million, an mance consult the CPFL Energia Management Report, available NET REVENUE (R$ MILLION) increase of 0.4% (R$ 4 million), mainly reflecting a reducat: www.cpfl.com.br/ir. tion of R$ 78 million in income tax and social contributions 2015 2016 and R$ 0.6 million in amortization of surplus value of assets. DEBT These effects were partially offset by the 0.4% (R$ 18 million) 20,599 19,112 At the end of 2016, gross financial debt (including derivatives) of reduction in EBITDA and the 3.2% (R$ 46 million) increase in the Company reached R$ 21.358 billion, an increase of 9.6%. Cash net financial expenses and 0.8% (R$ 11 million) increase in and cash equivalents totaled R$ 6.165 billion, an increase of 8.5%. depreciation and amortization. As a result, net financial debt increased 10% to R$ 15,193 million. The increase in financial debt is intended to support the Group's business expansion strategy, with the financing of CPFL Renováveis´s greenfield projects. In addition, CPFL Energia adopts EBITDA (R$ MILLION) NET INCOME (R$ MILLION) a strategy of pre-funding, in anticipation of funding debt due to mature within 18 to 24 months. 2015 2016 2015 2016 4,143 4,126 875 879 ANNUAL TARIFF ADJUSTMENTS (RTA) 2016 The following distributors had their rates adjusted as follows: CPFL Electricians CPFL PAULISTA RGE SUL RGE CPFL PIRATININGA Ratifying Resolution 2,056 2,059 2,082 2,157 Adjustment 9.89% 3.94% -1.48% -12.54% Parcel A -2.06% -3.75% -2.98% -7.02% Parcel B 1.78% 1.86% 2.31% 1.67% Financial Components 10.18% 5.83% -0.81% -7.19% Effect on consumer billings 7.55% -0.34% -7.51% -24.21% Valid since 08/04/16 19/04/16 19/06/16 23/10/16 PERIODIC TARIFF REVIEW (RTP) The distributors below passed through the tariff review process in 2016, with the methodologies for the 4th tariff review cycle applied to them from this point: CPFL SANTA CRUZ CPFL LESTE PAULISTA CPFL JAGUARI CPFL SUL PAULISTA CPFLMOCOCA Ratifying Resolution 2,026 2,029 2,028 2,025 2,027 Adjustment 10.69% 8.02% 14.05% 9.77% 6.08% Parcel A -1.84% -1.95% -1.20% -2.70% -2.35% Parcel B 1.61% 5.94% 2.80% 5.01% 3.76% Financial Components 10.92% 4.03% 12.45% 7.46% 4.67% Effect on consumer billings 7.15% 13.32% 13.25% 12.82% 9.02% Valid since 22/03/16 22/03/16 22/03/16 22/03/16 22/03/16 86 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Financial Capital 87 CPFL’s Center of Operations R$ MIL DIVIDENDS MINIMUM MANDATORY DIVIDENT (25%) Company Bylaws foresee the distribution of at leNet income of the fiscal year Individual 900,885 The Company declared, in the fiscal year of 2016, the ast 25% of adjusted net income in dividends to Results from previous years 25,778 amount of R$ 214 million of minimum mandatory diits shareholders, as provided for in law. The providend, as governed by Law 6,404/76, and, R$ 8 million posed allocation of net income is shown in the Prescribed dividend 3,144 of additional proposed dividend. For this fiscal year, following table: Net income base for allocation 929,807 considering the current adverse economic scenario and the uncertainties regarding market projections Legal reserve (45,044) for distributors, the Company’s Management proposes Statutory reserve concession financial asset (117,478) the allocation of R$ 546 million to the statutory reserve strengthening of working capital. Statutory reserve strengthening of working capital (545,505) Additional proposed dividend (7,820) Minimum mandatory dividend (213,960) 88 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 89 16 CONTENT INDEX GRI * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 90 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 91 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Message from the CEO. all 6 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 6, 8 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organization. 16 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services. 21 G4-5 Location of organization's headquarters. 16 Countries in which the organization operates and where its main G4-6 16 operations are located. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 16 G4-8 Markets served. 16 G4-9 Scale of the organization. 16 2015 2016 AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS MEN 2213 2296 AGE GROUP: UNDER 30 YEARS WOMEN 956 1003 AGE GROUP: 30 TO 50 YEARS WOMEN 4216 4564 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 6 AGE GROUP: 30 TO 50 YEARS WOMEN 1006 1086 AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER MEN 1030 1075 AGE GROUP: 50 YEARS OR OLDER WOMEN 163 171 FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY EXECUTIVES MEN 18 15 FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY EXECUTIVES WOMEN 1 1 All of the Group's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, excluding the CEO, G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 3 69 Executive Directors, Employers and Statutory Directors. * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 92 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 93 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-12* Description of the organization's supply chain. 69 On October 31, with the conclusion of the acquisition, AES Sul was renamed RGE Sul Distribuidora de Energia S.A. (“RGE Sul”), a distribution company that serves approximately 1.3 million clients in 118 cities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. With this step, CPFL Energia increased its scale and footprint in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, serving 382 cities and reaching a market share of 65%. In Brazil, CPFL Energia now enjoy a market share of over 14% of the distribution segment, serving around 9 million clients through 9 concessionaires in the Southern and Southeastern regions. CPFL took charge of the RGE Sul’s management on November 1st, and its plans include investments of around R$ 1.0 billion in the period 2017¬ 2019, aiming to implement CPFL standards in services and to comply with the improvement plan set by ANEEL. Still in 2016, in early July, CPFL Energia was informed by one of its controlling shareholders, Camargo Corrêa S.A., that the latter had received and accepted a proposal from the State Grid Corporation of China (“State Grid”) to acquire Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s G4-13 its interest in the Company´s controlling block for R$25.00 per share. On September 2, the final share purchase agreesize, structure, ownership, or its supply chain ment (SPA) was entered into between State Grid and Camargo Corrêa. In sequence, the proposal was extended to other controlling shareholders, which decided, over the course of September, to join Camargo Corrêa and sell their interest. The transaction had all applicable approvals and was concluded in January 23, 2017, when State Grid Brazil became the controlling shareholder of CPFL Energia, with a 54.64% stake. As a result of the closing of the transaction that resulted in the direct change of control of CPFL Energia in the indirect change of the control of CPFL Energias Renováveis S.A. (“CPFL Renováveis”) and in accordance with applicable regulation, State Grid Brazil will perform tender offer for the remaining outstanding common shares of CPFL Energia and CPFL Renováveis. According to the Material Facts released by both companies on February 23, 2017, State Grid has filed the Unified Offer documentation with CVM, on February 22, 2017; the registration is now under analysis by CVM. COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES G4-14* Charters, principles or other externally developed initiatives. 28 G4-15 Participation in associations and/or national/international organizations. all 20 G4-16 Participation in associations and/or national/international organizations. 20 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the consolidated financial statements and entities not G4-17 21 covered by the report. The Report contents are based on the material Aspects of the CPFL Sustainability Platform, as well as the issues identified G4-18 Process for definition of report content. 23 as relevant by stakeholders consulted for the 2013-2014 cycle. G4-19 List of material Aspects. 37 Aspects / Material topics Impact within CPFL Impact outside Energia CPFL Energia HEALTH AND SAFETY All business Employees, contractors, communities and customers PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT All business Contractors, customers and society G4-20 Materiality and limits of each aspect within the organization. SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT All business Contractors, customers and society REVERSE LOGISTICS Distribution and Services Society CLIMATE CHANGE All business All stakeholders COMMUNITY RELATIONS All business Customers and communities * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 94 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 95 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-21* Materiality and boundaries of each Aspect outside the organization. See indicator G4-20. G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports. 5 G4-23 Significant changes in Scope. 5 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. pages 30-35. Description of the process performed for the 2013-2014 cycle appears in the CPFL Energia Annual Report 2014, G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement. pages 30-35. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 5 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 5 G4-30 Reporting cycle. 5 G4-31 Point of contact in case of questions regarding the report or its contents. 5 G4-32 Table identifying the location of information in the report. 5 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 5 GOVERNANCE Governance structure of the organization, including committees of G4-34 19 the highest governance body. Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics G4-35 24 from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Process of appointment of an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 all 24, 26 responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics. Consultation processes between the stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. G4-37 36 If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-38* Independent or non-executive members of the highest governance body. 23 G4-39 Chair of the highest governance body. 22 MECHANISMS FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES TO PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS G4-40 Qualifications of the members of the highest governance body. 23, 24 * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 96 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 97 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER MECHANISMS FOR SHAREHOLDERS AND EMPLOYEES TO PROVIDE RECOMMENDATIONS It is a duty of the board of directors to prevent and manage situations of conflict of interests or differences of opinion to ensure that the interests of the company and its subsidiaries and affiliate companies always take precedence over any other interests. The member of an advisory committee to the Board of Directors who has actual or potential conflict of interests concerning a particular matter will withdraw from the room and not participate in the meeting during the period in which G4-41 Processes to ensure that conflicts of interest are avoided. the matter is being considered but may be asked to provide information. Any Board Member who has actual or potential conflict of interest or who is linked to a Related party whose main activities imply the existence, actual or potential, of conflict of interests with a particular matter to be examined by the Board should abstain from participating in the part of the meeting in which this matter is analyzed. More information is available at www.cpfl.com.br Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, The Executive Board is responsible for approving and updating CPFL’s strategic directives (Vision, Mission and Principles) and approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission the definition of political strategies and targets as well as the definition of strategies, policies and targets related to the orgaG4-42 all statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmennization’s economic, environmental and social impacts. The Committee of Management Processes, Risks and Sustainability of tal and social impacts. the Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring initiatives related to the sustainability of the company and its subsidiaries. The company provides the Board Members with Certification from the Brazilian Institute of Corporate Governance Measures taken to develop and improve the highest governance body’s G4-43 (IBGC) to encourage continued and permanently updated education, as well as encourage their participation in events collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. related to governance issues or related to the businesses in which it is involved. G4-44 Processes for self-evaluation of the highest governance body. 23 Responsibilities for implementation of economic, environmental G4-45 28 and social policies. Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of G4-46 the organization’s risk management processes for economic, 28 environmental and social topics.. Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 22 environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. In order to foster the participation of shareholders in the company’s relevant decisions, CPFL Energia prepares the Manual for Participation in the General Shareholders' Meetings which clearly and objectively presents the themes on the agenda G4-49 Process to communicate critical concerns to the highest governance body. for the Meeting and makes it possible to freely indicate professionals to be constituted by proxy as shareholder representatives in the Assemblies. Relation between remuneration and the organization's performance G4-51 25 (including social and environmental). G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 25 98 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 99 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Avaliable online: G4-56 Statements of mission and values, codes of conduct and relevant principles. all http://www.cpfl.com.br/institucional/quem-somos/visao-missao-principios/Paginas/default.aspx http://www.cpfl.com.br/institucional/etica-na-rede/o-codigo-de-etica/Paginas/default.aspx Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful G4-57 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines 10 26 or advice line. Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as 10 26 escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 81 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC8 Description of significant indirect economic impacts. 7, 8, 9 63, 65 ENERGY POWER CONSUMPTION BY CPFL GROUP IN 2016 Source / type of power Consumption in GJ DIESEL 309,749.02 GAS 38,328.77 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS 315.02 BIOMASS 51,248.428.02 G4-EN3* Power consumption within the organization. HYDROUS ETHANOL 74,005.1 ELECTRICITY 16,358,496.82 TOTAL 68,029,322.75 1 Considers RGE Sul. 2 The values of this indicator, communicated in 2015 Annual Report, considered only the headquarters consumption. * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 100 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 101 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER WATER G4-EN8* Total water withdrawal by source. 7, 8 32 BIODIVERSITY Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas G4-EN11 32, 47 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 47, 48 protected areas. EPASA has a reforestation program in the area surrounding the power plant (degraded area recovery). The Epasa area covers a total 79.24 hectares, subdivided into an Internal area of 29.13 hectares (36.74% of the total) and External area of 50.11 hectares (63.25% of total), and separated by a masonry wall. Five reforestation nuclei of one hectare each were implanted in the inner area, which is maintained by a specialized contractor. Native vegetation in the growth stage predominates in this area. In the external area the characteristic vegetation consists of grasses and sedges, until recently used for grazing animals. The herbaceous layer is punctuated by isolated trees of common native species and a variety of exotic plants. Close to the project there is a forest reserve of approximately 80 hectares containing remnants of the original vegetation of the region with plant composition of shrub and subshrub layers, complemented by a sparse herbaceous layer. HPP HPP HPP HPP HPP 14 HPP Barra Campos Foz do Monte de Julho Castro G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Grande Novos Chapecó Claro Neves TOTAL PLOT AREA (KM²) 125.8 50.5 95.7 4.49 7.97 10.21 FLOODED AREA (KM²) 82.6 25.6 46 0.69 2.77 3.05 AREA WITH PRIMARY VEGETATION (KM²) 20.8 AREA WITH SECONDARY VEGETATION IN MEDIUM AND ADVANCED STAGES 45.7 9.9 14.6 3.76 5.17 7.1 OF REGENERATION (KM²) PERMANENT PRESERVATION 42.4 20.7 44.6 3.02 4.31 6.87 AREA (KM²) INSTALLED POWER/FLOODED 8.35 34.38 18.58 189.5 36.15 42.61 AREA (MW / KM²) * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 102 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 103 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER EMISSIONS G4-EN15* Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). 8 32, 44 G4-EN16* Energy indirect greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). 32, 44 G4-EN17* Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). 7, 8 32, 44 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 8 There were five events, considered non-significant, for which a company specializing in emergencies was called in. G4-EN24* Total number and volume of significant spills. Other cases were treated by own specially trained team, using the environmental kits available on sites. In both cases, the waste was properly destined, through a company contracted for adequate final destination of the materials. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 8 45, 47, 49 CONFORMITY Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary G4-EN29 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. GENERAL G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 32, 42, 52 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the G4-EN33 8 68 supply chain and actions taken. EMPLOYMENT New employees and the turnover rate of employees 2016 TURNOVER (%) WOMEN 24.03 TURNOVER (%) MEN 16.03 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover G4-LA1 6 TOTAL TURNOVER (%) 17.80 by age group, gender and region. NEW HIRES TOTAL 2,108 NEW HIRES MEN 1,512 NEW HIRES WOMEN 596 * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 104 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 105 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER EMPLOYMENT Companies Benefits offered to full-time employees Employees of CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, CPFL Geração and CPFL Brasil, linked to Fundação CESP, are entitled to benefits in line with best practices in the labor market, with access to pension PAULISTA, PIRATININGA, plans and healthcare plans, meals and food expenses paid, transportation and day care assistance. BRASIL, GERAÇÃO AND For the same group of employees, the company also offers participation in profit sharing, payroll ENERGIA loans, retraining program, vacation bonus, in addition to specific reimbursements for healthcare services. Benefits such as life insurance, house insurance and vehicle insurance are offered with 100% employee participation. RGE employees are granted various benefits, such as pension plans, health and dental care, food stamps, meals vouchers, day care assistance, personal/payroll loans, life insurance, agreement with RGE pharmacy, school kits, reimbursement for Driving Licence, post-return bonus vacation and assistance for persons with disabilities. RGE also offers annual scholarships to aid employees for technical, undergraduate, graduate, MBA and master's degrees. At the distributors CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista, employees are entitled to pension plans, medical and dental assistance, food stamps, meals vouchers, JAGUARIÚNAS pharmaceutical aid, daycare, payroll loan, vacation bonus, retraining programs, holiday loan and life insurance. Agreements with universities and language schools are also granted. CPFL Santa Cruz offers a pension plan, health and dental assistance, food stamps, disability assistance, day-care assistance and transportation. Employees have the right to payroll loan, vacation bonus, SANTA CRUZ retraining programs, life insurance and accident insurance (extended to spouses) and agreements with pharmacies. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, meal vouchers, pharmacy CENTRAIS GERADORAS assistance, day-care, payroll loan, vacation bonus, vacation loan and life insurance. They are also Benefits granted to full -time employees that are not provided to temporary granted agreements with universities and language schools. G4-LA2 1, 2 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, meals vouchers, pharmacy INSTITUTO CPFL assistance, compensation for accidents at work, special individual assistance, payroll loan, pension, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay and day-care. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, pay-roll CPFL SERVIÇOS loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, pension and child care allowances. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll CPFL ATENDE loan, life insurance and day-care. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll CPFL TOTAL loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay, specific compensation and day care. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, food stamps, pharmacy assistance, payroll NECT loans, life insurance, retirement bonus, sick pay, specific compensation and day-care. Employees are entitled health and dental care plans, nursery assistance, pharmacy, aid special indiTELECOM vidual, complement sickness, payroll loan, vacation bonus, pension, life insurance and meal vouchers. Employees are entitled to health and dental care plans, day-care assistance, pharmacy assistance, CPFL EFICIÊNCIA disability assistance, private pension plans, life insurance, food stamps and meals vouchers. 106 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 107 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK G4-LA5 Percentage of employees represented in formal health and safety committees. 57 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, G4-LA6 55 In 2016 there were 04 lost day accidents involving women. and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. TRAINING AND EDUCATION The total figure invested in training and capacity building in 2016 was R$ 10 million, representing R$ 1,011.33 per FTE, Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, G4-LA9* 52 with an average of 79.78 hours of training per employee (59.06 in 2015), above the average of the Sextante Survey – of and by employee category. 48 hours in 2015. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support G4-LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in 53 managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 53 development reviews, by gender. DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators. Race % ASIAN 1.09 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per WHITE 74.69 G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age group, minorities and other diversity indicators. INDIGENOUS 0.19 NOT INFORMED 0.47 BLACK 6.22 MIXED 17.34 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in G4-LA15 68 the supply chain and actions taken. * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 108 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 109 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4 SO1* 1, 2, 7, 8 65, 66 impact assessments, and development programs. ANTI-CORRUPTION Percentage and total number of business units submitted to evaluation G4 – SO3 10 29 of risks related to corruption. G4 – SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 10 29 G4 – SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 10 29 No donations were made to politicians or political parties as CPFL Energia’s Code of Ethics and Anti-corruption policy prohibits G4 – SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary. 10 making donations of any party-political character on behalf of any of the CPFL Group companies. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4 – PR5 Results of customer satisfaction surveys. 62 COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and In 2016, processes of inspection of the distributors CPFL Group conducted by the Agencies ANEEL, ARSESP and AGERGS G4 PR9 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. resulted in nine significant fines of a commercial-technical nature, amounting to the total payment of R$ 4.01 million. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and G4-EU1* 32, 72 by regulatory regime. Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and The assured energy from fossil generation (EPASA), considering the 53.34% interest of the CPFL Group, corresponds G4-EU2* 72 by regulatory regime. to 1,157.42 GWh. Customers of CPFL Energia distributors 2016* 2015 2014 RESIDENTIAL 7,063,885 6,906,580 6,750,758 INDUSTRIAL 53,929 55,586 57,397 COMMERCIAL 467,018 473,333 484,937 RURAL 248,478 245,238 243,998 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial G4-EU3 GOVERNMENT 52,083 51,359 50,931 customer accounts. PUBLIC LIGHTING 10,962 10,362 9,92 PUBLIC SERVICE 8,656 8,402 8,251 OWN CONSUMPTION 837 845 851 TOTAL 7,906,011 7,751,705 7,607,043 * not considering RGE Sul customers. Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines, G4-EU4 32, 72 by regulatory system. Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by G4-EU5 43 trading framework. * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 110 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 111 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE The hydroelectric power plants have multi-year plans (5 years) that include preventive (machine stops) and corrective maintenance and an estimate of failures for each generating unit. The management of this plan is carried out weekly at operation and maintenance programming meetings. There is also management software for all maintenance activities, including a schedule of all preventive and predictive maintenance necessary. At EPASA, guidelines of the manufacturers' manuals for the maintenance of the engines are followed. Plans for periodic inspections of the electrical parts are also implemented, as well as the implementation of the asset management sysManagement approach to ensure short and long-term electricity tem, which is being tested to improve the database system for records of occurrences and maintenance. G4-EU6 availability and reliability. At CPFL Renováveis, short-term preventive maintenance practices are scheduled with the aim of preserving the equipment, extending its useful life, reducing the need for major interventions with the equipment in the long term and corrective interventions. Short-term maintenance activities are scheduled for the seasons with lowest water levels in the case of hydroelectric plants, less wind in the case of wind farms and the off-season for sugarcane for thermal biomass plants. The scheduling of this maintenance aims to reduce or prevent loss of generation as a result of outages caused by the maintenance. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing G4-EU8 7, 8 75 reliable electricity and promoting sustainable development. SYSTEM EFFICIENCY Global Technical Non-technical Global Technical Non-technical Company Losses Losses Losses Losses Losses Losses 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 CPFL PAULISTA 8.66% 6.57% 2.09% 9.58% 6.55% 3.03% CPFL PIRATININGA 6.92% 4.52% 2.40% 7.51% 4.57% 2.93% RGE 9.31% 7.71% 1.60% 10.06% 7.40% 2.66% G4-EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy. CPFL SANTA CRUZ 8.86% 8.38% 0.48% 9.82% 8.75% 1.08% CPFL LESTE PAULISTA 11.76% 8.64% 3.13% 10.88% 8.49% 2.39% CPFL SUL PAULISTA 7.64% 7.42% 0.22% 10.08% 8.26% 1.83% CPFL JAGUARI 4.35% 3.48% 0.90% 4.63% 3.37% 1.26% CPFL MOCOCA 9.58% 7.69% 1.90% 10.29% 7.46% 2.83% * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 112 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia CONTENT INDEX GRI 113 ITEM DESCRIPTION GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE ANSWER BIODIVERSITY G4-EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas. 47 EMPLOYMENT G4-EU14 Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce. 53 DISASTER/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE Training is provided for fire brigade members and the Emergency Response Plan, with simulations according to the annual Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management calendar. The Emergency Response Plan involves a simulation of an emergency situation, verifying the functionality of the G4-EU21* plan and training programs, and recovery/restoration plans. procedure and possible improvements that could be made. At the CPFL Group’s Campinas headquarters we have a Civil Fire Brigade, trained and qualified in accordance with legislation to respond to any emergency situations that may arise. PROVISION OF INFORMATION Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and disability related barriers G4-EU24* 1, 2, 8 57 to accessing and safely using electricity and customer support services. CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY In 2016, there were 65 accidents involving the population, of which 21 were fatal, in the area covered by the eight distributors Number of injuries and fatalities to the public invlving company assets, G4-EU25 CPFL Paulista, CPFL Piratininga, RGE, CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista. In RGE Sul, a including legal judgments, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases. company acquired by the CPFL Group in the second half of 2016, there were 10 accidents, of which 4 fatalities. ACCESS G4-EU28 Power outage frequency. 73 G4-EU29 Average power outage duration. 73 * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 114 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia ASSURANCE STATEMENT 115 ASSURANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT BY SGS ICS CERTIFICADORA LTDA. (SGS) OF SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES IN “ANNUAL REPORT 2016” FOR CPFL ENERGIA S.A. ASSURANCE NATURE AND SCOPE SGS was hired by CPFL Energia S.A. to assure its Annual Report 2016 – CPFL Energia independently. The assurance company is grounded on assuring methodology for SGS Sustainability report, including the text and data from 2016 provided herein. The information of “ANNUAL REPORT 2016 – CPFL Energia” and its presentation lies on directors and managers of CPFL. SGS is not part of any material added to “ANNUAL REPORT 2016 – CPFL Energia”. Our responsibility is to give our opinion of the text, date, charts and statements within the assurance scope, which were detailed below in order to communicate the stakeholders of CPFL. The SGS group has developed a set of protocols for Sustainability Assurance Communication based on best practices provided in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and on assurance standard ISAE3000. These protocols offer different options in terms of assurance, depending on context and capacity of Applicant Organization. This report was assured by using new protocols for assessment of content reliability and its alignment with Sustainability Report-Making Guide (G4), upon limited level. The assurance comprised a combination of previous investigation, interview with employees and interns, desktop analysis, data registration and report assessment that shall be aligned with GRI protocols. The accounting information of CPFL provided and/or referred to “ANNUAL REPORT 2016 – CPFL Energia”, was not assessed as a result of this assurance process. INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCY STATEMENT The SGS Group is worldwide lead in inspections, analysis and certification, operating in more than 140 countries and rendering services that includes management system certification, audits and trainings on quality, environmental, social and ethical, sustainability report assurance and greenhouse gas verification. SGS reinforce its independence against CPFL, getting exempted from any conflicts of interest whit the organization, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was defined according to the expertise, qualification for this service and includes: • A Lead Auditor on Sustainability Report Assurance, Lead Verifier of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Lead Auditor on Social-Environmental Programs, lead Auditor for Environmental, Quality, Energy and Sustainable Events Management. • An Assurance Auditor on Sustainability Reports, Lead Verifier of Greenhouse Gases (GHG), Weather Change Programs, Lead Auditor on Social Environmental Programs. •A  n Assurance Auditor on Sustainability Report, Lead Auditor on Social-Environmental Programs. Parque das Aguas Sorocaba – SP * Some indicators are not reported in full accordance with GRI-G4 protocol. 116 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia ASSURANCE STATEMENT 117 ASSURANCE OPINION It was requested a limited assurance and the activity performed was shorter than the expected Some opportunities for improvement were found during the assurance process 2016 that shall be to a reasonable assurance. Regarding the methodology provided and the verification performed, considered in future, for example: we are satisfied with information and data provided in “ANNUAL REPORT 2016 – CPFL Energia” and deemed them as reliable, considering them a fair and balanced representation of sustainability ac• The governance report could consider other significant functions and commitments of each comtivities performed by CPFL in 2016. The assurance team thinks the report can be used by stakeholdmittee member, participation of social sub-represented groups, competencies related to economers of CPFL. According to its needs, the organization elected the limited assurance level. ic, environmental, and social impacts and if some member is representing the stakeholders. In our opinion the report content meets the GRI G4 requirements partially, including some indica• To consider the total volume of water taken exceeding the limit established in the water license tors of Sectorial Complement for Electric sector G4, Core Options and Global Compact Principles. for every place where it operates. • For coming reports, CPFL could consider including information of the whole content from GRI G4 RECOMMENDATIONS, FINDINGS AMD CONCLUSIONS ABOUT THE GLOBAL GUIDEindicators. LINES, REPORTING INITIATIVE GRI G4 The CPFL Report, “ANNUAL REPORT 2016”, is aligned with GRI G4, Core Option, in despite of the fact that some parts from content were not fully reported. The material aspects and its limit within and out the organization were properly set up according to the Report Principles of GRI. The statement of material aspects and limits identified, as well as the commitment to stakeholders are described correctly in the reference list and report. By keeping using GRI G4, CPFL shows its leading position at its market in sustainability report. Equally, it reports voluntarily to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) and its GEE inventory is checked by an independent third party. This information was used in GRI report. Fabian Peres Gonçalves SGS congratulates the CPFL commitment to sustainability, as well as its participation in “Dow Lead Auditor Sustainability Report Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets” rate. CPFL has been making progress on environmental, SGS ICS Certificadora Ltda. social and economic areas. 30th March of 2017 www.sgs.com CPFL promotes an ethical behavior on its management, it has a corporate internal audit team. It was found they have robust methods for assessing operational, financial and environmental risks. 118 Annual Report 2016 CPFL Energia Credits 119 CORPORATE INFORMATION CPFL Energia S.A CNPJ: 02.429.144/0001-93 NIRE 35.300.186.133 Rua Gomes de Carvalho, 1510 – 14o andar – Cj 142 – Sala 02 Vila Olímpia São Paulo – SP CEP: 04547-005 CREDITS GENERAL DIRECTION Vice Presidency of Legal Affairs and Institutional Relations Sustainability Department CONTENT GUIDANCE Rodolfo Nardez Sirol | Carlo Linkevieius Pereira | Natalia Tadokoro Ricci GATHERING OF INFORMATION Employees of the CPFL Energia Group (subsidiaries and affiliates) EDITORIAL COORDINATION Carlo Linkevieius Pereira | Natalia Tadokoro Ricci EXTERNAL PARTNERS CONTENT, TEXT AND GRAPHIC DESIGN Keyassociados – www.keyassociados.com.br PHOTOGRAPHY CPFL Energia Image Bank, iStock CONTACT Sustainability Department sustentabilidade@cpfl.com.br We thank the professionals of the CPFL Energia Group who provided the information necessary for the preparation of the Annual Report 2016, including the teams at the generation projects (Foz do Chapecó, Enercan, Baesa, Ceran Complex and CPFL Renováveis) and the people who participated in our survey of relevant issues and contributed important observations, as well as all external partners. IC 04.17
