Sustainability Report 2016 Index Letter to Stakeholders 5 1. The Salini Impregilo Group 9 1.1 2016 in short 14 1.2 The Sustainability Strategy 15 1.3 Awards and recognition 22 2. We build Solidity 25 2.1 Salini Impregilo’s contribution to global challenges 25 2.2 The contribution to economic growth 25 2.3 The contribution to inclusive and sustainable development 31 3. We aim for Excellence 51 3.1 Innovation in the service of new needs 51 3.2 Developing our people 58 3.3 A solid supply chain 67 4. We assure Respect 71 4.1 The management of social and environmental issues 71 4.2 Occupational Health and Safety 74 4.3 Respect for human rights 78 4.4 Environmental protection 83 5. We promote Transparency 95 5.1 Our Governance 95 5.2 Integrity in Business 98 5.3 Open dialogue with stakeholders 102 6. Appendix 115 6.1 Materiality analysis 115 6.2 Performance data 124 6.3 Methodology note 129 6.4 GRI Content Index 136 6.5 Independent Auditors’ Report 146 3 Letter to Stakeholders In 2016, Salini Impregilo celebrated 110 years since the foundation of what is now a major global player in the large complex infrastructure sector. During this long journey, we have helped write some of the most important pages of the history of infrastructure, through works that have played a key role in the growth of countries: dams in Africa, unique water projects like the Panama Canal, railways and metro systems that help reduce congestion in large cities and air pollution in some of the most populated cities in the world, road projects that shorten distances and facilitate economic and social integration between territories and communities, and the rescue of works that tell the history of man, such as saving the temples of Abu Simbel in Egypt. Ours is a history of thousands of men and women on every continent, who share the same values of Solidity, Excellence, Respect, and Transparency, deliver increasingly innovative projects and constantly push the technical boundaries, in accordance with our clients’ requirements, for the benefit of entire communities. More than just a year of celebration, 2016 was also a year of new achievements. We met our business targets for a third consecutive year, with revenues in excess of €6.1 billion and a total backlog of €36.9 billion; Lane Industries became part of the Group, significantly strengthening our presence in the United States; we inaugurated three important projects: the Panama Canal, the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center in Athens, and the Gibe III hydropower project in Ethiopia. At an international level, 2016 saw the launch of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, signed by the governments of the 193 UN member countries that committed to achieving 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) over the next 15 years. This is a wide-ranging 5 Sustainability Report 2016 project that focuses the world’s political agenda on people and the planet, assigning a key role to infrastructure, which has always been the backbone of societies. Through our projects, we support our clients in pursuing numerous SDGs, including energy, water, the fight against climate change, sustainable cities, and resilient infrastructure. As much as 70% of our construction backlog relates to projects that contribute directly to the fight against climate change, with initiatives for renewable energy (hydroelectric) and sustainable transport (railways and metro systems). For us, sustainability is not only in the works we build, but also in the way we build them. We support the United Nations’ Global Compact and pledge to abide by and promote these principles in our specific area of activities, in accordance with the particulars received from our clients. The pages that follow broadly describe our Sustainability policies, practices, and performance. Here are just a few worth highlighting. The health and safety of our employees remains our top priority. In 2016, we made further progress in implementing policy and procedures. We also improved the injury rate (-13% compared to 2015) for the third consecutive year, increasing staff training (+16%) and investments (+10%) in this area. We continue to invest in people, both those who are already working with us, through training and development, and by attracting and developing the best candidates on the market. We further increased the training provided to the staff (+10%), completing the first edition of the Master’s in International Construction Management at the Politecnico di Milano and launching the second edition. We also rose to the top of the “Best Employer of Choice” ranking of the companies most desired by recent graduates. In our activities, we promote the principles of a circular economy, thereby contributing to fighting climate change and protecting the environment. In 2016, we increased the share of excavated material reused in our production processes (+1%) and the percentage of recycled waste (+6%), reducing the water intensity (-17%) and greenhouse gas emissions (-18%) of our operations. Our strategies and achievements earned us a place in the Climate “A List” of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which includes a small number of the best-performing companies in the world. Above all, we create shared value for and with the communities that host us, respecting local cultures and 6 diversity. At the end of 2016, our projects employed over 59,000 direct and indirect staff, three quarters of whom were directly recruited from local communities. We met our procurement needs for goods and services almost exclusively at local level, with 85% of purchases made in the same markets where our projects are located (+10% compared to 2015). These two levers of local hiring and procurement are critical in activating the local economy, and contribute significantly to the economic and social growth of the countries in which we operate. In 2016, we developed a special calculation model, that we evocatively called “SEED”, which allows us to quantify the contribution of our direct investments in a country (the seeds) to its economic and social development in terms of GDP, employment, labor income distribution and contribution to public administrations. We want to remain among the market leaders, driven by a strong ambition: to contribute to the sustainable development of societies, implementing major infrastructure projects that last longer and improve the lives of current and future generations, starting right from the construction phase. The invaluable commitment of all our people means we are confident that we will continue to achieve further successes and meet new targets, for the benefit of our shareholders, investors, clients, communities and all other stakeholders. Pietro Salini Chief Executive Officer 7 1. The Salini Impregilo Sustainability Report 2016 Group 8 1. The Salini Impregilo Group Salini Impregilo is a leading global player in the EX CLUSIV construction of major infrastructure. It specializes in ON OVER the water sector, where it has been recognized by the SC E C TE Engineering News-Record as the global leader for the DI NT third consecutive year, as well as in railways and metro systems, bridges, roads and motorways, large civil and industrial buildings, and airports. The Group has 110 years of experience on five continents, with design, engineering and construction operations in 50 countries and about 35,000 employees of over 100 different nationalities. Salini Impregilo is a signatory to the United Nations’ Global Compact and pursues sustainable development goals to create value for its stakeholders. It assists clients in strategic areas including energy and mobility, helping to drive development and wellbeing for current and future generations. Its leadership status is reflected by ongoing projects that include the expansion of the new Panama Canal, the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam, the Cityringen metro in Copenhagen, the new metro system in Riyadh, the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center in Athens, and the new Gerald Desmond Bridge in Long Beach, USA. At the end of 2016, the value of the Group’s production reached €6.1 billion1 (including Lane, the leader in the U.S. highway sector and a U.S. subsidiary of Salini Impregilo) and its backlog totalled €36.9 billion. Salini Impregilo is headquartered in Italy and is listed on the Milan Stock Exchange. 1 The figure represents an operating value, thus different from the IFRS financial statements. Solely for operational purposes, the Group monitors the performance of the main economic variables, adjusting the IFRS accounting data of the Lane Group taking into account the results of non-controlled joint ventures, which are then consolidated on a proportional basis. The operating results represented in this way show the business performance of projects managed by Lane directly and through its non-controlling interests in joint ventures. These values ​​ are reconciled within the 2016 Annual Financial Report Operating performance of the Group and of the Parent Company for 2016. 9 Sustainability Report 2016 Our business sectors Salini Impregilo2 operates in all areas of creating large complex infrastructure projects, such as renewable energy, water, transport and sustainable urban mobility, through Design, Engineering3 and Construction activities. Every infrastructure project is unique and represents what in other sectors would be called a “prototype.” This is why we are naturally predisposed to innovation, looking for design solutions that fully meet the needs of our clients, overcoming, where necessary, any technical limitations through the development of unprecedented construction technologies and methodologies. To achieve this, we adopt a multidisciplinary and multistakeholder approach along the entire value chain, working closely with our clients, suppliers and partners, taking into account the needs of the other local stakeholders. Sustainability is an essential element of our way of doing business and is integrated in our main management and operational processes. We follow high ethical standards in conducting business, monitoring issues related to health and safety on worksites, protecting the environment during the construction activities, and promoting the economic and social development of the countries in which we operate. Dams, hydroelectric plants Water projects have always been a distinctive characteristic of the Group’s excellence, recognized by the ENR as a world leader in implementing infrastructure projects in the water sector4. Over the last 110 years, Salini Impregilo has worked on over 2575 dams and hydroelectric plants on 5 continents, for a total installed capacity of over 37,500 MW of lowcost clean energy, contributing to the sustainable development of entire nations. The Group is a leader in the construction of complex hydraulic engineering projects, which include the expansion of the Panama Canal, considered the most important engineering work of the 21st century, the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam in Ethiopia, which, when completed, will be the largest dam in Africa, and the Lake Mead hydraulic tunnel, a complex system for 2 The information contained in this report refers to the Salini Impregilo Group (the “Group” or “Salini Impregilo”), which includes Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and its subsidiaries and investees. The term “Company” is used when referring solely to the parent company Salini Impregilo S.p.A. 3 “Design and Engineering” refers to the engineering phase of the project, which follows the conception, feasibility study, and basic design phases carried out by the client. For more information on the development cycle of an infrastructure project, please refer to section 4.1. 4 Source: Ranking compiled by the Engineering News-Record (ENR), the main specialist publication of reference for the entire construction industry. 5 The data shown in this chapter, referring to the infrastructure developed by the Group, does not include the U.S. subsidiary Lane. 10 1. The Salini Impregilo Group collecting and transporting water from one of the largest artificial lakes in the United States. Motorways, roads and bridges Transport infrastructure, and particularly road networks, play an important role in the economic growth and social development of countries, as they improve accessibility and communication while promoting the development of economic activities. Salini Impregilo has built over 51,660 km of roads and motorways, and 350 km of bridges and viaducts. Currently the Group is engaged in implementing several projects of varying scale and complexity. These projects range from the construction of the A1 Motorway in Poland to the Gerald Desmond Bridge in California, intended to improve the flow of traffic in one of the busiest ports in the United States. Once completed, the new Gerald Desmond Bridge will be one of the tallest bridges in the United States. Railways and metro systems Through the construction of over 6,830 km of railways, 400 km of metro lines and 1,450 km of underground works, the Group has contributed effectively to the development of urban and extra-urban mobility, offering a viable alternative to road transport. Rail transport today is an efficient, safe, and sustainable system, as well as a solution for reducing congestion in cities. Salini Impregilo is currently active in implementing major metro and rail lines, contributing to better mobility for entire cities, such as the Red Line North in Doha (Qatar), one of the largest infrastructure developments in the Middle East, Line 3 of the Riyadh Metro (Saudi Arabia), and Cityringen, the new Copenhagen (Denmark) metro system. Airports, civil and industrial buildings Working in partnership with prestigious architecture and design firms, Salini Impregilo continues to play a significant role in creating innovative and iconic buildings all over the world. The Group boasts extensive experience in the construction of commercial and government buildings, cultural institutions, hospital complexes, and university campuses. The Group’s latest examples of excellence include the construction of the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center in Athens, sponsored by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and designed by Renzo Piano. The project, which opened to the public in June 2016, has received a 11 Sustainability Report 2016 LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum certification. Salini Impregilo also has extensive experience in the construction and modernization of airport infrastructures, both in Italy and abroad, with the design and construction of runways, airport terminals and control towers (Leonardo da Vinci International Airport and Milan Malpensa 2000), as well as large-scale hangars. Our track record 412 In Africa Around 1,017 2,000 In Europe Projects completed throughout the world 222 In North America 213 54 In South America In the Middle East 66 In Asia and Oceania Our Global Presence >50 >100 Approx. Countries Nationalities 35,000 direct employees 12 1. The Salini Impregilo Group 70% of our construction backlog consists of projects that contribute to climate change mitigation6. Main KPIs Distributed economic Local procurement Direct employees value 7 2016 5,525 € million 85% 34,440 2015 4,392 € million 8 75% 30,598 2014 3,950 € million 58% 34,137 Hours of training Injury Rate HSE expenses provided 2016 1,128,328 hours 0.65 82.6 € million 2015 1,022,475 hours 0.74 68.3 € million 2014 705,118 hours 0.86 36.9 € million Reutilized excavation Energy intensity9 Intensity of greenhoumaterial se gas emissions 2016 83% 1,660 GJ/€ million 115 t CO2e /€ million 2015 82% 1,882 GJ/€ million 140 t CO2e /€ million 2014 63% 2,157 GJ/€ million 163 t CO2e /€ million 6 In terms of renewable energy (hydroelectric projects) and sustainable mobility (metro systems and railways). 7 The figures below were prepared based on the IFRS financial statements. 8 The economic data for 2015 has been restated in accordance with IFRS 5. These figures do not include Lane Industries, acquired on 4 January 2016. 9 The normalization factor used for the intensity rates is represented by the revenues for the year. 13 Sustainability Report 2016 1.1 2016 in short First Quarter Second Quarter January – The American Lane Industries joins the April – Salini Impregilo and the Politecnico di Salini Impregilo Group Milano launch the first Master’s in “International Construction Management” January – Ulu Jelai (Malaysia) mentioned as a best case in the hydro sector according April – Salini Impregilo celebrates the World Day to “International Water Power and Dam for Safety and Health at Work at its worksites Construction” May – Salini Impregilo approves the 2016February – Salini Impregilo executives and 2019 Business Plan and presents it to the managers meet for the 2016 Strategy Day international community “Leading our Growth” May – The Chief Executive Officer Pietro Salini February – Salini Impregilo enters the Top 20 receives the Guido Carli award ranking of the “Best Employer of Choice” June – Inauguration of the Stavros Niarchos February – Salini Impregilo meets the strategic Cultural Center in Athens suppliers in the first Procurement Convention June – Opening of the new Panama Canal March – Line 3 of the Riyadh Metro celebrated 15 million work hours without accidents June – The Copenhagen Central Station worksite celebrates 365 days without accidents at work Third Quarter Fourth Quarter July The Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center November – Salini Impregilo in the Top 10 of of Athens wins the 2016 Global Best Project the 2016 Web ranking (6th place) Award from ENR November – Salini Impregilo awarded at the 2016 September – Salini Impregilo celebrates 110 years CDP Climate Leadership Awards, entering the “A List” of history with an event about infrastructure and with the exhibition “Beyond Delivering the November – The Beyond exhibition to mark 110 Future for the Past 110 Years” years of Salini Impregilo closes with 22,000 visitors, an industry record September – Lake Mead (USA) wins the “Tunneling Achievement Award of the Year” December – The Gibe III hydropower project is inaugurated in Ethiopia September – Salini Impregilo confirms its place as worldwide leader in the water sector in December – Salini Impregilo is mentioned among the ENR ranking the best practices for labour rights in Qatar 14 1. The Salini Impregilo Group Sustainability as a strategic tool for business 1.2 The environmental, social and economic challenges that the world faces require that all players involved The Sustainability – governments, supranational bodies, companies, consumers and civil society rethink their decisionmaking, production, and consumption models. Recently-launched important international Strategy initiatives, such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, move in this direction. Infrastructure contributes significantly to these challenges, as it represents the backbone supporting the economic and social activities of every community, and is an essential prerequisite for growth. Infrastructure projects are indispensable for local development, as they improve access to basic services, education and employment opportunities, reducing poverty and strengthening human capital and the quality Vision of life for communities. They also have a huge impact on achieving the goals We firmly believe that large infrastructure projects of the fight against climate change, as they are associated contribute to the creation of with more than 60% of global emissions of greenhouse a better world for current and gases10. For this reason, the creation of resilient and future generations, promoting climate-smart infrastructure is crucial to ensuring that balance between humans and their environment. the world adapts to the unfolding challenges brought about by climate change and other environmental impacts, protecting the most vulnerable communities and ensuring long-term sustainable growth. For over 110 years Salini Impregilo has been developing and creating infrastructures that improve the potential of territories and the lives of their inhabitants. Today Salini Impregilo has a strategy aimed at further strengthening its position in the global market for realizing infrastructure projects, from the energy sector to transport, which are expected to account for at least 60% of global resources allocated to infrastructure over the next 15 years11. The diagram below summarizes the drivers of infrastructure investments promoted and realized by our clients in various markets according to the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate12. 10 Source: The Sustainable Infrastructure Imperative, New Climate Economy – The Global Commission on the Economy and Climate, 2016 11 Source: Is it time for an infrastructure push? The macroeconomic effects of public investment, World Economic Outlook – International Monetary Fund, 2014 12 Source: The Sustainable Infrastructure Imperative, New Climate Economy – The Global Commission on the Economy and Climate, 2016 15 Sustainability Report 2016 Type of economy Drivers of the demand for infrastructure Global −− Rapid economic growth in emerging and developing countries −− Public policies focused on achieving the goals set by the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and by the United Nations SDGs, requiring investments in new infrastructure projects and the modernization of existing ones Developing economies −− The need to expand the population’s access to basic services: water, energy, (low-income) mobility, housing, health −− Improving the adaptation and resilience to climate change and other socioenvironmental stresses −− Improving local connectivity through physical and virtual infrastructure Emerging economies −− Urban population growing rapidly (middle-income) −− Expanding middle class with rising incomes −− The need to ensure access to basic services for the new urban population / middle class −− The further need to bridge the infrastructure deficit in urban areas and improve regional connectivity, with a focus on resilient and low-carbon infrastructures Advanced economies −− The need to renovate or replace infrastructure that is obsolete and no longer meeting the needs of the population −− Redesigning urban development models, correcting the distortions of the past that have led to congested cities, mainly due to private vehicles with their high resource consumption and high pollution 16 1. The Salini Impregilo Group The Sustainability Model Over the years, Salini Impregilo has developed and refined a business model capable of combining the creation of economic value for its shareholders, investors and clients with the generation of value, while limiting the adverse social and environmental impact of our activities. This Shared Value creation model represents the combination of business growth strategy and sustainability policies adopted by the Group, since it generates: −− Economic Value, through the implementation of infrastructure projects that meet the expectations of our clients and ensure a return for our shareholders and investors; −− Social and Environmental Value, contributing to the sustainable development of the areas where we work, by developing quality infrastructure that meets growing global challenges, mitigating the social and environmental impacts during construction phases. The adoption of this Sustainability Model enables the Group to pursue its business goals while meeting the main needs of the countries where it operates. It helps bridge infrastructure gaps with innovative projects and solutions, and supports clients in achieving the Sustainable Development Goals launched by the United Nations. Identifying legitimate stakeholders AS K D VALUE APPROA S EC ARE C SH projects that c H ture CH rea S u c ES te str sh fra lue in Bul va din ed g ar ECONOMIC SOCIAL & Monitoring results VALUE ENVIRONMENTAL VALUE and setting for Clients and Investors for People and the Planet Defining key improving targets priorities areas ADDRESSING Countries’ Sustainable Infrastructure Develpmoent needs goals O N PL D A Implementive effective management system 17 Sustainability Report 2016 Priority areas Based on the corporate strategy and stakeholders’ inputs, Salini Impregilo defines and periodically updates the priority areas on which to focus its Sustainability activities. Through this process, known as the materiality analysis13, 11 priority areas have been identified, represented in the following matrix: Materiality Matrix 2016 High Environmental Health protection and Safety Human rights Importance to our Stakeholders Integrity Community support Open dialogue Job creation Talent attraction and development Supply chain Innovation and client satisfaction Local economies support Low High Importance to Salini Impregilo The following sections describe the policies, management methods, and the performance of each priority area. The 11 areas are grouped into four sections, each corresponding to a corporate value: Solidity, Excellence, Respect and Transparency. For the identified priority areas, the Group commits to define clear goals and to report their degree of achievement. The following are the results achieved in 2016 on the goals stated in the previous Sustainability Report, and the new goals for the future. 13 For more information, see the Annex. 18 1. The Salini Impregilo Group 19 Sustainability Report 2016 STATED GOALS RESULTS ACHIEVED FUTURE GOALS FOR 2016 IN 201614 Health and Safety −− Launch of a structured −− A structured leadership −− Continue the implementation leadership plan for health plan for health and safety of the leadership plan on health and safety aimed at was launched in two pilot and safety designed to create improving injury rates by worksites15 safety leaders, strengthening the at least 3% in 2016 −− The injury rate (IR) improved internal culture with the aim of by 13% compared to 2015 encouraging proactive behaviour − − Investment in and improve injury rates by a occupational health and further 3% in 2017 safety increased by 10% −− Launch a structured plan −− The number of training hours of internal and external for employees in health and communication to strengthen safety increased by 16% the strategic positioning of Salini Impregilo on health and safety issues Attracting talent and staff development −− Continue to invest in −− More than 1 million hours of −− Continue to invest in training training to ensure the training provided to the staff to ensure the professional professional development −− The first edition of the 1st development of our employees, of our employees and 2nd level Master’s in by increasingly leveraging internal −− Launch the first edition “International Construction expertise and know-how and the of the 1st and 2nd level Management” was launched most innovative methodologies Master’s in “International and is in progress. Enrolment −− Promote the ongoing scouting Construction is open for the second edition and attraction of talent profiles, Management”, in −− The Salini Impregilo including through integrated collaboration with the E-Learning Academy communication plans Politecnico for employees has been −− Continue to invest in external di Milano launched communication to attract talent −− Launch the new e-learning platform for the Group’s employees Support to local economies and supply chain −− Support our local value −− The share of procurement −− Continue to support our local chain, strengthening from local suppliers increased value chain, strengthening support and training by 10% compared to 2015 support, communication, training activities −− Indirect jobs (subcontractors and transparency activities etc.) at the Group’s projects increased by more than 14,500 units compared to 2015 −− Over 89,000 hours of training provided to the staff of our subcontractors 14 For more information about the scope of the data, see the Methodology Note. 15 For more information, please refer to the focus shown in section 4.2 20 1. The Salini Impregilo Group STATED GOALS RESULTS ACHIEVED FUTURE GOALS FOR 2016 IN 201614 Environmental protection and circular economy −− Continue to improve −− The greenhouse gas emission −− Optimize energy consumption and environmental rate was reduced16 by 18% waste management, developing performance, and compared to 201517 a plan to improve environmental develop a plan to −− The rate of water intensity was performance aimed at continuing improve efficiency in reduced by 17% compared to the reduction of waste by 5% in the use of resources 2015 three years aimed at reducing −− The rate of waste intensity was −− Launch a plan of internal education waste by 5% in three reduced by 19% compared to and raising awareness of years, optimizing 201518 environmental issues energy consumption −− The reuse and recycling of −− Develop an external communication and waste recycling waste was increased by 10% plan regarding environmental issues compared to 2015 −− The Group gained inclusion in the Climate “A List” list of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Open dialogue and support to communities −− Continue activities −− The main indicators of −− Continue activities to involve to involve local stakeholder involvement local stakeholders stakeholders were improved, doubling the −− Continue to increase the dialogue −− Increase the dialogue number of meetings with local with our global stakeholders with our global communities, quadrupling the −− Continue to support our stakeholders people involved in information communities through direct −− Support our campaigns carried out by the interventions and social communities through projects, +42% of people who programmes direct interventions and visited the projects or other social programmes events organized by the Group −− More than 13,000 free health interventions were provided by our worksite clinics to assist local communities in remote and rural areas −− The reconstruction of a school was funded in the areas affected by the earthquake in Central Italy 16 The intensity index is calculated without taking into account all of the Scope 3 emissions, but rather only those generated from the Group’s projects (i.e. arising from the activities of subcontractors), thus excluding those resulting from freight forwarding and staff travel. 17 The normalization factor used for the intensity rates is represented by the revenues of the year. 18 The calculation of the waste intensity rate does not include excavation waste, since it is closely related to the design choices defined by the clients, and there is little scope for influencing it during construction. 21 Sustainability Report 2016 1.3 Salini Impregilo is regularly evaluated by several independent organizations for its programmes, practices and results. These are some of the awards and accolades received. Awards and recognition Salini Impregilo has been included in the Climate “A List” of the CDP, the international non-profit organization that manages the global platform for measuring the environmental performance of approximately 5,000 companies around the world, used by more than 800 investors representing more than a third of the capital invested in the world. The inclusion on the list of the most responsible companies in the world was recognized by the CDP and Borsa Italiana (Italian Stock Exchange) in the 2016 CDP Climate Leadership Awards. Salini Impregilo is among the best Italian companies for online communication. The website reaches 6th place in the 2016 Webranking, a 6 point jump from 12th place, which it reached in 2015, bringing the Group website directly into the top 10. The TBM (Tunnel Business Magazine) awarded S.A. Healy of the Salini Impregilo Group the “Tunneling Achievement Award of the Year” for the Lake Mead Intake No.3 project, already winner of the NCE Tunneling & Underground Space Award as Global Tunneling Project of the Year, and named one of the six best projects in the world at the Asce Awards 2016 for the Outstanding Civil Engineering Achievement Award from the American Society of Civil Engineering. Salini Impregilo entered the “Top 20” of the “Best Employer of Choice” ranking, with “Best New Entry 2016” among the most desirable companies to work for in Italy, according to the results of a survey conducted on a sample of 2,500 graduates. Salini Impregilo entered the Top 10 of the Open Corporation ranking, the project promoted by Filcams-Cgil and co-funded by the European Commission, reaching third place in the Social Reporting Transparency Index, which recognizes companies with the best sustainability reports, and eighth place in the Total Transparency Index, which evaluates the overall transparency of companies. The Group also achieved the best placement among construction companies. Salini Impregilo enters the ranking of the Swedish research firm Potential Park, joining the best Italian companies in the categories “Social Media” and “Mobile Interaction”, reaching respectively the 20th and 25th place. 22 2. We build Solidity 2. We build Solidity We build infrastructure that lasts in time and promotes sustainable development for current and future generations By adopting the United Nation’s Agenda 2030 2.1 on the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, three ambitious goals were defined globally: Salini Impregilo’s restarting economic growth, providing inclusive development, and fighting climate change. contribution to Infrastructure projects built in accordance with sustainability criteria play a crucial role in achieving these goals and Salini Impregilo is a global challenges key partner in the global infrastructure market for public and private clients involved in realizing their own objectives and in the development of localities and their associated economies. The direct relationship between infrastructure 2.2 investment and domestic demand activation (consumption) as a lever for economic growth is The contribution widely known. The availability of infrastructure (energy, transport, telecommunications, etc.) contributes significantly to the reduction of to economic production costs and higher productivity of the economy. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimated that in advanced economies, an additional growth investment in infrastructure equal to 1% of GDP on average produces a 1.5% increase of GDP over four years19. In emerging and developing economies, where infrastructure is often inadequate, the benefit for productivity and growth is even greater. Construction companies engaged in building infrastructure can further affect this dynamic with their 19 Source: Is it time for an infrastructure push? The macroeconomic effects of public investment, World Economic Outlook – International Monetary Fund, 2014 25 Sustainability Report 2016 corporate policies. Salini Impregilo is oriented towards maximizing the multiplier effect of infrastructure investments in the areas where it operates, through the use of local suppliers and labour, vocational training, capacity building, and the development of initiatives benefiting local communities. Employment created by the Group’s projects The Group adopts a strategy focused on using labour from areas where the projects are located, whenever available in the quantities and with the skills required for implementing them. In 2016, Salini Impregilo employed in its projects a total workforce of about 59,600 units, taking into account both direct and indirect staff20, a 44% increase compared to 2015. During 2016, 75% of our 34,440 direct employees (+13% compared to 2015) was made up of local staff, mainly deployed in our projects in Africa, followed by Asia, the Middle East, Oceania and North America. The creation of job opportunities by Salini Impregilo in the countries where it operates plays a crucial role, since it improves the skills and expertise of local staff, especially in developing and emerging countries, as well as creating wealth in terms of wages paid, activating the local economy and increasing tax revenues. In particular, wages and benefits paid in 2016 amounted to €886 million (+64% compared to 2015 21). The development of local staff is a priority for the Group, so that it may benefit from a skilled workforce for current and future projects22. In addition to direct labour, using sub-contractors and other indirect employees (including technicians, consultants, temporary agency staff, etc.) contributes significantly to the employment created locally. In 2016, around 25,200 indirect workers were employed in our projects (more than double compared to 2015), 70% of whom were hired locally. 75% Direct staff employed locally 63% Managers hired locally 20 Indirect employees include subcontractors’ and temp agencies’ personnel, and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites. 21 The income statement for 2015 was restated to comply with IFRS 5. These figures do not include Lane Industries, acquired on 4 January 2016. 22 For more information, please refer to section 3.2. 26 2. We build Solidity Local investments The Group’s procurement strategy aims to meet needs at the local level as much as possible, based on the availability of required goods and services. This policy stems from the awareness that the “local purchases” factor is the main element for developing the local economy and to increase GDP, government revenues and disposable income. In 2016, our connection with the local supply chain remained solid, with an average of 85% of purchases made from local suppliers. At the same time, our projects generated contracts with more than 4,500 new suppliers, of which 94% were local. In monetary terms, the total economic value distributed to the supply chain amounted to €4.4 billion, consisting mainly of services (36% of the total), subcontracts (34%), and raw materials and goods (27%). 85% Spending with local suppliers The Group’s global contribution to the development of local economies The above statements only describe the direct and immediate contributions deriving from Salini Impregilo projects to local economies, but do not include all the additional indirect and related contributions that Salini Impregilo’s activities trigger in the countries where the Group operates. The income provided to local households generates EMPLOYMENT The purchases Induced Contribution from local Contribution suppliers generate GDP The operational activities carried Indirect out at Country Contribution level generate CONTRIBUTION TO P.A. Direct Contribution LABOR INCOME Contribution due to Contribution due to Contribution due business operation the activation of the to local household supply expenditures 27 Sustainability Report 2016 In order to properly identify and quantify these contributions during 2016, the Group developed a special proprietary calculation model, called the SEED (SocioEconomic Effects Determination) Model, which calculates the total contribution (direct, indirect, and induced) of Salini Impregilo to the economic growth and social development of specific countries in terms of employment, GDP, revenue for the public administrations, and labor income distributed to households23. In 2016, the model was tested in three pilot countries: Italy, Ethiopia and Panama24. The findings, summarised below, confirm that Salini Impregilo’s local investment policies produce significant effects on the economies of the countries where the Group operates. SEED Model Total contribution LABOR INCOME generated by Salini EMPLOYMENT GDP CONTRIBUTION TO P.A Wages and salaries, Impregilo’s activities People involved throughout Difference between Income taxes, Duty fees, Social Provision for termination indemnities, Leaving the value chain production value and security charges, and intermediate costs Other taxes Indemnity, and Other costs Total contribution 15,116 867 220 433 Mil € of contribution Jobs Mil € of GDP Mil € of labor income Italy to P.A. 8 29 10 3 Multiplier Jobs for every € of GDP for every € of contribution to € of income for every € employee of Salini € created by Salini P.A. for every € paid of labor income paid by Impregilo Impregilo by Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo 167,737 712 76 195 Ethiopia Total contribution Mil € of Jobs Mil € of GDP Mil € of labor income contribution to P.A. 21 2 2 6 Multiplier Jobs for every € of GDP for every € of contribution to € of income for every € employee of Salini € created by Salini P.A. for every € paid by of labor income paid by Impregilo Impregilo Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo 72 Panama Total contribution 18,438 472 Mil € of contribution 309 Jobs Mil € of GDP Mil € of labor income to P.A. 20 5 2 3 Multiplier Jobs for every € of GDP for every € of contribution to € of income for every € employee of Salini € created by Salini P.A. for every € paid by of labor income paid by Impregilo Impregilo Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo 23 The SEED Model is based on the analysis of investments made locally by the Group and on the application to them of specific multipliers derived from the Social Accounting Matrices, published by internationally renowned research institutions. 24 Taking into consideration 2015 data. 28 2. We build Solidity The high multiplier of the GDP and the public administration revenues generated in Italy is mainly due to the significant use of Italian suppliers at the Group’s overseas projects, and demonstrates quantitatively how the activities of the Group contribute to “exporting” national excellence and the “Made in Italy” brand. The high employment multipliers recorded in Ethiopia and Panama are due to the large number of direct staff employed by the Group in these countries and the structure of the local economies, characterized by high labour intensity. In these countries, the overall contribution that the Group’s projects bring to macroeconomic indicators (employment, GDP, revenue, wages25) appears significant. The annex shows the complete data for the three analysed countries. Support for communities In addition to the contribution it makes to local growth Salini Impregilo supports the communities where it operates through the promotion of a wide range of programmes and activities that benefit the local population and the environment, such as: −− Direct actions on the design and construction of infrastructures benefiting local communities (schools, medical facilities, government offices, aqueducts, roads and bridges); Scope Initiative Country Australia, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Social 146 Italy,Malaysia, Nigeria, Qatar, Ukraine, USA Australia, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, Education 87 Italy,Malaysia, Qatar, Saudi and Culture Arabia, USA Sport and Italy, Saudi Arabia, 39 Environment Ukraine, USA 25 Data showed refer to the total contribution of the projects in progress in the three pilot countries in 2015, regardless of Salini Impregilo’s percentage. Italy includes the contribution generated by the corporate activities. 29 Sustainability Report 2016 Following the earthquake that hit over 500 m2 and can accommodate Focus: Practical help to central Italy on 24 August 2016, the about 100 children and teenagers, Salini Impregilo Group decided to with ten classrooms for the nursery, express in a practical way its solidarity primary and secondary schools. with the population, donating a school people affected by the in the earthquake zone, in Valfornace, The Group also actively supported its Marche region. staff by participating in an initiative by Confindustria and the national trade During 2016, Salini Impregilo worked unions that launched an “Intervention earthquake of August 24 in together with the Italian association Fund for the people of Central Italy”. responsible for Civil Defence and the This initiative gathered voluntary representatives of local authorities contributions from workers equal to carry out the feasibility study of a to an hour’s work, with a matching central Italy school building for the children living contribution from their employers. in an area of the Marche region that In this way employees were able no longer had a school. The building, to demonstrate their support for whose cost was borne entirely by the earthquake victims at a very Salini Impregilo, covers a total area of challenging time. −− Social initiatives and programmes, managed directly and in co-operation with other organisations, for social, cultural, sports, artistic, educational, and humanitarian purposes; −− Free access to some of our sites’ structures (e.g. clinics, training rooms, wells and roads) for the local communities living in rural areas not covered by basic services. In 2014-2016, more than 270 initiatives were developed in favour of local communities, as shown in the diagram below, with a total investment of €4.6 million (about €1.6 million in 201626). During our most significant initiatives in 2016, it should be noted that we provided more than 13,200 free healthcare interventions to local communities in rural and remote areas, directly provided by our worksite clinics. 26 This amount comprises direct costs only, and not the value created for local communities, nor the costs sustained for infrastructure developed by the Group for project-related needs (e.g. roads, bridges, water wells and basins) which remain available to communities after the project has been completed. 30 2. We build Solidity The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 2.3 (SDGs) give an important role to infrastructure in the 2030 Agenda, recognizing the added value generated The contribution by the sector in terms of widening access to basic services, protection from extreme weather events, to inclusive and and stimulating economic growth and innovation. The figure27 shows in what way infrastructures sustainable support the achievement of the SDGs. development one Stimu t every inclus lating dura ng tha ive ble Ensuri access to econo and sustain , s h a liable, mic g rowth able e ble, re Bu r yon afforda able and emplo and p rod , full inf ildin ev e an d sustain energy ymen uctive ras g t, and ng s to r modern ms de p r tru res v idi ces ble ate work for all cent su res omo ctu ilien o c Pr th a tain of a w syste s p tin re t wi sus ent ation an taina onsi g fa and m t e 8. Dec di b ble ir, ge sani ctur and ent W nd le i a na u rdable Econo ork an us nn nd ma and rastr 7. Affo Energy mic G d tri ov ali ati f a n rowth za in r C le 9 Inn . Ind tio on ate n n Ending hunger, o u n W io inf vat str er l ea nitat ras ion y, end C 6. d Sa tru an ng g d the ievi achieving food security, ctu d n ll an re Ach ality a nt of a Ens equ erme ow men improving nutrition and urin y emp w o lit all a gt ua en d to the promoting sustainable ev nd we he he eq e er in etw end n Su e ng b 5. G ality n ery lf al ss s p ci nd ns in ne are for th a Equ y agriculture o du a tio g rt e de in n e Re hi na t t v ic Impr ed an t Pu of po i e lusiv w uc es age d for o ed liti to bas ve ac s ld r ll e equ Pro inc . R ua r m o s a w 10 eq fo rt ment In du ita vid ic s c po lop 3 . Go op cat ble ing er e The role of ve 16. Peace, Justice Promoting peaceful 2. Zero Hunger od po ion an qu v infrastructures in and inclusive y a n t dW H and strong ver rtu , a d i ali e societies, with ellalth support of the o Po ni nd ncl ty, access to justice and Bei institutions 1. N ng tie le us SDGs strong institutions s f ar ive 4. or nin 17. P Ed Qu a for rtnersh Stre al g the imp ngthen uc al l goa ip lem ing en ati the i t ls th at y t par e glob on of io en y tne sus rship al v ir ilit dev tainab for n P ro m o t e elop le on b in a 11 me nt m ent . al s u s t a nd an Sus La d ta C in on d an le M a om ab ife g se king m le .L in ab ttl c un Ci 15 or in e sa m itie iti tie st ta 's es s re us rth fe en s , d t an g, a s Ea 14. ble su u s d tin g he em Life b nsi d st ra nc hi ec tin f t st elo spo ion an ai bl lu um na e ot o o sy wW R e t s bl an ive an Pr rom se eco u ate 12. ump tion e d , p r ns c Co 13. Climate Action Co Produ e oce nser abl a vin tain ion res ns, se g an g sus oduct our d n a ces s and using uri f pr tion sus m Ens rns o sump tain arine Taking urgent action to t t e n abl pa nd co y combat climate change a and its impacts 27 Source: Delivering on Sustainable Infrastructure for better development and better climate, The New Climate Economy Bhattacharya et al., 2016 (readjustment) 31 Sustainability Report 2016 The following figure shows the correlation between the projects undertaken by Salini Impregilo and achieving the SDGs. With its projects, the Group creates basic infrastructure that directly contributes to the achievement of SDGs 6 (water management), 7 (sustainable energy for all), 9 (resilient infrastructure), 11 (sustainable cities), and 13 (fighting climate change). Our projects are mainly aimed at developing local potential, fostering access to renewable natural resources such as water and hydroelectric power, people and vehicles travelling long distances, with road and rail projects, and within large urban centres, through sustainable mass transit systems (metro systems). Furthermore, Salini Impregilo implements projects aimed at improving public services, by developing hydraulic engineering infrastructure and civil and industrial construction. In addition to the direct benefits on the SDGs, the Group’s projects contribute indirectly to achieving further SDGs, such as goals 3 and 4 (respectively access to health and education), 8 (inclusive and sustainable economic growth), which in turn contribute to goals 1 (poverty), 2 (hunger and food safety), 5 and 10 (equality), 12 (sustainable production and consumption), 14 and 15 (protection of Salini Impregilo Projects Direct Contribution to Indirect Contribution to the SDGs Achievement the SDGs Achievement 1. No Poverty 2. Zero Hunger 6. Clean Water 3. Good Health and Sanitation and Well-Being Dams, hydroelectric plants 4. Quality Education 7. Affordable and Clean Energy 5. Gender Equality Motorways, roads and bridges 8. Decent Work and 9. Industry, Economic Growth Innovation and infrastructure 10. Reduced Railways and Inequalities metros 12. Responsible Consumption and Production 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities 16. Peace, Justice and Civil and industrial Strong Institutions buildings, airports 17. Partnership 13. Climate for the goals Action 14. Life below Water 15. Life on Land 32 2. We build Solidity marine and terrestrial ecosystems), as well as goals 16 and 17 (strengthening of institutions and cooperation). On the issue of climate change (SDG 13), infrastructure not only determines the emission levels of companies28 (renewable vs. fossil energy, public vs. private transport systems, efficiency vs. waste of resources), but is also critical inensuring resilience and adaptation to increasingly frequent extreme natural events. For this reason, both emerging and advanced countries need to act quickly to strengthen existing infrastructure and adopt planning tools to help account for the effects of climate change in the development of new infrastructure projects. Salini Impregilo supports numerous clients in the development of infrastructure projects that are in line with the targets set by the SDGs and that can withstand increasingly frequent extreme weather events, and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. Some of the focus points highlighted in this report describe in detail the benefits derived from the projects both completed and under completion in 2016. As part of the 2016 CDP Climate greenhouse gas emissions, with Focus: Salini Impregilo among Leadership Awards, Salini Impregilo was hydroelectric plants that produce recognized among the most responsible renewable energy, metro lines that companies in the world in terms of reduce the use of private vehicles in sustainability. It was recognized by CDP favour of more sustainable mobility, and Borsa Italiana for its strategy and and the many green building projects actions taken to reduce greenhouse built by the Group that have received the global leaders in the fight gas emissions and fighting climate international recognition. One of the change. This prestigious award includes latest is the Stavros Niarchos Cultural the Group’s inclusion in the Climate Center in Athens, designed by Renzo “A List” of the CDP, the international Piano, which obtained the LEED non-profit organization that manages Platinum certification and has recently the global platform for measuring the been awarded the prestigious 2016 Global Best Project Award from ENR against climate change environmental performance of over 5,000 companies around the world (Engineering News-Record), as well as and is used by over 800 investors the Sidney Northwest Metro project, representing $100 thousand billion which was recognised as “Leading” in assets. Infrastructure Sustainability Design by the ISCA (Infrastructure Sustainability Salini Impregilo supports its clients Council of Australia) for its innovative in the realization of projects that design solutions developed to address contribute to reducing global climate change. 28 As already mentioned in section 1.2, infrastructure projects are associated with more than 60% of global emissions of greenhouse gases 33 Sustainability Report 2016 34 2. We build Solidity Related SDGs Renewable energy for development Salini Impregilo is a world leader in the construction of infrastructure projects in the water sector, with over 257 dams and hydroelectric plants built and a corresponding installed power of 37,500 MW. The International Energy Agency (IEA) forecasts that the installed hydroelectric capacity will continue to grow, reaching 2,000 GW by 2050, preventing the emission of 3 billion tonnes of CO2 a year from the use of fossil sources29. The hydropower sector can generate reliable power at a lower cost than other sources, thereby contributing to the economic development of recipient countries with consequent benefits in terms of business opportunities, job creation, and social welfare. In 2016, the Group was engaged in the construction of 11 hydropower projects located in 9 countries on 4 continents. In addition to the Gibe III project (Ethiopia), completed in late 2016, the other projects being implemented will, once completed, represent a total installed capacity of about 18,000 MW and an electrical output of 55,000 GWh per year, i.e. the amount of energy needed to meet the energy needs of 68 million people30. CLUSIV Main Group hydropower projects under construction in 2016 EX OVER ON SC E C TE Nenskra, Georgia GERD, Ethiopia DI NT Installed capacity: Objective: providing energy in Installed capacity: Objective: tripling the energy 280 MW winter and maximising exports 6,000 MW availability in the country and Annual production: in the summer months Annual production: contributing to exports 1,219 GWh 15,692 GWh 29 Source: Technology roadmap: hydropower – International Energy Agency, 2012 30 Data represents an estimation based on project’s documentation. 35 Sustainability Report 2016 CLUSIV EX OVER ON SC E C TE Gibe III, Ethiopia31 Koysha, Ethiopia DI NT Installed capacity: Objective: increasing Installed capacity: Objective: expanding access 1,870 MW domestic production by 85% 2,160 MW to energy in the country and Annual production: and intensifying exports to Annual production: transforming Ethiopia into 6,500 GWh neighbouring countries 6,460 GWh Africa’s energy hub Ulu Jelai, Malaysia Rogun, Tajikistan Installed capacity: Annual emissions avoided: Installed capacity: Objective: doubling the 382 MW 250,000 tonnes of CO2 3.600 MW country’s electricity production Annual production: Objective: coping with peaks Annual production: and reducing the energy deficit 373 GWh in demand by reducing the 13,100 GWh in the winter months use of fossil fuels for electricity production 31 Project completed in 2016 36 2. We build Solidity With the doubling of the population Ethiopian nationals, along with Focus: Gibe III, expected by 2050 and about 620 professionals from 32 other countries million people who currently live worldwide. without a reliable source of electricity, Gibe III has been designed and built energy for Africa has huge energy needs. To face with great care in terms of the effects this challenge, many African countries on local communities, in order to are developing large investment plans, mitigate its impacts and enhance its development aimed at using the available renewable benefits. The creation of the reservoir resources efficiently, avoiding what will develop fishing, diversifying has already been experienced by not only the local economy but Western countries in recent decades as also the inhabitants’ nutrition, with they fuelled their growth through the positive effects on their health. In CLUSIV EX exploitation of fossil energy, causing addition, the system regulates water OVER ON E C TE significant environmental problems. flows, providing the downstream SC DI NT The energy produced from communities with much more water hydroelectric sources is amongst the than they used to obtain during the dry most reliable technologies of this season, and avoiding the flooding that kind, as it ensures energy security habitually affected the valley during that is not dependent on intermittent the rainy season. renewable sources (solar, wind), without The project has been criticized by taking water resources away from the some NGOs that feared Gibe III could environment and without emitting have an impact on the traditional pollutants and/or climate-altering agriculture practised by some of the substances into the atmosphere. lower Omo valley communities and The Ethiopian Gibe III stands out among reduce the levels of Lake Turkana. In the hydroelectric plants recently this regard, it should be noted that commissioned in Africa. Opened in late these risks were properly identified by 2016, it is the most important plant in the client during the project’s Social the country, with an installed capacity and Environmental Impact Evaluation, of 1,870 MW and an annual production and Salini Impregilo provided its of 6,500 GWh of electricity. The plant technical support to develop special will increase the domestic production exhaust valves inside the dam, properly of electricity by over 85%. sized to recreate in a controlled and non-destructive manner the river’s The dam, standing at a height of periodic flooding, which allow the 250 metres, is currently the tallest communities to continue practising RCC (Rolled Compacted Concrete) their traditional agriculture methods. structure in the world, all the more The client, responsible for managing remarkable since it was built in a the plant, put these valves into remote area with unique logistical and operation during 2016, after an technical challenges. Gibe III, along extensive consultation process with with the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance local communities. With regard to the Dam (GERD) project also under levels of Lake Turkana, the publicly construction by Salini Impregilo, it available satellite data32demonstrates reflects the country’s ambitious goal to that even while filling the reservoir, the reach an installed capacity of 40,000 lake always remained above the longMW by 2035. term average level (related to the last In the various stages of construction, 25 years). For more information, please the project employed about 20,000 see the section 5.3 “The dialogue with people, the vast majority of them local communities.” 32 The data on the lake’s level is published and updated in near real-time by the website of the United States Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural Service. 37 Sustainability Report 2016 38 2. We build Solidity In addition, these projects will help prevent greenhouse gas emissions of over 16 million tonnes per year, equivalent to the amount of emissions from 3.5 million cars. Hydraulic engineering for the environment In addition to hydroelectric uses, which do not take Related SDGs away water or alter the quality of water bodies, rivers, canals, lakes and seas, have always been used as sources of livelihood, transport routes and the final collectors of human activities. In particular, the massive discharge of urban and industrial waste into water bodies is often a cause of pollution and health risks for all living beings. UN Water estimates that 80% of the world’s water effluent is not appropriately treated before being re-released into the environment, and urban centres are the major source of water pollution, followed by industrial plants and chemicals used in agriculture33. Both developing and advanced countries are increasingly focusing on this issue, since it is estimated that water pollution will represent a major cause of water scarcity in the near future, along with climate change. Salini Impregilo is also active in this field, creating infrastructure projects that allow the collection, conveying and treatment of wastewater from large urban centres, improving the quality of the water of the receiving water bodies (usually rivers or seas), reducing pollution and providing water resources for new uses, such as irrigation. In recent years, the Group has been involved in several projects of this type, from the US to Latin America and the Middle East. Hydraulic engineering projects also include port infrastructure and waterways, where Salini Impregilo has recently been involved with the project to expand the Panama Canal, regarded as one of the most ambitious project of the century. 33 Source: www.unwater.org “Thematic Factsheets” section 39 Sustainability Report 2016 Main hydraulic engineering projects of the Group EX CLUSIV OVER ON SC E C TE Riachuelo, Argentina Abu Hamour, Qatar DI NT Objective: rehabilitation of the Riachuelo river basin Objective: reducing the amount of surface rainwater affected by industrial activities (paper mills and and related soil subsidence problems and pumping tanneries) and civil effluents, through a system for the costs, by means of a water collection and underground collection and treatment of wastewater conveyor system Dugway Storage, USA Anacostia Tunnel, USA Objective: reducing the level of environmental pollution Objective: preventing pollution of the Anacostia of Lake Erie by an underground system for collecting, River that occurs during periods of intense rainfall, conveying and treating wastewater and stormwater using a separate conveyor system for wastewater and stormwater 40 2. We build Solidity CLUSIV EX OVER ON SC E C TE Lake Mead, USA Expansion of the Panama Canal DI NT Objective: increasing the water supply for drinking Objective: increasing global maritime commercial and domestic use to the city of Las Vegas, through traffic through the development of a canal that a complex underground system of collection and allows the passage of larger tonnage vessels transport of water from Lake Mead (known as Post Panamax) 41 Sustainability Report 2016 Many major Western cities, which have modernization of three treatment Focus: The protection of developed over the past centuries, are plants. The Dugway Storage Tunnel now home to a growing population, is part of the project and involves putting a strain on infrastructure and the construction of a tunnel that will basic services. allow the catchment and storage of 214 million gallons of stormwater and The city of Cleveland, in the United its subsequent transfer to the Easterly States, for example, dumps about 16.6 Sewage Treatment Plant. water in major US cities billion litres of wastewater into Lake Erie each year, also without raining The construction, which will be events an amount greater than that completed in 2020, is entrusted to permitted by the Clean Water Act. In a joint venture that includes Salini addition, during the summer rains, Impregilo and S.A. Healy, a subsidiary the rainwater tends to clog the sewer of Lane Construction, a company that system, forcing the city to divert it is also part of the Salini Impregilo together with the wastewater into Lake Group. Erie, in order to prevent flooding of roads and damage to treatment plants. This is the latest in a series of projects implemented by the Group and However, this practice results in the focused on environmental protection. contamination of the lake’s water, For example, the Anacostia River with problems for aquatic wildlife and Tunnel is under construction in public health, so much so that the Washington DC, to allow the Capital city’s beaches are usually closed for of the United States to reduce the several days. wastewater that flows into its rivers. The project, part of the ambitious For this reason, the Clean Lake “Clean Rivers Project” launched by the Project was launched in 2011, as part Water and Sewer Authority (DC Water) of a broader effort to store, manage of the District of Columbia, involves and treat wastewater and reduce the construction of a hydraulic tunnel the pollution levels in the lake. The running mostly under the Anacostia, investment, which will be amortised a tributary of the Potomac river in over the next 25 years, plans to Washington. The tunnel will channel reduce the annual volume of sewage wastewater and stormwater separately, poured into the lake by 1.8 billion to avoid polluting the rivers during the litres. According to the Northeast Ohio floods (Combined Sewer Overflows or Regional Sewer District, the local water “CSO”) that occur during periods of authority, this means that over 98% heavy rainfall. of rainwater and wastewater that now ends up in the combined sewer system Once the project is completed in 2025, will be treated and made safe. at an estimated cost of $2.7 billion, DC Water estimates that the volume The project, one of the city’s largest of wastewater in the rivers will be infrastructure projects, includes the reduced by 96%, from 4.8 billion litres construction of eight tunnels and the in 2008 to 185 million litres. 42 2. We build Solidity CLUSIV EX OVER ON SC E C TE 43 DI NT Sustainability Report 2016 Inaugurated on 26 June 2016, the the canal, increasing from 5,000 to Focus: The New Panama Canal, New Panama Canal, one of the most 12,600 TEUs (6-metre equivalent unit complex and ambitious engineering containers). projects in the world, completed The new Panama Canal has a system by Grupo Unidos por el Canal, an of 16 gates designed ad hoc (eight international joint venture which saw on the Atlantic side and eight on the Salini Impregilo engaged as strategic Pacific), weighing between 2,500 partner. and 4,000 tonnes each and up to an example of technological and 33 metres tall. Opening and closing The new Canal allows the passage them, accompanied by filling and of Post-Panamax ships, sea giants emptying the special water reservoirs almost 366 metres long and almost created alongside the Canal, lifts the 49 metres wide with a draught of vessels up to the level of Lake Gatun about 15 metres, able to carry more and subsequently lowers them back environmental excellence than 12,000 containers, increasing to sea level. To enter Lake Gatun, commercial traffic in response to ships are lifted 27 metres, and the the developments and continued same process is repeated in reverse expansion of the sea shipping market. when they exit. The movements of the gates are an extraordinary example of The passage of larger ships aims to mechanics and technology, because attract the international trade routes, every manoeuvre that allows the raising the business turnover of the passage of ships must be performed canal from the current $2.5 billion to with pinpoint accuracy, and each lock $6 billion annually. only has five minutes to accomplish it. CLUSIV EX OVER ON In addition to being an example The studies conducted from the SC E C TE of technological excellence and a very beginning of the project design DI NT source of income for the country phase made it possible to develop and its inhabitants, this impressive the project’s sustainability strategy and complex facility also has a high in order to mitigate the impacts on environmental value. the territory, the environment, and the population. Particular attention While allowing Panama to maintain was given to the issue of reducing its role as major hub of world the consumption of water from Lake maritime trade, this project obviates Gatun, which occurs during the ships’ the need for Post-Panamax ships to transit stages. circumnavigate the South American continent, significantly reducing fuel A new system was developed for consumption and the associated this purpose, known as Water Saving greenhouse gas emissions. It has Basins, which allows the recovery and been estimated that opening the partial reuse of the water from Lake New Canal will result in a reduction of Gatun through the introduction of approximately 160 million tonnes of auxiliary basins. This has resulted in CO2 in the first 10 years of operation34. a water savings of 60%, and a transit which previously used around 500 The passage of Post-Panamax ships million litres of water now requires will triple the cargo in transit through around 200 million litres. 34 Source: Panama Canal Authority, website https://www.pancanal.com/eng/pr/press-releases/2016/10/26/pr611.html 44 2. We build Solidity 45 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainable mobility for cities Related SDGs Cities are facing major changes, with more and more people moving into urban areas, particularly in Africa and Asia. This rapid growth requires continuous investment in infrastructure, particularly for mobility, and in order to address the growing pollution that plagues urban centres. It is estimated that every year over one billion people are exposed to air pollution, with significant consequences for the health of urban populations. Over 90% of air pollution in cities around the world is due to emissions from vehicles, primarily due to the high number of older vehicles, coupled with poor maintenance, inadequate infrastructure, and poor fuel quality35. Mobility infrastructure not only facilitates the movement of people and goods, but also gives access to education, employment opportunities, and social services for the most vulnerable social groups of the urban population, who usually live in the suburbs. Salini Impregilo is active in this market, with eight metro systems under construction on four continents, which will provide sustainable mobility to more than 3 million people every day, thereby reducing the use of private vehicles and the associated emissions. In addition to metro systems, we are also creating urban road projects that contribute to the reduction of traffic in densely populated areas, thus improving environmental conditions. 70% Share of the construction backlog consisting of projects that contribute to climate change mitigation36 35 It is estimated that urban air pollution is linked to up to one million premature deaths and one million pre-natal deaths each year, while urban air pollution costs approximately 2% of the GDP in developed countries and 5% in developing countries. Source: United Nations Environment Programme 36 In terms of renewable energy (hydroelectric projects) and sustainable mobility (metro systems and railways). 46 2. We build Solidity Main metro projects of the Group EX CLUSIV OVER ON SC E C TE Riyadh Metro Line 3, Saudi Arabia Sydney Metro Northwest, Australia DI NT Length: 41 km Objective: creating the longest line Length: 4,3 km Objective: building the surface Stations: 22 of the new public transport system Stations: 2 portion of the greatest ongoing in Riyadh, with a capacity of 5,000 project in Sydney, which involves passengers/hour in each direction the construction of the longest cable-stayed bridge in Australia Cityringen Copenhagen, Denmark Milan Metro Line 4, Italy Length: 30 km Objective: creating the first Length: 15 km Objective: creating a new fast and Stations: 17 automated line in the country, Stations: 21 automated public link running East active 24 hours a day, which to Southwest, with a capacity of will give mobility to 130 million 24,000 passengers/hour in each passengers a year direction 47 Sustainability Report 2016 Lima Metro Lines 2 and 4, Peru Doha Metro Red Line North, Qatar Length: 35 km Objective: meeting the demands Length: 12 km Objective: creating a modern Stations: 35 of citizens for a greater enjoyment Stations: 7 metro system in line with the of the city, contributing to the country’s Vision 2030, with a reduction of air pollution levels capacity of 280,000 passengers per day by 2021 48 2. We build Solidity Through the creation of more than 400 is the energy and sustainability Focus: Metro Riyadh, leader in km of metro lines, Salini Impregilo has certification standard most widely contributed through the years to the used in the world, a system that development of urban mobility in many evaluates sustainable infrastructure cities, improving their citizens’ quality recognizing the achievement of of life and who thus benefit from fast certain credits in the different areas of and efficient links, reducing traffic sustainability upon achieving particular congestion and air pollution. requirements. environmental sustainability and It continues to do so today in many In addition to the eco-sustainable parts of the world, including Riyadh, design and construction, the project where the Group leads the ArRiyadh has made its mark locally due to the New Mobility (ANM) consortium strong attention paid to the issue of engaged in the construction of the health and safety. An initiative called metro system’s Line 3. This is the the Golden Rules was launched during safety at work longest and most important line of 2016, establishing 12 golden rules the Saudi capital’s new metro network aimed at reinforcing and spreading project, commissioned by the ArRiyadh the culture of safety and preventing Development Authority, worth about accidents at work. Through specific $23.5 billion, with six lines that will actions for raising awareness and cross the city along 176 km. training workers, the accident rates have seen a significant improvement, Line 3 runs for about 42 km from East leading to the completion of 15 million to West across the city, and consists hours worked without accidents as of EX CLUSIV of a surface line, concrete viaducts, March 2016; a very important record tunnels, and 22 technologically for the Group. OVER ON SC E C TE advanced stations, built while DI NT implementing mitigation measures The validity and effectiveness of this to reduce the construction’s initiative is underlined by the fact environmental impact. that it was taken as an example and implemented by other companies In particular, the Western Station engaged in the construction of the and Downtown Station will undergo Riyadh metro system, in order to LEED certification for their design improve the levels of safety on the and construction. The LEED standard worksite. 49 Sustainability Report 2016 3. We aim for Excellence 50 3. We aim for Excellence We believe in competence and skill, in work that is well done and capable of exceeding the client’s expectations. Salini Impregilo aspires to consolidate its role as 3.1 a player that contributes to the advancement and progress of the infrastructure sector, working closely with the entire value chain to ensure continuous innovation and client satisfaction. Innovation in the Constant innovation Constant innovation is essential to success in the service of new needs large infrastructure sector. In addition to making technological advances in materials, components and manufacturing processes, we study all our projects taking into account the requirements of environmental protection, staff safety, and the protection of the interests of local communities which emerge from the social and environmental impact studies undertaken by our clients, while ensuring the commercial viability of the initiative. For every business initiative, we develop ad hoc project proposals that are based on a careful analysis of client needs, the most advanced technical solutions applicable, and the social and environmental context. We also develop long term partnerships with strategic partners, such as industry professionals and engineering firms, as well as the most innovative suppliers and technology developers. Overall, this allows us to gain important international contracts awarded on the basis of strict criteria, which include not only the quality of work, the costs of implementation, management and financing, but also the innovations proposed to improve safety and reduce the social and environmental impact. 51 Sustainability Report 2016 Innovation for sustainable design Related SDGs The infrastructure sector, which employs large amounts of natural resources, has great potential for improving efficiency in resource consumption and reducing the environmental impacts of its activities. Salini Impregilo has adopted a number of sustainable design and construction programmes in multiple projects worldwide. These programmes allow environmental considerations to be integrated during the project development, improving performance throughout the infrastructure’s life cycle. This approach includes three main stages: Stage 1: Stage 2: Stage 3: Assessment of Development Implementation the environmental of eco-design of eco-building issues solutions processes During 2016 the Group adopted the following ecodesign and eco-building programmes for some of its projects: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), an initiative by the United States Green Buildings Council, is one of the largest voluntary programmes of independent green building verification. LEED is based on a system of indicators that measure the eco-sustainability of solutions in the design, construction, management and maintenance of buildings along the entire supply chain. The system includes four rating levels: Certified, Silver, Gold and Platinum. Global Sustainability Assessment System (GSAS) is the first integrated system for assessing the sustainability of Middle East construction activities, covering both environmental and social issues along the entire life cycle of each project. It includes a certification system based on rating levels ranging from one to six stars. Infrastructure Sustainability (IS) is the only rating system in Australia that evaluates the sustainability of infrastructures during their design, construction and operation. IS assesses the sustainability (which includes environmental, social, economic and governance issues) of infrastructure projects through their entire life cycle and assigns an independent certification that includes three rating levels: Commended, Excellent, Leading. In 2016, we completed the new Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center in Athens, Greece, which achieved a LEED Platinum certification. In addition, we continued the construction of the Red Line North in Doha, Qatar, which aims to achieve the GSA certification with a 4 star rating, two stations of the Line 3 project of the Riyadh Metro in Saudi Arabia pursuing the LEED certification, and the Northwest Metro project in Sydney, Australia, which in 52 3. We aim for Excellence 2015 was awarded the IS Leading rating for climate change adaptation and sustainable design. Salini Impregilo is also gradually increasing the adoption of the Building Information Modeling system (BIM) on its own projects37. The use of BIM enables the production of virtual models of projects, providing important support in planning, design, construction all the way to operation and maintenance. This technology also enables the improvement of sustainable design and construction techniques, providing immediate projections and information on how decisions made at the design stage can affect the performance of infrastructure projects throughout their life cycle. Quality throughout the supply chain Salini Impregilo has adopted a certified quality management system for all business activities, in accordance with ISO 9001, from the design phase to managing the construction activities. The Group assigns roles and responsibilities to staff with appropriate skills and training, and it follows the project entirely in all its phases, managing the organisational, operational, decision-making and internal control aspects of the activities. This process is an integral part of the Project Management System and ensures that major infrastructure projects are executed in accordance with the highest international standards. > 142,000 Completed quality controls > 3,800 Meeting with Clients on Quality and HSE issues 37 At the beginning of 2017, the Technical Department of the company was reorganized with the institution of a department dedicated to the spread of the process BIM, in order to better support the development of the company and the operational excellence of the projects. 53 Sustainability Report 2016 Designed by Renzo Piano and built and/or the construction industry”, Focus: The Stavros Niarchos by Salini Impregilo, the Cultural said ENR, announcing the award. Center of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation of Athens was awarded Built on the grounds of the old the 2016 Global Best Project Award Athens hippodrome, in the Kallithea in the cultural/worship category district, facing the sea, the Center assigned by the Engineering Newsextends across an artificial hill Cultural Center is awarded the Record (ENR). According to the topped by a 170,000 metre leading US construction industry landscaped park with 1,500 trees magazine, the work distinguished and 200,000 shrubs that came itself for its design and production from all over Europe. However, the excellence among 23 projects from great innovation of the Center is its 15 different countries. ability to combine art with technical excellence. One of the clearest Global Best Project Award The Center is one of the largest examples of this combination is facilities in Europe dedicated to the Canopy, a 10,000 square metre the performing arts, and home to hanging shell that dominates the the Greek National Opera and the centre, using highly sophisticated National Library. Funded by the technology to move according to Stavros Niarchos Foundation, it was wind pressure and variations in built by the consortium led by Salini temperature. The upper surface of Impregilo, also involving the Greek the Canopy is entirely covered with EX CLUSIV company Terna. photovoltaic panels, which make OVER ON the Center independent in terms SC E C TE “The jury evaluated projects from of energy. The strict compliance NT DI many countries and examined with the principles of sustainability safety, innovation and construction has allowed the Center to obtain quality, paying particular attention a LEED (Leadership in Energy and to the diversity of the teams and Environmental Design) Platinum their collaboration, also considering certification, the highest possible. the benefits to the local community 54 3. We aim for Excellence 55 Sustainability Report 2016 56 3. We aim for Excellence Abu Dhabi’s constant increase in Salini Impregilo participated in the Focus: A STEP forward for the population and visitors has led local project, winning two of the three lots governments to work on identifying planned for the entire programme, programmes to meet the city’s and building 25 km of the tunnel growing needs, while mitigating the with an excavation diameter of environmental impacts resulting approximately 7 metres and 10 access from the considerable human shafts with depths ranging from 40 pressure, adopting ad hoc solutions to 80 metres, with sophisticated for the local context. mechanized excavation technologies (five TBMs employed simultaneously), environment in Abu Dhabi One of the main problems caused never used before in Abu Dhabi. by the urbanisation of ​​Abu Dhabi concerns the conveyance and The project will bring significant longtreatment of sewage. To overcome term environmental improvements this problem, the city centre was for the city of Abu Dhabi, which is equipped with a system of pumping now able to manage its wastewater stations used to convey the water to more efficiently and safely. 34 old treatment facilities. pumping stations will be gradually removed thanks to the new gravityOver time, these systems have fed system, reconverting the areas become inadequate for the city’s and improving the citizens’ quality of needs and unsustainable from an life. (Periodic overflows of the system environmental point of view (high caused bad odours). In addition, after energy consumption, unpleasant being treated, the water conveyed odours, visual impact). In order by STEP will be reused for irrigation to solve this problem, the STEP purposes in the city’s parks, helping (Strategic Tunnel Enhancement to lower urban temperatures and, Programme) National Programme consequently, energy consumption was developed. due to air conditioning systems. FAO estimates that urban parks can STEP included the construction reduce temperatures from 2 to 8°C of a tunnel about 40 km long, 80 and energy consumption related to metres deep (the equivalent of a air conditioning systems by 30%. 25-floor building), whose function is to collect by gravity the wastewater The construction of the Abu of Abu Dhabi’s island and mainland Dhabi Deep Sewer Tunnel, one of through mini-tunnels linked with the the deepest hydraulic tunnels in existing structures and channel it to the world, was also the subject a treatment plant located outside of a recent National Geographic the city. documentary. 57 Sustainability Report 2016 3.2 Our people are a key asset for our corporate development and success. Technical and managerial skills, as well as the experience gained on projects worldwide, are decisive in ensuring excellence Developing our throughout our operations and in achieving the Group’s goals. people The priorities towards our people are: −− Improving the staff’s skills through training and development programmes, to consolidate and transfer skills among our employees; −− Improving and aligning everyone to a single corporate culture that enhances their sense of belonging and their adherence to the Group’s values; −− Attracting and cultivating talented people, with a focus on graduates and young professionals through employer branding programmes and partnerships with top educational institutions. In this way, we aim to train a new class of employees capable of ensuring business continuity. At the end of 2016, Salini Impregilo employed 34,440 direct employees worldwide38, 32% of whom are under 30 and 9% are women (35% at the Corporate level). Most of our employees are located in Africa, followed by Asia, the Middle East, Oceania and North America. Enhancing in-house capabilities and expertise Salini Impregilo supports the creation of a work environment that values ​​ individual capabilities and nurtures the potential of our employees, allowing them to develop the key skills that the business requires. Ongoing training is important for our employees and for the future of the Group. For this reason, we define and implement an annual Training Plan, with the aim of consolidating and developing the key skills we need to excel in terms of professional standards, performance and results. This Plan is based on an analysis of training needs, highlighting training gaps and identifying the most appropriate type of training in order to bridge them. Salini Impregilo also invests in the professional development of the individual regions where it operates, in order to have trained staff available for local projects in progress and for future initiatives. In 2016, we provided over 248,000 training hours for Group managers and staff (excluding manual workers), both at our corporate facilities and at the worksites, a major increase compared to the 147,000 hours provided in 2015. 38 Indirect employees include subcontractors’ and temporary agencies’ personnel, and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites. 58 3. We aim for Excellence Fostering the culture of learning The company’s Learning Academy experiment, launched by Salini Impregilo in 2015, continued in 2016, with the objective of promoting a new training model capable of strengthening the existing skills and expertise and sharing knowledge across the organization. 2016 was characterized by training initiatives on Leadership, Knowledge Sharing, and technical and operational topics. Particular emphasis was placed on management training with “From Player to Coach”, which involved managers at the international level on issues of management and the evaluation of employees, with classroom and webinar sessions. The training initiative has supported the company’s Performance Management Programme, facilitating the sharing of a common approach to supporting the growth and professional development of its employees. The core of the Academy is its faculty, the in-house body of carefully selected teachers, duly trained with workshops called “Train the trainers”, to help improve the effectiveness of our training methods and the transmission of corporate knowledge. The in-house faculty members are all involved as lecturers in the Master’s in International Construction Management, provided in collaboration with the Politecnico di Milano and aimed at new graduates. The Learning Academy complements our existing training programmes, such as the induction on corporate policies and procedures for all new employees, courses on legal and regulatory issues, dedicated training and sharing courses regarding specific duties assigned to certain employees, and language learning programmes. As for the technical and regulatory training, for example, the update programme on the code for new public contracts under Italian legislation, which took place in the second half of 2016, involved a large number of managers and business professionals. All these training activities take place both at the worksites and at the headquarters, through peer-to-peer training, e-learning platforms, and blended training methods. E-learning Academy The Salini Impregilo E-learning Academy, was launched in the second half of 2016. The digital platform is the Group’s main international training hub, allowing people to get the training that interests them, with a 59 Sustainability Report 2016 view to self-development, overcoming geographical and logistical barriers. The new online training environment includes different learning pathways, and uses innovative learning methods, such as training bites and video tutorials used to explain key business processes in a clear and immediate way. The main topical areas of the e-learning platform are: – “Orientation programme”, the company’s induction for new employees that includes training on issues of Health and Safety, Organisation, Management and Control Model, Code of Ethics, and an Anti-corruption Model, promoting patterns of behaviour in line with the corporate culture and values; – “Discovering...”, an innovative way to learn quickly the core business processes for the main procedures through video tutorials; – “In the classroom with...”, which hosts training courses conducted by the Company faculty and in-house lecturers on topics regarding our business. These include the business accounting system, insurance and risk management, and the lessons of the Master’s in “International Construction Management”, created in collaboration with the Politecnico di Milano; – “Management training”, which includes training bites to enhance skills for problem-solving, negotiation, time management, communication, and other key skills for performing their work effectively and for professional and personal development. The platform was designed so that it can always accommodate new content, with the aim of contributing to the development of the skills of our Group’s people, enhancing and sharing knowledge. Development of local capabilities and expertise In order to ensure appropriate level of working practices in all of our operations it is necessary that our entire workforce, including unskilled workers, receive the appropriate training in order to perform their duties in accordance with the Group’s technical, quality, environmental, and health and safety standards. To achieve this, our worksites provide extensive training programmes for the local workforce. These programmes are defined on the basis of appropriate grids that identify the requirements and associated training needs for each role. All employees are obliged to participate in the specific training activities identified for their role and needs, through classroom training, coaching, mentoring, and on-the-job training. 60 3. We aim for Excellence In 2016, we provided over 879,000 hours of training to our workers worldwide, averaging about 33 hours per capita. In 2016, considering all employees (managers, staff and workers), total training provided reached more than 1 million hours, 10% more than in 2015. Training provided to direct workforce 1,128,328 1,022,475 705,118 2014 2015 2016 Spreading values ​​and strengthening corporate culture During 2016, we carried out a range of activities to strengthen our employees’ sense of belonging and their adherence to the values of the Group. In particular, 10 integrated internal communication plans have been launched in order to support change management, informing the Group’s people of new procedures and employee services, facilitating their adoption, reaching a target audience of approximately 20,000 people. In addition, to mark World Safety at Work Day, a series of initiatives were organised at many of the Group’s work sites, aimed at promoting the culture of safety at work and to encourage proactive behaviour by employees (see section 4.2). Attracting and nurturing talent 2016 saw the training and development programme for 100 young graduates, Tomorrow’s Builders, selected and chosen in 2015 among the best talents from Italian Engineering Colleges. This is coupled with new dedicated programmes designed to combine existing technical skills with the energy brought by new talent acquired through the labour market. Supporting new graduates in making a career in the infrastructure sector In 2016, we developed our collaboration with the Politecnico di Milano, an outstanding academic partner for the specialised training and the inclusion of new graduates into the labour market was. In April we launched the first edition of the “Master’s in International Construction Management”, first and second level, which is currently in progress. Also in 2016 61 Sustainability Report 2016 we opened registration for the second edition, to be held in 2017-2018. The course is designed to attract Italian and international students interested in pursuing a career in the infrastructure sector. The course also allows participants to acquire specific skills from the infrastructure sector and from Salini Impregilo, by participating in on-the-job training and mentoring alongside other Group employees. The new Master’s also presents an important opportunity for internal knowledge sharing, while our employees can access all course materials through the “Salini Impregilo E-learning Academy” digital platform. Attracting the best students Through corporate promotions aimed at attracting the most talented new graduates, students and new secondary school graduates, we aim to build fruitful relationships with potential employees. Salini Impregilo’s employer branding and talent attraction plan in the major national and international universities continued in 2016. It consists of a broad spectrum of activities aimed at selection, career guidance, and mentoring on career paths in the construction industry: strategic agreements with the leading national and international universities, initiatives for involving students and new graduates such as career days, recruiting days, topical workshops at the university, worksite presentations and visits, with a strong focus on communication via corporate digital and social channels, on university websites, and on major online job boards, which allow a direct and constant dialogue with potential candidates. 62 3. We aim for Excellence 63 Sustainability Report 2016 After the 2014 communication knowledge with young graduates, Focus: A strategic alliance campaign “The courage of working with whom to build a better future to build the future” and the 2015 for present and future generations. initiative “Tomorrow’s Builders”, in Knowledge and know-how is what 2016 Salini Impregilo launched the allows companies to be flexible and first international University Master’s face market challenges. We believe for major infrastructure projects. that training and attracting young talent from the best universities in the The Master’s was developed by world is one of the levers to be used combining Salini Impregilo’s to continue growing and producing with the Politecnico di Milano executive and managerial expertise the best results”. with the teaching experience of the Politecnico di Milano. The aim In addition to offering teaching of the “International Construction and training at the company, Management” Postgraduate Master’s, Salini Impregilo has also offered Level I and II, is to prepare young scholarships to support some students engineers from universities around in participating in the Master’s. Special the world for an international attention is given to the selection career in project management in process in terms of diversity: 33% the complex infrastructure sector, of the participants to the 2016-2017 through a process of technical and Master’s are international students, managerial training. and 13% are women. CLUSIV The Master’s is entirely in English, Having completed the classroom EX and was designed by Salini Impregilo phase, the students of the Master’s OVER ON SC E C TE along with the Politecnico di Milano current edition are engaged in a DI NT with an innovative formula that period of on-the-job training in provides classroom lectures by various business functions, in Italy professors of the Politecnico and and abroad. Here is some of feedback Salini Impregilo experts, combined about their experiences: with a 6-month internship at the Group, both in Italy and abroad, “The opportunity to learn from under the guidance of a Salini professionals who shared with us Impregilo tutor. The on-thetheir experiences in the construction job experience is the basis for of complex major infrastructure formulating the final thesis. projects has been a great source of inspiration.” The classroom training focuses on two main modules, “Project “This experience is a way to acquire Management Basics” and “From knowledge through the exchanges tender to Project Execution”, where with colleagues, and a multinational students are guided to discover all environment where one can carry out the operational and technical issues various mind-opening activities.” that characterise the construction of a major infrastructure. “The training period is a unique opportunity to fully understand and “The collaboration with the Politecnico interact with the activities and goals of di Milano is the beginning of a new era Salini Impregilo.” for Salini Impregilo”, said Pietro Salini at the event launching the Master’s. “A challenging and exciting “We want to share our unique experience that makes us grow.” 64 3. We aim for Excellence 65 Sustainability Report 2016 The digitisation of the Group’s field of Human Capital Management. Focus: Digitisation as a tool for Recruiting & Selection process has been one of the key goals of 2016. The new tool provides candidates The company has designed and with an easier and more immediate implemented a new online selection application experience, and allows system, developed with the Success the Group to manage more efficiently Factors SAP system, one of the best and effectively the management and selection of the applications coming attracting talent and managing international digital platforms in the from the labour market. the selection processes In 2016, Salini Impregilo entered In 2017, the Group further improved Focus: Salini the “Top 20” of the “Best Employer its positioning, climbing up the of Choice” list (the list of Italian rankings by 7 places and reaching employers considered most desirable 4th position in the overall ranking by new graduates compiled by Cesop and 2nd place in the ranking of Impregilo Best Communication since 2002) and won most desired workplace in Italy the “Best New Entry 2016” award, among graduates from technical and with an overall ranking of 11, as the scientific colleges. only construction sector company. Employer of Choice 66 3. We aim for Excellence 3.3 Related SDGs Creating, strengthening and maintaining a solid supply chain is critical to the success of our projects. Promoting responsible purchasing A solid supply In order to ensure the alignment of quality and chain performance levels around the world, the Group requires its partners to comply with special rules and regulations, including ethical, social and environmental principles and the respect for human rights. In operating throughout the world, we pay great attention to the management of the supply chain. Our local and headquarters purchasing departments manage the entire procurement process, also performing inspection visits at the suppliers’ premises, where deemed necessary, and handling shipping and customs procedures. In the course of 2016, the process for opening new supplier registrations was centralised. Today, before any new supplier is used, it must be validated at the corporate level, performing the appropriate unique identification tests within the company management system. Several areas of compliance are checked as part of the supplier assessment, particularly as regards compliance with legal requirements, and technical, ethical, quality and HSE standards, as well as compliance with the specific requirements of the project. Special attention is paid to subcontracting, since this can generate potentially significant socio-environmental impacts within our supply chain. For this reason, subcontracts are subject to the same rules and procedures that we apply to our direct workforce worldwide. For supply contracts related to suppliers and subcontractors, we require compliance with the Group’s Code of Ethics and Anti-Corruption Model, and specifically the contractual clauses in the field of Sustainability/HSE. Special contract termination clauses are applied if the supplier acts in conflict with these provisions. We evaluate key and strategic suppliers, both during the identification phase and while executing the contracts. We also use an internal performance evaluation system to confirm or withdraw companies from the supplier register for subsequent dealings with the Company. Supporting and monitoring suppliers Sharing our know-how and expertise with local suppliers and subcontractors allows us to develop strong partnerships and promote their growth and technical development. 67 Sustainability Report 2016 Expertise, uniqueness, passion, as events dedicated to sharing Focus: innovation; these key words are at knowledge and experience the root of the partnerships between between the Group and the Salini Impregilo and its suppliers. selected suppliers. Organized by The importance the Procurement Department, the As part of the innovation process that initiative was aimed at launching a we are pursuing, the first Procurement new strategic partnership with the Group’s preferred suppliers in their of partnerships Convention was organized in 2016, also aided by the new models of new role as strategic partners. partnership with suppliers. On the day dedicated to them, all It was the first meeting held globally suppliers have the opportunity to by a construction company, and it present their company, describe was attended by Salini Impregilo’s their main activities and business EX CLUSIV top management, which gave the lines, focusing on their organizational OVER ON suppliers an outlined of the Group’s structures, new technologies, SC E C TE goals, ambitions, and needs. innovative products and projects they NT DI can offer to the construction industry. A series of Innovation Days were organized after the convention, The Group’s subcontractors are required to carry out their activities in accordance with work methods (the so-called Method Statement) that are shared and agreed with the contract management, thus ensuring the same standards of quality and protection of the environment, health and safety as the work carried out directly by the Group39. In 2016, we provided our subcontractors with over 89,000 hours of training on quality, environment, and health and safety. Furthermore, our worksite Quality and HSE departments regularly monitor the subcontractors, ensuring the application of the same protection standards and the same performance applied to the work carried out directly by our employees. The monitoring carried out in 2016 made it possible to detect non-compliance with environmental, safety and quality standards on the work performed respectively by 24%, 44% and 27% of the subcontractors, and appropriate corrective actions were then defined. In 2016, over 3,100 formal meetings were held with subcontractors at our worksites, addressing these issues and this awareness-raising activity contributed to an improvement in their safety performance of about 50%, where the injury rate (IR)40 fell from 0.60 in 2015 to 0.31 in 39 For more information about these standards, please refer to the sections 4.2 (health and safety), 4.3 (human rights) and 4.4 (environment). 40 The Injury Rate (IR) represents the number of injuries that occur per 100 employees, and is calculated as a ratio of the total number of injuries with a prognosis exceeding 3 days occurring in the period (including deaths) to the total number of hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. 68 3. We aim for Excellence 2016, and the lost day rate (LDR)41 fell from 16.61 in 2015 to 7.99 in 2016. Subcontractors and service providers are also subject to checks on their compliance with regulatory obligations in terms of wages, social security and insurance of their workers employed at our worksites. Subcontractors can use the same worksite reporting procedures that our direct workforce uses to report any grievances and suggestions to the management. > 89,000 Hours of training provided to the staff of our subcontractors 41 The Lost Day Rate (LDR) represents the number of working days lost per 100 employees and is calculated as the ratio of the total number of days lost (related to injuries with a prognosis exceeding 3 days) to the total of hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The Lost Day Rate (LDR) reported refers to the total workforce (direct employees and subcontractor staff). 69 Sustainability Report 2016 4. We assure Respect 70 4. We assure Respect We respect people, diversity, and the environment. For Salini Impregilo, adopting high protection 4.1 standards for social and environmental issues is a priority and allows the Group to stand out in the global infrastructure market. The management Social and environmental issues in an infrastructure’s development process of social and The development of infrastructure projects involves several entities. Depending on the roles and environmental issues responsibilities assigned to them by the applicable regulations, they participate in the identification, planning, evaluation, approval, development and management of the infrastructure projects. Social and environmental issues are taken into consideration from the early stages of infrastructure development, as shown in the figure below. Stakeholder involved Action Outputs Phase 1 Project −− Identify the initiative, select the project’s area, proponent prepares a feasibility study to be submitted to the competent authorities Competent authorities −− E  valuate if the project requires an Environmental in charge of impact and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA), if so the next evaluation (usually steps are the following the Environmental Protection Agencies PROJECT’S IDENTIFICATION, PLANNING AND APPROVAL Project −− A  ssesses the potential impacts deriving from the Identification of proponent project and identifies mitigation and compensation the environmental measures, also through public consultation with and social, direct affected stakeholders and communities and indirect, temporary and ACTIVITIES −− Defines a public consultation plan permanent Competent authorities −− R eview the ESIA process (including the consultation impacts, and in charge of impact activities) providing comments for necessary revisions related mitigation evaluation (usually −− Make the ESIA available for comments to the public measures to be the Environmental −− Approves the ESIA implemented Protection Agencies) during the next phases Project −− L aunches a tender to select a contractor / more proponent contractors (if the project is broken down in lots)* −− Assigns the contract for construction works −− Prepares an Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) consistent with the ESIA’s requirements, to manage the project’s impact both during construction and operations’ phases −− Obtains the other approvals provided for by the applicable law 71 Sustainability Report 2016 Stakeholder involved Action Outputs Phase 2 Project −− Notifies local communities of construction activities proponent −− Proceed with land purchases, clearing lands, resettlements (if needed), etc. −− Assigns the project area to the selected contractor/s −− Implements the public consultation plan (including a grievance mechanism) Selected −− C arry out the design activities (if included in the contractor/s contract) taking into account both the ESIA and the CONSTRUCTION ESMP’s requirements −− Prepare specific management plans in compliance with the ESMP to mitigate the impacts associated Implementation with the construction activities (pollution, safety, of the mitigation traffic, worker’s conditions, etc.) including measures of the ACTIVITIES grievance mechanisms to collect concerns related temporary (shortto the construction works term) impacts −− Start construction activities deriving from the construction Competent −− R  egularly monitor the respect of the impacts authorities approved ESIA’s requirements during the project’s implementation Selected −− O  nce the construction is completed, hand over contractor/s the project’s areas to the proponent Phase 3 Project −− Start the project’s operations proponent −− Implements the ESMP to mitigate the impacts associated with the operation’s phase −− Continues to disclose, consult and report Implementation of the to affected communities mitigation measures of the permanent ACTIVITIES −− Continues to manage the grievance mechanism during all the operational phase (medium-long term), direct and indirect impacts deriving from OPERATIONS Competent −− R  egularly monitor the respect of the approved the operation’s phase authorities ESIA’s requirements along the project’s operation * The ESIA is usually part of the document attached to the contract concluded between the client and the contractor Project proponents may be public bodies (eg. government agencies, state-owned companies) or private entities, and these are the clients of Salini Impregilo, which mainly operates as contractor. As shown in the figure, the project proponent is responsible for most of the fulfilments required for the project’s development. In particular, the proponent is responsible for identifying the areas on which to develop the project, feasibility studies, environmental and social impact assessments, consultations with the affected communities, defining the impact prevention 72 4. We assure Respect and mitigation measures, and obtaining all permits and authorizations required by applicable regulations. Contractors such as Salini Impregilo join the project development process only after the decision-making phase is concluded, since they are solely responsible for implementing the project, or part of it if the proponent has divided the construction into several lots. After the project is awarded, the contractor develops its own project management system with which to implement the requirements laid down by the ESIA (Environmental and Social Impact Assessment) and the ESMP (Social and Environmental Management Plan), or, in their absence, the provisions of the applicable regulations and the contract. The management system adopted by the contractor is aimed at the proper prevention and mitigation of impacts resulting from the contracted operations, while the other impacts are the sole responsibility of the proponent. The social and environmental aspects of construction activities In the projects it undertakes, Salini Impregilo implements a management system for the prevention and mitigation of social and environmental impacts from its construction activity, typically grouped into the following categories: Impacts on the −− Working conditions  he management of these T workforce and −− Health and Safety issues is described in sections supply chain −− Workers’ rights 4.2 and 4.3 Impacts on local −− Traffic, noise, dust, accidents The management of these communities −− Safety of neighbouring communities issues is described in sections −− Rights of neighbouring communities 4.3 and 4.4 Environmental −− C onsumption of natural resources The management of impacts (raw materials, water, energy) these issues is described −− Production of waste, effluents, in section 4.4 emissions −− Flora, fauna, landscape The Project Management System implemented by the Group in each individual contract ensures that the processes comply with company standards and applicable regulations, and any specific requirements expressed by the clients, local authorities, and financial institutions, if any. The following sections describe the standards adopted by Salini Impregilo in managing social and environmental issues. 73 Sustainability Report 2016 Salini Impregilo recognizes the fundamental Related SDGs 4.2 importance of occupational health and safety, and ensures the protection and welfare of its employees and third parties in all activities, both Occupational in the offices and at the worksites. In this context, the Group’s main goal is minimizing or eliminating the risk of accidents through the adoption of a health and safety Health and Safety system extended to all operations. Effective safety management The effective management of occupational health and safety is ensured at every worksite by a dedicated staff engaged in the risk assessment, planning and implementation of health and safety measures, the active involvement of all direct staff and subcontractors through information and training activities, as well as the operational monitoring of the construction work. By adopting the Occupational Health and Safety Management System certified to the BS OHSAS 18001 standard, Salini Impregilo has achieved significant results over the years, including an increased safety awareness by employees, a significant reduction in accidents at work and the prevention of occupational diseases, with a consequent reduction in insurance and compliance costs. Salini Impregilo requires everyone working at its worksites to comply with its safety standards. Immediately after being hired, all staff receive an initial training (the Induction) on the applicable policies and procedures, followed by specific training courses based on their assigned duties. In the same way as direct employees, the subcontractors’ staff participate in induction and information activities. The Corporate QEHS (Quality, Environment, Health and Safety) Department conducts regular audits on the compliance with safety procedures at the Group’s worksites, evaluating the degree of application of the corporate standards. Every year, top management reviews the suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the management systems, evaluating strengths and weaknesses, identifying the necessary corrective actions to ensure a continuous performance improvement. 74 4. We assure Respect International studies, such as those the use of multimedia materials), Focus: The development of a new Leadership conducted by the European Agency provided by the managers trained in for Safety and Health at Work, reveal a the previous stage and addressed to close correlation between accidents at the project’s workers; work, the behaviour of the employees or organizations in general, and the 3) Mini-workshops aimed at improving exercise of leadership. the effectiveness of the workers’ interventions in the workplace in Based on this evidence, in late the event of hazardous situations, 2015 Salini Impregilo launched an making them an active part of the awareness and education programme cultural change that considers designed to develop a heightened safety as a shared asset. culture of awareness in terms of health and safety. The goal is to make workers The Cityringen project hosted 10 for Occupational Health and Safety an active part in a cultural change to workshops for 150 managers, over put safety at the heart of everyone’s 25 cascading events that involved daily work. The programme was more than 600 workers, and a phase developed according to a cascading 3 mini-workshop. The Sydney Metro path: starting with the development Northwest project held a workshop and training of leaders who are for 10 managers, 4 cascading events credible and respected in the field for 60 operational roles, and a Phase of safety, the aim is to influence the 3 mini-workshop. The results were behaviour of the entire organization soon visible: the Copenhagen project through an internal communication reached 365 days without accidents in and training plan that gradually two worksites. reaches all key resources. The World Day for Safety and Health at During 2016, the programme was Work, promoted by the International tested on two pilot projects: the Labour Organization, was celebrated Cityringen metro in Copenhagen on 28 April 2016, to raise awareness (Denmark), where the Group is among workers about the importance building a new circular line in the city of occupational health and safety. CLUSIV centre with 34 km of tunnels and 17 The same day saw the launch of an EX new stations, and the Metro Northwest extensive involvement programme, OVER ON SC E C TE project in Sydney (Australia), where the involving the Group’s projects DI NT “Sydney NorthWest Metro” and other in organizing events dedicated related civil works are being built. to discussing health and safety issues, sharing best practices, and The programme included three main the discussion and preparation of phases: proposals for possible improvements. 1) High-impact training workshops, The event, organized with the aim of aimed at transforming the contract identifying true “Health and Safety managers into “Health and Safety Leaders”, was attended by employees Leaders”; from 20 projects worldwide, involving some 3,000 workers. 2) Cascading events, also with a high communication impact (through 75 Sustainability Report 2016 Safety performance In 2016, we continued to promote the importance of occupational health and safety, investing in training and staff awareness. During this period, we provided over 735,000 hours of health and safety training for our direct staff (+16% compared to 2015), and over 83,000 hours for our subcontractors’ staff. During the year, we trained more than 2,300 people in first aid and 5,500 in emergency response and fire safety. In this period, our worksites hosted over 3,600 technical meetings on health and safety, of which about 1,000 were with our clients and 2,600 with our business partners. In addition, during this period we continued our constant performance monitoring, with over 3,400 inspections and more than 80 audits carried out by corporate departments and external control bodies, such as clients, funders, local authorities, and certification bodies. In 2016, the Injury Rate (IR)42 amounted to 0.6543, highlighting a further decrease compared to 2015 (-13%), while the Lost Day Rate (LDR)44 was 18.63, almost unchanged compared to 201545. Total workforce Injury Rate Total workforce Lost Day Rate 0.86 18.23 18.63 0.74 15.12 0.65 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 -13% Injury Rate compared to 2015 42 The Injury Rate (IR) represents the number of injuries that occur per 100 employees, and is calculated as a ratio of the total number of injuries with a prognosis exceeding 3 days occurring in the period (including deaths) to the total number of hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The reported Injury Rate (IR) relates to the total workforce (direct employees and subcontractor staff). 43 A useful benchmark is the IR value of 1.00, published by the US Bureau of Labour Statistics (BLS) for the “Heavy and civil engineering construction” sector for 2015 (index for cases of accidents with lost days of work). 44 The Lost Day Rate (LDR) represents the number of working days lost per 100 employees and is calculated as the ratio of the total number of days lost (related to injuries with a prognosis exceeding 3 days) to the total of hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The Lost Day Rate (LDR) reported refers to the total workforce (direct employees and subcontractor staff). 45 The accident indexes relating only to direct employees in 2016 were 0.82 (IR) and 24.35 (LDR). The accident indexes relating to subcontractors are provided in section 3.3. 76 4. We assure Respect Protection of workers’ health Salini Impregilo ensures the protection of workers’ health in the workplace through a dedicated Company Health Service, which defines the procedures for health monitoring and prevention and the health surveillance programmes. It also carries out information campaigns and periodic inspections of the worksites, in order to verify the workplace conditions and the implementation of existing legislation. The medical facilities available at the Group’s worksites (where no suitable local facilities are available) offer medical assistance and ambulance service 24/7 to all direct and indirect employees, including their families residing at the worksite accommodation. In remote areas not served by public health facilities, the Group also provides health care to the local population for all acute or severe problems. Our worksite doctors regularly provide training to local staff, also carrying out information and awareness campaigns for local communities on issues of hygiene, healthy lifestyles, prevention of endemic diseases (such as malaria), and sexually transmitted infections (including HIV and hepatitis). In 2016, there were over 150 training sessions on these issues, involving about 9,500 people (5,300 in 2015). In addition, our worksite clinics regularly monitor the cleanliness of accommodation and canteens, conducting periodic drinking water analyses and parasite control campaigns. In 2016, Salini Impregilo employed about 160 doctors and nurses around the world, who in that period conducted more than 145,000 medical consults, treated 109,000 cases, carried out 11,200 medical check-ups and more than 53,700 laboratory tests. > 162,000 Health care interventions provided to direct and indirect staff > 13,200 Free health care interventions provided to the staff of local communities 77 Sustainability Report 2016 Salini Impregilo recognizes the importance of Related SDGs 4.3 human rights and is committed to ensuring that they are respected while carrying out its activities. Respect for The Group supports the rights enshrined in the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization conventions. human rights In line with the provisions of the Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights of the United Nations, in 2016 the Group conducted a complete mapping of the human rights impacts potentially arising from its activities. This mapping led to the definition of an action plan that will be implemented from 2017, aimed at formalizing the good management practices that have already been adopted by the Group in the countries where it operates, and to further improve the level of protection. During 2016, the Group participated in various national and international events in the field of human rights, such as the United Nations’ Forum on Business and Human Rights, held in Geneva, and the consultations carried out by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to develop the National Action Plan on business and human rights. Furthermore, Salini Impregilo is a permanent member of the human rights working group of the Global Compact Network Italy. Equal opportunities and worker protection The Group is committed to providing its workforce with favourable working conditions and respect for each worker’s dignity, without discrimination of gender, origin, religion, age, political orientation, sexual orientation, disability or other characteristics protected by applicable laws in the countries in which the Group operates. Equal opportunities are guaranteed in all phases of staff management (recruitment, training, evaluation, termination) and in all areas (working conditions, salaries, career paths). In particular, all employees have the same rights and conditions for equal work. Salini Impregilo firmly prohibits child labour, and regardless of the locally applicable regulations, worldwide it only employs persons who have reached 18 years of age. To this end, especially in countries where forged identity documents are particularly widespread (typically in Africa), the Group has adopted special protections to check, often with the help of local authorities, the authenticity of candidates’ documents. The Group also prohibits any form of forced or compulsory labour. For this reason, particular attention is paid to the management of migrant workers and the employment agencies used for their recruitment. The issue of migrant workers is only relevant for the Group 78 4. We assure Respect in countries where the local workforce is not sufficient and/or appropriate for the tasks at hand. These countries include Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Qatar, and Malaysia. In these countries, the Group ensures that candidates are fully informed of the contractual terms and the working conditions in their own language, before leaving their country of origin. In addition, expenses for recruitment, travel, visas, medical examinations etc. are borne entirely by the Group. Migrant workers are guaranteed the option of changing jobs and leaving the country of destination. The workers’ identity documents are never taken, except with their consent and solely for safekeeping. The Group requires that employment agencies respect these principles by means of specific contractual clauses, on pain of termination of the contracts. Salini Impregilo maintains an open attitude towards workers’ freedom of association and collective bargaining, ensuring the absence of discrimination against union members and workers’ representatives. In countries where trade union rights are restricted by law46, the Group seeks to provide workers with legal alternative systems of dialogue with the management, eg. by interfacing with the committees formed at the worksite accommodations to discuss issues of common interest with the workers’ representatives. The Group scrupulously complies with minimum wage levels where they apply. Additionally, it provides the workers with systems to communicate any problems and complaints to the management (the grievance mechanism). Demonstrating Salini Impregilo’s commitment to the respect for the workers’ human rights, in 2014 the Group signed a Framework Agreement with the national and international construction sector unions (BWI Building and Wood Workers’ International) aimed at jointly affirming and promoting the value of respecting fundamental principles and rights in labour relations. In addition, in 2016 the Business & Human Rights Resources Centre (BHRRC) non-governmental organization analysed the policies and practices adopted by international construction companies engaged in the Middle East, identifying those of Salini Impregilo among the best practices of reference. The Group requires that the subcontractors employed by its projects comply with the same principles described above. Furthermore, in 2016 the supplier qualification procedures were revised to include labour and human rights as part of the evaluation criteria. 46 Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, and Qatar are relevant for the Group. 79 Sustainability Report 2016 Salini Impregilo is recognized among The report expresses particular Focus: Salini Impregilo the companies that stand out for praise for the Group’s commitment their commitment, performance, to promoting and disseminating best and disclosure in terms of respect practices at the international level, for for the rights of migrant workers in example through the involvement of best practices Qatar. This is what emerges from the the international construction union, report “A wall of silence”, published BWI, with which the Company has by Business & Human Rights Business been collaborating for a long time. Centre, which invited 100 of the main In addition to signing a Framework companies involved in infrastructure Agreement for the protection of for workers’ rights construction to respond to a workers’ rights, the Company hosted questionnaire on their ongoing a BWI delegation in Qatar to show activities in the Middle East. specifically how our commitments are transformed into real action. Among the Italian companies, Salini Impregilo appears to be the only Moreover, the report praises the one to have responded positively to practices adopted by the Group the NGO’s request for transparency, in managing its relationships with taking concrete actions for their recruitment agencies, aimed at workers, and it is mentioned in reducing the risk of worker exploitation, several passages of the report as a as well as its activities to involve worldwide example of best practices. migrant workers at the camps in Qatar. 80 4. We assure Respect Diversity is an asset for and employees an equal treatment Focus: Ensuring organizations, because different in recruitment, employment, career viewpoints lead to better decisions advancement, transfer, termination and performance. Diversity of employment, as well as management in many companies remuneration, selection for training, is often dealt with only in terms of development programmes, and inclusion and diversity gender or race, although the issue social and welfare initiatives. deserves much more attention. To implement these commitments, Salini Impregilo, with its long an action plan has been defined to at the worksite experience of projects in over 50 provide information activities at all countries around the world, has levels, including job advertisements made diversity (cultural, religious, (which are also transmitted to gender, age, origin, opinions, etc.) the representative organizations a source of strength, employing of women and minorities), direct tens of thousands of workers with employees (who receive a specific different histories and cultures. training session), and subcontractors (who must commit contractually to Today, the Group’s worksites developing their own action plans bring together people of over for promoting equal opportunities). 100 nationalities, pooling unique outlooks and professionalisms. In addition, a detailed process has Everywhere in the world, Salini been implemented to monitor the Impregilo promotes respect composition of the labour force at among colleagues and the best the various worksites (to check the use of individual resources and in progress and the achievement of contexts where the differences are the predetermined diversity target) particularly pronounced, it develops and monitor behaviour, by means specific Inclusion and Equal of a system that allows anyone Opportunities programmes. (candidate, worker, subcontractor) to report cases of suspected or A case in point is the United States, confirmed non-compliance with the where the subsidiary Lane Industries policies. The system is strengthened has developed a comprehensive by a plan of visits that the dedicated system to manage these issues, central unit carries out at corporate starting from the establishment of sites, aimed at determining the level a dedicated unit at the Company’s of compliance and the achievement headquarters. Two special policies of targets set in the annual plan. have been adopted, one on Equal Opportunities and the other on Thanks to this approach, the issue harassment in the workplace, of equal opportunities is separated involving precise commitments to from individuals prejudices be followed by the management, the (often unconscious) to become a supervisors, and all the workers at the structured system on a par with projects, plants, and corporate offices. other important issues, such as occupational health and safety. On the issue of Equal Opportunities, Lane guarantees to all applicants 81 Sustainability Report 2016 82 4. We assure Respect The protection of local communities Salini Impregilo is committed to respecting the rights of communities directly affected by its operations. To this end, the project management systems used by the Group includes plans dedicated to managing any activities that may have impacts on the communities and on their rights as identified in the projects’ Social and Environmental Impact Assessments. The main issues managed in this area concern the safety of the community (eg. public safety associated with the movement of worksite vehicles and hazardous activities, such as excavation by blasting), health (through the adoption of health protocols to mitigate the spread of diseases associated with the presence of the new workforce in the project’s area), the environment (through the protection of natural resources used by communities, such as water, protecting soil from erosion, adopting timely accident management procedures), cultural and archaeological heritage (through the appropriate management of archaeological finds). Another important issue worth highlighting is the management of security, understood as the protection of corporate assets and staff safety. This aspect is managed at the Group’s worksites by common agreement with clients and local authorities, using both internal staff and external specialized companies and, where necessary, public security forces. Those in charge of project security ensure that all staff involved in security activities are aware of the Group’s policies and the ethical principles to be observed while performing their duties. Related SDGs Salini Impregilo’s track record attests to the 4.4 Group’s commitment to reducing environmental impacts resulting from construction activities and offering maximum transparency to Environmental its stakeholders regarding environmental issues, mitigation activities, and the achieved performance. protection In 2016, the Group was entered in the Climate “A List” of the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), a rating assigned to the world’s leading companies in terms of fighting climate change. The Award, which recognizes the Group’s constant attention to Sustainability in the projects it implements worldwide, is yet another important international recognition received in this period. The most recent ones include the 2016 Global Best Project Award, awarded by ENR (Engineering NewsRecord) to the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center in 83 Sustainability Report 2016 Athens, which had already been awarded a LEED Platinum certification, and the “Leading” Infrastructure Sustainability Design awarded by ISCA (Infrastructure Sustainability Council of Australia) to the Sydney Metro Northwest project for its innovative design solutions developed to address climate change. Ecological footprint The main environmental data for 2016 is shown below. For more details, please refer to section 6.2. Inputs Raw materials used 27,000,759 t Aggregate and sand 68% Ready-mixed concrete 14% Metallic materials 11% Cement 4% -17% Other 3% Water intensity rate47 Water withdrawals 33,262,962 m3 From rivers 89% -12% From other sources 11% Energy intensity rate Energy use 10,166,890 GJ Diesel 69% Natural gas 19% Other sources 12% Construction Concrete 5,150,442 m3 +1% activity Asphalt 1,227,232 t Recycled and reused Earth moving 11,783,842 m3 excavated material Production Asphalt 5,845,797 t +2%, Asphalt facilities* Aggregate 1,119,256 t produced in WMA mode48 Outputs Waste 5,959,241 t -19% Non-hazardous 99.5% Waste intensity rate49 Hazardous 0.5% -18% Greenhouse gas 728,179 t Greenhouse emissions 73% gas emissions Scope 1 6% intensity rate50 Scope 2 21% Scope 3 * Data related to Lane Industries (USA) 47 The normalization factor used for the intensity rates is represented by the revenues for the year. 48 The increase in the share of asphalt produced in WMA mode (Warm Mix Asphalt), i.e. with a lower than conventional temperature, refers to the production facilities of the subsidiary Lane Industries (USA). This production method makes it possible to achieve energy savings and consequent reductions in atmospheric emissions. 49 The calculation of the waste intensity rate does not include excavation waste, since it is closely related to the design choices defined by the clients, and can scarcely be influenced during construction. 50 The intensity index is calculated without taking into account all of the Scope 3 emissions, but only those generated from the Group’s projects (i.e. arising from the activities of subcontractors), thus excluding those resulting from freight forwarding and staff travel. 84 4. We assure Respect Environmental management systems Salini Impregilo manages the environmental aspects of its activities through an Environmental Management System certified in accordance with ISO 14001 standards. The following table summarizes the main activities carried out at each stage of the system, based on the Life Cycle approach. Assessment and During the start-up phase of each contract, the > 13,000 mitigation of risks Environment team undertakes a detailed evaluation of the Completed potential environmental risks posed by the construction environmental activities according to the impacts identified in the Social monitoring and Environmental Impact Evaluation, in accordance with activities the applicable regulations and the tendering contract. Following the assessment, each significant environmental aspect (eg. water, soil, waste) is the subject of a specific Management Plan, which regulates the management activities (to prevent and mitigate the impacts) and monitoring measures (aimed at verifying their effectiveness). Training and In order to ensure the correct implementation of the > 84,000 awareness-raising Environmental Management Plans, each worksite plans Hours of and implements training activities for all staff involved in environmental operations with potential environmental impacts, including training provided any subcontractor staff. to the workforce In addition, upon recruitment, all staff receive an initial training (Induction) regarding the Group’s environmental policies and procedures, and awareness-raising campaigns on specific topics (eg. waste, spills, chemicals, etc.) are carried out regularly, also involving subcontractors. Monitoring Our project environmental departments, supported by 97 environmental the Corporate QEHS Department, perform monitoring Completed audits issues activities provided by the Environmental Management Plans, through programmes of periodic control and > 380 audit on the direct activities and on those carried out by New supplier subcontractors. In case of non-compliance, the project’s analysed on environmental departments coordinate with the other environmental departments concerned to define specific corrective aspects actions, as well as any plans improve processes and/or performance. Our project environmental departments are also involved in qualifying suppliers, to verify that the environmental requirements are met by subcontractors and suppliers of certain materials (eg. hazardous materials or materials used in projects subject to certifications such as LEED). Review of the For each project, the management periodically 9 management reviews the achieved environmental performance, the Revisions to the systems management system’s strengths and weaknesses, setting environmental targets for the next period in order to ensure continuous management performance improvement. system carried At the Group level too, Salini Impregilo management, with out at the Group’s support from the QEHS Department, regularly reviews worksites performance and sets new environmental targets. 85 Sustainability Report 2016 Efficient use of resources Salini Impregilo works constantly to improve its production processes in order to reduce natural resource consumption and waste production. Whenever possible, the Group implements the principles of the circular economy, which consist in converting the processing waste into reusable or economically exploitable materials. In our worksites, this is done by careful selection and collection procedures (eg. for excavation materials, metals, wood, waste oils, tyres, batteries) or by adopting appropriate manufacturing processes (eg. for the treatment of contaminated water and land aimed at their reuse). The following table summarizes the main operational activities carried out to reduce the ecological footprint of our projects. Raw materials The Group’s main strategies to improve efficiency in 83% the use of raw materials are: Reused excavation −− The inclusion of environmental issues at the design materials stage, to develop design solutions that promote reduced consumption of raw materials; 23% −− The use, where possible, of low environmental Recycled asphalt impact products and materials (eg. recycled, used in manufacturing recyclable, non-hazardous materials); plants51 −− The recovery, recycling and reuse of waste materials (eg. uncontaminated excavation soil, process water, metals, wood). Energy and Salini Impregilo implements a policy aimed at -18% greenhouse reducing energy consumption and associated Greenhouse gas gas emissions greenhouse gas emissions through the development emissions intensity rate of many initiatives, including: compared to 2015 −− Connection of the worksite plants and facilities to local power grids in order to reduce the 39% production of electricity using diesel generators; Asphalt produced −− Replacement of equipment and vehicles with more in WMA mode efficient models, both in terms of energy use (eg. substitution of diesel plants with gas plants) and 97% in terms of specific consumption (eg. buying more Goods shipped by sea efficient vehicles); −− Careful planning of the vehicle fleet’s periodic maintenance; −− Development of systems for recovering energy from production plants and installation of energysaving lighting systems; −− Awareness-raising and training of employees on behaviours and procedures aimed at saving energy. The subsidiary Lane Industries (USA) follows a policy aimed at increasing the environmental efficiency of 51 Data referring to the Lane Industries (USA) plants 86 4. We assure Respect its asphalt production facilities by using recycled asphalt in the production cycle, as well as increasing the share of asphalt produced in WMA mode (Warm Mix Asphalt), i.e. with a lower than conventional temperature, thus reducing energy consumption and associated emissions. In addition to direct consumption and emissions, the Group is also committed to reducing, wherever possible, indirect emissions arising from its ancillary activities, such as transport and staff travel. In this regard, when certain goods are not available on the local market, the Group prefers shipments by sea for the transport of materials and machinery, as it is the means of transport with the lowest associated emissions. The central offices in Italy reimburse staff for local public transport passes, in order to encourage their use. In recent years, the Group has equipped its offices and worksites with video conferencing systems that have limited the number of business trips to those made for strictly operational reasons. Corporate travel policies also favour rail travel over air travel, and public transport over taxis. For information about car pooling and public transport policies at worksites, see the following section “Mitigation of inconveniences arising from worksites” (“Traffic and Transportation”). The targets in this field and the associated results are reported annually with the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) questionnaire, which can be referenced for further information. Water We are committed to ensuring that each worksite 5% enacts strict water management in all phases of the Recycled water cycle, from identifying needs and sources and reused water of supply to creating treatment networks for water flowing in and flowing out, including control plans > 1,700 and emergency response procedures. Completed water Closed-circuit water systems are built whenever analysis campaigns possible, so as to recycle and reuse industrial waters, eg. at crushing plants, concrete mixing plants, and machinery washing stations. The wastewater is collected in treatment plants, and before being released into the environment, it is subjected to quality controls, ensuring compliance with local laws and other applicable standards. 87 Sustainability Report 2016 Waste Salini Impregilo adopts the following strategy on waste: -19% −− Prevention, i.e. the analysis of the activities that Waste intensity rate generate waste in order to identify improvements to the processes capable of eliminating or reducing 99.5% the generated waste; Non-hazardous waste −− Reuse, i.e. the reutilization of waste materials in their original state for other project needs (eg. use of 55% excavated soil for environmental restoration); Waste diverted −− Recycling and recovery, i.e. the conversion of waste from landfill materials into energy or other materials that can be used both in the worksite (eg. excavation rocks transformed into aggregates) and outside (eg. recycling of tyres, oils and batteries by specialized entities); −− Responsible treatment and disposal, i.e. neutralizing and destroying waste, also by specialized external parties. This strategy is applied in each project by preparing specific management plans. Particular attention is paid to building adequate waste storage areas, verifying the qualifications of external entities involved in its transportation and disposal, and the training of employees and subcontractors involved in waste management. Of the approximately 5.9 million cubic metres of waste produced by the Group in 2016, 95% of it consists of excavation materials, which depend on the characteristics of the projects, and given that these are defined by the clients, they cannot be influenced by the Group. However, Salini Impregilo adopts a strategy aimed at reusing as much waste as possible (which in most cases is inert) in the projects themselves, as embankments or aggregate (compatibly with the project’s requirements). Soil Salini Impregilo closely monitors and protects its worksites 6.7 Million m2 in order to prevent potential damage to the soil and subsoil. Land affected by Special containment tanks, water collection networks and erosion protection waterproofing systems are created when the worksite activities is established, while carrying out specific evaluations of the environmental risk arising from the use of chemical products, oils, fuels, and hazardous materials which may come into contact with soil and groundwater. Our worksites have active environmental emergency plans in place, which allow employees to address and manage effectively cases of environmental accidents and soil pollution. Construction activities also entail significant earth-moving operations (eg. excavation, earthworks) that involve erosion risks caused by weather conditions (eg. rain, wind). In order to mitigate these risks, we develop specific soil protection plans, involving the creation of soil consolidation and rainwater conveyance systems, coupled with covering land affected by the works (eg. embankments) and planting trees at the end of the operation. 88 4. We assure Respect Once complete, the 64 km of the In order to reduce the amount of Focus: Innovation for new Brenner railway connecting waste generated from jet grouting Munich to Verona will be the longest activities, an alternative management underground rail link in the world. The drilling wastewater system has “Isarco underpass” construction lot, been developed at the “Isarco awarded to a consortium led by Salini underpass” worksite, which consists in Impregilo, is the far southern part of subjecting the material to mechanical the environment the Brenner Base Tunnel, the central dehydration by means of a plate filter element of the works. press. This method involves sending the drilling effluent to the mechanical The construction of some of the pressing system as soon as it is tunnel’s sections involves soil produced, separating the solid portion consolidation by means of jet grouting of the sludge from the liquid. The technology. The process consists in liquid part is reused in the production creating columns of consolidated soil process to prepare the jet grouting using a high-pressure jet of a mixture cement mixtures, while the solid part of water and cement, injected once is a residue of the production cycle. the ground has been drilled. This jet causes the disintegration, fracturing This method provides a more effective and simultaneous mixing of the soil, separation of the liquid part contained and results in the drilling wastewater in the drilling mud compared to what leaking at the surface, from the drilling can be achieved with the traditional hole. This wastewater consists mostly technique, thereby reducing the of the injected cement mixture itself. amount of waste. In addition to reducing the quantity of waste With the methods traditionally produced by the process, reusing the used for this type of process, the recovered water also reduces water wastewater is collected in tanks and, consumption. after it has solidified naturally, it is removed and managed as waste. Mitigation of inconveniences arising from the worksites Infrastructure improves people’s daily lives, but the construction phase may create some inconveniences, especially if the worksites are located in urban areas. Salini Impregilo is committed to minimizing the inconveniences caused to local communities, particularly in terms of noise, dust and traffic. It is also committed to taking every precaution to protect natural habitats, in terms of biodiversity and environmental restoration at the end of construction. 89 Sustainability Report 2016 Dust and air The construction sector, unlike other industrial > 195,000 quality sectors, does not produce significant air pollution. Pollution controls The main sources of air emissions are linked to the carried out on plants dispersion of dust produced by different activities: and equipment excavation, earthworks, movement of heavy vehicles on unpaved roads, crushing of excavated rocks and demolitions. Additional sources of air pollution are attributable to the emissions of worksite vehicles. Salini Impregilo adopts management methods to minimize: −− The dispersion of dust by constantly wetting any unpaved roads, creating systems that dampen the aggregates at the crushing plants, using special air filters at the cement storage silos and at the asphalt production plants, and covering trucks transporting powdery materials; −− The emissions from worksite vehicles through periodic maintenance schedules, the installation of filters, and the use of environmentally friendly vehicles. Noise and Before starting any new activity, we assess the > 970 vibrations potential impacts of noise and vibrations, Completed noise determining what steps to take to safeguard the and vibration health measurement and safety of workers (eg. through the use of campaigns personal protective equipment) and the surrounding environment (eg. consolidating the structures and using soundproofing systems). The areas with the greatest noise impact are then screened with sound barriers, both fixed and mobile, made of artificial or natural materials (rows of trees), capable of absorbing noise. Especially in areas with high population densities, we perform specific geomorphological studies of the soil before starting any activity, to understand how vibrations could reverberate in the ground, in order to identify the best operational technologies to use. Furthermore, noise and vibration levels are constantly measured during the activity, by means of suitable instruments installed near sensitive areas (eg. buildings, urban parks, offices), in order to verify the effectiveness of the mitigation measures, and intervene where necessary. Traffic and Each project develops and implements a dedicated > 7.8 Million transportation Traffic Management Plan. Based on the specific risks Hours worked due to the location of the worksite and to sensitive by worksite vehicles receptors (eg. The presence of residential areas, schools, hospitals, etc.), the Plan defines the vehicle > 370,000 traffic rules both inside and outside the worksite, as Routine well as the measures to reduce any inconvenience to maintenance carried local traffic and protect the safety of pedestrians. out on the vehicles 90 4. We assure Respect The staff operating the work equipment and the vehicles transporting goods and passengers are carefully selected and undergo special training on safety procedures, as well as being subject to periodic alcohol and drug testing. Vehicle traffic is monitored by special worksite Transportation Department teams, assisted in some projects by GPS tracking systems that monitor speed, fuel consumption, and abnormal behaviour by drivers. To reduce vehicle traffic and the associated emissions, our worksites also adopt staff mobility management programmes, in order to optimize transfers between work areas, canteens, and accommodations. These include the use of collective transport (buses) for workers and carpooling for the staff employed at the worksite offices. For more information about the policies on transporting goods to the worksites and staff transportation, see the previous section “Efficient use of resources” (Energy and greenhouse gas emissions). Biodiversity The Environmental Management Plans developed 2% by our projects mitigate the impact of our projects Project areas located on the environment, protecting the flora and fauna in protected areas through careful management of the water, work areas, quarries, and the areas for the storage and > 570,000 m2 disposal of the excavation waste materials. Areas restored with In the case of worksites located in protected or high topsoil biodiversity areas, Salini Impregilo complements the monitoring and mitigation procedures with specific analyses of the risks of interference between the construction activity and any protected species. Because construction activities have a limited duration, any impacts on biodiversity are temporary. For this reason, the goal of a responsible biodiversity management is to protect any plant species that are protected or have a high biodiversity value, and momentarily remove the fauna at risk during the works, in order to avoid the risk of injury. To this end, special worksite Environmental Department teams inspect the affected areas before starting any new activities, cataloguing any protected species. The wildlife is then removed by specialized veterinaries or transferred to safe or protected areas (eg. natural parks), with which the Group concludes appropriate agreements. All staff additionally receive special training on the procedures to follow in case of any protected species sightings and on the prohibitions to be respected (relating to hunting, capture, disturbance or damage, including nests and eggs). Finally, the staff of the worksite Environmental Department monitor the works and restore the pre-existing conditions at the end of activities. The local flora (endemic and/or protected) is also protected by means of suitable management protocols. In addition to protecting these species during the works, particular attention is paid during worksite decommissioning and environmental restoration (see below). 91 Sustainability Report 2016 Environmental Once construction is completed, Salini Impregilo > 490,000 m2 remediations handles the restoration of all the areas affected by Areas affected and plants, installations, quarries and landfill sires, in by reforestation reclamations order to bring them back to their original conditions. The restoration also facilitates natural revegetation, > 32,000 preventing soil erosion and improving land stability. Trees planted Any soil remediation required by contract or necessary due to finding previous contamination are agreed with the clients and carried out according to the requirements established by the local authorities. Finally, the Group also carries out reforestation after completing the construction works, typically using native species grown in nurseries specially created at the project locations or purchased locally. 92 4. We assure Respect 93 Sustainability Report 2016 5. We promote Transparency 94 5. We promote Transparency We promote ethical, open and transparent conduct with all our stakeholders. Salini Impregilo is committed to conducting its 5.1 business in an efficient manner, ensuring the highest level of transparency towards its stakeholders. This Our commitment starts with the corporate governance system, which is aligned with the highest international standards and best practices. Governance In particular, the corporate governance structure adopted by Salini Impregilo is based on the recommendations contained in the “Code of Conduct” approved in March 2006, as amended most recently on 9 July 2015 by the Committee for Corporate Governance and promoted by Borsa Italiana, ABI, Ania, Assogestioni, Assonime, and Confindustria, publicly available on the Corporate Governance Committee’s website52. Salini Impregilo has adopted an Internal Control and Risk Management System consisting of a set of rules, procedures, and organisational structures designed to enable the sound and appropriate business management of the company, in line with the established goals, through an effective process of identification, measurement, management, and monitoring of the main risks. This System is based on standards that require business activities be based on applicable internal and external rules, so that they may be traced and documented; that the allocation and exercise of powers as part of a decision-making process be matched to the positions of responsibility and/or with the critical significance and/or materiality of the underlying transactions; that those parties which take or implement decisions, those that record transactions, and those that are required to audit such transactions as provided for by law and the procedures set forth by the internal control system be 52 Available at the page http://www.borsaitaliana.it/comitato-corporate-governance/ codice/2015engclean.en.pdf 95 Sustainability Report 2016 different parties; and that confidentiality and compliance with the privacy legislation be ensured. At the end of 2016, the Company’s Board of Directors was composed of fifteen members (including four women), ten of whom satisfy the requirements of independence, representing 66.6% of the Board. The Board of Directors has established the following three committees among its members: −− Control and Risk Committee; −− Remuneration and Appointments Committee; −− Committee for Related-Party Transactions. The Board of Directors also appointed an Integrity Board that ensures the adequacy and the effective implementation of Model 231, in compliance with Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The Board, with the support of the Control and Risk Committee composed of five independent directors, is responsible for the supervision of any Sustainability issues. At the end of 2016, the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Department was also established, reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer, with the task of defining and ensuring the implementation of CSR measures in compliance with international best practices53. Investor Relations ensures constant relations with investors and rating agencies regarding the Group’s strategies and results, calling on the support of the CSR Department for relations with investors and SRI analysts. The most frequently used channels for the exchange of information in this dialogue mainly consist in institutional events (public presentations), one-to-one meetings, and web channels. The Communication Department liaises with all stakeholders, both internal and external, on an ongoing basis as well as fulfilling the legal obligations for listed companies. It activates all channels continuously, with an integrated communication process aimed at satisfying the stakeholders’ need for information and dialogue. In 2016, Salini Impregilo revived a Performance Management programme for approximately 120 senior employees, with the aim of strengthening our resultsoriented culture. The programme is structured in phases of goal setting and performance evaluation, and includes three categories of goals (company performance, department / section performance, organisational behaviour), in line with the top management’s goals. All departments must strive to meet their specific goals, including those related to Sustainability. 53 Previously, the Sustainability Unit reported directly to the Director of Compliance, who reported directly to the Chief Executive Officer. 96 5. We promote Transparency The integration of Sustainability To ensure an effective implementation of the Sustainability approach and priorities within the organisation, Salini Impregilo has developed an integrated framework that includes specific policies and management and control systems, in line with the main international standards and guidelines. In 2015 Salini Impregilo adopted a new Sustainability Policy, defining the 10 principles that should underlie the behaviour of all employees and all operational divisions, along with the principles established by the Code of Ethics. Salini Impregilo is also a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest sustainability initiative, which engages companies to align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Group has strengthened its commitment to human rights and workers’ rights through an International Framework Agreement signed in 2014 with the national and international construction trade unions. Salini Impregilo also voluntarily adopted an Integrated Management System in compliance with the international standards ISO 9001 (quality), ISO 14001 (environment), and OHSAS 18001 (health and safety), certified by an independent external body. Furthermore, in 2014 Salini Impregilo adopted an Anti-Corruption Compliance System, strengthening the prevention and control structure ensured by company procedures and Model 231 required by Italian law (see below). Sustainability is organised internally with a distributed model, requiring each corporate department to integrate any Sustainability issues under its responsibility into its processes and activities. The main departments involved are Human Resources, Procurement, QHSE (Quality, Health, Safety and Environment), Engineering, Compliance, Communication, and Investor Relations. The CSR Department coordinates the Corporate Sustainability activities, defining and ensuring the implementation of the Sustainability Plan, preparing the Sustainability Report, and supporting the CEO in ensuring the Company’s constant compliance with the CSR best practices. The CSR Department also reports regularly to the Control and Risk Committee on the progress of the corporate Sustainability programmes. This Sustainability Report is approved by the Board of Directors after review by the Control and Risk Committee. 97 Sustainability Report 2016 Focus: Salini Impregilo best Salini Impregilo was ranked first Open Corporation is the first ranking among construction companies created by trade unions, aiming to globally in terms of transparency and make multinational companies more Sustainability. The Group entered transparent, inclusive, and accessible the Top 10 of the Open Corporation to any employee. The project construction company ranking, the innovative project involved 50 multinational companies promoted by Filcams-Cgil and coglobally, in all economic sectors, funded by the European Commission, evaluating and comparing them on reaching third place in the Social issues related to working conditions, in the Top 10 of the Open Reporting Transparency Index, which financial and fiscal transparency, recognises companies with the best environmental protection policies, sustainability reports, and eighth and other issues of Sustainability. place in the Total Transparency Corporation rankings Index, which evaluates the overall transparency of companies. 5.2 To Salini Impregilo, combining business values with principles of ethics and integrity is integral Integrity in to the way it operates. In order to transmit these values to our employees and embody them in their behaviour, we have implemented a Compliance business System consisting of policies, procedures, models, organizational structures, and control activities. Moreover, the system is designed to ensure compliance with applicable competition laws, prevent anti-competitive practices and the risk of corruption, and maintain high levels of integrity in all our interactions with public authorities. A whistleblowing system completes the Compliance system, allowing employees to report in a totally anonymous manner any suspected or confirmed violations, ensuring their protection against any form of retaliation, discrimination or penalisation. Codes, policies, procedures and Models are published on the company’s intranet in the Group’s official languages, thus making them available to all Salini Impregilo employees. In addition, extensive internal communication is provided, as email announcements or dedicated newsletters, regarding updates to the Compliance System documents. Communication campaigns are also addressed to the Company’s governance and control bodies. As mentioned in Section 3.2, the Company has launched an induction process that is mandatory for all newly hired employees, which includes a training course 98 5. We promote Transparency dedicated to the Code of Ethics, the Organisational, Management and Control Model under Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, and the Anti-Corruption Model. The course is delivered through an online platform and requires passing a comprehension test. Code of Ethics Our commitment to operating with integrity is unequivocally defined in the Code of Ethics. For each corporate value, it identifies the guiding principles of our behaviours, which include honesty, fairness, integrity, impartiality, confidentiality, protection of human dignity and physical integrity, environmental protection, and respect for local communities. The Code is a reference for our employees and for anyone involved in pursuing the corporate mission or the goals of the Group. These principles also provide guidelines for the behaviour of managers, employees, and anyone who works with the Salini Impregilo Group. All new hires sign the Code of Ethics, and all contracts signed with partners, suppliers, service providers, consultants, etc., include an obligation of compliance with the Code. Organization, Management and Control Model Salini Impregilo adopted an organization, management and control model (know as Model 231), aimed at: −− Preventing the commission of offences under Italian Legislative Decree 231/01; −− Defining and incorporating a corporate culture based on respect and transparency; −− Raising awareness among employees and stakeholders. The Model operates by monitoring any operations subject to the risk of administrative liability of legal persons, introducing specific control tools that are referenced and made operational within the company’s procedures. The Model contains measures to ensure that the activities comply with the laws referred to in Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 and to detect and mitigate potential risks of non-compliance. An independent control body, the Integrity Board, monitors the effective implementation and compliance with the Model by means of checks carried out with support from the Compliance function. The Company has made available to employees an email and physical mail address to report any alleged violations of the 99 Sustainability Report 2016 Model, ensuring reporting anonymity and protection from any form of retaliation. To date, there have been no reports leading to the identification of irregularities in the Model’s application. Anti-Corruption Compliance System In order to strengthen the provisions of the Code of Ethics and fully integrate the tenth principle of the Global Compact into the organization, Salini Impregilo has developed its own Anti-Corruption System consisting of the following tools: (i) Anti-Corruption Model, approved by the Board of Directors on 16 June 2014, which established the principle of zero tolerance for corruption; (ii) Anti-Corruption Policy; (iii) Guidelines and procedures that define the roles and responsibilities of those involved and the operating procedures of the control processes and procedures. Salini Impregilo’s Anti-corruption System is monitored by the Compliance function based on risk indicators that take into account external and internal factors relevant to the Company’s purpose, including: (i) scale, structure and system of delegation of powers of the Company; (ii) places and sectors in which the Company operates or plans to operate, with particular reference to the country corruption indexes; (iii) nature, scale and complexity of the Company’s activities and operations; (iv) entities controlled by the Company. Risk analysis is conducted on all legal entities within the Group’s scope, with particular attention to organisations that manage operational projects over which Salini Impregilo has control or joint control. The Anti-Corruption Model forms an element of the Company’s Internal Control System and is aimed at strengthening certain prevention protocols, in order to minimize the risk of active or passive corruption and ensure compliance with the principles introduced by anti-corruption laws and international best practices. The procedures designated to support the AntiCorruption Model include the Guidelines devoted to the Assessment of Relevant Third Parties and the Management of Benefits to Third Parties. In particular, with regard to the management of gifts, the Company has established predefined economic thresholds for giving gifts to third parties54. Additionally, in the case of sponsorship and donation programmes, the Company has defined a specific authorization process to monitor the initiatives and to assess their consistency with the Code of Conduct. 54 Gifts of modest value are intended if they singularly do not excess the amount of €150 or, in case of more gifts toward the same person, the total value of €600. 100 5. We promote Transparency The Anti-Corruption Legal Support Unit, established within the Compliance Department, is responsible for providing assistance and advice on anti-corruption issues, as well as monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of the Model. Violating the principles and provisions of the AntiCorruption Model, or failing to report suspected or confirmed violations, represents a serious breach of contract for employees and contractors. In these cases, Salini Impregilo adopts the measures set forth by the legislation and the existing contracts, including conservative enforcements, dismissal, interruption of the contract, claims for damages, etc. Alongside the whistleblowing system mentioned above, the Company has provided a postal and email address for employees and third parties to report violations of the AntiCorruption Model. To date, no reports of irregularities have been received through these channels. In order to strengthen awareness, proper knowledge, and understanding of the Model, Salini Impregilo provides an anti-corruption training programme that is mandatory for all employees, calibrated on the basis of the job title and position of individual employees and their degree of involvement in those activities considered to be sensitive. The employees of Offices and construction projects under way in Italy received dedicated training immediately upon the system’s entry into force, and, starting from 2017, a new training campaign will be launched through a web platform that will extend the training to Salini Impregilo employees seconded to overseas projects. Moreover, all contracts with third parties now include specific clauses requiring compliance with the principles contained in Salini Impregilo’s Code of Ethics and AntiCorruption Model. 101 Sustainability Report 2016 An organisation such as Salini Impregilo, with 5.3 activities and projects around the world, manages thousands of daily interactions with its stakeholders. This is why we have established a structured Open dialogue approach for identifying our stakeholders, assessing their expectations, and defining the most appropriate dialogue methods. The following diagram summarises the types of relationships in with stakeholders place with the main stakeholders of the Group. Level of Duration of the Area of interest interaction relationship International Governance Environmental Community Medium term Duration of Interests Economic Long term Ad-hoc Local Social Stakeholder the project Employees & Trade Unions P P P P P P P Shareholders & Investors P P P P P P P P P Clients & Potential Clients P P P P P P P P P P Suppliers, Contractors, P P P P P P P P P Subcontractors & Partners Local Communities P P P P P P P P P & NGOs Governments & Public P P P P P P P P Administrations Trade Associations & the P P P P P P P P P P Media Our dialogue and engagement practices are diversified and flexible, in response to the different characteristics and needs of our stakeholders. At the corporate level, key stakeholders include investors, clients, current and potential employees, partners, public administrations, the media, and the general public. The dialogue with them is primarily concerned with development goals and strategies, the achieved results, and the corporate structure. At the operational level, the main engagement activities relate to the characteristics of each specific project. Our key stakeholders in this context include partners, employees, local communities, suppliers, contractors and sub-contractors, clients, local authorities and organizations such as trade unions and NGOs (NonGovernmental Organizations). As in previous years, in 2016 we carried out a number of dialogue and engagement activities with our 102 5. We promote Transparency stakeholders. The main ones are summarized in the figure below: Engagement activities in 2016 Delta compared to 201555 >6,200 people involved in Face-to-face about 400 meetings with communication local communities and their +108% involved people channels representatives Meetings, >42,300 people hosted at our +42% open-door events presentations, projects during 740 open-door focus groups, events workshops, interviews, >262,200 people involved +387% involved people consultations, career Local and global in over 160 campaigns of days, public events information on our projects stakeholders of Salini Impregilo Digital communication channels >8.5 million views on Group Company website, digital platforms56 interactive reports, intranets, magazines, webinars, surveys, social media The communications system of the Group at the Corporate level is distinguished by its strong identity and transparacy, principally via its digital channels: the corporate web site www.salini-impregilo.com, the main social media (LinkedIn, Instagram, Twitter and Youtube), the corporate magazine We Build Value, the company intranet @work, and numerous web-based products, created ad hoc. Furthermore, in terms of transparency and dialogue with stakeholders, in 2016 the live communication models were applied on various occasions, such as the launch of iconic projects (Panama Canal, Stavros Niachos Foundation Cultural Center, etc.) or corporate events, eg. The launch of the exhibition Beyond – Delivering the Future for the Past 110 years. In this period, additionally, Salini Impregilo set out on a path of innovation in its use of communications media in the construction sector making its major infrastructure projects and the people who work on them the subject of a rich and complete storytelling, able to relate the stories of epic works, along with the differences in cultures and territories, all enriched by the dialogue with users through an ecosystem of integrated communication on offline and online channels. 55 For more information about the scope of data, please refer to the Methodological Note. 56 Data refer to the visualization of the Group website, Online Reporting, Social Channels, Minisites and Intranet. 103 Sustainability Report 2016 Focus: 110 years on display In 2016, the Group celebrated its The event launched the exhibition first 110 years in business with an “Beyond Delivering the Future for initiative dedicated to its stakeholders the Past 110 Years” at the Triennale to promote culture about large of Milan, which was inaugurated infrastructure projects. by the Mayor of Milan and hosted the exhibition from September to With a wide range of initiatives, November 201658. Salini Impregilo told the story of the infrastructure projects and their For the first time, the world’s great contribution to the evolution of engineering was narrated as a work countries and populations, through of art in an immersive and multithe major works built by the Group sensory multimedia exhibition: the worldwide, with a triple action: huge infrastructure projects created information for institutions, investors, over more than a century by Salini opinion leaders and the media, Impregilo (bridges, dams, buildings, education for the general public, and metro systems, railways and roads), engagement for employees. were the undisputed protagonists of an exhibition that attracted the attention CLUSIV At the end of September 2016, the of a wide and varied audience. EX conference “Present and future of the Following its inauguration, the OVER ON SC E C TE world’s infrastructures” launched the exhibition saw a growing and constant DI NT infrastructure celebration plan, with flow of the public, institutions, industry a debate on the role of infrastructure experts, architects, trade associations, in the world and the tools to be journalists, students from schools activated to improve developmentwhose teachers chose the event as an related investment. The conference opportunity for training and education, was attended by the main Italian and families with children who institutions and international opinion participated in creative workshops. leaders (the Prime Minister of Italy, the Governor of the Lombardy Region, The 22,000 visitors, with peaks of top managers of major public and over a thousand visitors a day, and private companies in Italy, Italian and nearly two thousand on the last day, international banks, professors from expressed their appreciation for universities around the world and this innovative initiative. The data journalists). on public access to the Exhibition, analysed by an independent research During the conference, the main agency, showed a high rate of products created for stakeholders were participation and interaction, with presented, in particular the book “110 “a strong level of appreciation and years of future” published by Rizzoli, satisfaction for the installations. The the video documentary by journalist initiative was rewarded with an 80% Giovanni Minoli on the history of the approval by its audience, higher Group, a commemorative stamp than the benchmark of reference. issued by Poste Italiane following The interactive installations and the approval from the Ministry of Economic solid emotional engagement that the Development, and a dedicated Exhibition succeeded in generating website .57 in the public are the two main drivers 57 Available at page https://110years.salini-impregilo.com/en/ 58 Available at page http://www.triennale.org/en/mostra/beyond-delivering-the-future-for-the-past-110-years/ 104 5. We promote Transparency 105 Sustainability Report 2016 for the rating. The Exhibition can be roads and bridges that created the credited with building, for the first backbone of huge countries like the time in the world, a sound positive United States; they travelled inside reputation around the role of Major metro systems and along railways Infrastructure Projects.“ that connect cities sustainably and move people and goods, such as the Organized into eight themed Paris, New York and Riyadh metro rooms, the visitors were led on an systems; they visited iconic buildings, exploration of unique works, such as complementing the beauty of places the New Panama Canal, dams and beyond anyone’s imagination, such as hydroelectric plants that produce the Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center clean energy such as the dams in Athens, the Auditorium in Rome, or in China, Ethiopia, Argentina and the Great Mosque in Abu Dhabi. Colombia; they walked along the Information and employee engagement Interactions between the Company and its employees take place almost continuously, both in a structured and informal way. The Group has adopted an approach aimed at ensuring an open dialogue between management and staff through hierarchical and inter-functional reporting, the relations with trade unions, and social events and initiatives, both at corporate and operational level. Salini Impregilo employees have the opportunity to be constantly informed about the main issues related to the life of the Group, the progress of the projects, the performance of the business plan, new contracts and tenders, through the global intranet @work, the main channel of internal communication, which makes available documents and tools and enables a real-time debate within professional communities, through the use of social media features. During significant events, the Group also organises webinars to allow employees to participate live (presentation of the business plan, opening of the Beyond exhibition, inauguration of the Panama Canal and the Stavros Niarchos Foundation Cultural Center in Athens). Moreover, meetings reserved for employees and their representatives are regularly held in the workplaces, whether offices or worksites. The trade unions have dedicated channels for interacting with management, at the individual worksite/office level, the country level, and internationally, through relations with the international union, BWI (Building and Wood Workers’ International), with which Salini Impregilo signed a framework agreement in 2014. 106 5. We promote Transparency Corporate employees also have another structured discussion opportunity at their performance assessment, as well as many opportunities for sharing and reflection, such as the events organised to mark the achievement of certain project milestones and initiatives to celebrate special days, such as the World Day for Safety and Health at Work, which in 2016 saw over 20 projects implement awareness-raising initiatives involving about 3,000 employees59. Relations with potential employees are described in section 3.2 “Attracting and nurturing talent.” To share the Group’s strategies and strategic processes for the business Focus: “Leading our Growth growth plans, the first Salini Impregimodel; lo Strategy Day was organized in February 2016, reserved for about 100 2. Strategic Models and Processes top managers from the Company. for Growth: sharing of organizational models and processes to support The event “Leading our Growth” congrowth; Salini Impregilo Strategy sisted of a strategy meeting between Top Management and key figures of 3. Networking: round-table talks on the Group, to present the new identivalues and actions to be implementty pillars (vision, mission and values), ed with key stakeholders to improve communicate the drivers of change market positioning; and the levers of value creation, and Day 2016” share proactively ideas and proposals 4. Brainstorming and Closing Refor the 2016-2019 Business Plan, premarks: presentation to Top Managesented in London in May 2016. ment of the working groups’ results, summary of the messages emerged The event included moments of topfrom the day, call to action addressed down work, with the Top Management to the attendees. in plenary session presenting strategies and new organizational models, The call to action that closed the and working groups composed of day initiated an internal cascading the managers present, who drafted process by the attendees to all their and presented bottom-up to the Top first and second lines. In this way, management proposals for strategic each manager became an advocate activities to improve the Group’s marfor sharing the key message that ket positioning in the territories where emerged from the event with some it operates, in addition to the organi500 people between corporate and zational processes, in order to better worksites. Special toolkits were also meet the expectations of different catused to collect further suggestions egories of stakeholders. for improvement received from the people involved in the cascading The day was marked by the following process, the first carried out in the sessions: Group. The majority of suggestions regarded interaction activities with 1. Strategic Vision and Our Future: the stakeholders of the territories sharing of strategies, values and new where Salini Impregilo operates. 59 For more information, please refer to the focus shown in section 4.2. 107 Sustainability Report 2016 Dialogue with shareholders and investors As described in section 4.1, the Group’s Investor Relations handles the relations with shareholders, investors, analysts and rating agencies, in compliance with the principles of transparency established by law and by the codes of conduct. The channels of dialogue include presentations of business results, road shows, conference calls with top management and participating in primary broker conferences. The financial reports, press releases, presentations, and recordings of conference calls are promptly published on the Company’s website and remain available to the public. In addition, analysts and other stakeholders may contact the Company directly through the channels indicated in the Investor Relations, Media, and Sustainability sections. 2016 saw an increased interest from analysts and investors in issues of Sustainability, and they contacted the Company to request information on corporate policies and specific projects. In October 2016, as part of the 2016 CDP Climate Leadership Awards sponsored by Borsa Italiana, Salini Impregilo was also recognized as one of the most responsible companies in the world in the fight against climate change, with the inclusion in the prestigious Climate “A List”. Focus on client needs As described in section 3.1, Salini Impregilo is totally focused on the development of design solutions that meet client expectations. Doing so requires stable and indepth relations, and after the client defines the initiative, these are established during the commercial phase (prequalification), intensify during the proposal preparation (tender and/or offer), and become ongoing during the project’s implementation. The dialogue with clients involves numerous company counterparts, and they vary according to the different business phases. The scouting for initiatives to participate in mainly involves the corporate structures, which interact with potential clients for pre-qualification activities. The next phase, where the offers need to be prepared and submitted, sees greater involvement of engineers and technicians working at both a corporate and local level. Finally, once the contract has been won, the relations with clients are managed by the project team specially formed for the purpose, with the support of the corporate departments. 108 5. We promote Transparency In the life cycle of a project, the dialogue between Salini Impregilo and its clients encompasses 360 degrees, from purely technical and operational issues to managing social, environmental and worker protection issues, and the relations with local communities, etc. Relations with suppliers Section 3.3, which includes more information, details the collaboration and development activities undertaken by Salini Impregilo with its suppliers and subcontractors. The first relationship that is established between Salini Impregilo and suppliers regards their selection stage. In 2016, the Group contacted tens of thousands of potential suppliers, and 4,500 new suppliers were selected and awarded supply contracts. In addition to worksite activities related to supply management and other support initiatives, such as coordination meetings and training activities, it is important to also highlight some of the corporate-level dialogue initiatives carried out during 2016. Among them, we note the first Procurement Convention held in February 2016, which involved the company’s Top Management and represented an important opportunity for interacting with the Group’s suppliers, aimed at developing new partnership models and innovation processes. This event was followed by the Innovation Days, each of which was dedicated to a single supplier, to share experiences related to new technologies, innovative products, processes, and other topics of common interest60. The dialogue with local communities Salini Impregilo considers the communities living in the areas surrounding its projects one of the most sensitive stakeholder groups, together with workers. Depending on the context, these may be affected by the Group’s activities more severely than other stakeholders, with inconveniences associated with noise, dust and traffic, or simply needing to receive adequate information about the works that involve their local area. Transparency is therefore a key driver for the Group, accompanied by an approach to local communities guided by the principles of fairness and respect for local cultures and traditions. Contractual agreements between Salini Impregilo and its clients require in most cases that relations with 60 For more information, please refer to the focus shown in section 3.3. 109 Sustainability Report 2016 local communities be managed jointly, usually with a leadership role assumed by the client and a supporting role provided by Salini Impregilo. Based on these agreements, the communication channels to be used in the worksite are defined, be they physical (e.g. office for relations with the public) or technological, in the form of dedicated phone lines, websites, email addresses, etc. These channels allow the project to maintain a direct contact with local communities, providing information and gathering any feedback. The comments and feedback received are analysed by the project’s management and addressed according to specific procedures (grievance mechanisms). Working continuously in co-operation with its clients, Salini Impregilo develops and implements comprehensive communication campaigns to inform the local population about the projects’ progress, while also planning worksite visits, special events and social initiatives. In 2016 we organised meetings, information campaigns and open door events that were attended by more than 310,000 local stakeholders. Furthermore, as part of its CSR policies, Salini Impregilo also interacts directly with communities to define and implement social and philanthropic initiatives. For a thorough description of these initiatives, please refer to section 2.2. The Group is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with civil society and, to that end, it interacts with NGOs representing the interests of the community or other public interests (e.g. environment, human rights, etc.). During 2016, the NGO Survival International submitted to the Italian National Contact Point (NCP) of the OECD a specific application against Salini Impregilo for an alleged failure to comply with the “OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises” in relation to construction of the Gibe III hydropower project in Ethiopia. The OECD Guidelines are recommendations to multinational enterprises of OECD countries containing non-binding standards and principles aimed at ensuring responsible business practices in line with international law and the laws applicable in the countries in which the multinationals operate. Salini Impregilo complies with the OECD Guidelines, in line with its adherence to the United Nations Global Compact. The application submitted by Survival concerned the alleged failure to respect the rights of some community residents approximately 300 to 500 km downstream of the Gibe III project, whose natural resources would be reduced due to its construction. The OECD Guidelines specify that a company’s obligations concerning human rights depend on the type of business and the role they play. Salini Impregilo, as contractor for the construction 110 5. We promote Transparency of the Gibe III project, believes that it has fully complied with the rights of the communities affected by its direct activities, and that is has carried out the additional activities required by the guidelines towards its partners. In 2016, the Group gave full support to the Italian NCP engaged in the managing the instance, which is expected to come to a conclusion in the first half of 2017. Media relations The Group has established an ongoing and transparent dialogue with the major national and international media. Relations with the media are handled by the Communication Department, daily and extensively, or on special occasions dedicated to individual media, such as requests for interviews with Top Management, ad hoc presentations, or media reports on the Group’s projects. The www.salini-impregilo.com website, the social media channels and the Corporate Magazine We Build Value, with its new App launched in 2016, are the Group’s main online communication channels, to ensure transparent and consistent communication not only with the media, but also with anyone interested in issues related to the world of infrastructure in a broader sense, as a fundamental tool in the development of the global economy. In this light, the Corporate Magazine We Build Value is presented as a tool that goes beyond the Group’s actions and addresses in an original and exclusive way the megatrends that drive development in the global infrastructure sector, together with the key projects that define its benefits across five continents. Exclusive interviews with We Build Value granted by winners of the Nobel Prize for Economics, teachers from top international universities, and experienced engineers in the industry help interpret the industry’s megatrends. 111 Sustainability Report 2016 its stakeholders in a clear, effective, Focus: Salini Impregilo among The Salini Impregilo website won 6th place in the 2016 Webranking, rising continuous and particularly distinctive by as much as 6 points from the 12th manner. place it achieved in 2015, bringing theThe award is in line with the integrated Group’s website directly into the top digital communication strategy and 10. The research, conducted by the new digital tools that Salini Impregilo Swedish Comprend and conducted in has chosen for communicating the best Italian companies for Italy by the specialist firm Lundquist,globally about its major infrastructure assessed the quality of the online projects in a distinctive manner. communication of 110 Italian listed During 2016, the Group organized companies. the event “Communicating the major infrastructure projects. Salini Transparency and dialogue with Impregilo: Change-maker of digital online communication stakeholders continue to be key points communication”, where it presented of the evaluation. This achievement the latest innovations in terms of digital is a new success for the website, communication: from the revamping which in 2015 was awarded “Best of the Group’s website and the We Improver”, and it demonstrates Build Value magazine to the launch of Salini Impregilo’s commitment and the magazine’s App and the innovative ability to communicate online with content on the Group’s Intranet. 112 CLUSIV EX OVER ON SC E C TE DI NT Sustainability Report 2016 6. Appendix 114 6. Appendix Salini Impregilo was the first Italian company in the construction industry to produce and publish an Environmental Report in 2002, and it was the first to publish a Sustainability Report prepared according to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative in 2009. We continue to ensure that our reporting meets the highest standards, in line with our path of transparency and accountability. This Sustainability Report is prepared based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G4). The G4 guidelines place particular emphasis on the 6.1 concept of materiality, requiring organizations to focus their reports only on significant economic, Materiality social and environmental impact, maintaining an open dialogue with their internal and external analysis stakeholders. In order to indentify the topics relevant to Salini Impregilo and define the Report’s content, we have developed a specific process that complies with the G4 guidelines, summarized below: −− Internal identification of the potential Sustainability topics relevant for our industry, by analysing peers, Sustainability rating agencies, industry studies and the media; −− Internal prioritization of the topics identified by the Group’s management, through a process of consultation with key corporate functions, including human resources, quality and HSE managers, procurement, production managers, the technical department, the legal department, and investor relations managers, etc.; −− External prioritization of the topics identified with the main stakeholders of the Group, through interactions during the reporting period (i.e. topics most frequently requested by clients in the prequalifying and tender stages, the topics most frequently requested by analysts and investors through questionnaires and interviews, the topics addressed with the trade unions) and an online survey sent to a sample of stakeholders that included employees, investors, clients, suppliers, sustainability experts and NGOs; −− Final approval of the definitive list of priority issues by the company management. 115 Sustainability Report 2016 Material issues Below is the list of material issues identified through the materiality analysis and their scopes. The full list of projects in which the issues are material is available in the Methodology Note. Material issues Significance inside Significance outside included in the Related material issues of the GRI G4 the organization the organization Report Solidity Subcontractors and Creating new Corporate and major Presence in the market service providers at jobs projects the major projects* Subcontractors and Support to the Economic Performance, Investment, Corporate and major service providers at local economies Indirect economic impacts projects the major projects* Support to the Local communities Major projects communities Excellence Partners, suppliers, Innovation and Corporate and subcontractors* and client satisfaction major projects consultants Talent attraction Work, Training and Education, Corporate and and development Diversity and Equal Opportunities major projects Procurement procedures, Assessment Corporate and Suppliers and of Supplier Impacts on the Environment, Supply Chain major projects subcontractors at Labour Practices, Human the major projects* Rights and Society 116 6. Appendix Material issues Significance inside Significance outside included in the Related material issues of the GRI G4 the organization the organization Report Transparency Ethics and Integrity, Public Policy, Third parties Anti-Competitive Behaviour, defined by the Corporate and Integrity Anti-Corruption, Compliance, Code of Ethics and local branches Assessment of supplier impact on the Anti-Corruption Society System Corporate and Clients and Stakeholder engagement, Open dialogue major projects subcontractors at Local communities the major projects* Respect Occupational health and safety, Occupational Subcontractors at Assessment of supplier impact Major projects health and safety the major projects* on labour practices and human rights Employee/management relations, Nondiscrimination, Freedom of association Subcontractors and and collective bargaining, Staff protection service providers procedures, Child labour, Forced labour, (eg. employment Human Rights Major projects Pay equality between men and women, agencies, security Indigenous rights, Assessment, Grievance companies) at the mechanisms for impacts on labour major projects* practices and human rights Materials, Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents and Waste, Soil Environmental degradation, Soil contamination Subcontractors at Major projects protection and remediation, Transportation, the major projects* Compliance, General, Grievance mechanisms for environmental impacts * The Group requires that all its subcontractors and service providers provide data on their social and environmental performance. However, depending on the geographical area in question, such data is not always available. 117 Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability challenges and opportunities To provide a broader view of the materiality analysis, the following table shows the main Sustainability risks and potential opportunities related to the Group, broken down by our four areas of engagement. Scope Topics Potential risks Potential opportunities Lower logistics and Customs costs due to the Job creation Difficulty in finding specialized use of local suppliers; availability of skilled local workforce; lack of workers and suppliers for future projects Support to local qualified local suppliers; through capacity building and vocational economies Solidity poorly managed HSE; training; generating tangible benefits for reputational risks of nonlocal economies resulting from the creation Support for compliance in relationships of direct and indirect employment, tax communities with communities. contributions, and development of social initiatives for the communities. Loss of competitiveness due to the inability to meet the growing demand for innovative and sustainable construction solutions; Client and community satisfaction deriving Innovation and difficulties in implementing from the use of best available technologies client satisfaction projects according to the and know-how; increased staff productivity standard of excellence due and lower costs of recruiting due to the Talent attraction Excellence to a failure to develop the availability of motivated and trained staff, and development staff; lower productivity with greater capability to cover vacant and deteriorated working positions with internal resources; ability Supply Chain environment due to to involve suppliers and partners in the insufficient investments in development of projects. training; operational and reputational risks arising from non-compliance in managing the supply chain. 118 6. Appendix Scope Topics Potential risks Potential opportunities Lower reputational and financial risks arising Reputational risks arising from the implemented compliance system; Corporate from non-compliance; loss of broad “license to operate” granted by Governance confidence by investors and local and global stakeholders in response Transparency the authorities; opposition to the Group’s efforts to involve all project Integrity from local communities stakeholders; development of a climate of resulting in delays and mutual trust and local consensus; lower risks Open dialogue increased costs. of disputes, with consequent benefits in terms of regularity of the works and staff safety. Increased absenteeism and staff insurance and welfare costs due to a high number of Higher staff productivity due to staff welfare; injuries and non-compliances reduced absenteeism and insurance and related to labour issues; Occupational welfare costs; ability to acquire projects that environmental impacts Health and Safety require high standards in terms of H&S; lower resulting from inadequate environmental impact ensured by rigorous Respect assessments and/or Human Rights assessment, management and control ineffective management and procedures; reduced risks of delays in the control plans; conflicts with Environmental works caused by environmental problems or local communities arising protection conflicts with local communities; lower risk of from the inconveniences litigation; better reputation. caused and from damage to existing infrastructure and private property. 119 Sustainability Report 2016 SEED Model Below are the complete figures on the contributions generated by Salini Impregilo projects on Italy, Ethiopia and Panama in 2015. The figures refer to the total contribution of projects in progress in those three countries, regardless of Salini Impregilo’s share of involvement. Italy Contribution to employment GDP generated in the economy For every Salini 182 For every euro generated Impregilo worker by Salini Impregilo 2,963 10,352 8 655 29 euros of GDP people work in the are generated in the economic system Downeconomy Downstream stream Total contribution Total contribution 15,116 people €867 million 1,801 Indirect Equal to 0.06% 30 Equal to 0.05% Indirect of Italy’s GDP Direct of Italy’s employment Direct Contribution to P.A. Generated labor income For every euro paid to the P.A. For every euro paid to by Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo workers 43 10 euros 61 3 euros of public revenues are 246 of labor income are 155 generated in the economy generated in the economy DownDownstream Total contribution stream Total contribution €220 million €433 million 126 22 Indirect Equal to 0.06% Indirect Equal to 0.08% of Italy’s labor income Direct of Italy’s P.A. revenues Direct revenue 120 6. Appendix Ethiopia Contribution to employment GDP generated in the economy For every Salini For every euro generated Impregilo worker by Salini Impregilo 76,586 83,147 21 2 euros of GDP people work in the 206 are generated in the economic system economy Downstream 182 Total contribution Total contribution Down167,737 people 324 stream €712 million Indirect 1.30% 8,004 Indirect Equal to 0.40% Equal to of Ethiopia’s GDP Direct of Ethiopia’s employment Direct Contribution to P.A. Generated labor income For every euro paid to the P.A. 105 For every euro paid to by Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo workers 19 2 euros 6 euros of public revenues are of labor income are 17 generated in the economy generated in the economy Down59 Total contribution Total contribution 40 stream €76 million €195 million Downstream Indirect 31 Equal to 1.50% Indirect Equal to 1.50% of Ethiopia’s labor income Direct of Ethiopia’s P.A. revenues Direct revenue 121 Sustainability Report 2016 Panama Contribution to employment GDP generated in the economy For every Salini For every euro generated Impregilo worker by Salini Impregilo 3,740 92 13,760 20 5 euros of GDP people work in the are generated in the economic system economy Down293 stream Total contribution DownTotal contribution stream 18,438 people €472 million 938 87 Indirect Equal to 1.10% Indirect Equal to 1% of Panama’s employment of Panama’s GDP Direct Direct Contribution to P.A. Generated labor income For every euro paid to the P.A. For every euro paid to by Salini Impregilo Salini Impregilo workers 8 26 2 euros 37 3 euros of public revenues are 163 of labor income are Downgenerated in the economy generated in the economy stream Down38 Total contribution stream Total contribution Indirect €72 million 109 €309 million Indirect Equal to 1.75% Equal to 2.44% of Panama’s labor income Direct of Panama’s P.A. revenues Direct revenue 122 6. Appendix 123 Sustainability Report 2016 6.2 Performance data ECONOMIC KPIs Direct economic value generated and distributed61 Unit 2014 2015* 2016 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated €M 4,244 4,789 5,953 Operating costs 62 €M 3,253 3,660 4,375 Employee wages and benefits €M 512 539 886 Payments to providers of capital €M 158 142 181 Payments to government €M 27 51 84 Economic value distributed €M 3,950 4,392 5,525 Economic value retained €M 294 397 428 Direct employees hired from the local community Unit 2014 2015 2016 Africa % 96% 93% 95% Central and South America % 96% 91% 93% North America % 96% 77% 99% Europe % 88% 76% 78% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 46% 21% 13% Total % 86% 71% 75% Indirect employees hired from the local community63 Unit 2014 2015 2016 Africa % 97% 96% 97% Central and South America % 92% 87% 98% North America % 100% Europe % 69% 58% 79% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 46% 95% 17% Total % 74% 82% 70% Proportion of spending on local suppliers Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EC9 Africa % 40% 56% 41% Central and South America % 49% 64% 88% North America % 99% 100% 100% Europe % 97% 84% 79% Middle East, Asia and Oceania % 68% 86% 93% Total % 58% 75% 85% SOCIAL KPIs Direct employees64 Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-10 Africa no. 18,839 15,242 15,072 Central and South America no. 4,454 2,927 3,080 North America no. 299 71 4,626 Europe no. 3,634 4,025 3,848 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 6,911 8,333 7,814 Total no. 34,137 30,598 34,440 124 6. Appendix Indirect employees63 Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-10 Africa no. 2,108 2,493 2,950 Central and South America no. 5,455 3,453 7,325 North America no. 58 Europe no. 4,857 3,129 8,048 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 4,270 1,628 6,856 Total no. 16,748 10,703 25,179 Total workforce (direct and indirect employees)63 Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-10 Africa no. 20,947 17,735 18,022 Central and South America no. 9,909 6,380 10,405 North America no. 357 71 4,626 Europe no. 8,491 7,154 11,896 Middle East, Asia and Oceania no. 11,181 9,961 14,670 Total no. 50,885 41,301 59,619 Direct employees by category Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA12 Manager % 1% 1% 1% Staff % 20% 22% 21% Workers % 79% 77% 78% Direct employees by age group Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA12 Under 30 years old % 44% 41% 32% 30-50 years old % 47% 49% 54% Over 50 years old % 9% 10% 14% Direct employees by gender Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA12 Women % 8% 10% 9% Men % 92% 90% 91% Total training hours provided to direct employees Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA9 Manager hours 7,822 31,783 80,217 Staff hours 109,096 116,076 168,672 Workers hours 588,201 874,616 879,440 Total hours 705,118 1,022,475 1,128,328 Average per capita hours of training provided Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA9 to direct employees Manager hours 18 111 222 Staff hours 16 17 23 Workers hours 22 37 33 Average hours 21 33 33 125 Sustainability Report 2016 Total workforce injury rate by region Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA6 Global IR 0.86 0.74 0.65 Africa IR 0.94 0.93 0.75 Central and South America IR 1.06 0.61 1.55 North America IR 0.27 Europe IR 1.48 2.05 1.83 Middle East, Asia and Oceania IR 0.16 0.19 0.07 Total workforce lost day rate by region Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-LA6 Global LDR 15.12 18.23 18.63 Africa LDR 13.21 18.85 20.46 Central and South America LDR 20.28 7.51 22.07 North America LDR 11.16 Europe LDR 31.58 76.69 64.15 Middle East, Asia and Oceania LDR 5.36 5.67 4.53 Health and Safety expenses Unit 2014 2015 2016 Health and Safety protection expenses €M 11.7 18.9 15.8 Health and Safety prevention and management €M 10.7 15.8 22.5 expenses Total €M 22.4 34.8 38.3 Community support initiatives Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments no. 8 3 18 Social programmes no. 48 41 154 Total no. 56 44 172 Community investments Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EC7 Pro-bono €M 2.1 1.3 1.4 In-kind €M 0.4 0.0 0.2 Total €M 2.5 1.3 1.6 ENVIRONMENTAL KPIs Materials used Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN1 Aggregates t 23,219,469 74,139,346 18,414,529 Bitumen t 181,996 34,638 320,777 Cement t 1,424,483 1,099,083 1,144,950 Reinforcing bars t 465,760 1,300,379 2,788,974 Precast concrete t 351,434 320,694 470,314 Ready-made asphalt t 479,268 537,609 393,524 Ready-made concrete t 1,891,966 1,997,621 3,467,691 Total non-renewable materials t 28,014,377 79,429,370 27,000,759 Materials intensity (aggregates excluded) t/€ M 1,143 1,116 1,402 126 6. Appendix Energy consumption Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN3/ EN4 Diesel GJ 8,358,798 8,122,721 7,024,685 Gasoline GJ 112,078 213,530 387,590 Kerosene GJ 12,700 3,474 2,560 Natural gas GJ 66,655 89,849 1,891,943 Electricity GJ 496,683 413,566 537,674 Electricity from renewable sources GJ 1,256 75,584 322,438 Total energy consumption GJ 9,048,170 8,918,723 10,166,890 Energy intensity GJ/€ M 2,157 1,882 1,660 Total water withdrawal Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN8 Ground water m 3 1,625,909 2,789,941 1,795,148 River m3 14,149,383 21,931,473 29,673,371 Lake m 3 10,598,380 5,694,071 184,384 Sea m 3 339 Municipal water supplies m 3 680,072 753,563 1,610,059 Total m 3 27,053,744 31,169,387 33,262,962 Water intensity m3/€ M 6,450 6,577 5,431 Direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2 and 3) Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN15/16/17 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) t CO2e 473,619 526,032 534,974 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) t CO2e 47,520 34,509 40,858 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) t CO2e 194,796 129,667 152,347 Total GHG emissions t CO2e 715,935 690,208 728,179 GHG emissions intensity 65 t CO2e 163 140 115 /€ M Other significant air emissions Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN21 from stationary sources (power stations) NOx t 3,086 3,162 1,624 CO t 230 235 658 HC t 22 22 11 PM t 31 32 126 SO2** t 31 VOC** t 95 HAP** t 21 Total waste by activity Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN23 Construction and demolition waste t 236,061 229,268 210,486 Excavation waste t 4,031,917 5,775,752 5,668,545 General and other waste t 19,207 49,060 80,210 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 4,287,186 6,054,080 5,959,241 Waste intensity (excavation waste excluded) t/€ M 61 59 47 127 Sustainability Report 2016 Total waste by disposal method Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN23 Recovery, reuse and recycling t 2,351,633 2,982,962 3,286,927 Incineration t 159 1,784 5,906 Landfill t 1,935,394 3,069,334 2,666,407 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 4,287,186 6,054,080 5,959,241 Total waste by type Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN23 Non-hazardous waste t 4,101,342 5,964,885 5,929,856 Hazardous waste t 185,844 359,195 29,385 Total non-hazardous and hazardous waste t 4,287,186 6,054,080 5,959,241 Waste diverted from landfill Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN23 Waste recycled and reused % 55% 49% 55% Environmental expenses Unit 2014 2015 2016 G4-EN31 Waste management, emission treatment and €M 4.7 18.9 26.5 remediation costs Environmental prevention and management expenses €M 9.7 14.6 17.7 Total €M 14.5 33.5 44.3 NB. The 2016 includes the U.S. subsidiary Lane Industries, acquired on 4 January 2016. 61. The figures shown were prepared based on the IFRS financial statements. 62. The figure includes community investments. For further details, please refer to G4-EC7. 63. Indirect employees include subcontractors’ and temporary agencies’ personnel, and workers of other service providers employed at Group’s sites. 64. The decrease of direct employees in 2015, in comparison with 2014, is due to the physiologic lag between the demobilization of some large projects and the mobilization of personnel in new-awarded projects, as well as due to the retirement of employees from projects located in geopolitical unstable areas, in order to safeguard their safety. 65. The intensity index is calculated without taking into account all of the Scope 3 emissions, but rather only those generated from the Group’s projects (i.e. arising from the activities of subcontractors), thus excluding those resulting from freight forwarding and staff travel. * Economic data for 2015 has been restated in accordance with IFRS 5. This data does not include Lane Industries, acquired on 4 January 2016. ** Emissions related to SO2, VOC and HAP are produced by asphalt production plants of the subsidiary Lane Industries (USA), acquired on 4 January 2016. 128 6. Appendix 6.3 The Sustainability Report at 31 December 2016 (hereinafter the “2016 Sustainability Report” or “Report”) aims to provide reliable, complete, balanced, accurate and comparable information concerning the values, strategies and performance achieved by Salini Impregilo during the reporting period. Methodology note Reporting cycle The Sustainability Report is prepared annually and approved by the Board of Directors of Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Applied standards The 2016 Sustainability Report of the Salini Impregilo Group was prepared in accordance with the “Comprehensive” option of the “GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” and the “Construction and Real Estate Sector Disclosures” published by the GRI Global Reporting Initiative in 2013 and early 2014, respectively. Responding to the Comprehensive option, we chose to report all the indexes related to the 11 identified material issues. In addition, the Report contains references to the 10 principles of the Global Compact, reporting the actions and systems implemented by the Group to incorporate these principles as part of the corporate strategy and operations. Independent external verification To ensure the reliability of the information contained in the Report and improve the reporting processes, Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. was appointed to audit the Report. The independent auditors’ report is incorporated at the end of this document. Scope of the Report The Sustainability Report 2016 contains a description of the main initiatives and activities undertaken by Salini Impregilo Group in 2016, the performance data for the 20142016 period, and the significant events that affected the Group in the first half of 2017. The information contained in this report refers to the Salini Impregilo Group (the “Group” or “Salini Impregilo”), which includes Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and its subsidiaries 129 Sustainability Report 2016 and investees. The term “Company” is used when referring solely to the parent company Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Unless otherwise specified in the text and/or in the GRI Content Index, the scope of the report follows the following criteria: −− The economic, financial, and workforce data refers to the scope of the 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements of the Salini Impregilo Group, except for the data on local purchases; −− The data and information relating to Corporate Governance refer to Salini Impregilo S.p.A.; −− The environmental and social data (excluding the workforce data and including the local purchases data) refer to a scope of major projects (listed below) defined by applying the two following criteria: • T he “Operational control” principle, which identifies all active projects with any of the following characteristics: direct contract; contract managed by a consortium/JV/ATI in which Salini Impregilo is a leading partner. •  “Significance” principle, which selects among the projects identified by the previous principle those with significant production activities in the period, in terms of revenue and man-hours worked. Projects excluded from the scope are considered not relevant for the purposes of this document. Any specific limitations to the scope are indicated directly in the Report, in particular in the GRI Content Index. Compared to the 2015 Sustainability Report, the scope of this report includes, for the first time, the activities of Lane Industries, which joined the Salini Impregilo Group in January 2016. In addition to being active in the construction industry, Lane Industries also owns and manages asphalt, concrete, and aggregate production plants. The scope of Lane Industries follows the principles set out above, and it also includes production facilities and contracts in which Lane is not the JV leader (in which case the data is included pro-rata). In consideration of the foregoing and of the variability of the scope resulting from the type of business, the comparison between the 2016 data and the previous periods may not always be relevant. It should also be noted that the injury data included in this Sustainability Report refer to a wider scope than the one covered by the Salini Impregilo Group’s Quality Environment and Safety Management System, which 130 6. Appendix applies to projects where the decision-making roles in these systems are entrusted to Salini Impregilo (eg. RQAS). Below is the list of projects included in the reporting scope of the Sustainability Report. For more information on the projects, visit our website www.salini-impregilo.com. Country Project name Scope Company Riachuelo environmental Impregilo S.p.A. – Argentina Dams, hydroelectric plants recovery project* S.A. HEALY Company UTE Railways and Impregilo Salini Joint Australia NW Rail Link* metro systems Venture Motorways, roads Colombia Ruta del Sol* Constructora Ariguani S.a.s and bridges Railways and Denmark CMT Copenhagen (Cityringen)* Copenhagen Metro Team metro systems Ethiopia Gibe III* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam Ethiopia Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. (GERD)* Ethiopia66 Koysha Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Airports, civil and Greece Stavros Niarchos Cultural Center* Impregilo-Terna SNFCC JV industrial buildings Railways and Italy Isarco underpass Isarco s.c.a.r.l metro systems COCIV (Milan Genoa High speed/ Railways and Italy Consorzio Cociv High capacity rail)* metro systems Malaysia Ulu Jelai hydroelectric project* Dams, hydroelectric plants TM Salini Consortium Namibia Diga di Neckartal* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Expansion of the Panama Canal Grupo Unidos Por El Canal Panama67 Dams, hydroelectric plants (Third set of locks)* S.A. Motorways, roads Impregilo Salini Poland S3 Nowa Sol-Legnica and bridges Joint Venture Motorways, roads Impregilo Salini Poland S7Checiny-Jedrzejow and bridges Joint Venture Motorways, roads Impregilo Salini Joint Poland S8 Marki-Radzymin and bridges Venture 131 Sustainability Report 2016 Country Project name Scope Company Qatar Abu Hamour hydroelectric project* Dams, hydroelectric plants Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Railways and Qatar Red Line North – Doha* ISG J.V. metro systems Airports, civil and Galfar Salini Impregilo Qatar Al Bayt Stadium industrial buildings S.p.A. Cimolai Motorways, roads Romania Highway LugojDeva* Salini Impregilo S.p.A. and bridges Railways and metro Saudi Arabia Riyadh Metro, Line 3* Civil Works J.V. systems Motorways, roads Salini Impregilo Duha Joint Slovakia Lietavska Lucka-Visnove-Dubna Skala and bridges Venture Motorways, roads Todini Costruzioni Generali Tunisia Autostrada Oued Zarga-Boussalem* and bridges S.p.A. Motorways, roads Todini Costruzioni Generali Tunisia Autostrada Sfax-Gabes* and bridges S.p.A. Motorways, roads Todini Costruzioni Generali Ucraina Strada M03 Kiev – Kharkiv* and bridges S.p.A. Lane Industries construction projects in the USA and the Middle East; Lane Lane Industries USA Industries manufacturing facilities in Incorporated the USA Rail line and stations Puerto Railways and Venezuela Salini Impregilo S.p.A. Cabello Contuy Ferrocarriles* metro systems Impregilo Salini Joint Zimbabwe66 Mukorsi Dam Dams, hydroelectric plants Venture * Projects already included in the 2015 Sustainability Report. 66 Projects in their starting or closing phases during the period, for which only the injury data was considered, since the other issues were not significant. 67 Project delivered in June 2016, with much of the construction work completed in 2015. Therefore, in 2016 the only data taken into consideration regarded staff (including injuries), the environment, quality, and economic and financial figures, since the other issues were not significant. 132 6. Appendix Methods of calculation The data and information included in the report are derived from the company’s information system used for the management and accounting of the Group and from a Sustainability reporting system specifically implemented to meet the GRI requirements. Some information and data is taken from public sources. The data was processed using precise calculations and, where specifically indicated, using estimates. Below are the methods for determining the main indicators. Injury rates The injury rates are calculated as determined by the “ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases”, as set forth in the GRI Guidelines. The reported rates are expressed as the number of occurred injuries (IR) and the related number of lost days (LDR) for every 100 employees. In particular, the IR is calculated as the ratio between the total number of injuries with a prognosis exceeding three days occurring during the period (including deaths) and total hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The LDR is the ratio between the total number of days lost (related to injuries with prognosis exceeding three days) and the total number of hours worked, multiplied by 200,000. The lost work days are calculated considering the calendar days. The IR and LDR indexes are shown both in reference to the total workforce and separately for direct staff (section 4.2) and subcontractors (section 3.3). The calculation of the injury rates excludes commuting injuries. They do, however, include any injuries occurring to independent contractors (eg. consultants). Since they are not linked to the typical activities of the construction sector, any injuries occurring in the operating sites involving staff of the service providers (eg. canteen catering company), at the headquarters, and at the branches are not considered relevant and are therefore not included in the injury rates. HSE expenses Expenses related to reported Health, Safety and the Environment refer to: −− Expenses for the protection of Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), which include personal protective equipment, safety facilities (eg. fire protection systems, electrical grounding), the emergency management vehicles and services (eg. emergency equipment, ambulances, first 133 Sustainability Report 2016 aid facilities, emergency team, etc.), the OHS monitoring activities (eg. laboratories, instruments, measurements, etc.), and the health care expenses (eg. clinic management, medical staff, medicines); −− Expenses for environmental protection, including the environmental protection systems (eg. wastewater treatment plants), equipment (eg. emergency kits, absorbent materials, anti-overflow systems, etc.) and environmental emergency response services (eg. provided by external companies through framework agreements), waste management, environmental restoration and remediation, and environmental monitoring (eg. laboratories, instruments, measurements, etc.); −− OSH and Environmental management costs, including internal staff dedicated to HSE management systems, external advice, and training costs. Energy used The calculations of the direct internal and external (i.e. subcontractors) energy consumption are based on conversion factors provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories). Water withdrawals, discharges, and reus The data on water not taken from aqueducts, not purchased from other sources (eg. tankers), and not measured by meters (including discharged and reused water) is calculated from the hours of operation of the pumps used for withdrawals and their hourly flow. The wastewater is estimated as a percentage of the total water withdrawn, taking into account the specific use of water (industrial or domestic). Rainwater, even if it is collected, is not calculated because it is not considered significant. The Group does not use wastewater from other organizations. Greenhouse gas emission The calculations of the Group’s emissions are based on: −− The emission factors provided by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories) for direct energy consumption; −− The emission factors provided by the International Energy Agency (CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2013 edition, 2011 figures) for indirect energy consumption; 134 6. Appendix −− The emission factors provided by the IPCC (AR4 Fourth Assessment Report 100yr) to convert CH4 and N2O into CO2 equivalent; −− The emission factors provided by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (2011 Guidelines to Defra/DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting) for the transport of materials and machinery. Waste The data on waste production is gathered in accordance with the Construction Waste Measurement Protocol published by ENCORD (European Network of Construction Companies for Research and Development) in May 2013. For EU projects, the information about methods of disposal (i.e. the destination of the waste) are derived from the classification provided by law for each category of waste. For non-EU projects, the methods are derived from the contracts with external waste disposal companies. For more information For more information on our approach to Sustainability or to submit suggestions, please write to the following email: sustainability@salini-impregilo.com 135 Sustainability Report 2016 6.4 GRI Content Index Disclosure on StandPage Number (or link) Identified ards, The page numbers refer to the paragraph that includes omissions DMA, and the information required by the indicator Indicators STANDARDS DISCLOSURE GENERAL SECTION STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Not G4-1 p. 5 applicable Not G4-2 p. 15, 115 applicable ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Not G4-3 Salini Impregilo S.p.A. applicable Not G4-4 p. 9 applicable Not G4-5 Milan, Italy applicable p. 9 (Countries in which the Group operates), p. 129 (list of projects included in the reporting Not G4-6 scope of the Report) applicable Salini Impregilo S.p.A. is a public limited company listed on the Italian Stock Exchange and Not G4-7 subject to the direction and coordination of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. applicable p. 9 (geographical breakdown and sectors served). Salini Impregilo works with a diverse Not G4-8 range of clients: mainly government agencies, local governments and large utility applicable companies, major private companies and industry organizations. p. 9. For net sales and total capitalization, see the 2016 Annual Report, section Financial Not G4-9 highlights. applicable (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) p. 124. As regards employment contracts, 89% of staff has a permanent contract, while the Not G4-10 remaining 11% has a fixed-term contract. As for the types of employment, part-time contracts applicable are not considered significant in the Group since almost all of the staff has a full-time contract. All employees are covered by some form of collective bargaining. In addition, 46% of the Not G4-11 direct labour force is covered by specific construction collective agreements. applicable Not G4-12 p. 67 applicable For this information, see the Report on Corporate Governance and the Ownership Structure, Not G4-13 which refers to 2016 applicable (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) Not G4-14 p. 83 applicable Not G4-15 p. 95 (UN Global Compact) applicable The Group belongs to the following associations: Assonime, Fondazione Global Compact Not G4-16 Network Italia, IGI-Istituto Grandi Infrastrutture, Assafrica e Mediterraneo, ITCOLD, Unindustria. applicable 136 6. Appendix IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ISSUES AND SCOPES For a list of companies included in the 2016 Annual Report, please refer to that report, Not section List of companies included in the consolidation scope applicable G4-17 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html). For the companies included in this Report, see p. 129 Not G4-18 p. 115 (process for defining the content of the Report) p. 115 (scope of the issues) applicable Not G4-19 p. 15, 115 (material issues for Salini Impregilo and related material topics according to the GRI G4) applicable Not G4-20 p. 115 applicable Not G4-21 p. 115 applicable Not G4-22 p. 124 applicable Not G4-23 p. 129 applicable STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Not G4-24 p. 102 applicable Not G4-25 p. 102 applicable Not G4-26 p. 102 applicable Not G4-27 p. 102 applicable PROFILE OF THE REPORT Not G4-28 Calendar Year 2016 applicable Not G4-29 April 2016 applicable Not G4-30 Annual applicable Not G4-31 sustainability@salini-impregilo.com applicable Salini Impregilo has chosen the “Comprehensive” option for this Report. P. 136 (GRI Content Not G4-32 Index), p. 146 (Independent Auditors’ Report) applicable Not G4-33 p. 129 applicable GOVERNANCE Not G4-34 p. 95 applicable G4-35 p. 95 Roles and responsibilities within the organization were defined for issues related to human G4-36 resources, HSE, compliance, and anti-corruption. 137 Sustainability Report 2016 The Supervisory Board collects any reports received directly from internal and external G4-37 stakeholders in relation to the implementation of the Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, regularly informing the Board of Directors. p. 95. For further information, please refer to our website G4-38 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/board-committees/board-of-directors.html) G4-39 The Chairman of the Board of Directors holds no executive roles. G4-40 p. 95. For more information, see the Report on Corporate Governance and the Ownership Structure, which refers to 2016, paragraph 4.1 G4-41 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) The company mission, the strategies, policies, and goals are approved by the Board of G4-42 Directors, usually based on the proposals of the Top Management. G4-43 p. 95 Please refer to the 2017 Remuneration Report G4-44 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) G4-45 p. 95. The implementing agents of the Internal Control and Risk Management System are the Board of Directors, the Control and Risk Committee, the CEO, the Board of Statutory Auditors, G4-46 the Independent Auditors, the Supervisory Board, the Head of Internal Audit, and the Managers of the functions charged with the “second level” controls. For more information, see the Report G4-47 on Corporate Governance and the Ownership Structure, which refers to 2016, chapter 4 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) The Sustainability Report is approved by the Board of Directors. The coverage of the material G4-48 issues is verified by the company management, as explained on p. 115. G4-49 Please refer to the G4-37 and G4-50 indicators. Any potentially critical situations are communicated regularly to the Board of Directors by the Supervisory Board in relation to implementing the Model pursuant to Italian Legislative G4-50 Decree 231/01. The most significant ones are listed in the 2016 Annual Report, section Main risk factors and uncertainties (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) G4-51 For more information, please refer to the 2017 Remuneration Report G4-52 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html) G4-53 In 2016, the ratio of the maximum wages paid to the median wages in the significant G4-54 countries were: 3.6 times in Saudi Arabia; 2.5 times in Denmark; 7.7 times in Ethiopia; 11.8 times in Italy; 3 times in Qatar, and 2.6 times in Venezuela. In 2016, the percentage differences between the ratios of the maximum wages paid to G4-55 the median wages in the significant countries were as follows: -6% in Saudi Arabia, -4% in Denmark, +119% in Ethiopia, -5% in Italy, +4% in Qatar, and -12% in Venezuela. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Not G4-56 p. 98 applicable G4-57 p. 98 G4-58 p. 98 STANDARDS DISCLOSURE SPECIFIC SECTIONS CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ISSUE: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 115 (materiality analysis). Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report G4-DMA (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) 138 6. Appendix G4-EC1 p. 124 G4-EC2 p. 124 G4-EC3 Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report, paragraph Employee Benefits G4-EC4 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) MATERIAL ISSUE: PRESENCE ON THE MARKETS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 25, p. 115 (materiality analysis) On average, the entry-level wages compared to the local minimums are +21% at the Group G4-EC5 level, +41% on projects in Central and South America, +21% on projects in North America, +7% on European projects, and +33% on projects in the Middle East, Asia and Oceania. p. 25. On average, the management hired from local communities was 85% in Europe, 92% in G4-EC6 North America, 8% in Central and South America, while it was 0% in Africa and in the Middle East, Asia and Oceania. MATERIAL ISSUE: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 25, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EC7 p. 25 G4-EC8 p. 25 MATERIAL ISSUE: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 25 (local investments), p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EC9 p. 124 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ISSUE: MATERIALS p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 25 (challenges), 31 (inclusive and sustainable development), G4-DMA p. 83 (environmental management), p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EN1 p. 124 G4-EN2 p. 83 MATERIAL ISSUE: ENERGY G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EN3 p. 124. The methods and conversion factors used are listed in the Methodology Note, p. 129. G4-EN4 The energy intensity of buildings is not shown, as it is not applicable to Salini Impregilo, which is only active CRE1 in the infrastructure sector, while the indicator refers to the Real Estate sector (management and occupation of buildings) p. 124. The energy intensity ratio is calculated by taking the total energy consumption both G4-EN5 inside and outside the Group (numerator) and the operating revenue (denominator). p. 83. Diesel was the energy source that had the greatest drop in consumption. The total G4-EN6 reduction was equal to 548,798 GJ. G4-EN7 p. 83 MATERIAL ISSUE: WATER G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 155 (materiality analysis) G4-EN8 p. 124 139 Sustainability Report 2016 Only one water source was significantly affected by the Group’s withdrawals in the period. G4-EN9 It is a well outside of a protected area, located in an area where there are no endemic or protected species, and it is not used by local communities. G4-EN10 p. 83 The water intensity of buildings is not shown, as it is not applicable to Salini Impregilo, which is only active in CRE2 the infrastructure sector, while the indicator refers to the Real Estate sector (management and occupation of buildings) MATERIAL ISSUE: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In 2016, the total of the areas affected by the projects covered 663.3 million m2, of which 2% G4-EN11 located in protected areas, 3.5% adjacent to protected areas and the remaining 94.5% was not affected by protected areas. G4-EN12 p. 83 G4-EN13 p. 83 36% of the sites included in the Report contain endemic and protected species. In managing G4-EN14 our activities within these sites, we ensure the protection of 16 species included in the IUCN Red List and 31 species included in other national and international protection lists. MATERIAL ISSUE: EMISSIONS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EN15 G4-EN16 p. 124. The methods and conversion factors used are listed in the Methodology Note, p. 129. G4-EN17 The intensity of greenhouse gas emissions from buildings is not shown, as it is not applicable to Salini CRE3 Impregilo, which is only active in the infrastructure sector, while the indicator refers to the Real Estate sector (management and occupation of buildings.) CRE4 p. 124. The intensity rate of greenhouse gas emissions is calculated considering the emissions of greenhouse gases resulting from fuels, electricity, and subcontractor activities G4-EN18 (Scope 1, 2 and part of 3 numerator) and operating revenue (denominator). The implemented energy savings initiatives have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by G4-EN19 40,451 tonnes of CO2e. The emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) are not reported since this standard is not applicable to G4-EN20 Salini Impregilo, given that substances harmful to the ozone layer are not used in the main processes, but only for auxiliary services (not significant), such as air-conditioning systems in offices and some of the lodgings. p. 124. Emissions from worksites are calculated on the basis of diesel fuel used for the G4-EN21 production of electricity and specific emission factors of the generators most used by the Group. Emissions from the Lane Industries production plants are site-specific. MATERIAL ISSUE: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In 2016, 29.1 million m3 of wastewater was discharged, of which 89% into rivers, 5% in the G4-EN22 soil/subsoil, 5% in the sewage system, and 1% into lakes. G4-EN23 p. 124 G4-EN24 In 2016, there were five spills for a total of about 0.3 m3 of spilled material. In 2016, 5 tonnes of hazardous waste were transported outside their countries of production, G4-EN25 all originating from Greece. 140 6. Appendix Three water sources were significantly affected by the Group’s discharges during that G4-EN26 period, including three rivers. These all are located in protected areas and are affected by the presence of endemic or protected species, while none are used by local communities. In 2016, an area of ​​10,982 m2 was remediated, while an area of ​​444,444 m2 underwent CRE5 analysis (not yet remediated) and a potentially contaminated area of ​​3,200 m2 was identified (not yet subjected to analysis). MATERIAL ISSUE: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In 2016, we received 7,125 non-monetary sanctions for environmental issues G4-EN29 (7,120 of which were received by the Cociv consortium in Italy) and monetary penalties totalling 37,000 euros. MATERIAL ISSUE: TRANSPORT G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) p. 83. The emissions of greenhouse gases related to transport amounted to 477,809 tonnes of CO2e, of which 335,910 tonnes resulted from direct transport activities (Scope 1) and G4-EN30 141,899 tonnes from transport operations carried out by subcontractors, business travel, and the transport of goods and materials (Scope 3). MATERIAL ISSUE: GENERAL G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EN31 p. 124 MATERIAL ISSUE: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-EN32 8% of new suppliers were analysed regarding environmental issues. p. 67. During the period, 1% of subcontracting contracts were terminated in advance for environmental non-compliance. Apart from the impacts of subcontractor activities, other G4-EN33 less significant environmental impacts derive from the production of purchased cement. We cannot intervene on this point, due to the production processes for that material. MATERIAL ISSUE: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLAINT SYSTEMS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 83, p. 115 (materiality analysis) During the period, 155 environmental complaints were received, 143 of which were resolved G4-EN34 in the year. In addition, 12 complaints received in previous years were resolved in 2016. CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ISSUE: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 58, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In 2016, there were 9,711 new hires (28% of total employees), of which 3,870 were under age 30, 5,153 between 30 and 50, and 688 over 50 (792 women and 8,919 men). The incoming turnover rate amounted to 59% in Central America and South America, 32% in Africa, 28% in the Middle East, Asia and Oceania, 18% in Europe, and 6% in North America. During the same period, 14,251 employees left the Group (41% of total employees). However, G4-LA1 this figure is not material since worksite staff varies throughout the year according to the working stages. A more balanced view is instead provided by employees who resigned. In 2016, these were 3,270 (9% of total employees), of which 1,303 under 30, 1,636 between 30 and 50, and 331 above 50 (267 women and 3,003 men). The outgoing turnover rate is 14% in North America, 11% in Europe, 9% in the Middle East, Asia and Oceania, and 8% in Africa and Central America and South America. 141 Sustainability Report 2016 In Salini Impregilo, only the headquarters use part-time and temporary employees. They G4-LA2 enjoy the same benefits granted to full-time and permanent contract employees. Parental leave is significant only at the headquarters, since the worksite staff is made up almost exclusively of men. All the staff working at the headquarters has the right to take parental leave (573 employees, including 200 women and 373 men). Of these, sixteen G4-LA3 women and one man took the leave in 2016, seven women and a man returned to work at the end of the parental leave, and three women were still employed twelve months after returning to work. MATERIAL ISSUE: INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) The minimum notice for communicating significant operational changes in Salini Impregilo is a fixed period, recognized by collective bargaining agreements and by the relevant local G4-LA4 laws. It varies from two to twelve weeks for executives, from one to twelve for staff, and from one to nine for workers. MATERIAL ISSUE: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 74, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In the period, the direct staff of 39% of the projects was represented in formal health and G4-LA5 safety committees or joint HSE committees, composed of management and workers’ representatives. p. 67, 74, 124. In 2016, the main types of injuries that occurred were bruises, wounds and sprains. Hands, head and trunk were the most affected parts of the body. Most injuries were caused by materials and other substances, work environments, equipment and devices. G4-LA6 Despite the rigorous activities of risk assessment and operational control, during the period there were eleven fatalities (one occurring to a subcontractor). The absenteeism rate was 1% (2.4% in Europe, 1.5% in Central America and South America, 1.5% in Africa, 0.5% in North America and 0.2% in Middle East, Asia and Oceania). The rate of occupational diseases is 0.20. The organization operates in accordance with a health and safety management system verified CRE6 internally and externally, in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard. The activities carried out by Salini Impregilo expose staff to common health risks in the construction G4-LA7 sector, i.e. back problems, musculoskeletal disorders, hearing loss, and respiratory diseases. The International Framework Agreement signed in 2014 with the National and International Construction Trade Unions also covers health and safety issues for all workers in the world. In addition, the direct employees of 21% of the projects are also covered by specific worksite G4-LA8 agreements with local trade unions regarding health and safety issues. Those agreements also govern issues such as the use of personal protective equipment and the right to refuse dangerous work (100% of the total), training and periodic inspections (83% of the total), compliance mechanisms and KPIs (33% of the total). MATERIAL ISSUE: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 58, p. 115 (materiality analysis) p. 124. Because in operating sites the staff is mostly male, the breakdown of training hours G4-LA9 by gender is not considered significant. G4-LA10 p. 58, 74 p. 95. In the period, as part of the Performance Management program, 21% of the corporate G4-LA11 personnel received a performance evaluation. MATERIAL ISSUE: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) p. 95 (composition of the governance system). For this information see the Report on Corporate Governance and the Ownership Structure, which refers to 2016, paragraph 4.2 G4-LA12 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/governance/corporate-governance-report.html); p. 124 (breakdown of the employees). 142 6. Appendix MATERIAL ISSUE: REMUNERATION EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In 2016, at the headquarters, the remuneration ratio between women and men was 75% for G4-LA13 managers and 85% for staff. There were no manual workers at the headquarters. MATERIAL ISSUE: GRIEVANCE SYSTEM LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 67, p. 115 (materiality analysis) 20% of new suppliers were analysed in relation to labour practices and human rights G4-LA14 (especially health and safety). p. 67. In 2016, 32% of subcontractors monitored on issues relating to labour practices and G4-LA15 human rights received non-compliances and improvement actions were agreed with them, while 1.03% of contracts was terminated in advance. MATERIAL ISSUE: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISM G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In the period we received 295 grievances related to labour practices and human rights G4-LA16 (269 of them related to health and safety), of which 239 were resolved during the year. In addition, 41 grievances received in the previous periods were resolved in 2016. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ISSUE: INVESTMENTS G4-DMA p. 15 (matrice di materialità), p. 67, p. 78, p. 115 (analisi di materialità) During the period there were no significant investment agreements and/or contracts (eg. new acquisitions). As regards relations with clients, issues relating to human rights are G4-HR1 included in the social and environmental impact assessments of projects, which normally form an integral part of the contracts. The entire staff receives an induction training upon recruitment on issues related to ethics, G4-HR2 including respect for human rights. In 2016, about 4,700 hours of training were provided on these issues. MATERIAL ISSUE: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR3 In 2016, we did not record any cases of discrimination. MATERIAL ISSUE: RESPECT FOR FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR4 p. 78 MATERIAL ISSUE: CHILD LABOUR G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR5 p. 78 MATERIAL ISSUE: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR6 p. 78 MATERIAL ISSUE: SAFETY PRACTICES G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR7 p. 78 143 Sustainability Report 2016 MATERIAL ISSUE: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 102, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR8 p. 102 MATERIAL ISSUE: ASSESSMENT G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR9 p. 115 MATERIAL ISSUE: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 67, p. 115 (materiality analysis) 20% of new suppliers were analysed in relation to labour practices and human rights G4-HR10 (especially health and safety). G4-HR11 Please refer to indicator G4-LA15 MATERIAL ISSUE: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE SYSTEMS G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-HR12 Please refer to indicator G4-LA16 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ISSUE: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 25, p. 78, p. 115 (materiality analysis) In carrying out our activities, we take care of our local communities, striving to minimize any adverse impacts on them. For 36% of our projects, the social impact assessments are part of the contractual requirements. In addition, 43% of our projects have specific reporting G4-SO1 systems for local communities, 25% have community consultation processes, 32% have prepared formalized plans for stakeholder engagement, and 18% have defined community development programmes. Our main impacts on local communities involve noise, dust and traffic (frequent), the G4-SO2 use of natural resources potentially used by communities (eg. water), and potential soil contamination arising from working activities (rare). Resident transfer plans were implemented in four projects. These plans affected 1,094 CRE7 people, including 974 in Italy, 100 in Poland, and 20 in the United States. MATERIAL ISSUE: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 98, p. 115 (materiality analysis) G4-SO3 p. 98 G4-SO4 p. 98 Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report, section Main risk factors and uncertainties G4-SO5 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) MATERIAL ISSUE: PUBLIC POLICY p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 115 (materiality analysis). As stated in our Code of Ethics, the G4-DMA Group does not make direct or indirect contributions to political parties, political movements and committees, trade unions or political organizations, or to their representatives. The Code of Ethics prohibits both direct and indirect contributions to political parties and G4-SO6 trade union organizations. 144 6. Appendix MATERIAL ISSUE: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 98, p. 115 (materiality analysis) Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report, section Main risk factors and uncertainties G4-SO7 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) MATERIAL ISSUE: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 98, p. 115 (materiality analysis) Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report, section Main risk factors and uncertainties G4-SO8 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) MATERIAL ISSUE: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 67, p. 115 (materiality analysis) All of our sites carry out an assessment of new suppliers with regard to their reputation and G4-SO9 financial solidity. In addition, in accordance with the performed risk analyses, the possible presence in the reference lists/blacklists was verified for 41% of new suppliers. All suppliers are assessed for potential impacts on society during the prequalification G4-SO10 process. Our potential impacts in the supply chain mainly stem from our subcontractors. For this reason, they are subject to the same rules applied to the staff and to direct activities. MATERIAL ISSUE: GRIEVANCE SYSTEMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 98, p. 115 (materiality analysis) 276 grievances were recorded for potential impacts on society, of which 234 were resolved during the period. In addition, 27 grievances received in the previous periods were resolved in 2016. These figures do not include the Ruta del Sol (Colombia) project, whose grievances G4-SO11 management system does not allow reporting precisely the received grievances by motivation. However, the main grievances received by the project related to alleged damage to private property. SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ISSUE: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA p. 15 (materiality matrix), p. 98, p. 115 (materiality analysis) Please refer to the 2016 Annual Report, section Main risk factors and uncertainties G4-PR9 (https://www.salini-impregilo.com/en/investor-relations/results/financial-reports.html) 145 Sustainability Report 2016 6.5 Independent Auditors’ Report 146 6. Appendix 147 Produced by Corporate Social Responsibility and Corporate Identity and Communication Departments www.salini-impregilo.com Follow us:    
