Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Contents 4 CEO Message About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values 6 Highlight 2016 10 Company Overview 20 Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / (Top 10 News) 12 Business Overview Economic Value Creation and Distribution 8 Gwanghwamun 14 Stakeholder Engagement 22 Sustainability Management Framework Billboard 16 Governance 25 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues 18 Vision and Strategy 26 Enhance Customer Satisfaction Activities 30 Support for Enhancing on Financial Planner's Competence 36 Expand Training Programs and Self Development Opportunities for Employees 41 Improve Asset Management Returns 45 Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature of the Life Insurance Business About This Report Cover Story Humanity and the Future People are precious. Corporations exist for people. Rooted in this philosophy, the slogan “Humanity and the Future” expresses our commitment to people-centered management. Since Kyobo Life published its first sustainability report in 2011, which also happened to be the first such report in the domestic life insurance industry, it has been releasing a sustainability report every year as a channel through which it communicates its sustainability management activities to its stakeholders under the banner of “shared growth with our stakeholders.” This is Kyobo Life’s 7th Sustainability Report. Reporting Period & Scope The present report covers Kyobo Life’s sustainability management activities from January through December 2016. As regards quantitative performance, the data for the most recent three years are disclosed to show trends, while quantitative data that do not match the 3-year period are indicated with notes. If data have been revised in the financial statements or errors found in the previous report have been corrected, such revisions or corrections are indicated with notes. The scope of this report includes the headquarters and branches of Kyobo Life, Customer PLAZAs, and other domestic operations, but overseas offices and branches are not included. The environmental data concern only certain domestic operations, which are indicated with notes. The report basically uses the Korean currency(\), and other currencies are indicated with symbols next to figures, where applicable. Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 50 Economic Performance 64 Materiality Test 53 Social Performance 66 Sustainable Development Goals 59 Environmental Performance 67 Third Party Assurance 69 GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index 72 UN Global Compact 73 Awards Regarding Sustainability Management Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management 74 Financial Highlights Reporting Principles This report has been prepared based on the G4 Guidelines and the new reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with the use of the “In Accordance – Core” option. All financial data included in this report have been prepared in accordance with the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Credibility of the Report In order to enhance its credibility, this report has been verified by the Korean Standards Association (KSA) according to the three principles of AS1000AS (2008), i.e. inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness, and its verification level is Type II. The results of third-party assurance are available in the appendix at the end of this report. Contact This report has been published in Korean and English, and is available at Kyobo Life’s website (www.kyobo.co.kr). For inquiries or comments about this report, please contact us at one of the numbers below or email us. Strategy Planning Team, Kyobo Life, Jonro 1(Jongro 1-ga), Seoul, Korea Phone: 02)721-2532, 3067 Fax: 02)721-3849 e-mail : kyobocsr@kyobo.com Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life CEO Message Dear stakeholders (Customers, Employees, Investors, Communities, Government Officials, etc.) The year 2016 presented major challenges for our corporate management, both at home and abroad, including the prolonged economic slowdown, the North Korean nuclear threat, Brexit, and Donald Trump’s victory in the US presidential election, all of which had negative repercussions on the economy. To respond proactively to these changes in the business environment, Kyobo Life established Vision 2020, under which we are striving to become Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution by 2020 through product and distribution innovation. We also declared “Start! Product & Distribution Innovation” as our key management policy, and concentrated the company’s core competencies on producing the intended results. As a result, Kyobo Life became the only insurance company to receive an A1 credit rating from Moody’s for two consecutive years, an achievement which represents true global recognition of its solid earnings, financial soundness, and superior risk management ability. In addition, Kyobo Life was voted the best company in the Financial Consumer Protection Survey, and ranked number one in the life insurance industry in the Sustainability Index for the seventh consecutive year. In the belief that all humans are precious beings and their values should be respected and realized, we have published our seventh Sustainability Report entitled ‘Humanity and the Future.’ The report is designed not only to share the outcome of our efforts to achieve ‘shared growth with our stakeholders’, just as we pledged to them, but also to serve as a reminder that we should continue working toward the same goal in the years to come. Our pledges to our stakeholders and the results in individual areas in 2016 were as follows: Becoming a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services. Kyobo Life has led the industry in offering various types of products with optimum coverage and, as a result, the company now owns the largest number of exclusive rights to use. In an effort to effectively satisfy diverse customer needs and respond to the diversification of products and distributions, we launched Insurance System V3, a project to build a company-wide management infrastructure, and we are currently overhauling the entire process of our insurance business from subscription and retention of insurance contracts to benefits payment. Furthermore, we took actions to make customer protection an integral part of our corporate culture and to lay a firm foundation for VOC management while fulfilling our promise of 'Lifelong Care Services' to provide individually customized insurance services. Becoming a company that succeeds together with our Financial Planners. To help its financial planners achieve long-term success on a continuing basis, Kyobo Life either organized or supported various MDRT-related events, including MDRT annual meetings and Kyobo MDRT Day. In addition, an FP education center was set up to establish a sales culture in which process-oriented sales efforts and a hard-working attitude among financial planners are actively encouraged and appreciated. A new specialized FP channel was created to enable female financial planners in their 30s and 40s, whose career was interrupted due to family demands, to resume their career development and grow as insurance sales specialists. 4 Becoming a company that grows together with our employees. We have endeavored to make Kyobo Life a company for which talented people, who dream of becoming insurance specialists and achieving continuing success in the future, would most like to work above all others by connecting and striking a realistic balance between the corporate vision and the goals of individual employees, and by improving HR management, work processes and management infrastructure in such a way that both the company and employees can win. Our education and training programs are designed to effectively and systematically enhance the competencies of our employees in particular. Furthermore, we keep our channels of communication wide open at all times and create opportunities to relate to our employees so as to keep employees up to date with major corporate developments and the industry outlook. Becoming a company that is attractive to investors. Financial soundness is crucial for an insurance company to stay in business. As the new accounting standard IFRS17 and the new prudential regulation regime Solvency II will take effect in a few years, we are implementing measures to minimize the negative impact that the new rules could have upon the company’s financial position. With benchmark interest rates reaching record lows, we continued our efforts to improve the negative margin structure caused by the gap between return rates on assets under management and interest rates applied to existing insurance contracts, while trying to enhance returns by diversifying our asset portfolio and thereby distribute the risks. We are also managing our assets in a way that can achieve stable returns by keeping a risk-return balance. Becoming a company that grows together with the government and communities. Kyobo Life is committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities and its role as a good corporate citizen. Our social contributions activities related to life insurance business are carefully designed to help people overcome their difficulties and lead a healthy and happy life. Our efforts and resources will be concentrated on social contribution projects that can take advantage of our expertise, experience, and resources as a life insurance business. Kyobo Life is also expanding its green social overhead capital investments to promote the public interest. We would also like to express our enduring support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As a participating member, we will continue to embrace, support, and enact these ten fundamental principles in our all our spheres of management. Amid prolonged trends of low growth and low interest rates, the life insurance industry is under growing pressure to undertake fundamental changes and innovation to survive and grow. Under the rapidly–changing business circumstances, Kyobo Life is committed to meeting any challenges head-on and constantly seeking ‘shared growth with all stakeholders.’ Finally, I would like to express my gratitude for your continued interest and ongoing support. Thank you. March 2017 Chang-Jae Shin, CEO & Chairman Kyobo Life Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life The Top 10 news items of Kyobo Life for the year 2016 have been determined by conducting Highlight 2016 an electronic survey on approximately 5,000 employees and financial planners. Top 10 News 2 Kyobo Life voted best company by leading financial consumer protection survey 1 Kyobo Life's financial consultants and employees remain dedicated to protecting Kyobo Life, the first financial services customers and, as a result, Kyobo Life was company to win the Transparent voted the best life insurance company Management Award for three consecutive years in the annual In February 2016, Kyobo Life became financial consumer protection survey Kyobo Life declares its Vision2020 for the first financial services company to conducted by Financial Supervisory becoming ‘Korea’s most innovative be recognized with the grand prize for Services. Kyobo Life received the top life insurance company in product and 4 transparent management awarded by rating in 8 out of 10 categories distribution’ the country’s five leading economic including the number of complaints organizations. The prize addressed, and organization and In January 2016, Kyobo Life launched the attests to Kyobo Life's programs for consumer protection, ship named ‘Vision2020.’ A ceremony was leadership in transparent thereby placing itself ahead of its held at the Gyeseongwon training center and ethical management. competitors and gaining a reputation as to celebrate the declaration and adoption The prize recognizes the best company in the field of customer of Vision2020, the new vision that would Kyobo Life's efforts protection. guide the management of Kyobo Life for to promote board of the next five years. Under Vision2020, directorsled management, Kyobo Life ranked 1st in Korea Kyobo Life intends to become the Korea’s share information with Sustainability Index’s life insurance most innovative life insurance company in stakeholders, ensure business category for 7 consecutive years product and distribution. Product innovation 5 accounting transparency, Kyobo Life was once again rated refers to making our products and services and implement the highest standards in No. 1 in the Korea Sustainability more competitive, while distribution compliance and fair trade. Index’s life insurance business innovation means expanding Kyobo Life's pool of highquality human resources who category in 2016. The rating are capable of delivering Kyobo Life’s indicates that Kyobo Life sets an example products and product-related services and Moody’s awards Kyobo Life industry’s for the rest to follow in sustainability of performing other services. highest credit rating with A1 for two management, and it is particularly noteworthy consecutive years that the company has won first place in the Index for the past seven years, ever since the Moody’s, a leading global rating life insurance business became subject to the agency, rated Kyobo Life as A1 evaluation in 2010. Kyobo Life’s key attributes (stable) in 2015 and again in include its leadership in customer protection, 2016. The rating is meaningful and its efforts to eliminate potential sources because Kyobo Life Insurance was rated A1 of customer complaints and to enhance once again despite prolonged low interest transparency in the conduct of its corporate rates and the global economic slowdown, activities. indicating that the company is globally recognized for its financial soundness and risk-management ability. Major global financial companies such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley were also rated A1. Kyobo Life is the only insurer in Korea to be assigned such credit rating. 6 Proactive responses to the scheduled Kyobo Life’s proven asset management introduction of IFRS17 and Solvency II know-how wins it the Korea Asset Management Award 8 Ahead of the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard 17 (IFRS 17), a Kyobo Life won the grand prize at the new set of insurance contracts standards, Korea Asset Management Awards in June in 2021, the industry is concerned about the 2016. The award represents recognition scope and the impact of the new standards, from the financial authorities and experts and how it will respond to them. In addition, in academia of the company’s superior the financial regulators have announced that ability to effectively manage assets and capital regulation will be further tightened with thereby generate consistent profits. This the scheduled implementation of Solvency II, recognition is a result of strenuous efforts ‘Kyobo Smart On’ makes customer a new and stricter set of capital requirement to adhere to the principle of ensuring protection mobile rules. In response to the upcoming change, we stability and creating longterm profit in set up a task force in April 2015 to deal with In 2016, Kyobo Life released ‘Kyobo Smart managing assets, and to strike a sound the impact of the IFRS in a proactive manner, On’, an upgraded version of the existing balance between risk management and 6 9 and is currently in the process smart sales support application. The most profit generation. Kyobo Life was of creating a new management salient feature of the new application is also chosen as the winner of the infrastructure to accommodate the that customers’ consent can be obtained award because it maintained the changes and requirements that the via a smart phone. Previously, sales lowest nonperforming asset ratio new standard will entail. agents had to obtain the customers’ while maintaining profits from its invested consent via Kyobo Dream On or on assets at a steady rate, and because, Kyobo Life launches a string of innovative paper on 7 separate occasions, including unlike any other company in the industry, it products and possesses the largest applications for customer services and operates an independent compliance unit number of exclusive rights for use* insurance plans. The new application for its asset management business. In 2016, Kyobo Life’s focus remained firmly makes it possible for customers to give centered on developing innovative products their consent via a smart phone. It also Smarter Business Environment – ezNet and making product-related services even makes it easier for customers to review and Mobile ezMore 10 more competitive. As a result, the company the details prior to giving their consent, Kyobo Life’s Internet-based rolled out a series of new products, and provides higher security and reliability business environment was including Kyobo Hybrid Variable Whole-Life in using the key sales support features of made even smarter and Insurance (no dividend), Kyobo Premier CI the previous application. safer with the launch of Insurance (no dividend), and Kyobo Health Mobile ezMore, which allows employees Plus Variable Whole-Life Insurance (no to access, from anywhere and anytime, dividend). These products were considered ezNet and ezMore, which separate Kyobo original and innovative, enabling Kyobo Life Life's external Internet network and 7 the right to acquire the proprietary internal business network. Now, Kyobo right to use them. Kyobo Annuity Life's employees can access external Insurance II (no dividend) Internet services via ezNet instead of their developed under the slogan, ‘The personal computers in order to protect plan that keeps your dream alive’, and customer data and other sensitive business Kyobo Premier CI Insurance added two data from hacking attacks. In addition, more exclusive rights for use in 2016 alone. Kyobo Life launched an expanded and With a total of 14 exclusive rights for use, upgraded version of mobile ezMore that all Kyobo Life is No. 1 in the industry. employees can to work and communicate * Refer to details in page 27. faster and more efficiently. Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life The Gwanghwamun Billboard Heralds the Changing of the Seasons Originally set up at the Gwanghwamun intersection in 1991, the Kyobo Life message billboard displays messages of love and hope with the changing of the seasons. In addition to the board set up on the Kyobo Life building in Gwanghwamun, similar boards can be found on the Kyobo Tower in Gangnam, Seoul and on the Kyobo Life building in Jeju, serving as an effective medium for sharing Kyobo Life's ideas with citizens. The Four Seasons in Gwanghwamun 2016 Spring The message on the board expresses the idea that as life gets busier, we should take the time to recognize and appreciate everything that is precious to us, and always remain modest and considerate of others in our life. Summer In this modern age, people are obsessed with convenience and speed. In order for us to be able to feel and appreciate what is beautiful and precious in our hectic lives, what we need is the wisdom to pause for a moment and take a good look around us. Autumn Sometimes the things we are so familiar with, and which as a consequence we allow to pass us by without paying them any attention, can suddenly look very different and give us much consolation. The message says that we need to be more aware of the small things in our everyday life and be grateful to them for being there, as these small things constitute our days and our very life. Winter As the year nears its end, let’s look around to see if there are people who need our attention and help. Reach out a helping hand first and give hope to those in need. 8 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 9 About Kyobo Life 10 Company Overview 16 Governance 12 Business Overview 18 Vision and Strategy 14 Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Company Overview Kyobo Life was founded in 1958 under the philosophy of promoting education for people and creating national capital. Kyobo Life has been guided by its founding mission of ‘helping people to overcome future adversities through mutual assistance and thereby fulfill their life-long dreams.’ Under Vision2020, Kyobo Life is striving to become ‘Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution.’ Company Facts General Information Personnel Company Name Financial Employee Planner Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd Establishment Date August 7, 1958. 4,275 persons 17,870 persons CEO Organization Chang-Jae Shin (愼 昌 宰) Head Office Head 3 Officers 4 Profit Divisions Kyobo Building, 1, Jong-ro Office 5 Value Divisions 52 Teams (Jongro 1-ga), Jongro-gu, Seoul, Korea Sales 11 Divisions 2 Departments Operation Locations Kyobo Life has 588 branch offices and 59 customer PLAZAs in 588 59 Korea. Customer Offices PLAZAs Credit Ratings International Domestic A1 A+ AAA Moody’s Fitch National Information & Credit Evaluation | Korea Investors Service | Korea Ratings 10 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Corporate History Firmly rooted in the belief that “education is the key to the future of the nation”, Kyobo Life has been leading Korea’s insurance industry for the past 58 years, and continues to blaze a trail with its know-how. 1958 Established 'Korean Education Insurance Co.,', ‘Jinhak Insurance’ the world’s first education insurance 1964 Awarded ‘Presidential Honors’ of Excellence in Saving in the First Savings Day Awards 1958~1979 1967 The best company in its respective industry with 32.7 billion won in insurance contracts in just 9 years after foundation. 1978 Amount of contracts exceeds 1 trillion won for the first time. 1980 Established 'Kyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd' 1983 Founder Yong-Ho Shin awarded 'World Insurance Grand Prize' from International Insurance Society (IIS) 1991 Established 'Daesan Agriculture & Cultural Foundation (Current ‘Daesan Agriculture 1980~1999 Foundation)' 1992 Established 'Daesan Cultural Foundation' 1995 Company renamed as ‘Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd.’ 1996 Founder Yong-Ho Shin inducted into the IIS 'Insurance Hall of Fame' 1997 Established 'Kyobo Foundation for Education' 2000 Proclamation of change innovation 2001 Proclamation of 'Kyobo Vision2010' and 'CI' 2002 Founded 'Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center' 2000~2010 2004 Won 'Customer Satisfaction Grand Prize (for five consecutive years)' and dedicated to the 'Hall of Fame' 2009 Selected as Best Insurance Company in Asia of the Year (2009)' in the Asia Life Insurance Industry 2010 Joined International Agreement for Corporate Social Responsibility and UN Global Compact 2011 Proclaimed 'Kyobo Vision2015' 2012 CEO & Chairman Chang-Jae Shin won 'Best Insurance CEO of the Year (2012)' in Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2013 Kyobo Life Planet Life Insurance Co. Ltd. was established 2011~present 2014 Won the second ‘Beloved Corporate Government’ Presidential Award Won private company prize in the process sector for Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV 2016 Declaration of the Kyobo Vision2020 ‘Kyobo Vision2020’ wins the 12th Transparency Management Award. Selected as top company in life insurance sector of 'Korean Sustainability Index (KSI)' for 7 consecutive years Affiliated Companies Kyobo Life has twelve affiliated companies that operate mainly in the life insurance sector. The synergistic effects that Kyobo Life and its affiliated companies create through organic exchanges help enhance the brand value and corporate value of Kyobo. Financial (8) Non-financial (4) Kyobo Securities Co., Ltd., Kyobo Axa Investment Managers Kyobo Book Centre Co., Co. Ltd., KCA Claim Adjustment Co., Ltd., Saengbo Real Ltd., Kyobo Realco Co., 12affiliated Estate Trust Co., Ltd., A&D Credit Information Co., Ltd., Ltd., Kyobo Information & companies Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (America), Kyobo Life Communication Co., Ltd., Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Japan), Kyobo Life Planet Life Kyobo Data Center Co., Insurance Company Ltd. 11 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Business Overview Life Insurance Business Process The life insurance business process comprises the following three stages: subscription, retention, and payment. In the subscription stage, Kyobo Life conducts life cycle planning, and devises and recommends the best plan in accordance with the needs and financial abilities of our customers. In the retention stage, Kyobo Life explains the details of a contract and the benefits of the contract, and helps customers to handle contract-related matters. In the claim payment stage, the benefits promised in the insurance contracts are paid to help customers in their times of need. The premiums paid by customers are managed according to a long-term strategy with the focus on stable returns. As of the business year 2016, Kyobo Life closed a total of 843 thousand new contracts, provided retention services to 4,434 thousand customers, and paid out 84,585 hundred million KRW in 3,028 thousand claims. Subscription Retention New subscription  Customers 843 4,434 thousand people thousand people Initial premiums In-force premiums 10,141 112,284 hundred million KRW hundred million KRW Payment  Payment Claims paid 3,028 84,585 thousand cases hundred million KRW Asset Management Loans 17.9 trillion KRW / Real estate 11.7 trillion KRW / Securities 48.8 trillion KRW 12 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Key Products Kyobo Life offers a full range of financial products for private and corporate clients, including insurance, loans, funds, trusts. In particular, Kyobo Life specializes in family life guarantee and senior citizen life guarantee products which pertain to Kyobo’s roots in life insurance industry to help customers prepare for and manage future risks. Insurance Products Integrated CI Insurance Integrated CI Insurance covers a whole family with a single contract. CI (Critical Illness) insurance combines the advantages of health insurance and life insurance. It pays out part of the benefits in the event of illness and the rest upon the insured’s death. PensionㆍDeposit Insurance Pension insurance is used by customers who wish to Whole LifeㆍTerm Insurance accumulate assets and enjoy a Whole LifeㆍTerm Insurance pays benefits better life after retirement. Policy to the beneficiary at the time of the insured holders can either determine person’s death. There are different types, the payment period or choose such as universal whole life insurance, which to receive a pension up until provides premium adjustments and advance death. Deposit insurance can payment options, and term life insurance, serve as an instrument to build which covers a specific period of time. assets or save money for specific purposes. HealthㆍAccident Insurance Health insurance pays benefits when the insured is diagnosed with an illness or undergoes surgery. Long-term care insurance provides protection for the conduct of daily life or dementia. Accident insurance covers risks against accident or disaster. Fee-for-service health insurance EducationㆍChild Insurance covers the actual cost of medical services. Education insurance is intended to help parents save money for their children’s education. The policy holder can receive benefits each Retirement Pension Insurance year to support education according Retirement Pension Insurance to the age of the child, and special is provided under the Employee options may be included in the Retirement Benefit Security Act. contract to protect the insured We provide retirement pension child against such risks as disability, management and asset management accident and illness. Child insurance services with this product. offers stronger coverage for accident, illness, or disability. ※ Details information on insurance products can be found on Kyobo Life corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). 13 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Stakeholder Engagement Kyobo Life has identified five major groups of stakeholders according to their legal responsibility and impact on business activities, and is striving to fulfill Kyobo Life's philosophy of “pursue shared growth with all stakeholders.” Channels of Communication with Stakeholders Kyobo Life operates various channels of communication to gather opinions from its five key stakeholder groups, namely, customers, financial planners, employees, investors, and government·communities. Stakeholders Communication Channels Customers Website, customer panel, special events for premium customers, etc. Financial Website exclusively for financial planners, support for high-performing financial planners, planners various meetings for financial planners, etc. Employees Intranet, newsletter, labor-management meetings and council, etc. Investors IR section on the company website, shareholders’ meetings, board of directors’ meetings, IR activities, etc. Government & Website (social contribution section), Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center, meetings Communities with business partners, etc. Experts Meeting Jae-seong Gwak Jong-Sun Park Meeting Overview “Kyobo Life needs to conduct “Partnership with local Date and Time October 17 (Mon), 2016, 15:00~17:00 global CSR activities that are governments in performing Location  Council Chamber, 17th Floor, Kyobo Life compatible with the nature of its CSR programs…” Gwanghwamun Head Office business…“ “I am impressed by Kyobo Life’s “Kyobo Life’s impressive global SCR dedicated efforts to communicate Moderator Representative Se Woo Jung (THE CSR) activities are best represented by with stakeholders according to Participants  Jae-Seong Gwak (Professor, Kyung Hee the Hope Tree Project in Vietnam. the principles of sustainability University); Jong-Sun Park (Director, Sejong Kyobo Life has unique stories to tell, management. If Kyobo Life can Education Institute); Jong-O Lee (Director General, based on the founder’s legacy as a find a common denominator Korea Sustainability Investing Forum); national independence activist, the that can bring together the Jong-Hui Han (Senior Manager, CJ Logistics); founding philosophy of developing company and local governments, human resources for the nation Mi-hui Hong (Director General, Meerae Forum); and create a system of closer through education insurance, and Shin-Ae Hwang (Executive Director, Korea cooperation on CSR activities superior financial planning ability. Association of Fundraising Professionals) involving government and Now, Kyobo Life must take one step local communities, both parties Topics  Kyobo Life’s sustainability management system further and raise its international can share their resources and and future strategies, review of the FY2015 profile by making specific moves save costs, further enhancing Sustainability Report. to let the global community know about its core strengths.” efficiency.” 14 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Stakeholder Survey Category Method Purpose Period Content Summary To assess customer satisfaction with Kyobo •Assessment of customer satisfaction with Kyobo Life vs competitors Sept.Oct. Satisfaction Life and major rivals, and to work out ways •Corporate image 2016. to enhance the level of satisfaction. •Satisfaction with insurance products Customers To measure the company’s brand •Company awareness and customer loyalty. Sept.Oct. Brand power and obtain data that can be used •Brand image of life insurance 2016. for strategic brand management. •Survey on how customers use life insurance companies •Assessment of customer satisfaction with financial planners To assess the competitiveness of Financial Sept.Oct. •Identification of strengths and weaknesses that affect the Satisfaction planners’ activities and devise ways to planners 2016. competitiveness of financial planners’ activities improve customer satisfaction. •Identification of complaints and needs of financial planners Investors •Reputation of life insurance companies and CEOs To improve the company’s reputation, Oct.Nov. (awareness/likability) Reputation based on the results of surveys on the Government & 2016 •Channels through which insurance-related information company and the CEO. Communities can be obtained Management Information Session for Employees Date and Time 2 July 15, 2016 (Two sessions at 10:00~11:00 and Kyobo Life holds management information sessions to explain key busi15:00~16:00) ness issues to employees and thereby improve their understanding of Location Convention Hall, 23rd floor, Head Office Content H1 2016 results and business environment those issues and to facilitate two-way communication between the management and employees. Jong-Hui Han Mi-hui Hong Jong-O Lee Shin-Ae Hwang “A specific roadmap for “A comprehensive review “Issues of diversity warrant “Pay more attention to the socially responsible of all CSR programs is attention…” near-poverty class...” investment is necessary…” necessary…” “Kyobo Life provides the support “Most of our CSR programs tend “Kyobo Life’s unique principle of “Kyobo Life conducts its CSR that people need to reach their tofocus on the lowest-income focusing on family, money and activities in a consistent manner potential instead of simply offering class.However, it is necessary to health seems idealistic. However, according to its promises and financial assistance, and does payattention to people caught socially responsible investment principles. Nevertheless, Kyobo so on a continuing basis. In this in the nearpoverty class, which (SRI) should entail investments needs to link its management goals sense, Kyobo Life’s SCR programs receives relatively less attention, in areas that can bring about to the performance targets of its are desirable. Since CSR projects in order to set goals that help desirable social changes. It seems stakeholders, and monitor how involving government organizations them build stronger bonds with necessary to create a manual and these two sets of goals interact. may sometimes lack continuity, people of other social classes.” a roadmap that show how the Since many resources are invested it will be more effective if the company’s businesses and CSR in SCR programs, a comprehensive company work with civic groups for are linked, and to think about review is required to ensure that its CSR activities. In addition, more how issues of sustainability due efforts are being made to attention should be paid to such management should be reflected design and implement new projects issues as work-life balance in the way the company is in tandem with the changing trends and gender diversity.” managed.” of the time.” 15 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Governance Kyobo Life believes that a stable, efficient, and transparent governance structure is required to ensure the company’s sustainable growth while simultaneously promoting the rights and interests of various stakeholders in a balanced way. Kyobo Life’s core decision-making bodies are the general shareholders’ meeting and the board of directors, and outside directors are actively involved in monitoring corporate activities. In addition, the company appoints compliance officers and operates an audit committee to ensure thorough internal control, with the ultimate goal of raising Kyobo Life’s corporate value. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Director Nomination Risk Management Remuneration Management Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee ※ Kyobo Life publishes ‘Annual Report on Corporate Governance’ in accordance with the ‘Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies.' The details of Kyobo Life’s corporate governance can be found on the corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). Ownership Structure Kyobo Life has a transparent and clear ownership structure. The largest shareholder is CEO and Chairman Chang-jae Shin, who holds 33.78%, and the majority shareholders have remained unchanged for the last three years. Shareholders Chang-Jae Shin 33.78% Three persons including Ontario Teacher's In-Jae Shin 5.65% Pension Plan 9.93% The Export-Import Bank of Korea 5.85% Corsair Capital 9.79% AXA 2.24% Goldman Sachs 1.07% Employee Stock Affinity 9.05% Ownership Union 1.00% Standard Chartered PE 5.33% Meiji Yasuda Life 1.00% IMM 5.23% Baring PE 5.23% Others 0.35% Government of Singapore Investment Corporation 4.50% 16 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Board of Directors The board of directors sets and controls the company’s management goals and key strategies, with the aim of implementing transparency management as the backbone of sustainable growth. The board supervises how the company is run by the management and supports the management at the same time. Composition | According to the articles of incorporation, the board should be composed of four or more members. The current board is composed of six directors (two inside directors and four outside directors), all of whom must pass the “fit and proper” test as required under the relevant laws, including the Insurance Business Act, before being appointed at a general meeting of shareholders. In particular, outside directors are nominated by the Director Nomination Committee from among outside experts who possess professional expertise and who do not have any interest in the company, and undergo a strict and fair screening process. All these steps are intended to ensure transparency in the company’s management. Committees within the Board of Directors Committee Name Roles Audit Committee Evaluate and improve management performance and adequacy of overall internal control systems Director Recommend CEO, outside director and auditor candidates with expertise and qualifications that Nomination fit the company’s strategic targets Committee Risk Management Establish basic policy and key policies on risk management, and approve management strategy Committee based on risk Remuneration Design and implement compensation system for executives in connection with risk Committee Management Decision-making on important issues such as long and short term management policies and Committee establishment of management plan Composition of Board of Directors Category Name Position Area of expertise Chang-Jae Shin (Born 1953) CEO and Chairman of the Board of Directors Directors Management Support Director/In Charge of Seok-ki Lee (Born 1965) Capital Management Former chairman of the Daesan Agriculture Business administration, Jung-Hyo Lee (Born 1946) Foundation/Kyobo Foundation for Education Accounting Young-Taeg Park Outside Affinity Equity Partners, Chairman Finance, Accounting (Born 1959) directors Hari R.Rajan (Born 1977) Managing Director and Partner, Corsair Capital Finance Seong-Sik Hwang Business administration, President, Samchully Corp. (Born 1956) Accounting Evaluation & Remuneration of Executive Management | The remuneration of the executive management is determined based on the evaluation of performance against annual targets in each area, as reported to the board of directors at the end of each business year. The remuneration of directors is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting and the details of remuneration of outside directors are disclosed at our website (www.kyobo.co.kr >> Disclosures >> Governance Disclosures). 17 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Vision and Strategy Vision2020: Korea’s Most Innovative Life Insurance Company in Product and Distribution Kyobo Life has established a new vision of becoming Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution by 2020. Under the new vision, Kyobo Life will strive to attain its core goal of helping people to overcome future adversities and pursue their dreams without disruption by financial hardships, based on the principle of mutual assistance. To this end, Kyobo Life will think and act from the perspective of customers, uphold the principles of honesty and sincerity as Kyobo Life takes full responsibility for the results, rises to new challenges, and not allow the fear of failure to discourage the company from trying again. Visible Future Core Values Vision2020 We will always To be Korea's most innovative put our customers first in our thoughts life insurance company in and actions product and distribution by 2020 We will always be We will always Core Purpose honest and sincere innovate, starting To help everyone pursue confidently their over again if at first in every respect dearest dreams throughout their lives we do not succeed overcoming every adversity by mutual support 2016 Business Environment and Responses In order to proactively respond to future changes and realize Kyobo Life’s Vision2020, Kyobo Life analyzes the constantly changing industry trends and business environment, identifies potential risk factors, and derives business potential from various opportunities. Changing Business Environment Implications & Future Responses 2016 Business Plans & Key Tasks •Low birthrate and aging society. •Decline of economically active population and rising elderly “Start! Product & Distribution Society •Expand sales of products Innovation” population. for family life guarantee •Increasing no. of single-person •Efficient delivery of by implementing stronger households. customer tailored products marketing campaigns with •Prolonged trend of low interest rates. the focus on customer •Achieve distribution •Uncertainties persist both at Korea and guarantees. innovation through abroad due to possibility of interest rate •Build efficient systems and aggressive sales efforts Economy hikes and economic hard landing. take greater advantage of •Continue dissemination •Economic growth rate remains stagnant IT technologies. • culture of customer due to shrinking consumption and protection and solidi VOC •Defend holding period sluggish domestic demand. management basis return (HPR) from falling amid low interest rates. •Keep the holding •Prudential regulation is getting period return steady by stronger. •Manage assets in response diversifying the asset •Channel competition is intensifying, and to increasing volatility Politics portfolio. regulatory easing over product prices in financial markets. and asset management is triggering Strengthen response •Enhance preparation competition within the market. to regulatory capital and responsiveness to regulations changes in the business •Use of FinTech and Big Data is environment Technology anticipated to increase, and changes to related laws are expected. 18 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 19 Kyobo Life's Values 20 Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / Economic Value 36 Expand Training Programs and Self Creation and Distribution Development Opportunities for Employees 22 Sustainability Management Framework 41 Improve Asset Management Returns 25 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues 45 Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the 26 Enhance Customer Satisfaction Activities Nature of the Life Insurance Business 30 Support for Enhancing on Financial Planner's Competence Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Kyobo Life’s Value Chain / Economic Value Creation and Distribution Product·Service (Emotional stability / Financial guarantee) Insurance premium (trust) Customer Product service information/ Support for competency improvement Talent / Work effort Financial Planner Services for performance generation and competency enhancement Talent / Work effort Employee Performance Capital Investor Participate in regional development Shared Growth Government & Communities Kyobo Life's value chain includes all of stakeholders, and shows how Kyobo Life gets not only investors, but also customers, financial planners, employees, government and communities, involved in the process Others of creating and sharing values. 20 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 2016 Reserve Funds Customers put their trust in Kyobo Life by for Claims choosing the company's products and services Unit: trillion KRW 135,204 and by entrusting their funds to Kyobo Life, and Kyobo Life reinvests and manages funds hundred million KRW responsibly and safely. Investment profit 3.4 Kyobo Life gets involved in, and shares values with, communities by paying taxes, conducting social contribution activities, and Fees, Training costs local procurement. The economic values that 6,704 Kyobo Life creates through business activities, including premium income from insurance hundred million KRW sales, and gains from investment and the management of assets, are distributed to key stakeholders. Wage, Welfare and Kyobo Life recruits talented employees and benefit costs, etc. benefits from talent, and in return provides the 4,318 employees with a variety of services designed Premium income 12.2 to help them produce results and enhance their hundred million KRW competences. Dividends Kyobo Life obtains capital from shareholders 769 and investors, and allocates the capital to different businesses to create the best possible hundred million KRW results. Total revenue Taxes / Donations, etc 4,197 hundred million KRW Kyobo Life gets involved in, and shares value with, communities by paying taxes, and engaging in social contribution activities, local procurement, etc. 15.6 Creation of economic value: The economic values that Kyobo Life Others creates through business activities, 5,248 including premium income from insurance hundred million KRW Value Distribution sales, and gains from investment and chain of value asset management, are distributed to key stakeholders. 21 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Sustainability Management Framework Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is based on two pillars: the philosophy of sustainability management, which consists in seeking shared growth with all stakeholders; and Vision 2020, by which the company strives to achieve product and distribution innovation and thereby become the No. 1 life insurance company in Korea. Kyobo Life has categorized stakeholders who are closely related to Kyobo Life into groups, and defined Kyobo Life's promises to each group of stakeholders accordingly. Kyobo Life's sustainability management includes the fulfillment of these promises. The sustainability management system that Kyobo Life is implementing consists of the promises that Kyobo Life makes to stakeholders, the principles according to Kyobo Life fulfills those promises, and the key performance indicators (KPI) by which the company evaluates how well those principles have been followed. 2016 Priority Tasks 2016 Top Five Issues Enhance Customer Satisfaction Activities •Speedy delivery of customer Sustainability Management Philosophy tailored products Support for Enhancing •Achieve distribution on Financial Planner's Pursue Shared Growth innovation through aggressive sales efforts. Competence with All Stakeholders •Continue dissemination culture of customer Expand Training Programs protection and solidi VOC and Self Development management basis. Opportunities for Employees Vision2020 •Keep the holding period return steady by diversifying Korea’s Most Innovative Life the asset portfolio • Improve Asset Management Returns Insurance Company in Product •Enhance preparation and responsiveness to changes in the business environment and Distribution Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature of the Life Insurance Business * Persistency rate(13 Month) : (Contract maintenance fee / Underwriting fee)×100 th * Market share rate is based on Premium Income as of November 2016 * Financial Planner Settlement Ratio : (Number of advanced Financial Planners / Newly Registered Number of Financial Planners)×100 ※ Financial Planners Settled in the 13th Month includes those signed more than one more new contract and retained more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month * Return on Equity (ROE) : Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100, based on consolidated financial statements * Risk Based Capital (RBC) : Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk)x100, based on consolidated financial statements 22 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix For Kyobo Life’s Stakeholders Our Promises Our Principles KPI Company that We will listen to the customers and provides optimum manage the company from the customers’ Persistency rate (13th Month)* 80.0 % perspective. insurance coverage We will enhance service quality throughout Customer satisfaction level 76.4 points and on-going the policy life cycle, from underwriting to services persistency and benefits payment. Market share rate* 10.3 % We will pay respect to and trust the financial planners as business partners. Company that succeeds together We will establish fair standards and help the Financial Planner satisfaction level 71.0 points Financial Planners engage in their sales and Financial Planner with our financial planners service activities with peace of mind. settlement ratio (13th Month)* 43.8 % We will support Financial Planners to grow into insurance experts. We will continue on our corporate culture of Company that joy, pride and trust. grows together We will provide equal opportunities and Training hours per person 89 Hours with our reward according to fair evaluation. Competency employees We will support our employees to grow and development cost per person 159 thousand won develop into the insurance experts. Company that is We will continue to produce exceptional Return on equity(ROE)* 7.0 % profit through the good growth. attractive to We will increase the value of company Total assets* 96.7 trillion KRW investors through preemptive risk management. Risk based capital ratio(RBC)* 233.9 % We will actively carry out corporate social responsibility activities to grow together Company that with our communities. Social contribution ratio*/amount 4.2 /214 % billion KRW grows together We will manage our business in a nature Weight of Socially with the friendly way, reflecting the nature of our responsible investment (SRI) (proportions) 8.8 % government and business. communities We will grow together with our partners Energy consumption 18,319 TOE* through fair competition. * Total assets : Based on consolidated financial statements * Social contribution ratio : Amount of social contribution / Net Income, based on consolidated financial statements. * Weight of Socially responsible investment(SRI) ratio: SRI investment / General account assets)x100 * TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units. 23 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life ※ Sustainability Management Video & Newsletter Sustainability Management Video In order to help Kyobo Life’s external and internal stakeholders understand the concept of sustainability management, Kyobo Life has produced a video about sustainability management. The video explains Kyobo Life’s sustainability management philosophy of “shared growth with all stakeholders,” its promises to its stakeholders, and the principles followed by Kyobo Life in its sustainability management. * The sustainability management video can be found at Kyobo Life's website (www.kyobo.co.kr) or on YouTube. (Type “Kyobo Life’s sustainability management” in the search box.) Sustainability Management Newsletter Kyobo Life publishes the “Sustainability Management Newsletter” every month to keep its stakeholders up to date with the latest trends and information on sustainability management and to share the company’s sustainability management activities with its financial planners and employees. Sustainability Management Newsletter Contents Kyobo Story Neighbor Story Classic Literature A forum of communication A section that introduces A section that presents designed to introduce and explain cases of Kyobo Life’s maxims and proverbs from the Kyobo Life’s latest sustainability sustainability management at Classics which are useful and management activities. home and abroad relevant to life : Sustainability Management Newsletter 24 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues Kyobo Life’s Management Method for Customers Performance Management Key Customer Related Performance Framework for Customers our pledges to Customers Persistency rate* Customer satisfaction level Market share rate** (%) (13th month) (%) (points) A company that offers superior customer 11.1 protection 10.8 79.5 79.1 80.0 72.7 73.4 76.4 10.3 •We shall listen closely to the voices of customers and strive to run our business from their viewpoint. •We shall be constantly trying to 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 enhance the quality of all our services, from insurance policy purchase to retention to payment. Key Activities in 2016 Key Future Tasks •Speedy delivery of customer tailored products •Make the value of our products and •Achieve channel innovation through aggressive services more competitive. Key Customer Related Issues sales efforts. •Continue to expand the network of Accelerate efforts in increasing complete channels, based on honesty and •Enhance customer satisfaction activities enrollment of family life insurance a hard-working attitude. •Customer-centered management. Accelerate efforts in differentiated Lifelong •Strengthen the ability to propose Care Service •New product launches. the value of retention. •Continue dissemination culture of customer •Respond to range of customer protection and solidi VOC management basis •Increase activities driven by hard requirements. Prevent customer complaints through work-based sales efforts. •Efforts for the protection of customer purchase of complete plan and provision of •Implement pioneering measures for information superior retention services greater customer protection. Effectively respond to the results of consumer protection surveys * Persistency rate (13th Month) : (Contract maintenance fee/Underwriting fee)×100, 2014 Numbers adjusted ** Market share rate is based on Premium Income as of November 2016. 25 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Enhance Customer Satisfaction Activities Customers are the core stakeholders in the realization of Kyobo Life’s Vision2020 of becoming Korea’s No. 1 life insurance company through product and distribution innovation, which Kyobo Life established in 2016 to ensure the sustainable growth of the company. To this end, Kyobo Life will mobilize all resources consistently over the next five years so as to create tangible results. Kyobo Life is stepping up efforts to develop products and services that meet the varying needs of customers, and to provide customer satisfaction that exceed the customers’ expectations throughout the stages of initial policy purchase, retention, and benefit payment. As a global trend, the financial paradigm is shifting toward strengthening consumer protection, amid rising social demand for improving the rights and interests of financial consumers. Kyobo Life is running the organization dedicated to protecting financial consumers as its top priority, in an effort to uphold the core value of customer-centered management. Customer-Focused Product Innovation Development and Rollout of New Insurance Products | When Kyobo As one of Kyobo Life’s major steps toward realizing Vision2020, KyoLife develops new products, we focus on creating insurance products that bo Life is currently pushing ahead with product innovation. Prodcater to the changing needs of customers according to each life stage. In uct innovation means enhancing the competitiveness of products 2016, Kyobo Life's renewed efforts to develop new products tailored to the and product-related services. Significantly improving Kyobo Life's needs of customers resulted in the launch of diverse new products. product competitiveness is critical to cope with the rapidly changing Major New Products business environment in a flexible manner. In addition, it is also important to develop and offer creative products in a timely manner, No-Dividend Kyobo Fit-My Lifestyle Insurance (renewable) Do It Yourself (DIY) insurance plan allows policyholders to choose and to gather and capitalize on a variety of ideas from both inside and select the elements of coverage they need just as they would choose and assemble a piece of DIY furniture. and outside the company. No-Dividend Kyobo Personalized Health Insurance (simplified notification/ renewable) Customers who are elderly or have a record of illness can purchase Product Innovation Ideas Contest | As production innovation canNo-Dividend Kyobo Personalized Health Insurance plan upon passing a simple screening test. not be achieved by a single team or individual working alone, the key is to create a corporate culture in which all members of the organiNo-Dividend Kyobo Health Plus Variable Whole-Life Insurance No-Dividend Kyobo Health Plus Whole-Life Insurance plan offers much wider zation are encouraged to pursue innovation in their daily routine on coverage including lump-sum payment of benefits upon death, and advance payment upon diagnosis of 3 major diseases and/or medical conditions that an ongoing basis. In this context, Kyobo Life held a company-wide require long-term hospitalization or care. contest in which all employees were invited to submit their ideas No-Dividend Kyobo Hybrid Variable Whole-Life Insurance for “product concepts for customer value innovation.” The selected Provides a better financial security in later years by paying benefits during the life after retirement in addition to benefit payment at death, ideas will be used in the development of new Kyobo Life products. Timetable for Product Innovation Ideas Contest Final Review & Selection of Winner Submission 1st Review (Product Experts Group) 2nd Review (Customer Panel) (Executives Panel) May ~ July, 2016 July ~ August August~ September November •1,358 entries submitted in total •Entries by teams (CoP) •The Customer Panel •Review by the Executives Panel. *3 62 entries submitted by teams or Head Office : Product Experts Group (20 members) reviews entries •Determine prizes and levels of groups, and 996 by individuals On-the-Spot Review: Individual and the Marketing Planning awards. Business Divisions (Channels) review Team joins the review. *P  resentations of individual entries entries Product Experts Group •* P resentations of individual entries and Q&A sessions •Entries by groups and individuals Reviewed by Product Experts Group (8 members) 26 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Positive Effects of Product Innovation: Obtained Exclusive Rights timized products and services to customers and equip Kyobo Life for Use of New Products Exclusive right to use is intended to protect | with a future-oriented IT infrastructure that will enable us to remain the initial interests of the developer company of a new product for a flexible in the application of new technologies. fixed period of time. ‘Kyobo Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Pension Insurance II' was recognized for originality and usefulness by applying the conInternet Window ‘Quick Service’ | The Internet-based Quick Service cept of a whole-life pension for the bereaved family, 'No-Dividend Kyobo allows customers to make simple payment applications only with Premier CI Insurance (with insurance payment guarantee fee)’ was also certification of authentication and SMS authentication via mobile considered original and useful because the product covers pre-CI stage phone. A security card is not necessary. Specific services available illnesses and offers a new illness management service, the industry’s on Quick Service include premium payment, application for or repayfirst 1:1 customized healthcare service for individual illnesses so as to ment of advance withdrawals, and application for general benefits prevent them from developing into critical illnesses. Kyobo Life currently payments. Customers who wish to receive a small benefit payment holds a total of 14 exclusive rights to use, the largest number in the inor apply for a small advance withdrawal can do so at the ‘Quick dustry. All the employees of Kyobo Life will act as agents of product inInquiries’ section of Kyobo Life's website. This service is especially novation so as to keep developing creative products and work together meaningful in that Kyobo Life can help customers who are in need to further enhance the competitiveness of its products. of financial assistance better and faster by making it quick and easy for them to receive benefit payments. : Kyobo Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Pension Insurance II (no dividend) : No-Dividend Kyobo Premier CI Insurance (with guarantee fee) 14 Products with Exclusive Rights to Use •Family Account Insurance •Kyobo My Child Healthcare (no dividend, 2002) Insurance (no dividend, 2012) •Kyobo Dasarang Life Insurance •Kyobo Love for Grandchildren (no dividend, 2003) Insurance (no dividend, 2013) : Launching Report & Project Agreement-Signing Ceremony •Kyobo Edu K Insurance •My Future Pension Plan Kyobo (no dividend, 2004) Variable Pension Insurance •Kyobo Group Disability Income Insur(no dividend, 2014) Customers Benefits of Quick Service ance (no dividend, 2005) •My Love for FamilyKyobo New •Kyobo Life Care Insurance Whole-Life Insurance Pay premiums / Apply for and repay advance withdrawals (no dividend, 2006) (no dividend, 2015) / Apply for general benefits payments (dividends, interim •Kyobo My Child’s Future Care Vari•Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Kyobo benefits, benefits at maturity, dormant benefits) able Pension (no dividend, 2007) Pension Insurance Ⅱ •Kyobo CI Whole-Life Insurance (no dividend, 2016) (no dividend, 2008) •Kyobo Premier CI Insurance Quick Service •Second CI Coverage Special Policy (no dividend, 2016) Conditions (renewable type) (no dividend, 2010) As is To be •Access & •Access & view details of insurance contracts view details •Submit claims and receive benefit payments Next-Generation System ‘Insurance System V3’ | Kyobo Life emof insurance Certificate of authentication + authentication barked upon the construction of Insurance System V3 in order to contracts via mobile phone (SMS)) + Security Card cope with changing customer needs, diversification of products and distributions, and evolving communication and information techCustomer Satisfaction Survey | Kyobo Life has conducted its annual nology. Since 2012, Kyobo Life has been taking innovative steps to customer satisfaction survey since 2000 in order to assess the level overhaul business processes for marketing, sales, insurance prodof customer satisfaction with its services and identify the needs of ucts, policy sale, retention, and benefit payment in all key business customers so as to swiftly respond to changes among customers areas including retail lending, retirement pension, trusts and funds, and in the market. The results of the 2016 survey show that customso as to become more customerand profit-focused. Insurance Syser satisfaction rose to 76.4 points, 3 points to 76.4 points from 2015. tem V3 which is scheduled to open in November 2018, will offer op27 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Enhanced Efforts in Customer Protection protection capacity of financial companies. The survey consists of 5 In 2016, Kyobo Life declared its management slogan “Start! Product measurable indicators including the number of complaints filed, the & Distribution Innovation” and, as one of the key tasks in achieving length of time for processing complaints, and financial accidents, and this goal, promoted the growing culture of customer protection and 5 non-measurable indicators including consumer protection organizaset about establishing the foundation for VOC management. tion and systems, consumer protection system in the stages of production development and sale, and disclosure of consumer-relevant Construction & Operation of ezNet, a NetworkSeparating System information. The survey was conducted on 66 financial companies in for Enhanced Customer Data Protection | Kyobo Life created 'ezNet' different sectors, and 18 life insurance companies were included in the (http://eznet.kyobo.co.kr), a network-separation system in November survey. Kyobo Life was rated “good” in 8 areas subject to evaluation 2016. ezNet is a word coming from combining “ez” from ezMore, Kyobo and recognized as the best life insurance company in the survey. Life’s intranet, and “Net” for Internet business. Previously, Kyobo Life’s employees would access the Internet via their individual PCs in their Company Good Average Insufficient offices, but now they are required to go through the virtual PC, ezNet, Kyobo Life 8 2 0 ALife 7 3 0 in order to gain Internet access. The introduction of ezNet is not only a BLife, CLife, DLife 6 4 0 matter of security, but also an opportunity for employees and planners ELife, FLife 5 5 0 to transform their working environment and the GLife 3 6 1 way they work. Kyobo Life plans to introduce more IT security solutions and policies as part of continuLifelong Care Project ing efforts to protect corporate and customer data. For the past six years since 2011, Kyobo Life has offered the Lifelong Care Service, a program that was launched based on Kyobo Life's philosophy that ‘service to existing customers comes before new VOC Management Support | The Product & Distribution Innovation businesses'. As part of the service, Financial Planners regularly visit Ideas Lab analyzes the voices of Kyobo Life’s customers and comes customers to explain the benefits of the policy they are under (KPI : up with ideas for improvement, thereby incorporating their voices number of customers who have experienced the service, rate of serinto the company’s assets. VOCs are again sorted into two categovice-experiencing rate), and check for any accidents or illnesses that ries: customers’ suggestions and internal suggestions by employcan be covered by their policies(KPI : unclaimed amount of accident ees, which are based on the voices of the customers. These propoinsurance benefits). This service aims to resolve customer complaints sitions were reviewed and follow-up actions taken by a consultative on the lack of care from Financial Planners post-subscription to ingroup composed of the related teams. surance policy(KPI : lapse rate). The Service symbolizes the system of services throughout the lifecycle of life insurance, from subscription, Stricter Disclosures for Customer Protection | Kyobo Life’s website to persistency and to payment. In 2016, Kyobo Life focused on improvhas a section titled “Customers’ Plaza” where, with just one click, ing the quality of services and expanding the retention services from customers can view all of the esthe customers’ viewpoint in order to offer personalized services that sential information on customer would set Kyobo Life apart from its rivals. Going forward, Kyobo Life protection. The information in this will continue to focus on delivering the promise on ‘customer guarsection is regularly updated to proantee’, and customer tailored services to provide satisfaction beyond tect customers’ right to know. customer expectations. : Disclosures for consumer protection Key KPI Rated No. 1 in customer protection among life insurance companies: Chosen as the best company in the FSS financial consumer unit 2014 2015 2016 protection survey | Kyobo Life received the highest score in the insurNo. of customers who have thousand 2,345 2,464 2,516 experienced the service person ance sector for two consecutive years in 2015 and 2016 in the financial (Service users as % of total / 74.6 / 78.8 / 81.2 /% customers) consumer protection survey conducted by the Financial Supervisory Payments for unclaimed Services (FSS), even though the survey has become even more deaccident insurance benefits billion 29.4 33.1 35.9 (Service users as % of total KRW manding. The financial consumer protection survey is an upgraded customers) version of the complaints survey that had been conducted since 2006. Lapse/cancellation rate % 6.5 6.1 6.1 The survey provides a new barometer for measuring the consumer (Annual cumulative total) 28 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues Kyobo Life’s Management Method for Financial Planners Performance Management Key Financial Planners Related Performance Framework for Financial Planners Our pledges to Financial Planners Financial Planner satisfaction level* Financial Planner settlement ratio* (points) (13th month) (%) A company that succeeds together with 72.9 73.1 our Financial Planners 71.0 39.9 39.8 43.8 •We shall respect and trust financial planners as business partners. •We shall set fair and reliable rules that will guide cinancial planners as they conduct 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 sales and services.• •We shall provide support for financial planners to grow as insurance experts. Key Activities in 2016 Key Future Tasks •Continue to expand the network of distribution, •Make the value of our products and services based on honesty and a hard-working attitude more competitive. Key Financial Planners Related Issues •Achieve channel innovation through aggressive •Strengthen the organization and competence sales efforts of our channels. Accelerate efforts in increasing complete Continue to expand the network of channels, •Support for enhancing our planners’ enrollment of family life insurance. based on honesty and a hardworking attitude. competence. Accelerate efforts in differentiated Strengthen the ability to propose the Lifelong Care Service value of retention. •Programs to support our planners’ •Continue dissemination culture of customer Increase activities driven by hard activities. protection and solidi VOC management basis work-based sales efforts. •Support for the sale of complete Prevent customer complaints. through •Strictly follow the complete contract sale insurance contracts. purchase of complete plan and provision process and the rules of our policy-retention of superior retention services services. * Financial Planner Settlement Ratio : (Number of advanced Financial Planners / Newly Registered Number of Financial Planners)×100 ※ Financial Planners Settled in the 13th Month includes those signed more than one more new contract and retained more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month 29 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Support for Enhancing on Financial Planner's Competence Financial planners are the Kyobo Life stakeholders who come into direct contact with customers, connect products and services to customers, and act as communicators. They also play the role of facilitator in closing insurance contracts with customers, and perform an important role in matching the needs of customers with the products and services that Kyobo Life can offer to meet those needs, throughout the retention and benefit payment processes. Supporting the enhancement of financial planners’ competence is a critical element of the company’s efforts to ensure that financial planners possess the ability to identify the varying needs of customers and design insurance products that best fit their needs. Support for Financial Planning Competence is diversified according to each FP’s status and length of service. The Kyobo Life has continued to modify its education and training themes company also offers test-preparation courses for financial planners each year in tandem with the changing business environment to enwho wish to acquire licenses in such areas as variable insurance sale sure that financial planners can grow into financial experts who are and fund investment consulting. trusted by customers. In order to help all financial planners become “customer guarantee experts,” Kyobo Life runs a training center FPs’ Education Program by Length of Service for all FP support groups, and in 2016 Kyobo Life established the Solicitors’ Life-Long Before Solicitors’ Introducti Hi Center to help raise the productivity of our financial planners. Care, officialemployme registratio on for registratio Introductory nt /FP Head n course experienc n course Office Program ed financial planners 2016 Improvements to Education Support for FPs | In 2016, Kyobo Life focused its support on increasing distribution competitiveness 2~3month 4~5month 4~5month 6~7month 6~7month Life-Long Care, Products Customer Retiremen Financial by enhancing the competence of financial planners, and on creatAdvanced in depth reassurance t planning planning ing a culture in which the financial planning competence of financial 8~12month 13month 4~24month planners is consistently strengthened on the basis of branch-based Coverage Challenge BTP financial planning education. consulting Leaders Strengthen distribution competitiveness through FPs’ competence enhancement Education Programs for Manager-level FPs New FPs Existing FPs 1st month after 6th month after •Improve/strengthen 2nd~3rd •Partly revise the FP training Common Common assignment assignme nt education courses. program for financial planners Introducti Wrap-up Competence Performance •Strengthen the role of the in the 13th month of service. on for Chief for Chief Enhance ment Enhance ment training centers for FP support •Expand Hi Center in phases to FP FP for Chief FP Workshop for groups. support performance enhancement. Chief FP •Enhance financial planningand VIP marketing competence. Day of Day of Common Common Common assignment assignment SM SM SM SM Performance Strengthen the competence of FP branch managers Introduction Restar Competence Performance Enhancement and manager-level FP groups to promote Enhancement Enhancement Workshop Workshop Day of Education Programs for FPs | Kyobo Life offers a variety of educaassignment Common Common tion programs to support the development of financial planners into CM CM CM Introduction Competence Performance professionals and to make the company the most favored workplace Enhancement Enhancement Workshop for financial planners. Kyobo Life's field-oriented education program 30 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Hi Center for FP Productivity Enhancement | Among Kyobo Life’s opportunity to experience what it is like to be part of the MDRT. Parkey agenda for 2016 were “Achieve distribution innovation through ticipating financial planners attended the world MDRT Annual Meetaggressive sales efforts” and the establishment of the Hi Center in ing, an event that takes place in Asia. The 2016 meeting was held in order to foster and spread a culture of appreciating and promoting a Hong Kong and attended by around 8,800 insurance professionals hard-working attitude among financial planners. The Hi Center is led from diverse Asian countries. The attendees felt a renewed sense by a highlyqualified and experienced sales manager with a successof mission as financial planners and also a sense of responsibility ful track record, and features a high-quality infrastructure designed towards achieving shared growth with customers, rather than foto maximize the effects of education. cusing merely on improving their own job performance. : The Hi Center : MDRT Experience Program Supporting Activities for Higher Performance: Kyobo MDRT Workshop | The Kyobo MDRT Workshop was held in Establishing Kyobo MDRT Culture March 2016 to raise FPs’ understanding of the mentoring process MDRT refers to Million Dollar Round Table, which started in 1927 in for the creation of a sound MDRT culture and to promote and spread Memphis, Tennessee to share information and knowledge among the MDRT spirit and specific success cases among financial planners. talented insurance and financial advisors. Today it is a global orgaKyobo Life's MDRT mentoring program is designed to help financial nization of insurance experts with 49,000 members from 450 life planners acquire the MDRT spirit and grow into a mature professional insurance companies in 74 countries all over the world. As part of and successful financial planner. The program is unique in that it proKyobo Life's efforts to create a unique culture among financial planvides an opportunity for financial planners and their mentors to form ners, Kyobo Life actively supports financial planners through varistrong bonds by boosting each other’s morale, rather than simply ous MDRT-related programs. sharing or transferring knowledge and information. The workshop, which is inspired by the features of the world MDRT annual meeting, MDRT Experience Program | In February 2016, Kyobo Life’s financial consists of main lectures on motivation, competence enhancement, planners, who aspire to become a global insurance expert, had an and mindset innovation, and success cases from mentors. Major Components of the Workshop Lecture by a Channel Manager Motivation/Competence Cases •Understanding MDRT mentoring •Lectures from guest speakers •Examples of good mentoring and sharing future plans, etc. How to stay motivated, enhance programs one’s competence, and nurture •Bridging performance, etc. an innovate mindset, etc. 31 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life World MDRT Annual Meeting | Around seventy Kyobo Life financial planners attended the world MDRT annual meeting held in June 2016 in Vancouver, Canada. Although an invitation to the meeting is a confirmation of their excellence as globally recognized insurance professionals, the biggest privilege is that they also get to meet outstanding financial planners from around the world and exchange ideas and information with them, which can be instrumental to enhancing their performance of their work. : MDRT Workshop My Experience at the 2016 World MDRT Annual Meeting Kyobo MDRT Day | Kyobo MDRT Day has been held annually since “I want to be a stepping stone in building the MDRT culture as part of 2014. Last year’s two-part event was held in July under the theme of Kyobo Life’s corporate culture.” “I was thrilled and excited. The imposing Rocky Mountains, the clear, high sky, and the glaciers that only “Kyobo FP, Your Lifelong Reliable Partner,” at the company’s training time and nature can create…. I was overwhelmed by the spectacular beauty of Canada’s natural environment. When I was told that people in Canada can enjoy their post-retirement years without financial center (Gyeseongwon), with more than 1,000 attendees including worries because the government pays medical bills and pensions, I was struck by the recurring question of what we can and should do to help more people in Korea enjoy their life after retirement. Before atthose who had reached the MDRT threshold for the first time and tending the meeting, I was struggling with the nagging question of how I can do my job better in the lifelong MDRT members. The event was designed to create an MDRT years to come and become a better FP. Indeed, the meeting proved to be a turning point because I was able to have the benefit of listening to the diverse experiences and professional know-how from so many spirit-based FP culture and to raise the pride of successful financial excellent FPs from around the world. I was deeply moved by some of the things I heard in the lectures, such as “Transform your pain into passion to make your dream come true”, “Your health not your money planners. buys you life insurance”, and “What makes this world even more beautiful is people who donate”. As I see it, the world MDRT annual meeting is the best privilege and the greatest gift that only life insurance professionals can enjoy. It is my strong wish that many more colleagues can be part of the meeting. After returning to my daily routine, I decided to become a stepping stone in building an MDRT culture as part of Kyobo Life’s corporate culture, in which both mentors and mentees are respectful and considerate toward each other. As each day passes, I try to apply what I learned Program Details and felt during the meeting to my everyday routine and share it with my coworkers. By so doing, I feel that I am growing professionally and that gives me a pleasant sense of reward. Sharing I am grateful that I am “making a miracle with a piece of paper corp •Corporate strategy and a drop of ink”, and that I am doing a job that I like, with Communication orate •Share management people who are charming and fabulous. I hope and dream with CEO that I will continue to share life stories with my customers, strat principles and recent issues relate to them and their stories, and remain a beautiful life : Gangnam Leaders FP Branch / egies partner throughout the many years that lie ahead.” Hyeon-Seok Cho Prime Leader, •Talks by external lectures Lecture by Mark Hanna, President of MDRT | In August 2016, MDRT Main A journey of challenges Lectures and sharing for someone’s President Mark Hanna delivered a lecture at Kyobo Life’s Head Ofnew life fice. The lecture reminded the audience of what the MDRT spirit is Com petence all about, and provided a unique opportunity for the participating enhance ment •Optional lectures by theme FPs to refresh their FP-Ship, thereby resulting in increased activities Optional Focus on best case Lecture/Mini and enhanced productivity. The lecture was attended by more than examples Lecture 230 Kyobo Life FPs. Mark Hanna is a 28-year-old member of DMRT Sessions •Mini lecture Sharing tips on FP activities with seventeen ‘Top of the Table’ and three ‘Court of the Table’ qualifications. He spoke on how to grow as insurance professionals and •Team booths • mentoring, and was well received by the audience. Infor Information mation Sharing •Explanation of retirement sharing Sessions pension, activity tool, underwriting, Nobiliaire Session of •Session of Encouragement Enhancing session • Encouragement FPs’senses / Bridging •Donation events of pride Event •Finale including performances : Lecture by Mark Hanna, MDRT President 32 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Support for Financial Planners’ Activities Meeting for Outstanding Financial Planners and Honorary ExecuKyobo Life provides various types of support designed to instill tives | The management and honorary executives hold meetings to a sense of pride in the company among financial planners and to keep abreast of the latest issues on the sales front, provide timely create a stable environment where they carry out their work effecsupport to FPs, and engage in active two-way communication. Hontively. The company implements programs to support the families of orary executives monitor FPs’ activities and collect opinions from financial planners and to help them strike a balance between work them, and deliver recommendations and other opinions to the manand family life. In addition, Kyobo Life operates programs to boost agement on behalf of other financial planners. They also exchange the morale of financial planners. ideas with the relevant teams or departments on any matters discussed during the meeting. Overseas Language Program for Children of High Performing Fi※ Honorary Executiveship for FP: Kyobo Life runs an honorary executive program for Financial Planners in order to give them new challenges and strengthen their pride in the nancial Planners | Since 2004, Kyobo Life has been running the company. Kyobo Life selects Financial Planners that embody Kyobo Life’s core purpose and values and inspire others, and provide the title of ‘honorary executive’ and relevant ‘Overseas Language Program’ for children of high-performing fibenefits, in order to establish the profile of a model Financial Planner and instill an exemplary performance culture. nancial planners twice a year. Now in its twelfth year (as of 2016), a total of 2,300 children of Financial Planners have participated in the program to date, making this program the most popular motivational program for financial planners. It is also one of the programs designed to motivate financial planners. : Management-Honorary Executives Meeting Financial Planner Prime Leaders Club | The Prime Leaders Club consists of high-performing financial planners who have contributed significantly to the growth of the company. They receive privileges : Overseas Language Program for Children of Financial Planners as a token of the company’s recognition of their contribution, so as to enhance their loyalty to the company. The Prime Leaders Club is The Master of Study Camp for Children of Financial Planners | newly formed each year with financial planners who fit the memberKyobo Life runs the Master of Study Camp for the children of fiship criteria. The club is meaningful in that experiences of success nancial planners. Launched in January 2016, the camp has so far are shared throughout the club, and the member financial planners provided education on study methods to 100 children and enhanced take the lead in achieving the corporate vision. In 2016, 133 finantheir study habits accordingly. The camp aims to help children plan cial planners who met the criteria became members of the club. The their future and present a vision for learning in order to motivate members held meetings with the management and a workshop to them to pursue their learning and establish specific goals in life. The share their professional knowledge and expertise. camp consists of various programs designed to encourage self-led learning, including “setting my own milestones”, “designing my own future and mentoring-aided self-motivated learning”, and “sharing my dream” (presentations). In addition, study mentors who are currently enrolled in prestigious universities shared their secret study methods and know-how, helping the young students in the audience develop a sense of confidence that they, too, can become a master of study, as well as acting as good role models. : Prime Leaders Club 33 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life SPECIAL SECTION Queen FP Branch, a Special Unit for Experienced Women in their 30s and 40s The “Queen FP Branch” is a special unit composed of new and young female professionals in their 30s and 40s whose career has been interrupted by family demands. The branch helps women who have experienced a hiatus in their career to take advantage of their professional expertise. Activity hours at the special branch are relatively short, lasting from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., making it easier for young female financial planners to juggle the two roles of working and taking care of the family. The branch also suggests vision as insurance experts, as well as offering well-designed education programs and stable fee system. Queen FP Vision Head of Support Group Queen FP Manager Queen FP Branch Manager >>> Executive Sales/Services Support Staff Queen FP Queen FP Club Prime Leaders Honorary Executive Queen FP Training Course Lifelong Retirement CareCustomer Financial Challenge PlanningLifelong Advanced Reassurance Planning Leaders Advanced Financial CareProduct Retirement Coverage B2B2C Planning Introduction Mastery Planning Consulting Marketing Advanced 1~2month 3~4month 5month 6month 7month 8month 9~12month 13month 14~16month 17~20month 21~24month Queen FP Employee Welfare Programs 1. Childcare 2. Scholarship 3. Healing Programs 4. Healing Family Trips 5. Overseas Language Learning Programs Childcare support for \400,000 ~ \1.4 million Counseling & Support for FPs and their children under school per year for children in psychotherapy for healingthemed family children(elementary to age/12 months or less elementary school to stressed FPs/at least 7 trips/13 months or longer high school) can take in length of service university/13 months months (FPs should meet (FPs should meet the an overseas language(FPs should meet the or longer (FPs should the criteria). criteria). learning program/at least criteria). meet the criteria). 25 months (FPs should meet the criteria). 6. Long-serving, Highperforming FPs 7. Accident Insurance for FPs 8. Family Occasions 9. Funeral Necessities 10. Holiday Gifts \200,000~\1.0 million Policy summary: \100 \100,000 ~\200,000 Kyobo Life provides Kyobo Life sends (minimum 5 years of million~\120 million for weddings of items and out gifts to employees service; FPs should in the event of death FPs or their children, supplies for the for the Lunar New meet the criteria). of an FP on duty; \10 70th birthday of FPs’ funerals of FPs and Year’s Day. million~\100 million parents, deaths of FP their immediate in the event of injuries family members. family members. or disability caused by accident -Up to \10 million in fee-forservice reimbursement. 34 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues Kyobo Life’s Management Method for Employees Performance Management Key Employee Related Performance Framework for Employees Our Pledges to Employees Training hours per employee (hour) Amount of competency development support per employee (thousand won) A company that grows 196 together with our 87 89 employees 77 159 110 •We shall continue promoting an exciting corporate culture filled with joy, pride and trust. •We shall provide equal opportunities 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 and reward employees, based on fair evaluation. •We shall help employees grow into experts in their chosen field. Key Activities in 2016 Key Future Tasks Key Employee Related Issues •Recruit talent in a timely manner and •Support for creative job performance lay foundations for the systematic •Recruit talent in a timely manner and development of human resources create a systematic HR development •Improve work environment •Implement job-centered HR management framework •Create a corporate cultureconducive to •Increase support for employee •Continue to operate a job-centered HR maintaining a soundwork-family balance competency development management system •Increase employees satisfaction. •Provide support to promote a healthy •Increase support for employees’ •Expand labor rights corporate culture competency development •Protect whistleblowers 35 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Expand Training Programs and Self Development Opportunities for Employees As Kyobo Life’s employees are internal customers and members of the organization at one and the same time, improving their competence benefits the individual employees themselves and also translates into greater corporate competence. Financial planners’ professional competence is crucial to offering the right insurance products and services to customers, who form the backbone of the company’s growth. Enhancing financial planners’ competence hinges upon the competence of employees. For this reason, assisting employees in their efforts to strengthen their competences is indeed an important task for the company. Key HR Development Tasks Kyobo Life identified the “2016 Key HR Development Tasks” as part of its efforts to meet two major goals for 2016: Implementing the Vision2020 of becoming “Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution”, and pursuing “Start! Product & Distribution Innovation.” 2016 Key HR Development Tasks Vision2020 Remain United Strategic Development of Constant Learning Process Companywide for Concerted Efforts HR Pool for Leadership and Experts at Work Sites •Introduce Vision2020 internalization program •mprove the education programs for executives, / •Improve development and learning support program (for greater execution ability). organizational leaders and other leaders. •Expand and revise the contents of and systems •Offer common job knowledge fundamental course •Operate specialized programs for executives, team/ for ongoing learning programs. •Hold a slogan contest to promote the corporate vision department heads, and specialists. •Reform the support system for professional and meet corporate goals. certification-acquisition and management. Practical Educational Support More Efficient, to Raise Sales Performance Globalized Training System •Make training programs for candidate sales managers available all year round. •Create a companywide, integrated training system •Develop a mentoring program for first-time sales managers. •Evaluate the effects of training programs and •Run education programs to help employees obtain licenses tighten monitoring. in sales, and job-specific programs customized for diverse •Recruit and train internal lecturers, and create an work circumstances. integrated management system. •Offer education programs to help the Head Office staff gain a better understanding of sales activities and circumstances •Provide more training for personnel who support education on the sales front. 36 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Talent Management Framework | Kyobo Life's talent management is guided by its philosophy of nurturing the five essential qualities ( EXCEL ) of the model Kyobo Life employee, “EXCELLENT Kyobo professional!” E Ethic X eXecution C Customer Focus Honest and sincere Challenging and proactive Customer-focused Unflinchingly honest with the belief that The model employee is equipped with Has strong work ethic a person of ‘there are no such things as free lunch and ‘mental strength that can break wood insurance, always ready to lead, and puts true secrets‘ and as a fiduciary of customer with the bare hands’ and an ‘inventive, the customer’s interest first. assets, carries out their roles to their very pioneering spirit’, is creative and best and tackles responsibility and obligation innovative, and unafraid to take risks and in their position in the organization in a boldly rise to changes. sincere manner E Engagement L Leading-edge Expertise E X C E L Team player and cooperative Global expert Has broad, far, high outlook and Continues to strive for growth and LENT KYOBO participates actively in the organization learning with passion, has an international to generate company value, while mindset, recognized as an expert in their cooperates well with other organizations field, and continues to develop core and people competencies of themselves and their organization Competence Development Training Support Program Kyobo Life's learning support system allows employees to improve their competence on a voluntary basis and in a systematic way so as to make both individual employees and the organization more competitive, with the ultimate aim of attaining the strategic goals of the company. In 2016, the employee learning support system was modified by shifting its focus onto workplace-centered, constant learning, and more high-quality education programs were introduced to effectively support competence development that can directly impact job performance. 2016 Competence Development Training Support Program •Take into consideration individual needs of competence development and individual preferences with regard to learning methods. •Increase educational support to raise sales job performance. Creating a field-oriented, •Provide diversified contents for competence development to support constant learning process individual career development paths. 37 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life 2016 Competence Development Training Support Program Courses Constant Optional Required Learning Learning Learning Self-led learning Required for all employees Kyobo Love Flower Cyber education, programs run by General professional knowledge, vision, Marketing, business, leadership, etc. the Korea Insurance Institute internalization, etc. Team Learning Job-specific, Required Programs Kyobo Smart Academy Action Learning, Programs for Competence CoP(Community of Practice) Enhancement of Sales Managers Pooling Knowledge Register/propose useful knowledge Required Education for Change of Status Required course for candidates for promotion, competence enhancement External Education for Field Support for promoted employees, training program Field training by outside education for candidate sales manager provider, organization-invigorating (Head Office staff) programs Skill Development Training Process Establishing Study Plan Executing Study Plan Feedback on Study Results Utilizing Annual Study Results Learning plan Complete the education Coaching/discussion with leader Annual study result feedback Employees can have an interview course under the learning plan Conduct coaching/discussion from organization leader with their leader and choose Complete the education program sessions on skills training and Comprehensive feedback on annual the methods and programs of according to the learning plan. performance target progress study results per each individual competence development that best review member of organization suit their needs in order to produce the best possible results. Conduct self-directed study Feedback on learning Reflect learning performance in Conduct self-directed study based results (HR-leader) evaluation and HR decisions on study plan Group’s study progress, skills development training sponsorship costs Feedback to organization Application of learning results members Apply learning results to Leaders-provide feedback on improve job performance. learning progress and pace to members PLAN DO SEE 38 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Cost for Competence Development Study Support Employee Training Hours Competency development cost Total (thousand won) Item 2014 2015 2016 per person (thousand won) Male / female (hour) 89 / 75 92 / 79 87 / 86 Organizational heads/ 50 / 79 51 / 89 45 / 92 Organizational members (hour) Training costs per persons 692,362 920 896 1,045 (thousand KRW) 566,094 Training hours per person (hour) Annual training hours (hour) 356,703 323,393 196 267,615 317,871 159 87 89 110 77 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Study Programs for Competence Development Kyobo Love Flower is designed to educate sales managers working in the field on the latest insurance and financial Kyobo Love trends, and to equip them with professional knowledge Flower on insurance sales and marketing to aid their competence development and performance enhancement efforts. Kyobo Smart Kyobo Smart Academy(E-learning) offers an integrated, Academy video-based e-learning package to effectively support (E-learning) constant learning in the field. Knowledge Proposal allows employees to get involved in Knowledge improving job processes as well as enhancing their effiProposal ciency and boosting their ability to think creatively. Action Learning helps employees to learn from each other Action and work together to tackle key issues of the company, Learning thereby contributing to higher job performance. Members of learning clubs help each other to learn about Study issues that impact performance on the sales front, and Groups work out solutions. Employees are encouraged to acquire professional certifications that are deemed necessary and useful to the Professional performance of their work. Employees seeking to acquire Certification a certification are reimbursed for the cost including tuition fees, texts, and application fees, within the limit set by the company. : Kyobo Love Flower : Kyobo Smart Academy 39 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues Kyobo Life’s Management Method for Investors Performance Management Investor-related Key Performance Data Framework for Investors Our Pledges to Investors Total assets (trillion won) ROE* (%) RBC** (%) A company that is attractive to investors 85.8 92.0 96.7 8.7 271.3 259.8 233.9 7.8 7.0 •We shall constantly generate outstanding profit through good growth. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 •We shall raise corporate value through proactive risk management. Key Activities in 2016 Key Future Tasks •Increase holding period return (HPR) through •Proactively respond to new capital regulation. diversification of the asset portfolio. Increase available capital while reducing Develop new revenue sources by expanding required capital. investments in overseas markets, etc. Improve the companywide risk Recruit talent in a timely manner and create an management system and infrastructure. Key Investor related Issues effective HR development system •Improve the ability to adjust asset •Acquire Management Transparency •Respond proactively to the changing business management strategies to keep them in environment line with market changes. •Management Performance and Business Take proactive steps in preparation for the Adjust the asset management portfolio and Strategies introduction of Solvency II. continue expanding high-interest rate assets. •Stabilize Management Performance Build corporate capacity and infrastructure in Raise the holding period return and •Expand Alternative Investments response to tightened regulation. generate profits that exceed the target. •Enhance Ethical Management •Continue improving the negative margin Focus on ALM-oriented asset management. structure. Manage risks proactively to prevent assets under management from becoming nonperforming assets. * Return on Equity (ROE) : Net Income / {(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period) / 2} × 100, based on consolidated financial statements, 2013/2014 Numbers adjusted ** Risk Based Capital (RBC) : Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) / Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk)x100, based on consolidated financial statements 40 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Improve Asset Management Returns Kyobo Life's investors are majoritarily composed of shareholders and those who share the fruits of corporate management in return for their capital investment. Entrusted with running the company by investors, the management conducts the company’s business activities in a transparent manner, generates profits, and shares those profits with the stakeholders. Competition is ever intensifying as rival groups struggle to gain a larger share of the limited pie of high-return assets. Against this backdrop, it is necessary to increase returns by expanding the scope of investment targets and developing new sources of income. Under these circumstances, Kyobo Life’s key goal remains to adhere to the principle of far-sighted asset management, one of the main elements of life insurers’ asset management strategies, and to steadily improve returns on asset management. Principles of Asset Management 2016 Asset Management Strategy Kyobo Life has created an optimal asset portfolio in line with the As interest rates remain on the downward trend and both domescompany’s risk management policy, including the risk tolerance and tic and international financial are forecasted to become increasingly threshold that the company can withstand. Based on this portfolio, volatile, imminent changes such as stronger solvency regulation and Kyobo Life has been generating stable returns. Kyobo Life takes the the introduction of IFRS17 are expected to weigh further on the life long-term view and seeks to create stable returns based on Asset insurance industry. Kyobo Life has formulated and implemented a Liability Management (ALM) strategies that suit the long-term insurseries of strategies designed to cope with these changes. ance products that Kyobo Life, as a life insurer, provides, while responding more proactively to market fluctuations in the short term. Strategy Description Roles of Asset Management | The purpose of Kyobo Life’s asset management is to “create long-term, stable returns on the assets Continued Focus on ALM-based asset management in expansion of the midto long-term to deal with regulatory under Kyobo Life's management” and thereby provide the guaranasset duration changes. tees including benefit payments that Kyobo Life promises to customers by managing assets in the ways that best fit Kyobo Life's Actively defend the holding period return amid debt structure and by managing risks proactively. falling low interest rates -E xert greater efforts to secure high-return assets, expand the scope of investment targets Diversification of beyond national borders and find new sources asset portfolio of income at home and abroad. -B uild a new, well-organized framework for ￼ Provide guarantees as recruiting and training talented people of the 고객에게 약속한 보장 제공 highest caliber. promised to our customers ￼ Asset management suitable for debt structure Securing of Use longand short-term instruments and credit optimal profits spread to actively respond to market volatility. Long-term, Secure interestIncrease holding stable asset bearing assets period return management and profit generation Advanced risk management Balance between risk management and returns 41 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life 2016 Asset Management Results | Kyobo Life’s asset management Korea Asset Management Award: Kyobo Life recognized for asstrategy in 2016 focused on expanding high interest rate-assets set & risk management ability | Kyobo Life was honored with the and generating additional returns by taking advantage of the margrand prize at the Korea Asset Management Awards in June 2016. ket volatility, in an effort to achieve the management goal of raising This award represents the recognition of the financial authority and the holding period return and thereby improve the negative maracademia that Kyobo Life manages its assets in a way that genergin caused by the gap between the return rates on assets under ates the most stable returns. It is also a result of Kyobo Life's conmanagement and the interest rates applied to existing insurance sistent efforts to follow the principle of seeking long-term, stable contracts. In addition, Kyobo Life implemented proactive risk manreturns, which eventually led to a balance between risk management agement measures, such as increasing asset duration ahead of the and returns. The achievement is particularly meaningful given the scheduled tightening of solvency regulation. Kyobo Life continued increasingly adverse business environment, including the prolonged to invest mainly in longterm bonds as a source of long-term, stalow interest rate trend, stricter industry regulation, and ever tighter ble returns and held the company's holding period return steady by accounting rules. Kyobo Life will spare no effort in strengthening its increasing investments in alternative and overseas instruments that ability to provide customer guarantees by effectively managing asoffer relatively higher rates of return than domestic bonds, as low sets and seamlessly managing risks. interest rates persisted. Kyobo Life's retail lending was restructured to increase the percentage of high-quality collateral and attract customers with a solid credit history. Meanwhile, Kyobo Life simultaneously expanded credit loans that offer a relatively high risk-return ratio and securitized longterm mortgage loans in order to proactively manage risks from household debt. Variable assets were managed with improved management approaches by type, based on a wellstructured asset management process that consisted of three steps: strategic asset allocation, tac: Kyobo Life selected as the winner of Korea Asset Management Award tical asset allocation, and outsourcing to asset management companies. As a result, Kyobo Life became more marketresponsive and encouraged competition among affiliated asset management comKyobo Life Asset Management Japan Co. Ltd. (Local Corporation panies. Kyobo Life's communication with these asset management in Japan) | Kyobo Life Asset Management Japan Co., Ltd. was set companies was strengthened to help secure long-term stable reup to conduct research on Japan’s insurance market, including such turns and to ensure that Kyobo Life’s asset management philosophy topics as insurance sales, products, and asset management, and to and strategy are incorporated into their asset management. assist the Head Office with its asset management. The company is 100%-owned by Kyobo Life and has been incorporated with 100 Asset Management Returns million yen (around 1.1 billion won) in capital in Tokyo, Japan. The Japanese subsidiary will be responsible for conducting research on Kyobo Life's asset management returns (%) Average yield on 3-year treasury bond (%) overseas insurance markets, managing investments, and advising on alternative investments amid the prolonged trends of low inter4.6 est rates and low growth, in a drive to generate stable revenues. The 4.4 4.1 Japanese unit started its operations at the end of December 2016 and plans to build a base for new sources of revenue by developing alternative investment opportunities, as well as effectively manag2.6 ing existing investment projects and providing investment manage1.8 ment and financial advisory services. 1.4 2014 2015 2016 42 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Companywide Preparation for Implementation of a required course in the cyber education program to build a conIFRS17 sensus on the importance of IFRS17 and to help them make a Ahead of the scheduled adoption of IRFS17 in 2021, the industry is smooth transition to the new standard as they perform their job. concerned about the scope of the new rule’s application, its impact, and the industry’s responses. In fact, the new accounting rules are Rated A1 by Moody’s for Second Consecutive Year: expected to have a great impact on the life insurance sector including Only Kyobo Life in the Industry capital and solvency requirements. IFRS17, which stands for InternaKyobo Life was rated A1 (stable outlook) by the global credit rating tional Financial Reporting Standard 17, is a new set of international agency Moody’s in 2015 and again in 2016. Given that Moody’s is accounting standards for insurance contracts. The purpose of the one of the world’s top rating agencies, with a 40% market share new rules is to provide a globally harmonized financial statement for of all rated companies in the market, achieving the A1 rating for a insurance companies to use and thus raise accounting transparency. second consecutive year is meaningful in that it represents global The forthcoming IFRS17 presents another thorny task for the insurrecognition of Kyobo Life’s financial soundness and risk manageance industry that is already struggling with low interest rates, low ment ability despite the challenging circumstances, including the economic growth, and waves of regulatory reform. The new accountprolonged low interest rate trend and global economic slowdown. ing standard will change how debt is presented on their balance Furthermore, with the assignment of the A1 credit rating, Kyobo sheet. Consequently, under the new rules the liabilities of insurance Life now stands shoulder to shoulder with leading global financial companies will increase massively, while available capital will shrink companies such as Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of considerably. Insurance companies’ financial soundness will inevitaAmerica. Kyobo Life was also assigned the top ‘triple AAA’ rating by bly deteriorate once the new accounting rules take effect. FurtherKorea’s three major credit rating agencies including Korea Investors more, savings insurance premiums of total premium income will not Service, Korea Ratings, and National Information & Credit Informabe treated as revenue under the new rules, so initial revenues foltion (NICE). Notably, NICE has assigned the top rating to Kyobo Life lowing the sale of products are expected to drop steeply as a result. for the past ten consecutive years. IFRS17 Task Force | Kyobo Life formed a task force to prepare for Moody’s Credit Ratings of Key Companies in Korea and Abroad the introduction of IFRS17 since April 2015 and has been carefulKyobo Life, Prudential (US), MeijiYasuda, Morgan Stanley Bank, ly assessing the impact of the new rules, as well as working out A1 Goldman Sachs, BoA, Barclays Bank, Samsung Electronics, KB, responses to them. In March 2016, the task force was expandKEB Hana Bank ed and upgraded into a full-fledged team. Executives and team A2 Ping An, Societe Generale, Woori Bank leaders were first invited to a workshop and subsequently to an information session on IFRS17 to help them better underA3 SKT, LG Chemicals: A3, Hyundai Motor: Baa1, POSCO :Baa2 stand the new accounting standard. IFRS17 was also included as Brief Summary of IFRS17 Current IFRS17 Effect Insurance Subject to industry regulation(cost method) Fair value method Financial volatility will increase. liabilities Revenue is recognized Recognition Insurance companies Insurance premiums are stated as revenue. when services are provided. of revenue will decrease in size. *Savings (investments) are excluded. Profit is recognized throughout Recognition Much profit is generated immediately after the duration of insurance policy. Companies will likely of profit the signing of contracts. *Insurance profit is distributed proportionally focus more on profit (value). for the duration of a policy. *Profit is indicated by source. Existing accounting practices will no longer Changes in the way that financial Others Industry practices be allowed. statements are prepared. 43 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life 2016 Top 5 Stakeholder Issues Kyobo Life’s Management Method for Government and Communities Performance Management Key Government and Community related Performance Framework for Government and Communities Social contribution ratio*/ Weight of socially Energy consumption *** Our Pledges to Government and Communities amounts (%/100 million won) responsible investments (TOE) A company that ratio (SRI)** (%) Grows Together with 4.2 the Government and 3.3 Communities 18,327 18,853 18,319 2.4 8.8 8.8 •We shall actively engage in social 8.5 contribution activities. •Environment management programs 202 214 will be designed to reflect the unique 121 characteristics of our life insurance business. 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 •We shall pursue fair competition and shared growth with business partners. Key Government and Communities Related Issues Key Activities in 2016 Key Future Tasks •Increase environment management •Provide support to overcome •Social contribution activities reflecting programs hardships due to lack of health, the nature of the life insurance •Design and implement win-win strategies finance, knowledge, which are closely business associated with the nature of life •Develop environmentally-friendly insurance products and services •Develop socially contribution product •Community service program * Social contribution ratio : Amount of social contribution / Net Income ** Weight of Socially responsible investment (SRI) ratio : SRI investment / General account assets)x100 *** TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units. 44 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Social Contribution Activities Reflecting the Nature of the Life Insurance Business The government and communities provide a framework in which Kyobo Life can grow and fulfill its role as a member of society, while simultaneously serving as important stakeholders. The Golden Rule of “treating others in the way you would wish to be treated” sums up the business philosophy of Kyobo Life, particularly in the way that Kyobo Life strives to create win-win opportunities for the local communities in which the company operates. Kyobo Life seeks to engage in social contribution activities that take advantage of strengths as a life insurance business, and pursue consistent CSR activities in the long term rather than focusing on short-term opportunities, so that the company and its communities can grow together. A Society of Kyobo Life’s Dreams Where People are Foundation, to provide financial aid to low-income families strugHealthy and Connected gling financially and emotionally following the birth of premature Kyobo Life dreams of a beautiful and healthy society where people babies* and to help these babies grow into healthy children. Since beam with smiles, are warm-hearted, healthy, and giving, and caring 2004 the project, which is financed by participations from arround and considerate to others; a society where youth, the hope of the 4,900 financial planners and citizens, has helped pay the medical future, are healthy in body and in mind. costs for a 2,382 premature babies in total (as of the end of 2016). * ’Premature babies’ refers to babies who weigh 2.5kg or less at the time of birth or Principles of Social Contribution Activities | The following principles who were born on or before the 37th week of pregnancy. are applied to all aspects of Kyobo Life’s social contribution programs including the selection, implementation and evaluation of the programs. Focus on Form long-term Increase the helping people partnerships efficiency of Evaluate to overcome life with nonprofit social contribuprograms challenges organizatio tion programs Help People to Overcome Adversities Related to Health, Finance, Lack of Information : A premature baby is growing as a healthy baby Kyobo Life's social contribution programs are special in the sense that the company helps people build the foundation upon which they can Dasomi Hope Santa : Some babies are so curious and inquisitive overcome difficulties on their own instead of simply providing oneabout the world that they rush out of their mother’s womb to meet time support. In particular, Kyobo Life focuses on helping people who this world earlier than they should. Volunteers dressed up as Santa are struggling with health and financial issues and a lack of information visit these babies to make a special day for them. The first Dasomi to deal with these issues and lead a positive and healthy life, because Hope Santa event was held in December 2016. A total of 150 Santas, the company believes that these three areas are closely related to its including Kyobo Life employees, financial planners and volunteering business as a life insurance provider, and because the company becitizens, prepared and wrapped gifts for these babies, and delivered lieves it should share the expertise in these areas with people in need. gifts and hand-written letters. Helping to Overcome Health Adversity | Kyobo Life supports various health programs such as family love program which promotes love and sharing with one’s loving family, to help people overcome health adversities so that all people may lead bright and healthy lives. Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program : Kyobo Life launched “Dasomi Save a Small Breath Program, in partnership with the Beautiful : Dasomi Hope Santa 45 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Dasomi Family Love Camp : The two-day camp offers interesting programs including Couples Program, Children’s Program, and Cake 2016 Northeast Asia Journey : 8 Stars Shining Above Chang Jiang of Hope Baking Event to offer participants opportunities to bond The 2016 Northeast Asia Journey, titled “8 Stars Shining Above even more closely with their family members. Chang Jiang,” ran for 7 nights and 8 days in August 2016. The participating college students travelled around cities along Chang Jiang, including Chongqing, Guangan, Fengdu, Sanxia, and JingZhou, and were encouraged to develop a spirit of challenge and leadership skills as they tried to find answers to their burning questions about life in the words and deeds of the great masters of Chinese history including Sima Qian, Liu Bei, Guan Yu, Zhuge Liang, Du Fu, Li Bai, Lu Xun, Deng Xio Ping. : Dasomi Family Love Camp Helping to Overcome Financial Adversity | Kyobo Life helps people to overcome their economic difficulties by getting socially involved and by planning a brighter, better future. Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group : The program trains female heads of low-income households as professional caregivers if they wish Kyobo Life Hope Dasomi Scholarship : This program offers scholto work in this domain, provides them with opportunities for work, arships and support through their local communities to college stuand helps them to become financially independent, while offering dents from disadvantaged backgrounds, including young people free care services to patients from the low-income class and elderly from orphanages and group homes or those who are already workpeople who have no family members to care for them. Since the ing as providers for their own family. Young people who grow up program started in 2004, 373 caregivers are working as of 2016, and under these circumstances are often deprived of educational oppor215,812 people have benefited from free care services since 2004. tunities or have to struggle with social prejudice and economic hardships. The program is designed to help them healthy and productive Annual Results of Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group members of society by offering financial aid and other forms of support through their local communities so that they can work through Category 2014 2015 2016 their college years and make their dream a reality. Nurses (person) 630* 495* 373 Beneficiaries (person) 10,516 10,209 8,244 Hope Dasomi Scholarship * 2014, 2015 figures corrected Category 2014 2015 2016 No. of recipients (person) 85 79 83 Helping to Overcome Adversity due to lack of knowledge | Kyobo Amount (one million KRW) 300 275 300 Life supports teenagers, the future of society, to have hopes and dreams, and grow into talented adults. Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students : Now in its fifteenth year since its inception back in 2002, this program intends to help college students, who will be the leaders of the future, develop their leadership & followership skills and grow into globally competitive human resources. : Hope Dasomi Scholarship 46 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix SPECIAL SECTION Global Social Contribution: Dasomi Global Volunteers Group Dasomi Global Volunteers Group made up of 18 employees visited Ben Tre Province, a rural farming community in Vietnam and engaged in various activities to help local village people for 5 days from June 14 through 18. Volunteers offered art and cooking programs for local kids, built a house as part of Habitat for Humanity project, created a library in the local elementary school, and got involved in other activities to be of practical help to local children and residents of the local community. In the last 6 years that Kyobo Life volunteers have been visiting Ben Tre, they helped build Vin Kan Dong Elementary School and Ang Hip Elementary School and 13 homes, thereby breeding hopes for local people. Instead of being one-time event, volunteers provide consistent and long-term support to people in Ben Tre, thereby ensuring that their volunteer programs produce tangible results and desired effects. My Volunteering Experience in Vietnam Second day at Yanghip Elementary School: When we arrived at the day 1 I had never had a passport in my 29 years before I went to Vietnam to volunteer for the Tree of Hope program. So it day 4 school early in the morning, kids were already there waiting for us. Confident about our cooking, we couldn’t wait to get started. Teams 6.13 was indeed my first overseas trip, and I was all set to take off. Finally, I arrived in Vietnam where I had mixed feelings of 6.16 of volunteers wasted no time as they took out the ingredients and started cooking Korean food. We used local ingredients as well fear and excitement during my first day there. and made fusion rice balls. We used molds to make the rice balls look neat and pretty, and they were a big hit not only among kids but also among 8 o’clock in the morning. I headed for the construction site adults. The Tteokppokkii we made with rice cakes in Korea was served with day 2 where the Habitat for Humanity project was taking place. It coriander leaves. The local children found it a bit spicy due to the red pepper was supposed to be a one-hour trip by bus. However, the bus paste in the sauce, but they still liked it. They kept saying it was spicy, but 6.14 stopped suddenly as the road leading through the village to the site was so narrow that the bus could not go any further. they still enjoyed the food and gulped down the fruit punch we’d made for them. Watching them eat all the food we’d prepared made us feel like Realizing that we had to walk quite a long way while carrying 20 we were moms for them. The fruit punch was voted the best by the kids, young trees, gifts for the beneficiary families, building materials and but I believe they will remember the authentic Korean menu, including rice other stuff, we were just about to start worrying. But then, employees balls and Tteokppokkii, as a special treat for years to come. We rapped our of the Ben Tree Provincial Government and people from the village program by organizing a twoday photo exhibition of the various activities came to our rescue. They carried the building materials and trees on that we did. In the afternoon of the same day we returned to Ho Chi Min motorcycles to the construction site. The weather was sizzling hot City, celebrated the successful completion of the program, and held an as I grabbed a shovel for the first time in my life in order to do some evaluation session. As I watched a short video of the three days we spent on plastering work. I had to mix cement and sand. Sweat was pouring the project, I felt like hugging the other volunteers and patting myself on the down my face but I was thrilled by the thought of playing a part in back for the meaningful time we shared. We exchanged words of praise and building a home for someone as I stacked up brick after brick. The encouragement during our last evening in Vietnam. brother and sister who were going to live in the house stuck around the construction site all day long, watching these strangers building their home with a mixture of curiosity and excitement. Local kids The volunteers all came from vastly different backgrounds. They carried bricks and brought snacks to the volunteers, which boosted day 5 joined the company in different years, came from diverse regions, and held diverse jobs. But they all gathered together in Vietnam our passion and energy for the project. Ten grapefruit trees were planted as a financial foundation for the recipient families, and a ceremony was held to celebrate the completion of the construction. 6.17 for the same cause of helping others for five days. Working hard for a good cause with like-minded people in Vietnam, a foreign The volunteers presented a wall clock as a gift for the new house. It country where everything was so different, I realized that life can be full of was getting dark in the late afternoon and the sky over the Mekong hope and rewarding regardless of where I am. I returned to Korea, with a River was glowing red as the sun went down. It was indeed a special growing sense that a little help, time and effort on the part of volunteers day that was very worthwhile and meaningful to me and so many can bring hope to people in need. others who were part of the project. On the first day we volunteers showed up at Yanghip day 3 Elementary School before 8 am and met the local children. First, we painted the inside of the newly built library, 6.15 and brought in bookcases and furniture. Everybody was busy. Although it was the school vacation, curious children began to gather in the school early in the morning. The kids looked very cute as they clung onto the windows of the classrooms and saw how their new library was set up and watched the volunteers preparing for lessons. We made good memories with the children who visited us at the school. The children made a wall clock decorated with their drawings and some pretty accessories with glass deco. They also made a bookmark with their name on it so that they could actually use it when reading books. They also made me a bookmark, and I was touched by how thoughtful these little kids were. One kid almost cried when the clock he made wouldn’t r in Vietnam! work. All the volunteers worked together and finally fixed the clock, which brought us the happiness of being and working together. 2 9 t o v o lu nt ee e of m y f ir st pa ssport at the ag I got 47 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life S pecial S ection Stories of Volunteer Work According to a report released by Harvard Medical School, there is a ‘Mother Teresa Effect’ whereby, whenever one thinks of Mother Teresa, who devoted her entire life to loving and serving others, one’s body generates a substance that strengthens the immune system and thereby helps the body to fight off harmful viruses more effectively. Kyobo Life posed a series of questions to executives and employees who are experiencing the ‘Mother Teresa Effect’ by getting actively and consistently involved in volunteering activities. Here is what they had to say about volunteering for years under challenging circumstances. What Are the Strengths of Kyobo Life’s Volunteer Programs? Kyobo Life's Volunteering Results in Brief (Responses from Those Helped by Kyobo Life) Item 2014 2015 2016 Instead of offering one-time services, Kyobo Life’s Consistent volunteers are there for the long term and strive to help Cumulative total number of people consistently. employees who have participated 7,746 7,692 8,894 in volunteer programs Regular The programs are well planned and regularly implemented. Total number of volunteer hours 25,519 26,725 23,949 Authentic Volunteers are dedicated and sincere in their services. Number of volunteer 6.0 6.4 5.6 Active Volunteers actively look for what they can do to help. hours per person *F  igures are based on data that Kyobo Life disclosed on the website of Life Insurance Association What Do You Think Needs to be Done to Encourage More What Motivated You to Volunteer? Employees to Volunteer? Help others At the company’s Diversify Organized 51.7% recommendation volunteering education on 11.2% opportunities and volunteering activities 11.8% 32.9% For personal Introduce Expand mandatory satisfaction volunteering volunteering 24.7% programs at the (requirement for company level promotion, etc.) 29.4% 17.6% What Are the Main Challenges in Volunteering? Satisfaction with Kyobo Life’s Volunteers and Services  (on a scale of 1 to 10) Coordinating Lack of schedules with knowledge Overall Satisfaction by Length of Service Time recipient and experience Satisfaction organizations to perform 9.4 9.3 36.5% volunteer 9.1 services 8.7 29.4% Physical fatigue 9.4% Less than 1 year More than 1 year ~ 3 years 3 years *T  he survey is intended to help volunteer activities be conducted more effectively and systematically and it is conducted on 111 volunteer sites where Kyobo employees 48 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Kyobo Life’s Performance 50 Economic Performance 53 Environmental Performance 59 Social Performance 49 Sustainability Report 2016 Kyobo Life Economic Performance in 2016 Kyobo Life’s key economic performance in 2016 is as below. Total Assets (Trillion KRW) Net Income* (Hundred Million KRW) Return on Equity (ROE) (%) 92.0 96.7 6,079 8.8 5,145 85.8 5,052 8.0 7.0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 96.7 Trillion KRW 5,145 Hundred Million KRW 7.0% Risk Based Capital (RBC) (%) Premium Income (Trillion KRW) Receivables Turnover Ratio (%) 271.3 259.8 12.7 12.6 0.74 12.3 12.2 233.9 0.72 0.68 8.7 0.48 0.44 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 233.9% 12.2 Trillion KRW 0.44% * Numbers : Based on consolidated financial statements * Net Income : Figure based on controlling interests 50 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Economic Performance Financial Performance Stability | Since RBC was adopted as a new indicator of financial In the business year of 2016, the domestic economy remained in a soundness for insurance companies, Kyobo Life has been efficiently long-term downturn due to sluggish exports and weak domestic demanaging its RBC ratio by consistently generating net profit, improvmand. On the international front, the global financial market became ing the asset-liability structure, and thoroughly managing risks. In increasingly volatile due to the impacts of Brexit and rising tension 2016, the company’s RBC ratio stood at 233.9%, far exceeding the arising from the U.S.-China row over South China Sea. Despite these RBC ratio of 150% required by the regulators. adverse circumstances, Kyobo Life consistently carried out product and distribution innovation and produced solid results in growth, Stability Indicators profit and stability. RBC Ratio (%) Growth | In 2016, insurance premium revenue stalled as the trend of low growth and low interest rates continued, and uncertainty persisted at home and abroad, seriously dampening consumer senti259.8 ment. Equity capital at the end of 2016 increased 4.5% from a year ago to 7,862.5 billion won as the company consistently generated net profit and as a result, retained earnings rose. Kyobo Life actively 2015 engaged in customer guarantee-centered sales activities that fo271.3 cused on the nature of insurance. As a consequence, total assets at the end of 2016 expanded 5.1% from a year earlier to 96,684.3 billion won. 233.9% 2014 Growth Indicators 2016 Category 2014 2015 2016 Premium Income (Trillion KRW) 12.3 12.6 12.2 Shareholder’s Equity (Trillion KRW) 6.7 7.2 7.9 Total Assets (Trillion KRW) 85.8 92.0 96.7 Risk Management Risk management is one of the key competitive factors of insurance businesses. Kyobo Life quantifies risk and manages it systematically Profit | Most life insurance companies saw their profitability drop in order to reduce and eliminate managerial uncertainty in advance in 2016 due to the challenging business environment and the proand thereby increase stability. longed trend of low interest rates. Nevertheless, Kyobo Life exerted aggressive efforts to generate stable profit and posted a net profit Systematic Risk Management | Kyobo Life measures the risks that of 514.5 billion won. ROE and ROA dipped slightly to 7.0% and 0.5%, can arise in daily management activities such as insurance sales and respectively, from a year ago. asset management in order to establish standards for acceptable levels of risk with the aim of sustaining stable management activiProfitability Indicators ties within the payment capacity amount, and establishes and operates a guideline so as to secure its capital above the minimum Category 2014 2015 2016 regulatory level established by the regulator in the case of simultaROE (%) 8.0 8.8 7.0 neously occurring risks. ROA (%) 0.6 0.7 0.5 Net Income (Hundred Million KRW) 5,052 6,079 5,145 51 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Risk Management Organization Risk Board of Directors management, decision making, and Risk Management Committee ultimate responsibility Risk Management ALM Council Council Risk and ALM Management Risk Management ALM Council Team Types of Variable Life Market Risk Credit Risk ALM Team Insurance Risk Insurance Nonfinancial Risk ALM Management Risk Guarantee Investment Asset Portfolio Asset Audit Insurance Risk Management Initial Risk ALM Individual Management Management Infrastructure Management Retail Loan Team Department Team Support Team Construction TF Marketing Risk Management Process | Kyobo Life has established an anticipaReceivables Turnover Ratio (%) Individual Loans Corporate Loans tive risk management system to prevent and reduce losses due to rapid changes in the financial market. Kyobo Life's risk management system detects potential risk changes in advance and responds accordingly with a preliminary company-wide risk assessment, which 0.74 0.72 0.68 is conducted by a risk management team dedicated to important 0.48 decision making, risk limit management for steps and procedures, 0.44 risk limit propriety inspection and adjustment, securities loss limit 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.09 0.01 configuration and management, and regular monitoring of various 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 risk factors. * Turnover Ratio = Arrearage over 1 month/Loan receivable x 100 (Insurance contract loans excluded) Monitoring Risk Risk measure Risk response and Receivables Quality Status (%) Coverage Ratio NPL Ratio awareness and evaluation and control feedback 721.7 Loan Receivables Management | The year 2016 saw a continuing trend of low interest rates along with a rise in household debt due 637.7 672.8 533.3 to rising real estate prices in the capital area. Kyobo Life converted parts of its individual collateral loans into asset backed securities 379.2 0.25 0.18 after 2014 in order to reform its loan structure with the focus on 0.14 0.14 0.13 quality collateral and clients. In addition, Kyobo Life has cleaned up 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 the system through the premature collection or redemption of loans, * NPL Ratio = (Loan receivable Below Fixed Rate /Total Receivables) x 100 with the reinforcement of arrears management for individual credit * Coverage Ratio = (Total Reserve/Receivables Below Fixed Rate) x 100 loans taken out by debtors with low credit ratings. 52 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Social Performance in 2016 Kyobo Life’s key social performance in 2016 is as below. Parental Leave Application and Return Rates (%, person) Labor Union Membership Rates (%) * Return rates pertain to female return rates 97.5 91.2 86.2 89.7 91.7 76 73 68 257 256 2012 2013 2014 170 132 97 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 81 72 72% 2015 2016 256 Person DA-WIN Service Status (Accumulated) (No. of persons/companies) Customer Information Protection Training Status (No. of Hours) Number of Service Recipients Number of Service Receiving Employee Training Status (person) Companies (Companies) 15 16 77,668 12 68,609 9 53,111 58,455 4 1,183 1,094 16 1,050 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Hours 854 Category 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Financial Planners 10 9 10 12 12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Executives 4 9 12 15 16 IT Employees 4 14 14 16.5 16 58,455 1,050 Employees in charge of information management and protection 4 16 15 16.5 16 Person Companies 53 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Social Performance Operation of internal control system | Kyobo Life makes sure that it abides by the laws and regulations for the protection of insurance Kyobo Life is striving to play its role and to fulfill its social responcontract beneficiaries, and manages assets in a sound manner, Kyosibilities as a corporate citizen. Kyobo Life is fulfilling our social rebo Life also monitors compliance with internal control standards and sponsibilities by making Kyobo Life's corporate management transdesignates compliance monitoring personnel to report the investiparent through ethical management and by offering competitive gation results to the Audit Committee (7 Improvement recommeninsurance products and services as a member of the communities. dations of 2016 are under way), which is responsible for overseeing In addition, Kyobo Life guarantees rights to employees and provide the entire internal control system. various company benefits to allow employees to strike a sound work-life balance. Internal Control Assessment and Recommendations for Improvement Acquiring Management Transparency through Recommendations for Improvement Related department Ethical Management Improve the internal control task propriety inspection Legal support As corporate influence on society grows ever stronger, demands for process run by each head of the department department corporate social responsibility along with ethical management have Prepare a reporting process for employees who Human resource been rising. Kyobo Life, as a finance company whose ethics are heaviviolate the anti-graft law support team ly scrutinized, recognizes the importance of securing corporate transReinforce the information security management system to Information respond to the security threats rising from new IT ahead of time security team parency to earn the trust of its stakeholders. Improve the description of main contents regarding the Kyobo’s Work Ethics Doctrine | Kyobo Life has enacted the ‘Kyobo’s Organization net termination of commission contract for financial planners support team and the process of confirming their understanding work ethics doctrine’ to clarify its intention to pursue ethical management, and has established regulations on work ethics along with Maintain for securing appropriate customer response level Customer and revise the claim related work manual and reinforce the maintenance specific instructions to establish guidelines on work ethics for all its training of employees regarding the matter support team employees. In 2016, the contents relevant to the anti-graft law was Customer Improve customer self-identification process to reflected in the revision. Also, all employees including the CEO are remaintenance prevent financial accidents support team quired attend Kyobo’s ‘Work Ethics Resolution’ event at the beginning Improve insurance claim payout evaluation Claim evaluation of every fiscal year to reinforce the company’s ethical work culture. related information guide system team Training Status of Employees Involved in Work Ethics and Security Category 2014 2015 2016 Transparent Trades with Partner Companies | Kyobo Life operates Ethics Manager (hour) 16.7 15.0 18.5 a system designed to secure transparency in trades with external training Non-managerial workers (hour) 13.6 16.5 14.5 partner companies involved in the major businesses of Kyobo Life. Security No. of security employees (Number of people) 172 175 171 training Training execution rate (%) 100 100 100 Cyber purchase system: : To guarantee transparent and fair purchasing, the entire purchase process is conducted through the company’s cyber purchase system, which enables partner companies to conduct purchases without the constraints of time and space, while allowing Kyobo Life to secure transparency in selecting partner companies through competitive bidding without the need for face-to-face meetings. Operation of clean contract system : Kyobo Life has established : Photo of the Work Ethics Resolution event the Clean Contract System to promote mutual benefits with stakeFair trade voluntary compliance program | 'Kyobo Life has appointholders based on a transaction culture in which collusion and uned a manager and an organization dedicated to fair trade and put in fair trade practices such as bribes and preferential treatment are place systems designed to ensure fair trade compliance, while conprohibited throughout the entire process of contractual fulfillment tinuing to train and monitor employees with regard to compliance. including product purchase, services, and construction. 54 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Selected as an Exemplary Money Laundering Prevention Institution | Protection of Customer Rights and Benefits and Prevention of UnKyobo Life was named as an exemplary money laundering prevenfair Trade | Kyobo Life is committed to protecting the rights and bention institution on the 10th Money Laundering Prevention day in Noefits of finance institution users and customers by complying with vember 2016, and received a commendation from the commissioner insurance related regulations. It also operates an advertisement of the Financial Services Commission. This was the result of its being review system which requires new product advertisements and inhighly evaluated for consistently improving and upholding its complisurance brochures to be approved by the legal compliance monitorance with the anti-money laundering laws by performing strict client ing body, and prevents unfair trade by prohibiting the persuasion of background checks and implementing the system of reporting suscustomers of competitors to trade with us. pected money laundering transactions and large cash transactions. Overview of Product Advertisement·Review Status Category 2014 2015 2016 Status of cases under review (Case) 624 1,090 1,166 Efforts for insurance claim payments | Kyobo Life currently executes its insurance payouts through 59 customer plazas, 35 payment reception windows and 53 insurance payout reception windows. In addition, we help customers who are unable to visit the : Photo of the Money Laundering Prevention Commendation plazas or reception windows with their insurance claims and payouts through the proxy insurance claim application and the financial Responsibility for Insurance Products planners and visiting payout service. and Services Kyobo Life does its best to ensure that its clients recognize the value Application by Agent and Visiting Service of Insurance Payment of life insurance and select the product that is most appropriate to Claims Status their needs, while improving the quality of its services from signing up for insurance to maintenance and payout. Category 2014 2015 2016 Accident claim Paid amount 4,580 4,686 5,121 | Kyobo application via agent (100million KRW) Complete Subscription Process Life provides all its financial planners with regular training on the complete subscription process, Payment by visit Paid amount 2,770 2,755 3,170 service (100million KRW) and reflects the subscription items in the company policies, with strict emphasis on the complete subscription process. Responsibility for the Customers: Certification of Customer CenStatus of Complete Subscription Process tered Management (CCM) | Kyobo Life obtained the CCM certificaNotification of Full explanation of tion (Valid from July 2015~June 2017) from the Fair Trade Commission Compliance with requirements before information customers (FTC) in 2015. Consumer-centered management certification is the the 3 principles signing need to know FTC’s certification system Issuance of contract Clients are advised Detailed and accurate for corporations that have containing the to fill out all the explanation of items personal signatures requirements on the requiring explanation, contributed to the developof the contracting form prior to signing. such as product ment of a consumer-orientparty and insurance characteristics and subscriber, full guarantees. ed management culture and explanation of the improvement of consumer contract, and delivery of contract copy to welfare by establishing and the subscriber. operating a management system focused on their consumers. : Certificate 55 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Work-Life Balance also provides parental leave and allowances, spouse parental leave, Kyobo Life endeavors to create a pleasant working culture charholidays for prenatal checkup, shortened working hours during the acterized by joy, pride, and trust where employees can enjoy work child’s young years, pregnant employee protection, and child inforwhile maintaining a sound work-life balance. mation sharing platform to foster a working environment that emphasizes a culture of maternal protection. Employee Status | As of the end of 2016, Kyobo Life has 4,275 employees, representing a 2.5% decrease from the previous year. FeParental Leave and Return Rates male employees account for 45.9% of the total, and there are 215 Category 2014 2015 2016 new recruits. In 2016, 92 employees retired, i.e. a retirement rate of males 4 4 2 Parental leave 2.2%. There are 52 employees with disabilities, which represents a applicants (person) females 166 253 254 1.2% recruitment rate of disabled people. Female managers account Return from males 100 100 100 for 9.5% of the total, and their number has increased steadily over parental leave (%) females 86.2 89.7 91.7 the last seven years. *R eturn from parental leave (%): (No. of persons returning from parental leave) / (No. of persons availing themselves of parental leave) x 100 Employee Status Category 2014 2015 2016 Employee Benefits | Welfare and Benefits Systems Kyobo Life opNumber of people with disabilities (ratio) 51(1.2) 50(1.2) 52(1.2) erates various welfare and benefits systems designed to enable its employees to maintain a healthy balance between work and private Number of female managers (ratio) 47(6.5) 59(7.9) 73(9.5) Permanent life by offering help for life stabilization, residential assistance, and Number of males 2,316 2,268 2,312 healthy lifestyle and cultural activities. Number of females 1,948 1,902 1,963 Employed Total 220 146 215 Employee Benefits System Number 104 94 92 Retired Insurance plans (4 major insurance plans), Ratio 2.3 2.3 2.2 scholarship, travel expenses, life insurance, pension plan support (including National Pension Service), Stable Temporary 226 223 209 family congratulatory and bereavement gifts, lifestyle retirement gift, shelter during natural disasters, *N  umber of employees with disabilities : 20 Customer Satisfaction Center operators, 4 persons in IT, 14 persons in the field, 14 persons at head office childcare benefits,Kyobo Life Dasomi Daycare, funeral service assistance Safe Working Environment: Occupational Safety and Health Committee | Due to the nature of the insurance business, Kyobo Life Healthy and Health & fitness, R&R, company athletic meet, does not have any employees in positions that are exposed to a cultural company social groups lifestyle high risk or possibility of accidents or diseases. Items regarding employee safety and health are reflected and monitored in the employment regulations (Chapter 6 Safety and Health), and under the 2013 Can freely select benefits according to needs Cafeteria Wage and Protocol Agreement, we installed Occupational Safety (Options : self-development, health management, system cultural activities, fitness) and Health Committee under Chapter 19 (Occupational Safety and Health Committee) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Emphasis on family-friendly culture | Kyobo Life provides various Anti-discrimination in the workplace programs to create a family friendly culture to support the develKyobo Life accords considerable importance to maintaining the digopment of the company and the individual. Kyobo Life runs ‘Kyobo nity and guaranteeing the rights of all its employees, and supports Life Dasomi Child Care Center’ for employees so that employees can and complies with the principles on human rights and labor of the focus on work without worrying about childcare, and Kyobo Life UN Global Compact. 56 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Eliminating Employment and Occupation Discrimination | Kyobo Efforts Toward Mutual Growth Life provides equal employment opportunities regardless of genKyobo Life pursues co-existence with its transaction partners and der, age, religion, and hometown. All opportunities and decisions in the local community where its company management activities are promotions, compensation, training, and retirement are made fairly concerned. By promoting the advancement of Kyobo Life along with and solely based on individual performance and capability. At the the mutual growth of its partners and local society, Kyobo Life is able beginning of every fiscal year, all employees including the CEO parto successfully maintain a virtuous cycle of mutual advancement. ticipate in a ceremony, and we have included an item on eliminating cliques and bullying, and raised awareness on discrimination that DA-WIN Service for Mutual Growth with Partners | Kyobo Life is the can happen unintentionally. In addition, wages are given equally to first company in the finance industry to be awarded the Consumer both genders. As of 2016, the basic salary for newly hired permanent Satisfaction Management Award for five consecutive years. It operemployees with a 4-year university degree is 250% of the minimum ates the DA-WIN service program for mutual growth by sharing the wage (40.51 million KRW). know-how of its customer satisfaction service with its partners. This service is used to provide systematic educational support along with Protect and Respect Human Rights | Kyobo Life recognizes that the company instructor training process and the CS consultant serviolations of human rights in the form of sexual harassment do ocvice in order to assist client companies’ success and pioneer potencur in the workplace and work hard to prevent incidences of such tial industrial markets for the purpose of creating values for co-excases. The compliance officer training emphasizes this important istence through contracts with large company clients (corporations fact, and we conduct sexual harassment training sessions for all Fiand organizations). nancial Planners and employees under the oversight of the head of the organization. In addition to the regular group training, Kyobo DA-WIN Service Status and Performance Life provides additional resources on intranet and in-house satellite Category 2014 2015 2016 broadcast in comic, animation and other forms of media to convey Number of service receiving companies 1,094 1,183 1,050 the seriousness of the topic. Number of service recipients 77,668 68,609 58,455 Prevention of Child Labor and Forced Labor | Kyobo Life does not Financial Contracts (Cases) 7,107 8,493 5,935 hire employees below the age of 15 so as to prohibit child labor and performance Contract amount (million KRW) 1,882 2,058 1,809 limits the employment of teenagers below the age of 18. We also prohibit all forms of forced labor that violate the free will of the employees. Building a Cooperative Labor Management Culture Kyobo Life believes that advancement of labor-management relations is a must for any company’s competitiveness and communicates company management information to the laborers so as to form strategic partner relations between labor and management. As of December 2016, 72% of the employees, or 3,161 people, belonged : DA-WIN Service to a labor union. : An agreement between labor and management 57 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Digital Communication with Customers: The Digital Age, Emphainsights through historical stories; and the ‘Experiencing Philosophy’ sis on Literary Communication with Customers (‘Read, Walk, and section, where you can experience the world of philosophy and disExperience Gwanghwamun’ Website) | Kyobo Life utilizes Korea’s cover how there are at least ten possible responses to every single highly advanced digital environment to provide differentiated cusquestion. Furthermore, the site offers diverse multimedia contents tomer services. Also, Kyobo Life operates the “Read, walk, and exin the form of videos and Webtoons, and various lectures that enperience Gwanghwamun” website(www.kyobostory.co.kr), a philoable viewers to enjoy literary content in a fun way. All Kyobo Life sophical website that places great emphasis on the value of human clients can access e-book versions of bestsellers on the humanities, life itself. All its contents can be accessed via a PC or mobile device history, and philosophy. The humanities contents of this website anytime, anyplace. The main contents of this website consist of the constitute a vast cultural playground where clients’ knowledge and ‘Reading Literature’ section, where visitors to the site can encouncultural needs can be fulfilled, while seeking to expand the literary ter the humorous and heartwarming contents of literary works; the sympathy with the clients. ‘Walking with History’ section, which provides new perspectives and : Read walk experience 58 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Environmental Performance in 2016 Kyobo Life’s key environmental performance in 2016 is as below. Environmental-friendly financial Energy consumption (TOE) Waste emissions (%, Ton) investment trend (%, 100million KRW) 30.5 29.8 97 98 97 28.5 87 26.6 79 20,013 19,554 23.6 18,327 18,853 18,108 19,311 18,319 381 379 377 16,150 370 340 13,634 10,843 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 19,311 100million KRW 18,319TOE 340Ton Carbon dioxide emissions (tCO2) Office paper and toner usage (Boxes, units) Waste recycling rate (%, Ton) Office paper 4,279 4,413 1.4 4,016 1.2 1.1 3,779 3,662 0.3 42,256 41,248 toner 37,964 39,030 7,508 37,909 4,352 7,141 4,273 3,919 3,681 3,901 5,943 1,745 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 37,909tCO 2 4,413 Boxes 3,901 units 7,508Ton 59 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Environmental Performance Eco-friendly Management Activities Electronic Subscription System for the Environment | Kyobo Life Kyobo Life is a company that manages its life insurance business, uses paper in many of its main tasks, and most particularly in the which covers life and health threats, and recognizes that the enviinsurance subscription process, which involves contracts and many ronment is a critical issue which has both direct and indirect effects other essential documents. As such, Kyobo Life operates an electronic on life insurance. This is because the environment has a huge influsubscription system designed to reduce the costs and minimize the ence in terms of its effect on people’s health and life. Also, consumer environmental effects by reducing our paper usage. It is a one-stop demand for eco-friendly management activities is increasing, and system that requires the customer to directly access the insurance Kyobo Life sees this as a new opportunity for, rather than a limitacompany website using their accredited certificates in order to subtion of, the company’s growth. scribe to an insurance product, and provides an explanation of the product details which requires acknowledgement of the explanations Eco-friendly Societal Contribution Activities and the personal signature of the customer. Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Group | Kyobo Life carries out and promotes various types of volunteer work in an effort to Electronic Subscription Process protect the environment. Every year, over 50 families participate in Customer Data on the Filling out the information Customer initiatives, and Kyobo Life is expanding the significance and value subscribed electronic registration/ compliance product entry subscription of enjoyable voluntary work and establishing an ideal weekend leirevision sure culture for families through family volunteer work programs. In addition, caring for and helping others in need through these proPromoting Eco-friendly Transportation Methods | Kyobo Life programs help families strengthen their bond and contribute to creating hibits its employees from entering the training institute in Cheonan a healthy family culture. (Gyeseongwon) by private car, and instead pays its employees’ transportation costs based on KTX train fares so as to reduce the CO2 emissions during their commutes. In addition, Kyobo Life has established a nationwide satellite broadcasting system for all our sales and service sites, which is intended mainly as a means of listening to major events rather than as a means of gathering employees for major events. Reinforcement of Waste Management | Kyobo Life entrusts the waste generated by its office spaces to an approved waste processing company. Waste from the major buildings, including the headquarters, is discharged and recycled separately, and the annual : Photo of Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Group amount of waste discharge is recorded and managed accordingly. Dasomi family volunteer group activity status Schedule Program Location Activities Participants Understand the ecosystem of Noeul Park Understanding 4.2 A Tree of Hope on Planet 12 families of Noeul Park the significance of trees in the ecosystem Reviving the city (Sat) Earth ‘Arbor’ employees forest (Arbor) 5.21 Learning the importance of marine protection and marine 14 families of Coastal Waste Cleanup Activities Oido Island (Sat) waste damage cases Coastal waste cleanup and monitoring employees Understand the significance of the nest boxes for breeding 9.24 ‘Technology of Optimization,’ a 15 families of World Cup Park of birds within city parks Monitoring of nest boxes and (Sat) Technology to Save Earth employees making and planting new bird nests 11.5 ‘Technology of Optimization,’ a Seoul Energy Dream Understand energy and optimization technology 13 families of (Sat) Technology to Save Earth Center Make LED light stands for low income families employees 60 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Waste* Discharge campaign’ since 2008 by turning off unnecessary lighting and unCategory 2014 2015 2016 used computers, and by using office resources economically. Total discharge (Ton) 370 377 340 Eco-friendly Financial Investment: Social Responsible Investment Recycled amount (Ton) 360 368 331 | Kyobo Life is a life insurance company that manages long-term Recycling rate (%) 97 98 97 assets requiring the generation of stable long-term profits, and is * “Waste” refers to regular office waste produced by the company buildings. expanding its eco-friendly finance investments to contribute to the public good as well. Kyobo Life's social responsibility investments started off with indirect societal investment in such areas as road Reducing Electricity Use | Kyobo Life minimizes the operation of and harbor construction projects, but it has now been expanded to employee elevators other than in rush hours and lunch hours and indirect societal investment in eco-friendly infrastructures such as maintains the building temperature above 26℃ during summer and sewage plants, waste incineration facilities, and new energy develbelow 20℃ during winter to reduce energy usage. Also, Kyobo Life opment projects. Such expansion is expected to generate profits for has been conducting ‘three voluntary energy and resource saving Kyobo Life as well as expanding the scope of beneficiaries to the entire local society. Investment amounts in socially responsible investments (%, 100million KRW) 8.6 8.8 8.5 8.8 7.6 8.1 6.7 64,786 4.1 59,451 2.1 56,733 51,332 1.6 45,869 38,286 30,912 17,192 64,786 5,206 7,611 100million KRW 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Trend of investment into green financial investment of socially responsible investments (SRI) 19,311 Amount of environment related Portion to Overall Socially Responsible Investment (%) 18,108 investment (100million KRW) 16,150 28.5 30.5 29.8 19,311 2014 2015 2016 100million KRW 2014 2015 2016 61 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Environmental Data The following data have been compiled from forty-four company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco Co., Ltd (out of a total of 46 company buildings). However, the data for office paper/toner usage and waste discharge originate only from the Headquarters. Office Paper Usage Total Direct Energy 4,413 Boxes 2,548 TOE Total Indirect Energy 15,711 TOE Total Water Usage 537,411 Tons Total CO2 Emissions Total Waste Emissions 340 Tons 37,909 tCO2 Office Paper and Toner Usage Energy Usage Category 2014 2015 2016 Category 2014 2015 2016 Office paper (Box) 4,279 3,779 4,413 Gas 1,882 2,062 2,181 Direct Toner (Units) 3,681 3,919 3,901 energy Oil 464 442 367 (TOE) Subtotal 2,345 2,504 2,548 Water Usage Electricity 15,949 16,314 15,737 Indirect Category 2014 2015 2016 energy Regional heating 32 35 34 (TOE) Total usage (Ton) 555,376 587,562 537,411 Subtotal 15,981 16,349 15,711 Recycled amount (Ton) 5,943 1,745 7,508 Total (TOE) 18,326 18,853 18,319 Recycled ratio (%) 1.1 0.3 1.4 Compared to last year (TOE) -1,227 527 -534 ※ TOE : Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units Waste Emissions CO2 Emissions Category 2014 2015 2016 Category 2014 2015 2016 Total emission (Ton) 370 377 340 Direct (tCO2) 5,300 5,617 5,677 Recycled amount (Ton) 360 368 331 Indirect (tCO2) 32,664 33,413 32,232 Recycled ratio (%) 97 98 97 Total (tCO2) 37,964 39,030 37,909 ※ “Waste” refers to regular office waste produced by the company buildings. 62 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Appendix 64 Materiality Test 66 Sustainable Development Goals 67 Third Party Assurance 69 GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index 72 UN Global Compact 73 Awards regarding Sustainability Management Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management 74 Financial Highlights 63 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Materiality Test Kyobo Life makes efforts to determine the interests of internal and Step 2 : Identifying external stakeholders and the factors that can affect its business Step 1 : Collecting Step 3 : Validity Level of Interest and Relevant Issues Verification (potential factors included) and to reflect them in our management Importance •2015 issues •Review internal •Assess level of decisions. Also, Kyobo Life has deduced the crucial issues pertaining •GRI G4 Category, policy, rules, laws importance to business to stakeholders and business that must be managed with priority, Aspects •Review key perfor•Assess level of and this sustainable management report was written based on sysmance indicators stakeholder interest •Benchmarks tematically deduced critical issues. •Analyze media •Survey stakeholders Materiality Test Process | Issues affecting Kyobo Life have been collected to determine the interest level of our stakeholders and busiMateriality Test Model | The materiality test is based on the evaluaness relevance; this was a 3-step process consisting of collecting tion model created by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, and relevant issues, identifying level of interest and importance, and various investigations and analyses were performed. validity verification. STEP 1 STEP 2 Collecting Relevant Issues Identifying Level of Interest and Importance Kyobo Life has formed a database of issues based on the scope and aspects of GRI G4, which is a guideline for baTo determine the business materiality for Kyobo Life, syssic and global issues, and has collected issues through the tematically managed company policies along with domesanalysis of the previous year’s sustainable management tic and international regulations and laws and core perforreport contents and the media along with finance compamance indicators were analyzed. Moreover, to determine ny benchmarking. As a result, 119 preliminary issues were stakeholder interests, benchmarking and media analysis collected, with the review process involving the compilation results were reviewed. and deletion of issues reducing the number of issues to 62. Business materiality Stakeholder interests •Company policies, •Benchmarking •Core performance •Media analysis 119 Issues 62 indicators(KPI) Issues •Domestic and international regulation •Standards and laws 64 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix STEP 3 Validity Verification The validity was verified through an assessment of the level of importance on business and stakeholder interest. Finalizing Issues Kyobo Life has deduced the top 20 1 Enhance customer satisfaction activities Social contribution that suit issues through the matrix analysis 2 life insurance industry profile based on the business materiality 3 Customer-centered business activities Launch new and stakeholder interests. Also, 6 Raise asset 4 products management returns Expand environment Kyobo Life has selected the 5 maExpand Training Programs 5 management activities jor issues for different stakehold7 and Self Development Opportunities for Employees ers (customers, financial planners, 8 Respond to evolving customer demands employees, investors, government/ 9 Protect customer data 11 Strengthen customer guarantee services 10 Seek win-win cooperation communities). Improve working conditions 12 for employees Develop products and services 14 Enhance transparency in corporate management/IPO 13 customized for individual customers Economic performance and 15 Stakeholder Interests business strategy Develop environmentally16 Top 20 17 Stabilize earnings friendly products & services Issues Create products that 18 Support for financial planners’ capability improvement efforts 19 contribute to the betterment of the society 20 Minimize mis-selling Importance on Business 2016 Top5 Stakeholders Issues Stakeholders Top 5 Issues Material Issues(GRI G4 Aspect) Boundary Contents Enhance customer Product & Service Labeling Internal/ Customers satisfaction activities Customer Privacy External Support for financial planners’ Internal/ Financial planners Training & Education capability improvement efforts External Sustainability Expand Training Programs and Self Management Activities Employees Development Opportunities for Training & Education Internal of Kyobo Life Employees (2016 Top 5 Issues) Investors Improve asset management returns Economic Performance Internal Social Contribution Activities Reflecting Government & Internal/ the Nature of the Life Insurance Communities Communities External Business * The five major issues of 2016 are explained in detail in the ‘Sustainable management activities of Kyobo Life’ section of this report. 65 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Sustainable Development Goals The term ‘sustainable development goals’ refers to the company’s global priorities in responding to the tremendous economical, societal, and environmental challenges facing us and which Kyobo Life aims to overcome by 2030. Kyobo Life has integrated the ‘sustainable advancement goals’ and the company's ‘sustainable management system’ to actively participate in this movement, and has reviewed the progress of 17 items. Kyobo Life is planning to promote the best of the following 17 items. Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Management System and Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability management Pursue Shared Growth with All Stakeholders philosophy Vision2020 Korea’s Most Innovative Life Insurance Company in Product and Distribution A company that is A company that succeeds A company that A company that grows A company that Promise good at providing insurance together with its Financial grows together with its together with the Government is attractive to investors coverage to customers Planners employees and communities We will listen to the We will pay respect to and We will continue on our We will continue to produce We will actively carry customers and manage trust the Financial Planners corporate culture of joy, pride exceptional profit through out corporate social the company from the as business partners and trust the good growth responsibility activities to customers’ perspective grow together with our communities We will enhance service We will establish fair We will provide equal We will increase the value of We will manage our business Pledges quality throughout the policy standards and help the opportunities and company through preemptive in a nature friendly way, Principle life cycle, from Financial Planners engage reward according to fair risk management reflecting the nature of our for underwriting to persistency in their sales and service evaluation business stakeholders and benefits payment activities with peace of mind We will support Financial We will support our employees We will grow together with Planners to grow into to grow and develop into the our partners through fair insurance experts insurance experts competition •Total assets •Societal contribution •Persistency rate •Financial Planner •Training hours per ratio/amount (13th assessment) satisfaction level •Return on equity(ROE) KPI employee •Weight of Socially responsible •Customer satisfaction level •Financial Planner settlement •Risk based capital •Employee satisfaction level investment (SRI) (proportions) •Market share rate ratio (13th assessment) ratio(RBC) • Energyconsumption Healthy Drinking Reduce Eliminate Quality Gender lifestyle and water and poverty poverty education equality welfare hygiene Sustaina ble Promotion of Infrastructure Sustainable Appropriate Eradicate Sustainable advancement economic growth for industrial consumption energy inequality cities and homes goals (2016~2030) and quality jobs innovation and production Accepting Response to Protection of Protection of Expansion of society and climate change marine resources ecosystem global partnership systems Kyobo Life’s Sustainable Advancement Goals Item Contents ‘Ties of Love’ activities to support children from minority groups; ‘Tree of Hope Project’ to support income improvement for poor farming 1 families in Vietnam’ ‘Kyobo Hope and Love Insurance’ to provide insurance benefits to children from lowincome families by utilizing dormant insurance payments.  rovision of health insurance and healthcare services, health insurance discount for non-smokers, health checkup service and health P 3 information for customers. Kyobo Dasom Scholarship to provide educational opportunities; various educational insurance products; ‘New Employee Mentorship System’ 4 and ‘Talent Development Program’ to provide opportunities for self-improvement and self-reinforcement; ‘North East Asia Run for Under Graduate Students’ to provide opportunities for students to grow into global leaders recruitment based on ‘Kyobo Professional’ along with fair performance evaluation and anti-gender discrimination; ‘Female Leadership 5 Conference’ to instill motivation for growth and development among female employees and to aid their development and building relationships for human resource network. ‘Hope Tree Project’ to build libraries for elementary schools and houses in rural Vietnam; expansion of ‘social responsibility investment’ 9 to build societal facilities and infrastructure. 13 ‘Electronic Subscription System’ to reduce paper usage; promotion of various other energy usage reduction activities. 66 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Third Party Assurance To the management and stakeholders of Kyobo Life •Visit the head office of the Company and interview sustainability managers and employees in charge of individual issues Introduction •Review systems and processes that were used in improving the perThe Korea Standards Association (‘the Auditor’) was commissioned formance of sustainability management and preparing the Report to perform an independent audit on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Re•Check if the financial performance data in the Report match the port 2016 (‘the Report’). The Auditor has provided an independent data in the auditor’s report on the Company’s financial statements opinion, based on a review of data contained in the Report prepared and disclosures by Kyobo Life (‘the Company’), and all the statements and perfor•Track and examine internal documents and basic data mance data included in the report are the responsibility of Kyobo Life. Verification Results and Opinions Independence [Verification Principles & Process] The Auditor, as an independent assurance body, has no professional The Auditor has reviewed the content of the draft report and offered interest in Kyobo Life other than in providing this third-party assurour opinions, and the report has been revised accordingly. The Auance on the Report, and it is not related to the Company in any way ditor has not found any material errors or inappropriate statements regarding the content of this report. The Auditor offers the following that may undermine its independence or affect business interests. opinions on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2016: Auditing Standards Inclusiveness The Auditor verified inclusiveness, compliance with the principles of Did the Company include stakeholders in the process of stramateriality and responsiveness, and reliability of the data disclosed tegically responding to issues of sustainability management? in the Report at the “moderate” level in accordance with the verifiThe Auditor has verified that the Company tried to get stakeholders cation standards of AA1000AS (2008); and other international staninvolved in the process of sustainability management and that the dards including GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000 were also applied Company is operating a variety of channels for communication with in the verification process. stakeholders. We have not found any important group of stakeholders left out in the above-mentioned process. Verification Type and Scope The Auditor conducted Type 2 verification according to the AA1000 Materiality verification standards (AA1000AS), which means that the audit asDid the Company include material information that can help sessed the accuracy and reliability of the Company’s statements and stakeholders make informed decisions? performance data provided in the Report. The verification scope is The Auditor finds that the Company has neither omitted nor excludfrom January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016, and the data for the ed any material information that stakeholders need to know. We first half of 2017 was included when deemed necessary. The audit have confirmed that the Company conducted a materiality test of focused on systems and activities including policies and goals, busikey issues that were identified in an analysis of the internal and exnesses and programs, standards, and achievements of the Comternal environment and prepared the report based on the results of pany’s sustainability management. In addition, financial audit was the analysis. conducted on environmental and societal data, and economic perResponsiveness formance in a broad sense. Verification of stakeholder engagement Did the Company respond to the demands and interests of stakewas limited to a review of the Company’s materiality test process. holders? The Auditor has verified that the Company is properly responding to Verification Methodology the demands and interests of its stakeholders by reflecting the opinThe Auditor collected data, information and evidence by using the ions collected from stakeholders on the Report. The Auditor has found following method. no evidence that the Company’s responses to material issues involv•Review and analyze media coverage on the Company’s sustaining stakeholders were misrepresented or misstated in the Report. ability management in the recent 3 years •Investigate issues of sustainability reporting selected by the Auditor in consultation with the Company 67 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life GRI G4 Application Environment | It is very encouraging that the company is acting The Auditor has verified that the Report was prepared in accorahead of public pension funds to get involved in socially responsible dance with the Core Option of GRI G4 and also confirmed, based on investment. As environmental pollution presents is now judged to the data provided by the Company, that General Standard Disclopose a serious threat to humanity, major global financial companies sures and Specific Standard Disclosures have been properly made. are becoming increasingly aware of, and actively involved in, environmentally responsible investments in various fields including energy efficiency, renewable energy, preservation of biodiversity, clean General Standard Disclosures means of transportation, and clean water and drinks. Against this The Auditor has verified that the Report complied with the requirebackdrop, the auditor recommends that the company identify enviments of the General Standard Disclosures of Core Option, and reronmentally-friendly investment as a core issue, establish midand viewed the following indices: long-term quantitative targets against which its performance can G4-1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, be measured, publish results showing how the company has per23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 56 formed against individual indicators in a report, and create a system of managing and reporting on performance indicators for environSpecific Standard Disclosures mentally-friendly investment. Managing targets in the mid and long The Auditor has verified DMA on the material aspects identified term helps the company constantly improve itself and better comthrough the process of determining the reporting items and remunicate with its stakeholders through the sustainability report. viewed the following indices: G4-EC1, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA9, LA10, SO1, PR5, PR8, FS6, FS13 Society | The auditor has verified that Kyobo Life is well on its way to establishing a system of sustainability management by managing Opinions and Recommendations [Practicality/Issues] business issues, its pledges and principles for different groups of The Auditor offers the following recommendations for the Company stakeholders and linking them to KPIs, under the company’s Vision to establish strategies for sustainability management for the entire 2020 (Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product organization and to respond to issues of sustainability better: and distribution) in order to promote its sustainability management philosophy of “pursue shared growth with all stakeholders.” NotaEconomic Performance | In accordance with its people centric manbly, the company objectively analyzes the results and limitations of agement philosophy, Kyobo Life maintains constant communication its sustainability management for different core stakeholder groups with its stakeholders to keep them informed of its sustainability including customers, employees, financial planners, investors and management activities and initiatives in order to promote shared local communities, identifies areas for improvement and applies growth with all stakeholders. The company should be able to steadithe findings in its business operations, thus attesting to the comly generate profit and manage risks proactively in order to respond pany’s genuine commitment to stakeholder-centered management. to prudential regulation proactively and cope with the changing Finally, the auditor recommends that the company focus more on market in a timely manner. In addition, performance-based responsystematically measuring and reporting a variety of its stakeholdsibility management and high-quality transparency management er-centered business activities and their impact, with the aim of creare required to ensure sustainable growth. The auditor recommends ating an advanced and more sophisticated system of sustainability that the company constantly manage financial and non-financial management. risks, respond to the changing business environment in an even more proactive manner, and adopt a far-sighted approach, rather February 2017 than seeking short-term results, in all aspects of management, so as Chairman, KSA Baek, Soo Hyun to raise the quality of its performance-based responsibility management and transparency management. Korean Standards Association (KSA), a special corporation established in 1962 under the Industrial Standardization Act, is a knowledge services provider dedicated to promoting and advising on industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, and KS.ISO certifications in Korea. In particular, KSA acts as the Korean agency for ISO 26000, the designated GRI education institute, an A1000 verification body, the Korea Sustainability Index (KSI) manager, the designated operational entity (DOE) for UN CDM, and a verification body for GHG & Energy Target Management System, and contributes to the sustainable development of Korea. 68 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix GRI G4 / ISO 26000 Index General Standard Disclosure Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 CEO Message 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4~5 67~68 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 18 67~68 Organizational Profile G4-3 The name of the organization 10 67~68 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 13 67~68 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 10 67~68 Number and names of countries where the organization manages operating sites or which are related to G4-6 10 67~68 sustainable topics G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 16 67~68 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 10, 12 67~68 G4-9 Scale of the organization 10~12, 50, 56 67~68 6.3.10/6.4.16.4.2/ 6.4.3/ G4-10 Employment type, contract, and regional labor force status 10, 56 67~68 6.4.4/6.4.5/ 6.8.5/7.8 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 53 67~68 G4-12 Explanation about the organization’s supply chain 54 67~68 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, G4-13 10~11, 16 67~68 or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 51~52, 72 67~68 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 66, 72 67~68 organization subscribes or which it endorses Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy G4-16 73 67~68 organizations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 11 67~68 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 64~65 67~68 G4-19 List of Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 64~65 67~68 5.2/7.3.2/ G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each Material Aspect 64~65 67~68 7.3.3/7.3.4 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each Material Aspect 64~65 67~68 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and its reasons About This Report 67~68 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries About This Report 67~68 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 14~15 67~68 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 14~15 67~68 5.3 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part 14~15 67~68 of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder 5.3 14~15 67~68 groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns 69 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided About This Report 67~68 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) About This Report 67~68 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) About This Report 67~68 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 7.5.3/7.6.2 About This Report 67~68 G4-32 Organization's ‘in accordance’ option, GRI Content Index, reference to the External Assurance Report About This Report 67~68 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report, scope and G4-33 basis of any external assurance, relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, role of 67~68 67~68 highest governance body or senior executives in seeking assurance Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 16~17 67~68 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 4.4/6.6.3 54~55 67~68 Specific Standard Disclosures Aspects Economic Generic DMA 40 67~68 Economic Performance 6.8.1-6.8.2/ G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.3 /6.8.7/ 20~21 67~68 6.8.9 Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 59~62 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 59~62 Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 59~62 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) 6.5.5 59~62 Effluents and G4-EN23 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3 59~62 Waste Products and 6.5.3/6.5.4/ G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 59~61 services 6.5.5/6.7.5 Social Labor Practice and Decent Work Generic DMA 29, 35 67~68 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 6.4.3 56 67~68 Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, G4-LA2 6.4.4/6.8.7 56~57 67~68 by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 53, 56 67~68 Generic DMA 29, 35 67~68 Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 36~39 67~68 Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of G4-LA10 6.4.7/6.8.5 36~39 67~68 employees and assist them in managing career ending Diversity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according 6.2.3/6.3.7/ and Equal G4-LA12 17, 56 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.10/6.4.3 Opportunity Equal Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations 6.3.7/6.3.10/ Remuneration for G4-LA13 57 of operation 6.4.3/6.4.4 Women and Men 70 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Index Details ISO 26000 Page Assurance Human Rights 6.3.6/6.3.7/ Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 56~57 6.3.10/6.4.3 Society Generic DMA 44 67~68 Percentage of operations with implementedlocal community engagement, impact 6.3.9/6.5.1G4-SO1 44~48 67~68 assessments, and development programs 6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 Local Communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 27, 57 67~68 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 27 Anti-competitive G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 54~55 Behavior Product Responsibility Generic DMA 25 67~68 Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 25, 27 67~68 Generic DMA 25 67~68 Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of G4-PR8 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 28 67~68 customer data Generic DMA 25, 55 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) FS6 12~13 67~68 and by sector Product Portfolio Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7 Homepage business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit FS8 Homepage for each business line broken down by purpose Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the Active FS10 61 reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues Ownership FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 61 71 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2010 and declared our will to follow the principles of the UNGC. This Sustainability Management Report contains the practices of ten principles. Principles Key Report Content Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally •Kyobo Life Employees Code of 54 proclaimed human rights. Professional Ethics •Protection and respect of human Human Rights 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights 57 rights abuses. •Promote activities for customer 28 protection 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective •Cooperative labor-management 57 recognition of the right to collective bargaining, culture 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, •Prevention of forced labor 57 Labour Standards 5. The effective abolition of child labor, •Prevention of child labor 57 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and •Prevention of discrimination in the 57 occupation. workplace 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental •Environmentally-friendly social 60 challenges, contribution activities •Environmentally-friendly 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, 60~61 management Environment 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly •Environmentally-friendly financial 61 technologies. investment 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including •Ensuring transparency for ethics 54~55 extortion and bribery. management Anti-Corruption 72 About Kyobo Life Kyobo Life's Values Kyobo Life’s Performance Appendix Awards regarding Sustainability Management Date Content Sep 2016 First place in the life insurance sector of 「Korea Sustainability Index (KSI)」 for seven consecutive years Feb 2016 12th Transparent Management Grand Prize jointly hosted by the five economic organizations Oct 2015 Grand Prize in the 2015 4th Financial Customer Protection Grand Award (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award) Dec 2014 Private Corporation Award in the process sector for Excellence in CSV in the 1st Potter Award Oct 2014 2nd ‘Most Loved Company’ Presidential Award Nov 2013 Consumer Grand Prize sponsored by Korean Society of Consumer Studies Nov 2013 UN Global Compact Best Practice Award Grand Prize in the life insurance category for Financial Customer Protection Awards sponsored by the Korea Economic Daily Nov 2012 (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award) Oct 2012 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin selected Personality of the Year from International Reinsurance Conference (IRC) May 2012 residential commendation for those merited on Children’s Day hosted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare Nov 2011 Minister Award from the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy ‘6th Sustainability Management Awards’ (Grand Prize in First Sustainability Management Report category) Feb 2011 Minister Award from the Ministry of Health & Welfare in recognition of promoting welfare for the disabled Grand Award in financial product and service innovation category in ‘2010 Korea Financial Innovation Award’ for (No dividend) Kyobo Sep 2010 Life 100 Year Life Variable Pension Insurance’ May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin selected for Korea Management Association (KMA) ‘2010 Korea CEO Award’ May 2010 Chairman Chang-Jae Shin, 19th ‘Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award’ Mar 2010 No. 1 ranking in the insurance industry as ‘50 Respected Korean Corporations’ by Fortune Korea Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management Organization Key Activities Year joined Life Insurance Association Promotes healthy insurance culture, support information sharing for rational insurance policy formation 1958 Korea Insurance Society Researches insurance related theories, laws, practices 1964 The Institute of Actuaries Korea Introduces insurance policies, hold seminars, exchange information with international actuary institutes 1978 Life Office Management (LOMA) Shares reliable insurance industry data and knowledge 1978 Insurance Development Institute Offers information on fair and rational insurance prices, rates and other related issues 1990 Consultation regarding information protection policy directions with other financial institutions and Financial Safety Forum 2002 Financial Supervisory Service Ethical Management (Yunkyung)SM Shares ethical management practices of Korean companies and conduct research sustainability 2005 Forum management Conducts various activities aimed at preventing, countering and reviewing hacking, and other Financial Safety Agency 2006 information protection activities Korea Fair Competition Federation Shares information to promote awareness and understanding of fair trade practices 2006 Korea Risk Management Researches risk recognition and loss, and offer information through business exchange 2006 Life Insurance Marketing & Research Research, consulting and education on life insurance 2007 Association (LIMRA) UN Global Compact Korea Exchange of information on implementation of corporate social responsibility 2010 73 Sustainability Report 2016 KYOBO Life Financial Highlights Balance Sheet (Statement of Financial Position) (100million KRW) Category 2016 2015 2014 Assets 966,843 920,084 857,622 Cash and deposits 13,774 17,287 14,439 Financial assets* 526,120 499,767 462,451 Receivables 184,634 168,201 163,721 Other assets 65,580 66,123 64,386 Separate account assets 176,735 168,707 152,626 Liabilities 888,218 844,850 788,051 Policy reserves 636,675 596,517 557,430 Other liabilities 70,258 74,818 73,918 Separate account liabilities 181,285 173,515 156,703 Equity 78,625 75,234 69,571 Capital 1,025 1,025 1,025 Capital surplus and others 4,194 4,166 4,181 Accumulated other comprehensive income Retained earnings 10,148 11,152 11,161 Retained earningss 59,616 55,519 50,168 Non-controlling interest 3,642 3,372 3,036 Liabilities and equity 966,843 920,084 857,622 * Financial assets = Short-term trading financial assets + Available for sale financial assets * Figures based on IFRS financial statement according to the International Accounting Standards Income Statement (Statement of Comprehensive Income) (100million KRW) Category 2016 2015 2014 Operating revenues 144,423 142,552 137,057 Premium income 79,007 78,356 80,780 Investment income, etc 65,416 64,196 56,276 Operating expenses 137,554 133,400 130,520 Increase in insurance contract liabilities Insurance expense* 38,955 38,629 43,959 Insurance expense* 70,265 67,822 65,541 Other expenses 28,334 26,949 21,020 Operating income 6,869 9,152 6,537 Non-operating revenues 525 233 327 Non-operating expenses 272 610 572 Income before tax 7,122 8,775 6,292 Income tax 1,689 2,334 1,117 Net income 5,433 6,441 5,175 Share of controlling company 5,145 6,079 5,052 Share of non-controlling company 288 363 122 * Insurance expense = Paid claims + reinsurance cost + insurance expense + amortization of deferred acquisition expense * Figures based on IFRS financial statement according to the International Accounting Standards 74 Vision2020 Proclamation Our mission is To help everyone pursue confidently their dearest dreams throughout their lives overcoming every adversity by mutual support. To this end, we will Always put our customers first in our thoughts and actions, Always be honest and sincere on every respect Always innovate, starting over again if at first we do not succeed. Our company’s Vision2020 is, ‘To be Korea’s most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution by 2020. In order to become the most innovative life insurance company in product and distribution, We must actively respond to changes in the market and our customers, And provide differentiated insurance products and services. When we achieve our company’s Vision2020, Kyobo Life will be the best company in the insurance industry That does not falter in any environment, And all employees will be recognized as the best insurance experts in the industry Through this process, Kyobo Life will grow together with our customers, Financial Planners, investors, communities, and all our stakeholders, And contribute greatly to the national economy and enhancing the public’s welfare. If we all come together with strong teamwork, we will definitely be successful in achieving our vision. Jan 8, 2016
