TRANSFORMING ELEMENTS ELEMENTS OF A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE S U S T A I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T R E P O R T 2 0 1 6 1 7 ABOUT THIS REPORT Welcome to our ninth Sustainable Development Report, which is prepared based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 ‘in accordance’Core guidelines and is mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and will align to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2016-17. See page 72 for more information about our reporting. Visit our interactive online Sustainable Development Report 2016-17 at sd.vedantaresources.com/SustainableDevelopment2016-17 ELEMENTS OF A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE OVERVIEW 01 Vedanta at a Glance 01 T R A N S F O R M I N G E L E M E N T S From metals that strengthen the From the Chairman's Desk 03 exchequer and boost industrial production, to energy that enlightens homes CEO's Message 05 Our Strategy and Approach 07 and powers progress – our products help millions of lives realise their Roadmap and Progress 09 ambitions and countries to achieve their goals. TRANSFORMING LIVES From Nand Ghars that facilitate preprimary RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP 12 education to self-help groups that make women ﬁnancially independent; Governance 13 Safety and Occupational Health 19 from programmes that skill the youth to workshops that educate the farmers Environment 25 Our social initiatives bring lasting prosperity to communities. 360O Project Management 34 BUILDING STRONG RELATIONSHIPS 36 Stakeholder Engagement 37 Human Rights 38 Neighbourhood Dialogue 41 ADDING AND SHARING VALUE 43 Annual Report Economic Responsibility 44 FY 2016-17 Employees 48 Communities 53 STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION 64 Communicating Constructively 66 Advocacy 70 Awards and Accolades 71 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE 72 About this Report Online SD Report FY 2016-17 Assurance Statement External Indices OVERVIEW VEDANTA AT A GLANCE ZERO HARM WASTE DISCHARGE Vedanta Resources is a London Stock Exchange listed, globally diversiﬁed natural resources company with interests in Zinc, Lead, Silver, Copper, Iron Ore, Aluminium, Power and Oil & Gas. Our exploration portfolio from all the four continents that we operate in, follows a history of consistent geological discovery, sustainable growth, long-term value creation and improved best-in-class operations. Our focus on sustainable development is reinforced through building strong, engaging and beneﬁcial partnerships with all our stakeholders. ONE VISION. ONE VEDANTA H S E C H A R T E R We will fulﬁll our duty to protect the safety and welfare of our people and plan to achieve our health, safety and environment goal of zero harm to become the best performer in the resources industry by: Implementing world class standards that deliver our legal obligations and company policies G R O U P S T R U C T U R E Managing risk in all forms by applying controls and testing OUR CORE VALUES OUR CORE PURPOSE their effectiveness 64 % .9% Trust | Entrepreneurship Vedanta is a globally diversiﬁed natural resources company with low-cost operations. 100 er ** pp Zin Setting priorities and n Co c Innovation | Excellence We empower our people to drive excellence and innovation to create value for our stakeholders. a li es HZ India commitments and measuring, stra Min L Integrity | Respect | Care We demonstrate world-class standards of governance, safety, sustainability and social responsibility. Au monitoring and reporting ANTA LTD. (50.1%) performance VED 51%* Maintaining an open dialogue 100% Our key operations include with our business partners and stakeholders MALC inium O t Alum Zinc-Lead-Silver Oil & Gas Copper Power (100 MPower VEDANTA Bhara(BALCO) 1 Debari smelter 1 Rajasthan block 1 Silvassa reﬁnery 1 MEL power plant W) RESOURCES Applying this discipline every 2 Chanderiya smelters 2 Ravva (PKGM-1) block 2 Tuticorin smelter 2 SEL PLC day in every aspect of our 3 Rampura-Agucha mine 3 Cambay (CB/052) block 3 Mt Lyell mine, Australia** 3 Talwandi Sabo Power Plant 4 Rajpura Dariba mine & smelters 4 South Africa block business and Sindesar Khurd mine 5 KG-OSN-2009/3 block Aluminium Captive thermal power plant 5 Zawar mine 6 PR-OSN-2004/1 block 1 Lanjigarh alumina reﬁnery It’s all of our responsibility to ensure we W 6 Skorpion mine, Namibia Iron Ore 2 Jharsuguda smelters & power plants that everyone who works on our site Po es t 7 Black Mountain mine, South Africa 3 Korba smelters & power plants *Lisheen had safe, detailed and bo ) (Li ern 1 Iron ore operations Goa fully-costed closure after 17 years Sa W be Cl 8 Lisheen mine, Ireland* returns home safely every day while di 0M ria ust 2 Iron ore operations Karnataka of operation in November 2015 an ,98 10 ) er protecting the environment for our lw (1 0% 0% 3 Iron ore projects Liberia **Under care and maintenance Ta future generations. 10 r Skorpion & Lisheen 100% BMM 74% VEDANTA OPERATES ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN FROM EXPLORATION, ASSET 100% DEVELOPMENT, AND EXTRACTION, TO PROCESSING AND VALUE ADDITION, TO DELIVER Listed entity Unlisted entity LONG-TERM VALUE AND GROWTH ACROSS ALL STAGES. ANIL AGARWAL Chairman June 2016 OIL & GAS | ZINC-LEAD-SILVER | ALUMINIUM | POWER | IRON ORE | COPPER For a detailed description on how we add value across our value chain, refer to our comprehensive sustainability report. *Option to increase stake to 100% | **Option to increase stake to 94.4% | Note: Shareholding post Cairn India merger 01 02 FROM THE CHAIRMAN'S DESK Vedanta is a purpose-driven organisation. Our products power economies of several nations, while our social programmes empower communities, to make a PLANET In March 2017, I met with His Excellency President Edgar Chagwa Lungu of Zambia and shared Vedanta Resources' 50-year vision for positive impact on human life. At Vedanta, we leverage innovation and We continue our endeavour of ensuring 'zero harm' to environment as a the country. This includes an investment of US$1 billion for the next technology to harness the elements of natural resources and transform them to core focus area for Vedanta. While optimising water consumption or phase of growth; an investment that is expected to create 7,000 jobs. fuel progress and development, with a committed goal of Zero Harm, Zero increasing energy productivity, safeguarding biodiversity or recycling and We are aware of the legacy of the Copperbelt and are committed to Waste and Zero Discharge. upcycling waste, we have systems, standards and technical guidelines to do much more to improve the livelihood of downstream communities. ensure that Vedanta makes the maximum positive impact. I also committed to further help diversify the economy of the Copperbelt by supporting initiatives in agriculture and technology. We signed the ﬁrst-of-its-kind biodiversity offset agreement of our Black Konkola Copper Mines currently supports 2,700 families and smallPEOPLE Mountain Mining operation in South Africa to ensure that the ecology scale farmers through its Sustainable Livelihoods programme. around the Gamsberg project remains in safe custody for later restoration. As Vedanta, we aim to make our contribution to our people and our communities Our focus is aligned with the priority needs of our stakeholders and a benchmark for businesses across the globe. A commitment to the climate change agenda led to setting up of Carbon global best practices. We have dialogues with the local communities, Forum headed by the CEO of our Power business, Ajay Dixit, to guide the in accordance to the Company values and reiterate our commitment There is a distinct demographic advantage in nations we operate in. Dynamic Group Executive Committee on our climate change mitigation programme. to free prior informed community consent for sourcing bauxite. We populations of youth have the resolve to challenge the status quo, passion for Wealth from waste continues to be an initiative close to my heart. I see are continuously analysing the impact of and adopting technologies what they do and ambition to do more. We bring together the talent of this immense potential to use technology to extract valuable resources from that help us explore and operate more sustainably. new-age generation and experienced knowledge anchors, to set and achieve ambitious sustainability targets. the waste we currently discard. This year, we managed to recycle more than DURING THE YEAR, WE INITIATED A US$30MN half of our non-hazardous waste. We are making our work environment safer. We have in place policies, standards INVESTMENT FUND FOR IN-HOUSE R&D, SUPPORTING and best practices to ensure the health and safety of Vedanta's workforce. This OUR WEALTH OF KNOWLEDGE AND SPIRIT OF year, we recorded our best-ever safety performance in terms of lost time injury INNOVATION WITH MEANINGFUL RESOURCES. frequency rate. I am saddened that seven of our people lost their lives. PROSPERITY Achieving zero harm continues to remain our aim. We rigorously undertake improvement interventions on safety processes among all our employees and What we earn must be invested in social development for communities and corporates to move forward together. Due to the diligent work by teams across its operations, Vedanta contractors. Upholding safety practices is non-negotiable for all our workforce. I Limited has been ranked as India's leading publicly listed company am proud of the signiﬁcant progress Vedanta has made in this area but we must We saw a healthy increase in our productivity this year, with record annual in the India Disclosure Index 2016. It became the only company in and will do more. production across our Zinc, Copper, Aluminium and Power businesses in the natural resources sector to achieve the full score across all A signatory of the United Nations' Women's Empowerment Principles (WEP) India. This year, we also delivered our promised merger of Cairn India disclosure parameters. This strengthens my belief that we are on 'Equality Means Business', Vedanta practices and promotes equal employment Limited and Vedanta Limited, simplifying the Group structure, and course in our sustainability journey, and that with the guidance of the opportunities. Our Board has set a target to raise women board representation aligning the interests of all shareholders for the creation of long-term Board Sustainability Committee, we will lead global benchmarks. to 33% by 2020. sustainable value. We remain committed to building a strong relationship with you and ON INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S DAY 2017, WE PLEDGED TO WE CONTINUED TO DISTRIBUTE PROSPERITY. TOGETHER WITH all our stakeholders, because only together can we create a PARTICIPATE IN AND LEAD THE UNITED NATIONS' 'PLANET 50-50 BY GOLDEN JUBILEE DIVIDEND PAID IN APRIL 2016 AND INTERIM sustainable future. 2030' VISION. DIVIDEND IN OCTOBER 2016, THE DIVIDENDS BY HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED IN FY 2016-17 ARE THE HIGHEST EVER PAID IN INDIA IN A FINANCIAL YEAR. We continue to proactively engage with the communities in which we operate, ANIL AGARWAL CHAIRMAN, VEDANTA RESOURCES by spearheading a number of initiatives and long-term programmes. Upholding education, women's empowerment, skill building, and farming and We also invested almost US$18 million towards carrying forward our various animal husbandry we enhance the quality of life of communities that support us. social initiatives. We are making progress towards our target of building 4,000 Nand Ghars, with 100 launched across India this year. These state-ofthe-art child care centres will go a long way in ensuring quality education and nutrition for the children of India, in line with Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi's vision. 03 04 CEO's MESSAGE A sustainable future is one in which growth and development are environmentally This was supported by successful implementation of 'zero sustainable, human rights are protected, and beneﬁts of progress are shared discharge' at many of our plants, improvement in operational CREATING VALUE equitably amongst all the stakeholders. As custodians of the natural resource efﬁciency, setting up efﬂuent and sewage treatment plants, and The core purpose of any organisation is to add value to society and not sector, we remain committed to the principle of Zero Harm to People and Planet utilisation of treated water for various applications. Our businesses limited to creation of proﬁt. This year, we contributed US$6 billion to and ensure that we leave behind a positive legacy for generations to come. continue to explore opportunities to utilise ﬂy ash in cement public ﬁnance, globally. Over and above creating jobs and paying taxes, making, road construction and building material manufacturing. we invest in empowering local communities through education, skilling, At Vedanta, our efforts on Sustainable Development starts with our commitment This year, nearly 50% of ﬂy ash from our operations was recycled, providing infrastructure, boosting health indices. Through 3,200+ Self-Help to Social License to Operate. The Vedanta Sustainable Development Model which we aim to continue in 2017-18 on ramped up capacity Groups, we empowered around 39,000 women. On the education front, comprises of four key elements Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong utilization of aluminium and power. we have transformed Nand Ghars from a mere preschool to a convergence Relationships, Adding & Sharing Value and Strategic Communications. point for a number of government programmes such as clean water, Together, these elements enable us to ensure effective business processes that We believe that the culture of responsible stewardship starts at sanitation, primary healthcare and entrepreneurship training. mitigate risks, protect health and safety of our employees, efﬁciently manage home and thus our prime responsibility is to safeguard the health the environmental footprint, and enhance indirect and direct impact to and well-being of our employees. We have directly linked WE MADE A SOCIAL INVESTMENT OF ALMOST US$18 MILLION employees, communities, investors, suppliers, customers and governments. employee remuneration to the implementation of safety WHICH BENEFITED 2.20* MILLION PEOPLE. performance standards and prevention of fatalities and progress is Sustainable development is at the heart of our business and to make a valuable regularly reviewed and monitored by the board-level sustainability contribution to the collaborative global effort we have aligned our sustainability *Some of the people could have been beneﬁted in more than one project. committee. This year, we succeeded in reducing the number of philosophy and practice to the UN Sustainability Development Goals. fatalities to seven, from twelve in FY 2015-16. But this performance too is unacceptable and a matter of great concern to us. We are taking deﬁnitive steps to eliminate such serious accidents by SUSTAINABLE COMMUNICATIONS RESPONSIBLE GROWTH educating, motivating and mandating an intense safety discipline Vedanta comprises multiple businesses across diverse geographies but it It is our strong conviction that higher accountability yields better outcomes among our workforce. communicates with one voice. We communicate early and clearly which and thus it is our constant effort to go beyond compliance in all three domains helps build trust among stakeholders. We utilise multiple dialogue channels environmental, social and economic. At Vedanta, we continue to focus on those to contextualise and provide insights into our actions and intentions. factors that are in our control. This includes delivering production and growth, TRANSPARENT DIALOGUES optimizing costs and leveraging technology & innovation for operational As a global leader in the natural resources industry, we engage in active Stronger the connect with stakeholders, more resilient is the Social excellence to run our business even more efﬁciently and productively with advocacy on industry wide issues such as under-pricing of iron ore, bauxite License to Operate. Stakeholder engagement and responsiveness robust safety, health and environmental performance. linkage and promoting zinc and take up spearhead roles in industry forums have been institutionalised at Vedanta through our social policy and events. A sustainable future can only be carved when all stakeholders Vedanta acknowledges the rising global concern on climate change and and stakeholder engagement technical standards. These work together and grow together. These synergies can only be continues to take sustained action to reduce its impact through energy standards require each of our operations to identify stakeholders strengthened through dialogue and feedback. conservation. We have revised the Vedanta Carbon Policy and Carbon Strategy and determine engagement plans, including recording and under which we have set ourselves a goal to reduce our carbon intensity. responding to all enquiries and grievances. We expect to achieve up to 16% reduction in carbon intensity by 2020 from a I am sure that this report will give you further insights to our efforts around We continue to uphold the principle of Free, Prior and Informed 2012 baseline, which was the ﬁrst year of audited data. We are also scaling up sustainable development. I strongly encourage you to go through the Consent while engaging the indigenous population for a solar energy in our energy mix. Hindustan Zinc commissioned a 16 MW solar report and share your valuable feedback with us. meaningful dialogue. power plant this year and has set a target of 115 MW in the short-term. We work closely with governments, communities, local & global WATER IS A CRITICAL RESOURCE FOR VEDANTA AND WE ARE NGOs as well as industry bodies such as CII, FICCI and WBCSD. COMMITTED TO SAVE EVERY DROP WE CAN. THIS YEAR, WE HAVE Our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics and Human Rights Policy TOM ALBANESE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ACHIEVED 173% OF OUR TOTAL WATER SAVING TARGET. help reinforce stakeholder trust and conﬁdence. 05 06 OVERVIEW Materiality OUR STRATEGY & APPROACH MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT HELPS US MAINTAIN THE RELEVANCY AND CREDIBILITY OF THE REPORT, AND ENSURES THAT IT REMAINS FOCUSED ON WHAT MATTERS. OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS IS IN LINE WITH GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) GUIDANCE. WE SEEK TO IDENTIFY THE ISSUES MOST IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS AND OUR BUSINESS, AND At Vedanta, we understand the value of a uniﬁed sustainable development agenda that goes beyond compliance. Though each of our subsidiary PRIORITISE OUR INTERVENTIONS ACCORDINGLY. businesses operate independently under a federal structure, we follow a Sustainable Development Model which is integral to the core business and the risk management strategy. Developed keeping in mind, multiple internal and external sustainability imperatives like materiality and core values of Vedanta, UNGC's 10 principles, United Nation's SDGs and standards set by International Finance Corporation (IFC), ICMM and OECD, Two years ago, we conducted a comprehensive Group-wide materiality process comprising identiﬁcation of material sustainability topics, our Sustainable Development Model comprises four pillars: prioritisation of these topics and veriﬁcation of our analysis. To understand the perspective of external stakeholders, we continue to engage with our six core stakeholder groups: Shareholders and Lenders, Industry (suppliers, customers and peers), Civil Society (NGOs and other organisations), Governments, Employees and Communities on a continuing basis. We also conduct a detailed ranking exercise to understand the importance given to certain material issues by the stakeholders. To get the management's perspective, we conduct internal leadership and operational management workshops, interviews and ranking exercises. Material Aspects The responses from the ranking exercises are sieved through two measures: 'Relevance to Vedanta's Stakeholders' and 'Relevance to Vedanta Management'; and what emerges is a materiality matrix that is an eclectic mix of sustainability issues that is relevant to us and our stakeholders. This year we have revalidated this materiality matrix. Responsible Building Strong Adding & Strategic MATERIALITY MATRIX High Stewardship Relationships Sharing Value Communications • Ethics and integrity • Human Rights • Environmental Management tion al Health | Environme & Indicators • Labour Rights • Employee OHS y & Oc cupa na n ce su pp orts rel nt at | 3 60 °P r • Modern Slavery Act • Climate Change • Anti Corruption These four pillars are critical et erv ion tM • • • Relevance to Vedanta’s Stakeholders to ensuring the long-term | S go sh ec Res Closure Planning Community Health e af oj Resettlement po and Safety ip successful future of our business Gove meeting our strategic goals rna nce ns ib RESPONSIBLE ild ing age men t • Supply Chain of growth, long-term value and sustainability. l STEWARDSHIP Ensuring effective business processes for robust compliance and risk bu an • Equal Opportunity • Financial Transparency • Community Engagement management, protecting health and safety of our employees and managing Medium • our environmental impacts Tax Transparency St Rel ak ati e e on er s | Shareho at munitie sh • ld er ho ld oo us • Community Economic Beneﬁt nt | Human Rights | Local Hiring Com try | Supply Ch ers & p STRATEGIC ble COMMUNICATIONS na eme se | L es | Indus ip ain • | C ende Ne • gag Training and leadership Employee Retention e to contribut ADDING & SHARING BUILDING STRONG development ig oy ust VALUES RELATIONSHIPS t En e to om rs h pl men Ensuring direct and indirect Engaging effectively with bo positive impact to employees, our diverse stakeholders to aintain a licence Em ern er communities, investors, suppliers and foresee and manage relevant risks, opportunities and a ur Low • Public Policy & Advocacy m lps the government challenges s h us he w v i t d Va oo iety For further details oc lu e rs on Sustainable Low Medium High de G Development o gu e Framework, refer to alo Di Governance Section Relevance to Vedanta Management page no. 13. Responsible Stewardship Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Strategic Communications The Sustainable Development Model is reinforced by a Sustainable Development Framework that helps execute the model. The Model and Framework are endorsed This materiality matrix is reviewed and ratiﬁed by both the Executive Committee (EXCO) and the Sustainability Committee. The top-right corner by the Board-level Sustainability Committee and provide a robust structure to deliver all-round sustainable performance, and consistency across our business. indicates the highest priority issues, indicating the importance for both, the stakeholders as well as the management. 07 08 Roadmap & Progress OUR ROADMAP SETS CHALLENGING ANNUAL TARGETS ON ISSUES MATERIAL TO US AND OUR OUR TARGETS AND ACTIONS. THE ROADMAP CONTINUES TO STEER OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT STAKEHOLDERS, AND IS REVIEWED EVERY YEAR WITH A VIEW TO UNDERSTAND OUR TRIPLE BOTTOMLINE JOURNEY. THE OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS ARE MAPPED IN ALIGNMENT WITH THE MATERIALITY ISSUES PERFORMANCE. THE GAPS IDENTIFIED ARE ADDRESSED APPROPRIATELY THROUGH ALTERATIONS IN BOTH AND THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS. Objectives and Targets Performance Objectives and Targets Objectives and Targets Performance Objectives and Targets FY 2016-17 Status FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 FY 2016-17 Status FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY ENVIRONMENT Implement safety performance standards: Average score was 52%. Zinc India, Zinc Achieve score >75% in six safety Independent expert to review high Review completed and those responsible Complete the dam break analysis of the >75% of critical elements in the standards International and Aluminium Iron Ore performance standards priority facilities for dam management have been trained. identiﬁed facilities across businesses to be implemented across the business were audited and recorded improvement Two facilities undergoing further analysis, compared to the previous year but no areas of immediate concerns were found and some best practices identiﬁed Performing baseline assessments for Expanded the baseline exercise at Extend baseline health assessment two other businesses Jharsuguda in March 2017. Also, looking across businesses Capacity building (selected professionals) Could not initiate in FY17 Initiate the capacity building of selected to increase the speed of application in on biodiversity management including professionals on biodiversity other businesses ecosystem services Achieve zero fatal accidents Total seven fatalities occurred in the Zero fatal incidents and 22% reduction reporting year (Iron Ore business 1, in Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) COMMUNITY RELATION & STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT KCM Zambia 2, HZL 4) Social impact assessment studies to be Need-based assessment completed Social impact studies to be continued continued for remaining sites for almost all sites. The social impact for remaining sites ENVIRONMENT assessment studies were done at oil & gas business Water saving: 2.1 million m3 Water saving of 3.93 million m3 at the • Standardise water risk assessment end of FY 2016-17 achieved approach for the business Implementation and utilisation rate of SAP Stakeholder and grievance – the SAP system to be increased handling system rolled out • Undertake water risk assessment for signiﬁcant businesses with water as a material issue – – Expand the company's ﬂagship CSR • Water saving: 2.2 million m3 programme, Nand Ghar, to all our businesses Continue to monitor new projects and site All projects at Vedanta Limited are Compliance to environment and social – – Embed and encourage employee closure as per the sustainability framework being managed as per Vedanta management plan for new projects across volunteering for social initiatives Sustainability Framework businesses Completion of Biodiversity We have made considerable progress Complete BMP at our oil & gas business HUMAN RESOURCES Management Plans in this regard. All our operations have BMPs except few operations in KCM Focus on performance and measurement Scope and contract ﬁnalised. Scorecard Employee scorecard coverage to be business, Oil and Gas business and for top 150 leaders of 700 professionals in place including extended to 100% of the professional Karnataka iron ore business top 150 leaders. Initiative being driven employees in project mode To continue exploring opportunities and Nearly 50% of ﬂy ash from our operations Achieve 50% of ﬂy ash utilisation rate areas to increase the ﬂy ash utilisation rate is recycled. The business continues Ensuring 100% coverage of Code of 100% employees could not be covered Ensure 100% coverage of code of conduct exploring opportunities to utilise ﬂy ash Conduct training for all employees under code of conduct training training for all new professional employees in cement making, road construction and building material manufacturing Continue to focus on the diversity 18% of employees joining this year Focus will be to increase gender diversity objective of 15% of new hires to be women were women in hiring 20% women this ﬁnancial year To realign the Group's energy and carbon Carbon Forum has been formed. We are considering formal GHG reduction policy in line with COP 21 outcomes Policy and strategy drafted with baseline targets and we expect to achieve a 16% targets and actions under development reduction in carbon intensity by 2020 from 33% female representation at We are moving forward to achieve Target to achieve 33% female representation a 2012 baseline, which was the ﬁrst year of the Vedanta Board Level by 2020 the target. During the reporting year, at the Vedanta Board Level by 2020 audited data we have made a number of senior female appointments Energy saving: 1.5 million GJ We reached energy saving of 0.62 Energy Saving: 1.39 million GJ million GJ at the end of FY 2016-17 Achieved In Progress / Partially achieved Not achieved 09 10 RESPONSIBLE Sustainable Development Journey Our sustainable development journey continues to break new grounds and unlock immense value for STEWARDSHIP us and our stakeholders. We have invested our time and resources in introspecting our actions; we have achieved our targets and formulated ambitious new ones; we have adopted global best practices and taken innovative leaps; we have aligned our standards with industry benchmarks and charted some of our own. We have done all this and continue to do it with a singular agenda: ensuring long-term growth for all stakeholders. FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 Businesses started Introducing 'Strategic Environment & Social Review VSAP and its Implementation embedding Vedanta Communications' as a new of VSAP Continued external VSAP material priorities Sustainable Development pillar of our Sustainable review identiﬁed for the FY 2016-17 Framework Development Model VSAP into its Fourth Year of are occupational health and training and implementation of Rolling out of Vedanta Implementation revised as per safety, resource use and policies and standards Sustainable Development the material priorities with more management, stakeholder External Review Concluded Framework continues emphasis and focus on safety engagement, and supplier and (URS Scott Wilson) by inclusion of safety contract management Introduction of safety all recommendations got performance standards, performance standards, formal Social Impact Assessment successfully closed supported by external auditors safety risk assessment, Studies need-based Sustainability linked with industrial hygiene baseline Advancing Accountability assessment completed for Remuneration sustainable assessment and safety by incorporating safety nearly all our businesses. The development KPIs linked to leadership coaching performance standards into major social impact assessment executive remuneration executive remuneration studies were done at Cairn Oil VSAP into its Third Year of and Gas Business Vedanta Sustainability Implementation revised Social Impact Assessment Assurance Programme (VSAP) as per the material priorities, Studies HZL & Cairn India Advancing Accountability into its Second Year of supported by external auditors aligning all community projects employee health, safety and Implementation with updated studies well-being identiﬁed as the Environment & Social Review supported by external auditors material issue, is a key priority of VSAP Started external review for the company. Hence, it is Revisiting our Community addressed by incorporating Need Assessment Studies safety performance standards aligning all community projects into executive remuneration with updated studies Governance | Safety & Occupational Health | Environment It encapsulates our approach towards the safety of our employees, sustenance of the environment and TRANSFORMING ELEMENTS effective implementation of our business processes. ELEMENTS OF A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE S U S T A I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T R E P O R T 2 0 1 6 1 7 A vital part of all phases of our project lifecycle Responsible Stewardship is how we manage risk, demonstrate legal compliance and leverage best practices. 11 12 RESPONSIBLE OUR CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS (HEREAFTER, CBCE) COMPLIES WITH THE LAW OF THE LAND AND EVEN GOES BEYOND (LEGAL) COMPLIANCE, WHERE RELEVANT. OUR LISTING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS IN THE UK RAISES THE BAR ON VARIOUS GOVERNANCE ASPECTS SUCH AS: STEWARDSHIP GOVERNANCE Vedanta is a multi-geographic, multi-stakeholder, federally modelled organisation with a unifying thread across all our Group's activities. HUMAN INSIDER POLITICAL CONFLICT CONFIDENTIALITY FRAUD, BRIBERY Our robust governance structure headed by our Board of Directors serves that purpose of binding all of the Group's activities into a coherent RIGHTS TRADING CONTRIBUTIONS OF INTEREST & CORRUPTION whole. The Board, aided by a strong and well-designed process, policies and Sustainable Development Framework, governs business with strict adherence to ethical conduct and a high degree of transparency. A WELL-DEFINED REPORTING STRUCTURE WITH CLEARLY ALLOCATED ROLES ENSURES A We are aligned with the UN Sustainable mechanism (toll free number, email id and a reporting portal) to report inappropriate behaviour. FAIR RESPONSE TO THE LOCAL ISSUES. A RECEPTIVE FEEDBACK MECHANISM AND SWIFT Development Goals and the UK Modern We maintain strict conﬁdentiality with the employee and ensure a free and fair investigation, Slavery Act 2015 and are rolling out a uniform without any fear of repercussion. REDRESSAL SYSTEM ENSURES THAT WE OPERATE EFFECTIVELY AND EFFICIENTLY. framework for their implementation. In order Between January and December 2016, 129 whistleblower cases were reported and resolved, of to ensure transparent and easy access to our which 33 were upheld and found correct, resulting in appropriate disciplinary actions against policies in the public domain, our Insider those employees, contract workforce and vendors including warning, counselling, transfer and In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance code, majority of our Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises of independent Non-executive Trading Prohibition Policy and Antitrust separation. Directors. As of March 31, 2017, our Board consists of the Executive Chairman, Executive Vice Chairman, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and ﬁve Guidance Notes relating to Disclosure of independent Non-executive Directors. The Directors come from diverse international backgrounds and enrich the Board with a wide range of Sensitive Information etc., are publicly 129 professional and sector-speciﬁc experience. The Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed available on our website and are and achieves its objectives to deliver long term success. incorporated into contracts where relevant. Our CBCE, updated to comply with the UK Bribery Act, 2010, expressly prohibits whistleblower cases reported COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD payment and receipt of bribes directly or & resolved indirectly through associated persons. All employees across the organisational While our 'Code of Business Conduct and hierarchy adhere to the CBCE; in letter and To ensure that all employees are well-versed with our Code, mandatory training is provided for Ethics' provides a set of principles to guide in spirit. Employees are expected to adhere new recruits and refresher workshops on anticorruption policies and procedures are conducted Less than Between Above our employees, our Sustainable Development to the highest standards of integrity and for relevant employees. Age group 30 yrs 30-50 yrs 50 yrs Framework outlines best practice standards report even minute violations, which are then and policies that encourage consistent addressed and resolved promptly after an This year, we provided more than 0 1 7 improvement across functional areas. impartial external investigation. Employee from Minority group Male Female Additionally, we also follow internationally accepted standards and good practices such as ICMM, IFC and OECD guidelines. The Audit Committee, comprising four Nonexecutive Directors, assists the Board in maintaining and monitoring the integrity of 375,573 hours of training on Code of Conduct including Human Rights aspects. Our governance philosophy is steered by a the Group's ﬁnancial statements, assessing 0 0 'looking beyond compliance' approach. This the effectiveness of the Group's risk helps us plan, design, operate and close management system and internal controls, The supply chain is a signiﬁcant contributor to our performance footprint and so we have and the independence and objectivity of the institutionalised a dedicated accountability mechanism for suppliers and contractors. operations in a manner that enhances external auditor. To carry out its duties Employees from sustainable development. We regularly effectively, the Audit Committee receives a Our Suppliers' Code of Conduct communicates our requirement for our suppliers to operate in Non-minority group Male Female engage international consultants to audit our compliance with all relevant legislation, align to our policies while executing work for, or on behalf detailed information from management. sustainability practices and provide feedback of Vedanta or on our sites, and adopt ethical good practices. 7 1 The information is reviewed and presented to on areas where we are performing well, and Audit Committee by management along with Details of the Board's responsibilities, composition, training and evaluation are available in the Annual Report. areas where we need to improve. the internal and external auditors, as required. VEDANTA ENCOURAGES All business units are periodically reviewed for risks related to corruption SUPPLIERS TO ADOPT and bribery. PRINCIPLES AND Our Whistleblower Policy currently PRACTICES COMPARABLE CODE OF BUSINESS communicates our commitment to a “policy against retaliation”, and commitment to TO OUR OWN, INCLUDING CONDUCT & ETHICS SDG16 maintaining conﬁdentiality, in case of a company employee. That commitment does not currently extend to third parties, THE SUPPLIER CODE OF including contractors. A review of the CONDUCT, SUPPLIER AND existing policy document and whistleblower mechanism is planned, in order to ensure CONTRACTOR ETHICS AND INTEGRITY ARE DEEMED ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL BY OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM that the good practice provisions are MANAGEMENT POLICIES extended to third parties, including AS WELL AS THE GROUP'S INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS. WE ARE COMMITTED TO contractors. AND SUPPLIER SCREENING A ZERO-TOLERANCE APPROACH TOWARDS FRAUD, BRIBERY AND ANY FORM OF CORRUPTION. Under our Whistleblower Policy, employees CHECKLIST. and external stakeholders are provided a 13 14 FRAMEWORK & IMPLEMENTATION OUR BOARD COMPRISES Sustainable The EIGHT DIRECTORS, AND MORE THAN 50% OF THEM Development Framework Implementation ARE INDEPENDENT. Our Sustainable Development Model is underpinned by a Sustainable Development Framework that helps each business put the Model into The Sustainable Development Framework is deeply embedded in the ethos of Vedanta. The Board of Directors provides leadership and guides the practice. The Framework, rolled out in FY 2012-13, comprises several policies, standards and guidance notes that were developed in line with businesses towards fulﬁllment of the commitment to various stakeholders. The Sustainability Committee laid by Independent Director and ICMM, IFC, OECD, UNGC and SDGs guidelines. supported by business CEO's, corporate sustainability team reviews and monitors progress against the framework and sustainability objectives and targets during the year. The Executive Committee is supported by the Corporate Sustainability Team. Our efforts to establish and implement a robust Sustainable Development Model and Framework that is aligned with all international best practices, is illustrated in the following chart: VEDANTA BOARD LENDERS EQUATOR PRINCIPLES REMUNERATION SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE IFC Performance Standards, EHS Guidelines, ICMM & OECD Guidelines and Internal Issues Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by Chaired by CEO, Chaired by Chairman, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Mr. Tom Albanese. Mr. Anil Agarwal, Mr. Geoffrey Green. Ms. Katya Zotova. Mr. Aman Mehta. The Committee meets The Committee identiﬁes VEDANTA SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK The Committee monitors The Committee oversees The Committee monthly and is the optimum balance of the effectiveness of the Group sustainability maintains and monitors responsible for skills, background and RESPONSIBLE BUILDING ADDING & communication with performance and reports Group systems and implementing strategic experience on the Board. STEWARDSHIP STRONG RELATIONSHIPS SHARING VALUE analysts and shareholders to the Board on a internal controls, plans formulated by the concerning the Board’s periodic basis. including integrity of Board, allocating STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS Remuneration Policy. ﬁnancial statements, resources in line with anti-bribery and delegated authorities corruption procedures and monitoring the Policies and employee operational and whistleblower policies ﬁnancial performance of the Group. See the Annual Report See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for See the Annual Report for Technical Standards / Management Standards / Guidance Notes for detailed information detailed information detailed information detailed information detailed information VERIFICATION PROCESS (VSAP) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT TEAM Run by VEDANTA LIMITED KONKOLA COPPER MINES Management Assurance System Function Subsidiaries Divisions COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT REPORTING & OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY RELATIONS COMMUNICATION HEALTH HZL BALCO MEL WCL ZI CMT TSPL Sesa Sterlite Vedanta Al Cairn O&G Iron Ore Copper & Power Business GAP ANALYSIS Review of Sustainable Development Team and Segment Business Committee Upgrading all Subsidiary Company Management Systems including (Monthly Operational Reviews / Business Management Group Meetings) ISO 14001, ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001 Subsidiary Local Assurance Process As part of the implementation process, we celebration of success in meetings, and resources have been dedicated at each of the provided training to relevant management monitoring of progress against established Group's businesses towards this purpose. teams to ensure a solid understanding of the targets. Framework documentation is made The expected outcomes are clearly deﬁned Framework's requirements. We cascaded available to all employees through the at the beginning of a ﬁnancial year. Implementation of Sustainable Development Framework in all Operations information to our subsidiary businesses, company's website, on individual company Monitoring and management mechanisms providing on-location training to managers, to portals, and through awareness training, which ensure continuous improvement. Continual ensure that they could drive compliance within is attended by staff at all levels. internal auditing offers a quantitative view of Over the years, the Framework has served as The identiﬁed gaps have been discussed and their teams. Large-scale posters and other Ensuring Sustainable development is a key achievements against objectives and keeps an effective tool to unify Vedanta's reviewed by the leadership teams, and action support materials were provided to reinforce key business responsibility at Vedanta and speciﬁc our sustainability development programmes sustainability approach across diverse plans are in place to ensure compliance within messages. This is as an ongoing process, and is on track. geographies and businesses. Today, it is an a speciﬁed period of time. part of the training calendars for each business. ALL OUR DECISIONS ARE SIEVED Last year, we provided integral part of our business strategy and Number of people with The Vedanta Sustainability Assurance In order to further embed our Framework, we helps us and our subsidiary businesses to conduct business in line with our core values of trust, entrepreneurship, innovation, THROUGH THE INDICATORS OF THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Programme (VSAP) our internal risk management tool run by the Group's also delivered additional topic-speciﬁc training across the Group, addressing areas such as 1,115,562 Sustainability Responsibilities across the Group 520 man-hours FRAMEWORK TO ENSURE THAT Management Assurance System, is in place to health and safety management, environmental excellence, integrity, respect and care. ensure compliance with the Framework. This incidents, international standards such as the of HSE training Community Relations 155 WE REMAIN SAFE, ETHICAL AND Each of our subsidiary businesses have carried ascertains that all our businesses are Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and reporting out a gap analysis to identify any lacunae TRANSPARENT AT ALL TIMES. monitoring and reviewing their sustainability best practice and assurance. The importance of Occupational Health 45 171,566 939,874 between their existing management systems objectives and implementing the same at the Framework is reinforced by measures like man-hours man-hours Environment 123 and processes, and the Sustainable regular intervals. linking management remuneration to key were slotted for were dedicated for Development Model and Framework. sustainability targets, communication and employees contract workforce Safety 197 15 16 THE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT ENVIRONMENT • Review the Group's initiatives for reduction in speciﬁc water and energy consumption Delivering operational excellence and setting the highest benchmarks in governance, safety, • Review progress on development of Carbon Policy, Strategy and Action plan under the aegis of the 'Carbon Forum' environment and social responsibility across the locations of the Group's operations and • Review of action plans for improvement of KCM's environmental performance projects has always been a part of the business model at Vedanta. The Vedanta Sustainability Framework guides us towards a long-term, sustainable future for our business operations, SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT & • Review of performance evaluation of the Sustainability Committee and review of PERFORMANCE REPORTING terms of reference meeting our growth aspirations, and creating long-term value for all our stakeholders. COMMUNITY RELATION & • Update on Sustainable Development Goals and UK Modern Slavery Act ENGAGEMENT • Review of important stakeholder engagements The robust implementation of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF) has been a top priority for the Committee. We have made signiﬁcant improvements in the way we do our business since VSF's launch in 2012. One of the signiﬁcant sustainability risks for our business has been our Group's safety performance. Considerable efforts have been made in this sphere with involvement at all levels. The Sustainability Committee is determined in the journey of achieving 'Zero Harm'. We have progressed over the years and will continue to make The loss of seven lives at our operations during the ﬁnancial year under review is not only saddening, but also an issue of grave concern ourselves a safer and a better company. that needs to be addressed with immediate effect. We had an unfortunate tragic incident at the HZL project site in Rajasthan, wherein we lost four invaluable lives. The event ampliﬁed the vulnerability of our contractor safety management systems even while dealing KATYA ZOTOVA with reputed contractors known for their expertise and practices. It has taught us important lessons and raised an alarm to implement Chairperson, Sustainability Committee systemic changes. Our operations are strengthening implementation of safety performance standards to avoid such unfortunate incidents in future. We have also developed and rolled out Crane and Lifting Performance Standards. Another important aspect is ensuring that lessons from incidents are institutionalised across the businesses and repeat incidents are More details on the activities of the committee can be found on our Sustainability microsite. eliminated. To this effect, we ensure that each subsidiary company's Chief Executive presents a detailed appraisal of critical incidents along with root causes and mitigative action plans to the Sustainability Committee. Through Corporate HSE, we have started tracking 'sign off' from Chief Operating Ofﬁcers on lessons learnt from High Potential Incidents (HIPOs). We maintained our focus on containing impacts on air, water, waste and tailing related risks, to achieve our targets on saving water, energy, and recycling waste during the year. Our businesses have met many of their goals, but few remain unconquered, where we missed the targets. Our focus is to boost those businesses, by actively working on the root causes of their failure. We are using the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) as our internal tool to monitor implementation of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. The follow up audit processes, include the review and implementation of action plans for each of Managing our Risks the businesses, operational sites and mines have put in place, evaluation of objectives and programs in line with our framework requirements and monitoring performance at regular intervals, with emphasis on close out actions from past audits. As a global natural resources organisation, our businesses are exposed to a variety of risks. It is therefore essential to have in place the necessary systems to manage these risks, while balancing the relative risk reward equation demanded by our stakeholders. Our risk management framework serves to identify, assess and respond to the principal risks facing our business and is designed to be simple and Contribution of our businesses to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is another important dimension which calls for consistent and provide clarity on managing and reporting risks to the board. Our management systems, organisational structures, processes, immediate deliberation and action. The Committee reviewed preliminary assessment of priority Sustainable Development Goals standards and code of conduct together form the system of internal control that governs how we conduct the Group's business and manage the and has advised detailed interventions with appropriate action plan/road map for the priority SDGs at Group level. associated risks. Risk management is embedded in our critical business activities, functions and processes. It helps Vedanta meet its objectives through aligning operating controls with mission and vision. The effective management of risk is critical to support the delivery of the Group's strategic objectives. We are using the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) as our internal tool to monitor implementation of the Vedanta Sustainability The framework helps the organisation meet its objectives through alignment of operating controls to the mission and vision of the group. Framework. The follow up audit processes, include the review and implementation of action plans for each of the businesses, operational sites and mines have been put in place. Sustainability Committee Activities during the Year Area of Responsibility Description Governance SDG16 SUSTAINABILITY • Review progress made on the development of the sustainability model and framework FRAMEWORK The Group recognises the importance of identifying and actively managing the risks facing the OUR APPROACH IS • Review the implementation of action plans emerging from the Vedanta Sustainability business. We want our employees to feel empowered to take advantage of smart opportunities Assurance Programme (VSAP) and we want them to do so within the risk appetite set by the Board. It is therefore important INTENDED TO PROVIDE • Review & approve sustainable development objectives and targets that we have a robust governance framework in place to facilitate this. THE STRUCTURAL MEANS We use this framework to identify and assess emerging risks at all levels in the organisation so TO IDENTIFY, PRIORITISE • Review & approve sustainable development initiatives, charters and partnerships that we can take action to effectively manage these risks. Materiality and risk tolerance are key AND MANAGE THE RISKS • Review progress on Sustainability Issues raised during AGM 2016 considerations in our decision-making. The responsibility for identifying and managing risk lies with all the managers and business leaders of the group. INVOLVED IN OUR ACTIVITIES IN ORDER HEALTH & • Review of Group safety incidents and performance The Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for management of risks and for ensuring SAFETY the effectiveness of internal control systems. Such a system is designed to manage rather than TO SUPPORT OUR VALUE • Overseeing the implementation of action plans with respect to fatal accidents CREATION OBJECTIVES. eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable and not • Review of Occupational Health & Safety interventions absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss. 17 18 RESPONSIBLE SAFETY & ZERO HARM CULTURE STEWARDSHIP OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH We believe that all injuries are preventable. Creating and maintaining a Zero Harm Culture is our aim as well as our call to action. IN ORDER TO MAKE SAFETY A 'MUST HAVE' INSTEAD OF Health and safety topics are also covered in the formal agreements with trade union. To translate this vision into an effective safety A 'GOOD TO HAVE', WE HAVE strategy, we have a comprehensive HSE DIRECTLY LINKED policy in place. The goal is to embed safety as EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION THERE IS BROAD CONSENSUS As a natural resources organisation, human capital is at the core of our business. Our STRICT ADHERENCE TO a value and the task is helmed by our senior TO THE PROGRESS ON THAT EMPLOYEES AND employees are key to our success and sustainability. Their safety and well-being is our prime management. OUR SAFETY PERFORMANCE IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFETY THE UNION WILL SUPPORT responsibility. STANDARDS AND ADOPTION Our Chairman as well as our CEO ﬁercely PERFORMANCE STANDARDS OUR BUSINESS IN CASCADING We work in remote locations and are aware of the many occupational risks inherent to our advocate Zero Harm Culture by personally AND PREVENTION OF MEASURES AND INITIATIVES industry. We remain committed to an injury-free, illness-free and healthy workplace. Safety and OF ZERO-TOLERANCE engaging with employees on a regular basis FOR IMPROVING PRODUCTION FATALITIES. well-being of our employees is an integral part of our decision making and the top priority in TOWARDS SAFETY LAPSES and deliberating the safety improvement /PRODUCTIVITY, WORK whatever projects we undertake. HAS BEEN OUR PRIME FOCUS opportunities. Our senior management takes CULTURE, QUALITY & SAFETY. responsibility for leading our safety strategy Our Board-Level Sustainability Committee Our health and safety approach is guided by Group Safety Standard which applies to all IN THE REPORTING YEAR. and communicating it across the workforce. Vedanta business units and managed operations. (chaired by the Board's senior independent director) and our Executive Committee SAFETY & OCCUPATIONAL (chaired by our CEO) regularly review our safety performance and share HEALTH ARE ONE OF THE recommendations. Safety & Occupational CORE AREAS OF DISCUSSION Health are prime elements of the Vedanta SAFETY PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS DURING EVERY VIRTUAL TOWN HALL MEETING CONDUCTED Sustainability Assurance Programme. We have Health and Safety Committees BY OUR CHAIRMAN, across Group Companies. These committees MR. ANIL AGARWAL. comprising members from the management as well as unionised workforce operate at the For a culture of safety to gain permanence, it company, unit and sub-unit level depending needs to permeate across every level of the on the locations & businesses. These organisation. This year, we continued to committees meet at regular intervals and enthuse, educate and encourage every ensure that the programmes work in member of our workforce to embrace safety accordance with our established Sustainable wholeheartedly as a value and line managers Development Model and Framework. In case were made accountable for that. Safety & of operations where unions have not been Occupational Health is a mandatory module formed, we have setup a monthly meeting Lost Time Injuries reduced to Cairn O&G Business' in our induction and refresher training mechanism that involves principal contractor Raageshwari Gas Terminal 75 crossed the safety milestone of programme and periodic workshops are conducted to enhance safety awareness and and sub-contractors to discuss speciﬁc HSE issues. 100% of our total workforce is from 12 million knowledge among employees and contractors. represented in formal joint managementworker health and safety committee. 103 Safety training hours increased by 32% to LTI-free man-hours in FY 2015-16 1,115,562 man-hours Implementation of Identiﬁcation and Safety Performance mentoring of 320 12,700 Standards 22 young professionals for driving next level frontline leaders trained under the employees and contractors Last year, we initiated our ﬁrst step towards elimination of critical hazards by identifying six trained on risk-based types of them that account for approximately 75% of lost time incidents and grouped safety at Vedanta MBRD programme decision making at KCM them under one common protocol: Group Safety Performance Standards. The six critical areas identiﬁed were Over the years, the effectiveness of our safety The learnings from these incidents have made us more rigorous towards assessing hazards. WORK AT HEIGHT | ISOLATION | ELECTRICAL SAFETY | systems has steadily improved. And while we WE ARE NOW MORE METICULOUS IN EVALUATING JOB RISKS, TRANSLATING still experience unfortunate incidents of GROUND CONTROL | CONFINED SPACE ENTRY | VEHICLES & DRIVING. RISK MITIGATION PLANS INTO PRACTICE AND IMPLEMENTING THE fatalities, the high incidents ratio has come THIS YEAR WE INITIATED A SEVENTH SAFETY PERFORMANCE down; resulting in less fatal accidents and lower LTIFR. ZERO HARM CULTURE STANDARD (SPS) ON CRANES AND LIFTING. 19 20 In addition to the seven speciﬁc standards, we LTIFR * FATALITIES Although we succeeded in reducing the have two Technical Standards that govern Occupational Health Management and Safety Our Safety per million man-hours worked number of fatalities, it is still a performance that is unacceptable to us and is a matter of Management in a broader context. In the reporting year, focus was laid on the Performance SDG3, SDG6 great concern and regret for the entire Vedanta group. stringent implementation of SPS protocols We report our safety performance as per ICMM guidelines. We marked an overall declining trend across our businesses. The challenge was not AN IN-DEPTH REVIEW OF in injury rates with the Group's Lost Time Injuries reducing from 103 in FY 2015-16 to 75 in only to introduce the safety standards but FY 2016-17. With LTIFR of 0.39, FY 2016-17 ranks as our best year so far in terms of an EACH OF THESE INCIDENTS also to sustain them across the year. overall safety performance. HAS BEEN CARRIED OUT TO We have made major progress towards ANALYSE WHAT WENT WRONG. At Vedanta, we believe that a healthy workforce is a more alert and productive one. To promote embedding SPS across the businesses 0.86 0.83 0.55 0.54 0.46 0.50 0.39 the overall well-being of the employees and as a precautionary measure, all our sites conduct through rigorous training drives, monthly 26 22 20 19 8 12 7 Initial Medical Examinations (IME) and Periodical Medical Examinations (PME) for both meetings, inclusion and ownership of top A Root Cause Analysis has been conducted permanent employees and contract workforce. We have also started capturing the injury statistics 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 management into the safety assessment and by the top management of the respective pertaining to the visitors and truck drivers etc., and initiated their medical examinations. mitigation, incorporation of safety alert businesses and the results have been shared mechanisms, interactive media, easy with the Board's Sustainability Committee to accessibility to HSE dashboards and metrics, initiate appropriate action plans to prevent * In 2015-16, we revised our calculation deﬁnition in line with the revamped ICMM guidelines and reset the baseline. such incidents in future. deployment of safety materials and PPEs, 100% Thus, LTIFR for that year was revised from 0.46 to 0.50. regular communication between the management and workforce, and regular safety audits. PERIODICAL MEDICAL Incident Type Prevention / Action EXAMINATION Four third party contract workers were Reinforce our permitting systems and fatally injured from the collapse of a management oversight. Also rolled out REAL-TIME INCIDENT 250-ton crawler crane. seventh safety performance standard on Cranes & Lifting. REPORTING CAIRN O&G BUSINESS One fatal accident each was related to Effective reinforcement of safety blasting and working underground. performance standards for blasting procedures and underground safety have We believe that there are two factors that A high-potential (HIPO) incident is an incident been ensured through regular monitoring. differentiate us in the natural resources or near-miss that, realistically, could have under Reward and recognition initiatives have been industry: carried out for increasing safety ownership other circumstances caused one or more among the employees. catastrophic injuries. Awareness of HIPO OUR HUMAN RESOURCES incidents is a key factor in preventing them and AND HOW WE LEVERAGE One fatal accident was related to vehicles Strict adherence to the implementation of we share the learnings of HIPOs to prevent INNOVATION AND and driving. safety performance standards through their reoccurring at other sites. During the year, TECHNOLOGY TO ENHANCE periodic audits. Motivational reward and we recorded a total of 117 HIPO incidents, with recognition programmes were initiated to END PRODUCTIVITY. each fully investigated and the lessons learned cultivate safety accountability across the promoted across all businesses. workforce. Institutionalising Health & Safety of the workforce is core to all our operations. Zero Harm Culture All our sites have a fully-operational and professionally manned Occupational Health Centres (OHCs). In addition to IME/PME for all our employees, the OHCs also provide facilities like ﬁrst Best safety performance can only be achieved through precise execution of the safety practices This year, we introduced a number of aid support, OPD facilities, and conduct various health camps to create awareness on health PREVENTING FATALITY, initiatives to embed technology into the and solutions. When one factors-in the dynamic work environment, safety improvement becomes safety management process. aspects and potential diseases. a continuous process. Throughout the year, across business units and through a diversity of SYSTEMATICALLY interventions, we pursued safety with rigour. Some of such initiatives are illustrated below: HZL Prime amongst these, is the online and Continuous work zone monitoring is carried out to ensure a safe and healthy workplace for the real-time incident reporting mechanism employees. Several initiatives like bag ﬁlters, dust monitoring, dust suppression, fugitive emission The Fatality and Serious Incident Preventions we have in place. The LogChief, the reduction, proper storage of hazardous chemicals/substances are incorporated to safeguard digital Geological Logging Platform, their health. Understanding the Risk Programme (FSIPP) commenced at HZL with an aim of dealing with critical risks, identifying helps us identify and ascertain any their preventive measures and analysing the reportable incident before it takes a effectiveness of these mitigative steps. more catastrophic proportion. Data is WE CONTINUE TO UPHOLD THE WASH PLEDGE BY PROVIDING Identifying Critical Risks is This initiative enables risk prioritisation and made available to exploration & ADEQUATE ACCESS TO SAFE DRINKING WATER AND SANITATION imperative to strengthen identiﬁcation of barriers to eliminate them. production managers in real time to FACILITIES TO OUR WORKFORCE ACROSS ALL SITES. risk-based decision enable efﬁcient decision making and making and to initiate All smelters and mines have ensure immediate action and closure of identiﬁed high risks and ranked the remedial actions. any potentially hazardous situation. Work Apart from physical safety, we also undertake concentrated trainings on stress management and same to ensure safety ownership. is also afoot to introduce a live safety ergonomics to foster an environment of holistic employee well-being. All these interventions not Several identiﬁcation dashboard that will be accessible across only help in creating a clean workspace but also assist in maintaining the health of the employees. exercises were carried Thus, accountability for managing risk hierarchies from line managers to the This year we paid US$ 27,000 as a penalty for technical non-compliance with the Factories Act. out to have an in-depth through the barriers is deﬁned. Periodic senior management team. During the reporting period, we didn't observe any signiﬁcant / major occupational diseases at understanding of the real audits are conducted to monitor the our operating sites. challenges on ground. robustness and adequacy of these barriers. 21 22 CASE STUDY CASE STUDY CHINGILILA PROGRAMME DYNAMIC LEADERSHIP KCM IN SAFETY ROLES GROUP WIDE IN ORDER TO STRENGTHEN ZERO HARM CULTURE AND IN RESPONSE TO SERIOUS Our Global HSE team comprises 365 professionals and, as an effort to promote ACCIDENTS, THE CHINGILILA PROGRAMME WAS INTRODUCED IN KCM IN SEPTEMBER leadership amongst HSE function, 22 dynamic leaders across the businesses 2014. CHINGILILA IS A BEMBA WORD MEANING 'PROTECT' AN APT SAFETY MESSAGE. were identiﬁed through a structured process for higher level of challenges Contractor Management and growth. During the reporting period, to strengthen the Standards HSE in In these roles, they are being mentored by our leadership team and are Projects & mission to protect, a six-month intensive and Impleprovided with experience of being part of the various high level HSE centric mentation Design holistic programme was introduced, under which meetings. We envision that with the right guidance, these professionals will HSE Improvement 25 Mine Captains drive the next level of safety performance at Vedanta. Work Streams Critical Baseline designated as safety champions were instructed Health Risk to regularly visit every working area to improve Control Exposures the safety awareness at the site and workplaces. The Chingilila programme goes beyond imparting training. Following initiatives are testament of the holistic nature of the Programme: V-app 112 KCM safety procedures have been revised to incorporate risk assessment principles in all the safety procedures Safety Mobile Application Ten Cardinal Rules of Safety have been introduced to highlight the ten primary risk at KCM Benchmarking Outsourcing The role of the safety department was restructured to focus on coaching of supervisors on safety issues. With the assistance of the senior management at KCM, the purview of safety department was extended to managing the cost HSE audits with the assistance of senior managers. Enabling Work Streams An internal auditing course to empower managers in effectively handling the safety issues at their respective workplace. Innovation HSE & We mentor young leaders to drive safety performance. Networking A dedicated safety investigation unit has been established to ensure that all safety incidents and accidents can be Technology investigated with greater focus on prevention strategies. Moreover 11 project teams consisting of members from diversiﬁed functions VSF across the business has been assigned an objective related to Roadmap The design and implementation of the Chingilila Safety System at KCM has triggered signiﬁcant improvements in the safety performance and has fast-tracked progress towards our Zero Harm vision. 'HSE improvement' or 'HSE enabling' work streams. I N I T I AT I V E I N I T I AT I V E S MAKING BETTER RISK DECISION (MBRD) PROGRAMME DRIVING SAFE GROUP WIDE GROUP WIDE Our remotely located sites, involve extensive amount of driving. Considering the fact that we To enable cognitive solutions to the had a driving related fatality this year, special emphasis was given to ensuring driver safety by challenges, different sections of the Type 1 Controls Type 2 Controls Type 3 Controls various businesses: Sesa Iron Ore in association with Institute of Road Trafﬁc Education (IRTE), workforce were empowered with Task Based System Based Business/System introduced a training programme on Defensive Driving for truck drivers who are engaged in the knowledge through proper training (leadership focus) (process focus) (critical event focus) transportation of Iron Ore. The assessment of tests conducted for the drivers prior to and after based on their role and scope of the training conﬁrmed that there was considerable enhancement in the drivers' knowledge and operation. Last year, we piloted the MBRD Job Safety Analysis perception about road safety. Our HZL plant has set up an in house store for the purpose of programme a combination of classroom Safe Work Procedures Standards renting Personal Protective Equipments to the drivers. The safety stores have been very and practical on-ground sessions, to Formal Risk effective in encouraging drivers, both new and old, to take and use standard PPEs in the plant. empower line leaders to make better Task Hazard Assessment Golden Rules Assessment Safety remains our core value in operations decisions by foreseeing the risks relevant to their routine and non-routine work Task Implementation Bow Tie LIFTING RIGHT proﬁle, and understanding the Planning Audits Analysis STERLITE COPPER consequences associated with these risks. Safety Improvement Critical Single Point Accountability (SPA) is one of the driving forces of Safety management systems at We have a structured review mechanism Interactions Plans Controls Sterlite. Among our SPA protocols, 'Lifting Tools and Tackles' is a unique SPA, with greater to ensure identiﬁcation, analysis, emphasis on safe rigging practices, and proper usage of appropriate tools and tackles. In our mitigation and monitoring of safety risks continuous pursuit to make Vedanta the safest place to work, we introduced 'Centralisation of on a continual basis. Our key areas of risk DURING THE REPORTING PERIOD, 320 FRONTLINE LEADERS ACROSS THE Lifting Tools and Tackles' the ﬁrst such initiative in Vedanta Group. The focus of this intitative is and their mitigation levers can be BUSINESS WERE TRAINED UNDER MBRD PROGRAMME. WE AIM TO EXTEND to provide proper handling, storage and tracking of such lifting tools and tackles before and summarised as follows: MBRD TRAINING TO 50% OF EMPLOYEES ACROSS ALL BUSINESSES BY 2020. after use. These tools and tackles are periodically certiﬁed by a competent person. 23 24 RESPONSIBLE ALL OUR OPERATIONAL SITES ARE NOW ISO 14001 CERTIFIED Environmental and Social Impact • Environmental Management Systems • Internal assurance assess compliance Assessments (ESIA) process carried out (EMS) Assessments set up for every with EMS for all new projects existing operations • Monitoring, reporting and investigation STEWARDSHIP • Environmental incidents monitored of environmental incidents ENVIRONMENT SDG7, SDG12 • Alignment to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 standards to monitor effectiveness of the EMS Most of the basic and modern ammenities we cherish, contain natural resources as a core ingredient. Extraction of these resources becomes REVIEW & AUDITS BY BOTH BUSINESS AND VSAP TEAMS necessary to sustain life. Across the globe, best practices with modern technology ensure that while we meet the growing needs of the nations, we conserve biodiversity and the surrounding environment. During the reporting period, KCM and other mining companies discharged water from their operations releasing water from the tailings dam is a usual practice to ensure safety of the dam. On this occasion the releases resulted in a complaint from the local water department against all the concerned mining companies. KCM is working closely with the regulators and other stakeholders to develop and implement alternate satisfactory solutions. AS A DIVERSIFIED NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY WITH A GLOBAL FOOTPRINT, WE CONTINUE OUR ENDEAVOUR TO MINIMISE AND MITIGATE THE PRESSURE ON ENVIRONMENT AS A RESULT OF OUR OPERATIONS. WHETHER IT IS OPTIMISING THE WATER CONSUMPTION, ENHANCING ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY, SAFEGUARDING BIODIVERSITY, MAINTAINING AIR QUALITY OR RECYCLING AND UP CYCLING WASTE, WE HAVE THE SYSTEM AND, MORE IMPORTANTLY, THE INTENT. WATER SDG12 For the natural resource industry, securing an adequate water supply continues to remain a key challenge. We address the key challenge of accessing water by using the resource more judiciously and through recycling and reuse. Installation of oriﬁces in pipelines to Installation of the Reed based wastewater Environmental Approach Investment 51% reduce water pressure and ﬂow. Internal reuse of the process water to treatment system and reuse it back in the process. 49 We have a water policy and a water of high volume & management standard that integrates with minimize waste water generation. OUR CAIRN OIL & GAS BUSINESS USD low effect waste recycled decision-making processes for all our new IS MEETING million in sustainable applications Use of ETP treated UF-RO water for and existing projects; thereby ensuring that necessary measures are in place to avoid or minimise the impacts of our projects. cleaning and process like rodding, Bakeoven process to minimize freshwater consumption. 82% OF ITS TOTAL WATER Our operations are located in geographies REQUIREMENT THROUGH with varying water stress, and our water With optimal use of UF-RO water, the RECYCLED WATER management plans take them into business expects further reduction in the consideration. In some areas like Rajasthan speciﬁc water consumption. which are quite dry and arid, we have REPLENISH implemented water conservation projects to Groundwater recharge structure, achieve a zero-discharge status. For REUSE/RECYCLE measuring 1,200 sqm, developed in operations that are not located in waterOur Oil and Gas business has improved its Township Hospital of Chanderiya Lead stressed areas like KCM, CMT etc., we water recycling ratio from 66 % in FY-16 to Zinc Smelter with a potential to conserve spearhead initiatives to conserve water and 82% in FY-17. All our units in Rajasthan are 900 m3 of rainwater per year under normal preserve water quality. Zero-Discharge operations. Some of the rainfall condition. initiative taken during the year are: Deepening of nine water ponds in the REDUCE Utilizing the pit water for the operation. neighbouring villages of Sindesar Khurd Achieved our Vedanta Jharsuguda Aluminium business at BALCO has reduced Mine, resulted in increased water holdup water conservation dedicated the it’s speciﬁc water consumption from 2.3 to The Reed wastewater system helped in capacity by target for the 1.3 last year, saving 0.32 mn cubic meter of water and energy conservation due to st 2 nd 1 GREEN ROAD made using ﬂy ash water. Initiatives taken are: non-use of electrical energy in treating the wastewater. 2,77,575m 3 year in a row as primary component Performance APPROACH Consumption & Conservation Snapshot in million m3 We understand the needs of the environment by engaging with our partners and the neighbouring communities at project sites. Through a FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 systematic and process-oriented approach, underpinned by the spirit of entrepreneurship, we are mitigating adverse environmental impacts while creating value for our stakeholders and maintaining the social licence to operate. This year, we achieved Total Water Consumption 277,609,052 236,833,021 Our Sustainable Development Framework comprises comprehensive policies, standards and guidance notes to rigorously manage environmental impacts. For the environmental priorities arising from the materiality process, we have developed speciﬁc objectives and targets, and review performance against these issues on a periodic basis. We are working towards implementing our Biodiversity Action Plans and are also ﬁnding Water Recycled / Reused 66,813,316 53,626,679 3.93 million m water savings against the targeted 3 new and innovative ways to reduce and recycle waste from our operations including ﬂy ash, red mud, phosphorous gypsum, copper slag, etc. WE RECYCLED 24% WATER IN FY 2016-17 savings of 2.26 million m3 25 26 ENERGY & CARBON SDG7 Performance Climate change poses a real and credible risk to our way of life on this planet. Managing it calls for collective efforts on mitigation and adoption of DIRECT & INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION in million GJ innovative technologies. FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 We calculate and report the Greenhouse Vedanta acknowledges the global concern on climate change and recognises that concentrated and sustained global actions are required to Gas (GHG) inventory i.e. Scope 1 (process manage the scale of the problem and to adapt to its impacts. Our operations are mostly located in developing countries where growth of the emissions and other direct emissions) and Direct Energy Consumption 413.39 394 country and human indices are dependent on reliable and affordable coal based power. Scope 2 (purchased electricity) as deﬁned Indirect Energy Consumption 14.61 11 under the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and Total Energy 428 405 World Resource Institute (WRI) GHG Approach GHG EMISSIONS GROUP WIDE in tons of CO2 equivalent protocols. The increase in energy consumption GHG The energy and carbon scenario is a continuously emerging one. Post COP 21, countries across emissions is due to ramp up of our aluminium FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 the globe have committed to implement their National Determined Contribution (NDC) WE ARE COMMITTED TO and power plant business. While GHG towards minimising the climate change impact. Our Sustainable Development Framework Scope 1 (Direct) 51,896,907 39,581,088 emission has increased the GHG intensity for THE CAUSE OF CLIMATE includes an Energy and Carbon Policy, and Energy and Carbon Management Standard. the business has reduced about 8% over CHANGE AND CONSTITUTED Scope 2 (Indirect) 1,432,665 1,567,605 We are aware that global concern on climate change can bring regulatory changes, introduction FY12 as the base year. CHIEF OPERATING OFFICERS of implicit and / or explicit carbon taxes in the host countries we operate in. This along with (COO'S) FORUM FROM THE evolving behaviour of the environmentally conscious consumer are some of the factors that may affect our business operations positively or detrimentally. In view of this, we have revised our BUSINESSES TO ADVISE Carbon Policy and developed a full ﬂedged Carbon strategy for the group. GROUP EXECUTIVE Energy Efficiency Our energy and carbon management hinges on a two-pronged approach: improving energy COMMITTEE ON CLIMATE In the reporting year, we focussed more in raising awareness about the need for energy efﬁciency and putting in place an infrastructure that would and process efﬁciency, while diversifying our energy portfolio to include renewable energy to CHANGE MANAGEMENT conserve energy across its lifecycle. We envision that by enhancing awareness, the change effected will be more impactful and longer-term: the extent possible. We are committed to invest in newer technologies and processes to PROGRAMME. enhance our energy efﬁciency. The Carbon Strategy While developing the Carbon policy and Strategy, we took inputs from our stakeholders. Our focus is to adapt to the impact of climate change. The strategy is to work on the water, energy and waste management practices to minimise the climate change impact to the business. We are also working with our community in spreading awareness on the climate change, water management, sustainable agriculture and methods that support communities in becoming adaptable to potential climate impacts. Hindustan Zinc ofﬁce became Rajasthan's ﬁrst Platinum Green Building. Sustainable usage of natural resources is In December 2016, TSPL launched Club Hindustan Zinc ofﬁce at Udaipur became key to preserving resources that can be Urja, an initiative that seeks to promote Rajasthan's ﬁrst Platinum Green Building. available for future generations. In August energy efﬁciency and conservation through 2016, Skorpion Zinc conducted a Awareness, Education and Engagement. It achieved energy savings by 27% Sustainability Awareness Campaign at and water use reduction by 37%. Rosh Pinah Academy school for students The initiative seeks to involve studying from grade 1 to 5. The campaign 100,000 stakeholders, Bhogat Terminal, Gujarat – Cairn Oil and Gas business On-site renewable energy of 100 kWp is focussed on the importance of energy and installed that would generate 162,000 water conservation measures. including students, teachers, housewives, units every year, offset 15% energy We are evaluating options of formulating farmers and other signiﬁcant consumers of requirement by Renewable Energy. This is internal carbon price suitable to the business A total of 60 learners and 5 teachers electricity, as well as academic institutions, in line with our short and long-term GHG and expect to complete this exercise soon. WE ARE COMMITTED TO IMPLEMENT THE CARBON POLICY were involved in the campaign. NGOs, Govt. Departments and Press clubs, intensity reduction target. The challenge is Company's presence in within three years. multiple commodity businesses like metal, THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESSES. WE ARE CONSIDERING mining, oil & gas, power, port etc. FORMAL GHG REDUCTION TARGETS AND EXPECT TO Vedanta is committed to this effort through ACHIEVE UP TO 16% REDUCTION IN CARBON INTENSITY FOR its own progressive energy and carbon programme that forms an integral part of our THE BUSINESS BY 2020 FROM A 2012 BASELINE. Clean Energy vision for sustainable development and is In addition to optimising our energy consumption, we are also looking at diversifying our energy portfolio. Mindful of the long-term impact of 16 OUT OF OUR 47 OPERATIONS ARE ISO 50001 CERTIFIED traditional grid-energy, we are evaluating renewable energies like solar and wind. consistent with our business goals. 27 28 Revitalising Ecologies CASE STUDY Several initiatives are undertaken by us at Vedanta to rejuvenate the biodiversity of the locations we operate in. Some of them are: MAKING ENERGY WHEN THE SUN SHINES HZL I N I T I AT I V E THE INDIAN GOVERNMENT UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF MR. NARENDRA MODI, HAS A STRONG FOCUS ON NON-CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SOURCES AND IS RESPONDING PROACTIVELY TO THE BIODIVERSITY RISK GAMSBERG, SOUTH AFRICA LOOKING TO ULTIMATELY PRODUCE 100 GW POWER FROM SOLAR ENERGY. The Gamsberg mine is located in the Succulent Karoo Biodiversity hotspot area one of the four hotspots in South Africa and one of In view of this, HZL in Rajasthan set an the 35 hotspots in the world. This area is home to more than 6,000 species of plants, (40% of which are only found here) and also Out of 16 MW, 12 MW solar power project installed ambitious target of generating hosts 250 birds, 80 mammals and 32 reptile and amphibian species. Although the Gamsberg mine promises to reap rich economic at Zinc Smelter. returns, we have taken multiple steps to ensure that this doesn't come at the cost of biodiversity: 115 MW The 4 MW solar power project at Rajpura Dariba of Hindustan Zinc in the district of Rajsamand in Rajasthan. of Solar Energy in the short-term and scale up solar energy as a business arm in the years to come. In the The 12 MW project is the largest solar energy project ﬁrst phase, we have set up a 16 MW solar in the district of Udaipur (both the projects are energy project at an investment of INR 800 installed on waste land parcel, where no other activity million commissioned in March 2017. could be done). We focus on putting in place infrastructure for renewable energy BIODIVERSITY SDG15 Considering the number of sectors dependent on natural products, loss of biodiversity must be seen as an economic as well as an environmental loss. Being a responsible natural resources company, we actively follow the 'no-net-loss' principle and protect or rejuvenate the biodiversity. Protecting the biodiversity is an integral part of Vedanta's commitment to sustainable development. Our Biodiversity Management Programme is developed to avoid, minimise or compensate the loss of the biodiversity attributes resultant to the new project or the major expansion. We undertake Environmental Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) assessment for any new project or major expansion to help us understand the presence of critical biodiversity attributes in the proposed area of the project and develop biodiversity action plan to mitigate the impact of our operation on the same. Approach We have a dedicated 'Biodiversity Policy and Management Standard' in line with international A thorough search and rescue standards and guidelines of International Finance Corporation (IFC). It advises how disruption is VEDANTA RESOURCES IS EMP (Environmental Management Programme) and BMP (Biodiversity operation in mining footprint to be avoided, minimised and compensated for, from project scoping to site closure and beyond. A SIGNATORY TO THE INDIA Management Plan) are used to monitor and to guide the construction area, led to harvesting of Our policy, technical standard and approach to biodiversity management is aligned to IFC BUSINESS AND BIODIVERSITY phase, so that the Environmental footprint is minimised 10,810 plants. An additional standards and ICMM guidelines. Our businesses seek consultation from domain experts in INITIATIVE, A NATIONAL 59,257 and 17,959 plants were identifying biodiversity related business risk and management of the same. PLATFORM FOR BUSINESS Continuous harvesting is done in the current mining footprint area harvested in 2015 and 2016 None of our operations are located in world heritage sites. However, our Black Mountain Mine AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS respectively and signiﬁcant operations spread across approx. 38,000 ha in South Africa and Skorpion Zinc mine covering AROUND MAINSTREAMING The plant species will be used during the rehabilitation of the mine as it discoveries were made in the approx. 8,000 ha in Namibia are located in key biodiversity hotspot areas as identiﬁed by SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT demonstrates vast species from the Succulent Karoo Biodiversity Hotspot tailings facility Conservation International (CI). Both these operations are governed by robust Biodiversity OF BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY Management Plans which have been developed by regional biodiversity experts. INTO BUSINESS STRATEGY. 29 30 AIR QUALITY SDG12 WASTE Clean air is essential to maintaining the delicate balance of life on this planet not just for humans, but wildlife, vegetation, water and soil. At Waste generation for the natural resources industry is inevitable, but its irresponsible disposal is not. With the right mindset, technology and Vedanta, we are committed to identify and manage emissions to air from point sources and from process activities associated with combustion. innovation, there is a tremendous wealth generation opportunity, in addition to the elimination or minimisation of waste. As part of our ambient air quality monitoring process, we monitor Particulate Matter (PM), SOx and NOx. We also monitor lead emissions from our At Vedanta, two kinds of waste are generated hazardous and non-hazardous. The hazardous waste include used/spent oil, waste refractories, zinc operations, ﬂuoride emissions and Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) from our aluminium operations as per our Environmental aluminium dross, spent pot lining and residual sludge from smelters, while the non-hazardous (high volume, low effect) wastes we generate Management Standard. We do not record emission of ozone-depleting emissions as this is not a material issue to our operations. includes ﬂy ash (from captive and merchant power plants), jaroﬁx (from zinc smelting), slag, lime grit (process residues from smelters and aluminium reﬁneries) and phospho gypsum (phosphoric acid plant). Performance Approach Performance I N I T I AT I V E Our sustainability framework includes a Continuous and consistent efforts on waste STACK EMISSIONS in MT There was a 13.23% increase in SOx and Resource Use and Waste Management recycling are in progress, with special focus of 52.72% increase in particulate matter Technical Standard and supporting guidance senior management in tracking the waste SETTING THE Parameter FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 emissions due to 32.79% increase in notes. We follow the principle of ﬁrst reducing disposal rate in sustainable applications. STANDARDS FOR production in our Aluminium businesses. Particulate Matter 11,056 7,239 This year we have observed reduction in the waste, quantitatively as well as Much of our generated waste rock and TAILING RISK qualitatively (reducing the toxicity), and then overburden is utilised in secondary SOx 178,324 157,484 NOx emission because of the optimum performing the recovery and recycle (either construction work at the units. For example, in MANAGEMENT utlilisation of NOx burners installed at our ourselves or through authorised recyclers). raising tailing dam heights, and backﬁlling In pursuit of a systematic preventive NOx 44,935 49,464 power plants. The last stage is disposal in landﬁll or by mined out areas and exhausted mine pits. strategy, we undertook a preliminary incineration, using authorised, licenced and risk assessment for tailings dams and *There was a misprint last year in the values of NOx it was reported as 55,975 MT. HZL's state-of-the-art Central Research & The actual values are mentioned in the table secured landﬁlls. We aim to remain ash storage facilities across our Development Laboratory continues to environment-friendly across all the stages. business, which identiﬁed nine of explore how to recover more metals from We continue to maintain a keen eye on our air quality management outcomes, mining & smelting operations, esfﬁciently to potentially high risk facilities. through following steps: minimise waste. These nine facilities were subjected to a Good Management Practices (GMPs) and pollution control techniques like bag Our power plants run on coal which leads to WASTE TO VALUE detailed Tailings Risk Assessment from houses Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP) particulate and other emissions resulting INITIATIVE third party expert organisation. No from naturally occurring impurities in the critical risks were identiﬁed. Where gaps coal. We have deployed hybrid ESP for This is being cascaded across our businesses were highlighted, business commenced Controlling and monitoring stack emissions of particulate matter at most of our removal of particulate matter that also and is also actively pursued by our Chairman implementation of corrective actions, operations contributes to removal of other impurities Mr. Anil Agarwal in his town hall addresses. including further analysis in two cases to attached to the particulate matter. ensure communities in close proximity are not at risk. Dust minimising processes like bag ﬁlters, scrubbers and dry fog systems with The ﬂy ash, a by-product from the ESP, is reutilised in making cement bricks and For governance and ongoing water sprinklers are used while transporting extracted materials like bauxite, roads or is disposed of at authorised ash management, tailings related risks have coal, lime and alumina. Covered trucks with tarpaulin ensure no spillage or dust been elevated to group risk register ponds in accordance with the local generation regulatory requirements. and a tailings management workshop has been held for 40 employees across businesses. We have also developed Vedanta Tailing / Ash I N I T I AT I V E The total ﬂy ash utilisation increased to Storage Management Standard that is being implemented by all INNOVATION & PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS FOR ZERO EMISSIONS RDG, BARMER 53% in FY 2016-17 from 47% in the previous year. businesses. The Raageshwari Deep Gas (RDG) ﬁeld in Barmer Basin has excellent gas quality with low CO2 and no H2S. But hydraulic WASTE GENERATION in million MT fracturing treatment is required for the Business FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 recovery of oil and natural gas due to RDG's thinly laminated volcanic layer. High Volume & Low Effect Waste 16.57 11.90 During the reporting period, our Cairn Oil and Gas Business adopted improvement in Frac Design like propant density, tighter spacing, WE HAVE RECYCLED 51% OF OUR OVERALL HIGH Hazardous Waste 0.32 0.86 multiple fracs, and introduced VOLUME AND LOW EFFECT innovations like Addressable Switch HIGH VOLUME & LOW EFFECT WASTE MANAGEMENT in million MT WASTE IN SUSTAINABLE Firing System innovative methods to APPLICATIONS AND ARE Fly Ash Slag Red Mud Gypsum Jarosite Total achieve nearly zero emissions CONTINUING TO DEVELOP during well testing and clean-up Generated 11.72 1.66 1.62 1.09 0.46 16.57 NEW AND INNOVATIVE WAYS activities. TO INCREASE THE Recycled 6.20 0.98 0.13 1.0 0 8.38 This resulted in reduced operating PROPORTION OF WASTE cost by USD 0.96 million. Raageshwari Gas Terminal, Barmer, Rajasthan % 53 58 9 100 0 51 WE RECYCLE. 31 32 RESPONSIBLE I N I T I AT I V E COLLABORATING FOR SUSTAINABLE WASTE MANAGEMENT SOLUTION 360° PROJECT STEWARDSHIP KCM COPPER BUSINESS The Nkana Smelter Complex in Zambia was shut down in 2009. A project to dispose of the expired chemicals through neutralization and solidiﬁcation was initiated in September 2015 and completed in December 2016. As a result of this project, KCM Nkana is now compliant with the requirements for storage of hazardous waste prescribed in the Eighth Schedule of the Environmental Management (Licensing) Regulations of 2013. MANAGEMENT Striking a balance between economic growth and social well-being is intrinsic to the Indian entrepreneur. In India, business-driven social initiatives The treatment and disposal of the chemicals involved the following steps: The resulting mixture was scooped have existed since centuries, and have resulted in institutions and centres of excellence that have stood the test of time. This concern for holistic Seeking approval of Zambia Environmental Management (ZEMA) to conduct the with shovels and placed in 50kg bags growth and development is also ingrained in Vedanta's core values, in the form of Integrity, Respect and Care. disposal of the expired chemicals to dry. Dried material was transported to a safe site for disposal. Identiﬁcation of the site to neutralise and solidify chemicals. The selected site was bunded and concreted to contain any accidental spillages within the bund wall. A total of 1,389 kg powdered AT VEDANTA, IT IS OUR CONTINUING ENDEAVOUR TO MINIMISE ANY NEGATIVE IMPACT ON COMMUNITIES chemicals and 6,630 litre of liquid AND OUR PLANET THAT ARISES AS A RESULT OF OUR OPERATIONS. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IS AT Neutralising of chemicals by mixing them with lime. The neutralised material was chemicals were treated during this then mixed with sand and stone aggregates, before adding cement for THE CORE OF ALL OUR BUSINESS DECISIONS ACROSS EVERY STAGE OF ALL OUR PROJECTS. THE LIFECYCLE project. solidiﬁcation. Each chemical was treated separately. OF ALL OUR PROJECTS IS STRICTLY GOVERNED BY OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK. Our Sustainable Development Framework is aligned to international benchmarks such as ICMM and IFC and includes several standards requiring comprehensive impact assessment on environment, social, economic and regulatory fronts. The sustainability standards ensure continuous MANY ROADS TO PROSPERITY monitoring and due diligence appraisals in project management, new projects, potential acquisitions, and site closure. JHARSUGUDA ALUMINIUM BUSINESS The road to prosperity can be paved with materials that may seem of lesser value. In order to create greener solutions for infrastructure development, Vedanta made use of multiple 'wastes' to create 'wealth': NEW PROJECTS In August 2016, Vedanta Jharsuguda For us, a new project is not just a means of adding more value to the shareholders. It is a responsibility to add value to the host countries, their dedicated the ﬁrst 'Green Road' made biodiversity and the local communities. This helps us maintain the preferred social license to operate. Prior to developing new projects, we ROAD LENGTH using ﬂy ash. Around 30% of the cement undertake location speciﬁc needs assessment studies and analyse the project from its exploration stage to closure, to identify potential impacts content in the concrete was replaced by 2.3 km and the likely affected parties. ﬂy ash. This is the ﬁrst village road in the state of Odisha to be constructed using ﬂy ash as a prime component. It is also a 13,000 MT NEW PROJECTS BEGIN WITH STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS FLY ASH UTILISED successful example of industryEffective stakeholder engagement is key to successful project management. Every project has a To increase the efﬁciency of our engagement IN ITS CONSTRUCTION academic interface, as the road was systematic process laid down to examine the impending effects due to the variation in initiatives, we involve community leaders, designed by IIT, Bhubaneswar. demography, local culture, customs and methods of communication. We have standards which government representatives or other thirdimply to Free Prior Informed Consent from indigenous communities prior to the party mediators to enhance the reach and commencement of a project. We liaise with the local communities as early as possible in the results of our communications and foster project life cycle to identify the unique nature of these challenges, assess them and respond to greater transparency and trust between the any potential issues, conﬂicts or concerns. Company and communities. ASSESSING RISKS AT EVERY STAGE CASE STUDY Prevention is better than cure; and so is comprehensive risk assessment crucial in averting any biodiversity, transboundary/cumulative risks LISHEEN MINE CLOSURE, RESTORATION undesirable environmental or social impact. Risk screening makes our sustainability framework stronger; and mitigation strategies, more responsive and effective. Environmental and Social and overall sustainability impact. The ESIA helps identify the communities likely to get AND AFTERCARE MANAGEMENT PLAN Impact Assessments (ESIA) process is followed for all new projects, to help us ensure projects are properly de-risked, and successfully obtain and sustain their license to operate. affected early in the project cycle facilitating mitigation measures through mutually agreeable solutions. These assessments encompass the full scope of sustainability issues including resettlement, indigenous people (vulnerable groups), and signiﬁcant loss of cultural heritage, human rights, Mining activity at the Lisheen Mine in Ireland was concluded in November 2015, with milling ceasing in December 2015 after 17 years of operation. Focusing on physical closure of the mine and aftercare of the site, a best practice mine closure plan has been implemented to fully address regulatory authority permit requirements. The cessation of mining at Lisheen was not the end of the story, as the mine is now in an 'active closure' phase. The closure programme is SITES CURRENTLY UNDERGOING EXPANSION among the world's ﬁnest examples of environmentally sensitive mine closure and rehabilitation. Some socio-economic and environmental initiatives taken by the company to ensure well-being of the community and the environment. HINDUSTAN ZINC LIMITED AND VEDANTA ZINC INTERNATIONAL Rampura Agucha Mine | Rajasthan Sindesar Khurd | Rajasthan Zawar Group of Mines | Rajasthan Some of key focus areas of closure plan are: The world's largest Zinc mine HZL-Rampura It is a world-class underground mine with As part of the on-going expansion programme, Ensuring that the underground Blocking and sealing all access to Creating a space that will be Agucha is also the largest zinc producer in state-of-the-art infrastructure facilities and ore production capacity will be increased to 4 workings cannot collapse: the underground workings attractive to other industries India with a market share of 79.1%. The mine best-in-class mechanisation. As part of the mn MT per annum for which the HZL received Leading to surface subsidence has a current capacity of 1 million tonnes of on-going expansion programme, ore an environment clearance this year. Fully engineered covering of the Supporting Lisheen staff during Zinc-lead. An underground expansion production capacity at Sindesar Khurd Mine Removing all surface and tailings deposition facility to provide the closure, from up skilling and programme has been initiated to increase will be increased to 6.0mn MT per annum by Black Mountain Mining | South Africa underground plant and equipment multiple after uses from animal training grants to redeployment the production capacity to 1.2 million tonnes FY 2018-19. The Environmental Impact The shaft is going to be deepened post grazing to solar power or energy at other Vedanta operations per annum. Site exploration will be the Assessment is under progress and relevant risk assessments, increasing the Allowing the mine workings to crops primary focus tool for the expansion. Environment Clearance is expected by production to 1.6Mtpa of copper and lead ore reﬁll with clean water February 2018. and 60ktpa to 70ktpa of Metal-in-Concentrate (MIC). Expansion plans are also underway. 33 34 SITE CLOSURE Our commitment to the communities extends beyond the closure of the operations. A mine closure is in fact the beginning of a comprehensive and well-designed aftercare process that enriches not only the local communities but also the restoration of natural habitat and ecosystems. The mutually agreed solutions to the environmental and social risks identiﬁed through the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) at BUILDING STRONG the onset of every project also include the Site Closure Plans. Our Sustainable Development Framework includes a Site Closure Standard, which is continually aligned and updated to match the international good practices benchmark. THE AFTERCARE FOR A BETTER TOMORROW | LISHEEN MINES, IRELAND RELATIONSHIPS From its initial discovery in 1990 throughout its planning, construction, operation and now closure, Lisheen Mine has been a world-class operation, implementing the highest international standards throughout the entire Mine life cycle. The commitment of Lisheen went beyond the implementation of the physical closure of the site. The mine aftercare programme ensures that a comprehensive plan is in place. Lisheen Mines operations ceased in November 2015. In alignment with our sustainability standards we initiated the comprehensive Closure, Restoration and Aftercare Management Plan (CRAMP) and assigned a dedicated committee overseeing the implementation and progress of the mine closure plan. 2051 2021 Completion of aftercare 2016 Mine closure certiﬁcate; 30 years of aftercare 2015 (November) Re-watering of mine & commences general winding down of physical works Planned closure & cessation of production THE REPORTING YEAR WITNESSED SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN CLOSURE PROCEDURES AND HAS CURRENTLY COMPLETED 72% OF THE SAFE APPROVED MINE CLOSURE PLAN. A few milestones achieved are as under: All potentially hazardous materials have been removed from the underground working areas Re-watering of the mine which commenced on 31st December 2015 is ahead of schedule VEDANTA AND LISHEEN Stakeholder Engagement | Human Rights | Neighbourhood Dialogue and consequently, the groundwater level has increased from 200m below ground level to TOP MANAGEMENT HAVE 7m below ground level across the area that was impacted by dewatering A VISION BEYOND THE A good sustainability practice was initiated with the dismantling and re-erection of the CLOSURE OBJECTIVE concentrator building at a new purchaser site TO ESTABLISH A Maintaining and managing relationships is Areas that were at a risk of soil contamination are being stripped and the removed material “BIO-ECONOMY CAMPUS” – is being disposed of at the Tailings Management Facility A REPLACEMENT crucial to ensuring that we continue to drive All entrances to the underground workings have been permanently sealed through proper INDUSTRY THAT PROVIDES value for all stakeholders. and timely implementation of the capping programme REPLACEMENT JOBS AND SUSTAINABLE GROWTH. 74% of the Tailings management facility has been capped and rehabilitated to farmland pasture. The TMF will be fully rehabilitated by the end of 2017 We work hard to engage with our stakeholders, The outplacement programme for the employees has been successfully implemented where uphold the tenets of human rights and be regarded most of them have moved seamlessly into new jobs as a friendly neighbour for local communities. 35 36 BUILDING STRONG BUILDING STRONG STAKEHOLDER HUMAN RELATIONSHIPS RELATIONSHIPS ENGAGEMENT RIGHTS SDG16 Conversations on thoughts lead to convergence in action and outcomes. Constructive dialogue with an array of stakeholders not only helps our For us, upholding Human Rights is a fundamental responsibility, and it ranks high on our priority list. With majority of our operations in developing business to succeed, it also lets us foresee and manage relevant risks, opportunities and challenges. Our stakeholders groups can be segmented as: countries, we are aware of its importance and have thus made it a material aspect across all our business decisions. OUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY IS ALIGNED TO THE UNITED NATIONS GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS, AND INCLUDES STRICT PROHIBITION OF ANY FORM OF COERCED LABOUR EITHER DIRECTLY OR THROUGH CONTRACT LABOUR. Employees Shareholders Civil Industry (suppliers, Communities Governments Investors & Lenders Society customers & peers) Additionally, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (Code) ensures that we comply with all relevant national laws and regulations, thereby underpinning our approach to protect the fundamental rights of all our direct and indirect employees, communities and immediate supply chain. Just as our stakeholders are diverse, our modes of engagement too are multifarious. Information disclosures to participatory sessions, feedback forms to one-to-one discussions, satisfaction surveys to performance scorecards, top-management discourse to public hearings we deploy a host of engagement channels depending on the need and nature of a stakeholder. Strategic Communications, the fourth pillar of our sustainable development model, is testament to our continued focus on maintaining transparent channels of communications with our stakeholders. SDG17 Stakeholder Engagement Strategy We have created a ﬁve-point roadmap for an impactful stakeholder engagement. Direct & Indirect Workforce Ask Answer Analyse Align Act We maintain a cordial and constructive relation with all employees and labour unions. There is zero room for human rights violations at our Our dialogue begins We disclose We have established a We work hand-in-hand with There is no operations and any case of non-compliance is severely dealt with. We have robust mechanisms like employee grievance processes, collective with questions that because we want to robust investigation process stakeholders like governments, strongerproof of bargaining and contract labour management cells at all our operations. solicit feedback. Our be heard and for complaints reported via communities, industry bodies and commitment to the stakeholders have because we are the Whistleblowing NGOs; to align our goals and cause than access to a number responsible. Equal Mechanism and actions with high priority areas of demonstrable action. of platforms to reach attention is laid on Sustainability ID with senior the nations. The feedback of all We back our words out to Vedanta providing a management and other engagements becomes part of our with acts that move personnel and voice constructive function personnel. materiality identiﬁcation exercise. the needle towards concerns. response. promised outcomes. Over and above our stakeholders, we also regularly engage with sustainability analysts to benchmark our performance with peers. Responding to Stakeholder Concerns The impact of engagement gets diluted, when the response gets delayed. Our stakeholder response system is managed directly by the Group Sustainability team and its Head to ensure timely responses and appropriate interventions. A dedicated public email address – sustainability@vedanta.co.in is our one-point contact for all grievances and queries regarding the Vedanta Group and its Companies. Additionally, all emails and correspondence pertaining to our sustainable development initiatives, received by corporate functions like Corporate Communications and Investor Relations teams, are being forwarded to the sustainability team. The feedback received through our website is also recorded to analyse and review our stakeholder engagement performance. We also proactively meet with key stakeholder groups including civil society organisations, media and industry associations, to increase awareness about our business, explain our point of view and answer queries. In-house journals and newsletters, such as Zinc News and Yagna, are published to engage with employees, our wider industry, communities as well as host governments. All the issues, feedback points and grievances raised are recorded, and contribute to our continual monitoring of stakeholders' interests. Ultimately, they become part of stakeholders' feedback in our materiality identiﬁcation exercise. Our workforce at Mangala Processing Terminal, Barmer, Rajasthan 37 38 Collective Bargaining Supplier MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 We uphold our workers' right to freedom of association at all our operations. The collective bargaining agreements are negotiated and agreed by the management and union Diligence The UK Parliament constituted the High and High Risk categories w.r.t. MSA compliance. Commercial processes and representatives. The agreements include clauses relating to remuneration, allowances, working Modern Slavery Act (MSA) to tackle the compliance. Out of these 145, we terminated procedures of vendor selection and We encourage suppliers to adopt principles issues of slavery and human trafﬁcking. our association with 17 suppliers with engagement will be reviewed going conditions, incentives and bonuses, health and safety, manpower productivity, etc. We aim to and practices comparable to our own. The law helps to enhance investor, immediate effect. forward in view of ﬁndings of the audit to ensure that compensation for workers meets or exceeds the legal requirements. Our signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors employee and consumer conﬁdence resolve systemic issues. Collective bargaining also gives us the opportunity to create a better and more productive work generally include well-reputed and wellOf the remaining 128 suppliers, 117 were and trust in an organisation by building environment in terms of health and safety, working conditions, remuneration, allowances, governed organisations, with robust human identiﬁed for audit in the audit cycle of the a foundation of strong ethical standards. incentives and bonuses. rights and fair practice mechanisms. We current ﬁnancial year. They were subjected to Last year, we had proposed a number an independent MSA audit by M/s PwC. Under the current framework continue to ensure due diligence by of steps through which we are The site visit for the audit team involved implementation, we have put in place conducting inductions, screenings, WE HAVE A COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MECHANISM AT OUR VARIOUS incorporating the Modern Slavery Act initial awareness sessions for relevant people a system for training of vendors/ inspections and audits on a case to case OPERATIONS AND THE PERCENTAGE OF WORKFORCE COVERED BY THE basis. Any concerns raised by interested 2015 in our operations. Implementation on key MSA provisions, veriﬁcation of suppliers, due diligence, and MECHANISM INCLUDE: parties on any of our key suppliers is of the compliance framework for MSA documents/records, and interviews. self-declaration. promptly addressed by undertaking an has been a prime focus area for our Audit ﬁndings are shared with commercial Our Supplier Code of Conduct and independent assessment. sustainability committee this reporting departments of individual businesses which Contract Conditions was also Zinc Sesa period. HZL International Iron Ore The Suppliers' Code of Conduct is are directed to incorporate recommended updated with a provision on KCM implemented as part of the terms and Based on our assessment, we identiﬁed changes and handhold vendors to meet compliance to MSA. 47% 79% 86% 68% conditions of supplier contracts across the Group and all new suppliers are required to sign, endorse, and practice this Code. close to 145 suppliers under the Very At Vedanta, we have a Supplier & Contractor Sustainability Management Policy. Both the CMT BMM Skorpion BALCO Code as well as the Policy clearly communicate our expectations from our 36% 86% 79% 57% suppliers: to operate in compliance with all relevant legislations and follow our policies while executing work for or on behalf of Vedanta. Local Communities The Supplier and Contractor We operate in diverse geographies and our groups, indigenous peoples, and vulnerable expressed invitation and Free Prior Informed Technical Standard further includes respect for the norms, culture, and heritage of tribal groups. To safeguard their rights, we Consent (FPIC) of local communities. Bauxite a Supplier Screening Checklist to local communities remains strong as ever. We follow the principle of Good Faith is abundantly available in other parts of evaluate contractor compliance have developed a number of standards and Negotiation (GFN), Informed Consultation Odisha and we continue our engagement relating to key issues e.g. legal abide by them. and Participation (ICP) and/or Free, Prior and with the State Government to secure Informed Consent (FPIC). alternative supplies to support the rampingcompliance, HSE management, This includes the Cultural Heritage Standard, up of our Lanjigarh Reﬁnery. labour management, human rights Land & Resettlement Management Standard, and child labour. and Indigenous People and Vulnerable Tribal Groups Standard that have been developed in This checklist is used by operations to screen suppliers and contractors as part alignment with international practices including ICMM guidelines and IFC standards. Land Security of a prequaliﬁcation process prior to awarding work. Acquisition and Practices At the time of engaging new suppliers, the contract mandates the supplier to abide by Resettlement We have Code of Conduct policy in place which educates our employees on Human the law of land and ensure that there is no Prior to 2010, to secure long-term bauxite Rights aspects. This year we provided 375,373 violation of labour laws. In addition, checks at various levels are also carried out to Indigenous supply for our Lanjigarh Alumina Reﬁnery, we man-hours of employee training on various had signed a Memorandum of Understanding programmes on Code of Conduct & Human Our employees are our best brand ambassadors ensure the adherence to labour practices. Peoples and (MoU) with the Government of Odisha, India. As part of this MoU, the Government of Rights. The employees who received this training range from our on-site security guards For locations that do not have collective bargaining agreements, we have adequate systems and processes in place for employee consultation, appraisal, grievance redressal and development. Vulnerable Odisha agreed that the Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC) a government-owned to our transport workforce, wherein we have previously identiﬁed some risks of child labour. We also have a mechanism to make the employees aware of any signiﬁcant operational changes like restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, expansions, etc. Notiﬁcation periods for signiﬁcant Tribal Groups enterprise, would provide 150 million tonnes of bauxite for our processing facility. The We emphasise that none of our operational operational changes are indicated in collective bargaining agreements and certiﬁed standing procedures violate the human rights of any Supreme Court of India approved this bauxite orders of respective entities. For example, in India the notiﬁcation period is 21 days, 30 days for Namibia and South Africa, while in Zambia the minimum notice period is one year. (IPs/VTGs) mining project in 2008. individual. Based on our curriculum and the module that is being followed by all Vedanta However, the Ministry of Environment and units, we have been laying a tremendous The Group's standards and guidance note Forest (MoEF) subsequently declined the stress on human rights training of on IPs & VTGs were rolled out to support the request for ﬁnal clearance, following security personnel. implementation of our Human Rights Policy. Ensuring Right Age for AT STERLITE COPPER, WE The core aim of the standard is to enable our concerns voiced by local communities, including several tribal villages (IPs) near The total coverage in terms of training is 78.9% with regard to contractors and regular USE A FOOL-PROOF the Right Job RADIOLOGICAL AGE project teams to engage, negotiate, and partner with the vulnerable groups in a Niyamgiri. Consequently, OMC could not commence mining. employees. It is worth noting that across the Group, we generally work with private and manner that avoids negative impacts and At Vedanta, we take utmost care to ensure that our workforce, be it executives or contract labour IDENTIFICATION PROCESS In accordance with the Company values, we professional security companies (rather than risks for all stakeholders, especially the are adults and willing to work. We have proper systems in place to strictly address child labour responded with numerous public local security forces or military). Our security TO ASSESS CHILD LABOUR indigenous peoples and vulnerable tribes. and coerced labour across all our operations. Apart from this, we carry out periodic inspections communications reassuring the affected personnel are not typically armed and we have at our remote mine locations, where proof of age is mandatory for all contract workers. Our VIOLATIONS. Our standards provide special provisions for communities that we would not consider not experienced signiﬁcant human rights Suppliers' Code of Conduct stipulates that all our suppliers also commit to the same norms. stakeholder engagement with marginalised bauxite mining at Niyamgiri without abuses involving our security personnel. 39 40 BUILDING STRONG NEIGHBOURHOOD Community Needs Assessment RELATIONSHIPS DIALOGUE partnership with government and nonBased on the results of the assessment, we government organisations active in remote zeroed-in on pivotal needs of the regions of India. This exercise was done to communities and are spearheading projects help us create medium and long-term to address the same. For example, in development plans in participation with our locations where we cannot provide stakeholders and covered communities employment, we are exploring vocational adjacent to our sites. training (for example, in brick manufacturing), entrepreneurship options OUR APPROACH TOWARDS BUILDING A NEIGHBOURHOOD DIALOGUE IS BASED ON Each community group (including women (focussing on women), and other and marginalised individuals) had the DISCLOSURE OF RELEVANT PROJECT INFORMATION, CONSULTATION AND PARTICIPATION OF employability routes. opportunity to freely voice their opinions ALL AFFECTED COMMUNITIES, ARRIVING AT MUTUALLY ACCEPTABLE SOLUTIONS, AND without fear. One of the main concerns that Our ambitious Nand Ghar project has came to the fore was related to livelihoods been designed such that in addition to ADDRESSING MATERIAL CONCERN TO STAKEHOLDERS, INCLUDING AFFECTED COMMUNITIES. (in terms of either employment or supplier providing pre-primary education to children, opportunities with Vedanta). its infrastructure can be used to train Understanding community needs and villagers and enhance the income This valuable feedback saw many of our expectations is an intricate process, but is generation in rural India. businesses develop vocational training imperative for our operations. projects. As on date, all of our subsidiaries For details, refer to Community section Two years ago, we completed our most and divisions have completed the study or on page 53. comprehensive, structured, and collaborative are in the process of completion and the rest community engagement to date, in have committed to work on it. Community Grievance Mechanism Grievances, if unaddressed can escalate into At Group level, we have a dedicated An online feedback form is also available signiﬁcant issues or disputes, which may have email address – in the Sustainable Development section the potential to disrupt operations as well. of our website. Similar mechanisms are sustainability@vedanta.co.in, for all communicated as part of our annual In accordance with our Grievance external grievances. Sustainable Development Report Mechanism standard, the concerned All community incidents (social and labour) allowing reviewers to submit their department addresses any grievances and grievances are recorded and comments and feedback with respect to wherever possible. We also have a categorised as the report. mechanism wherein unresolved grievances are escalated to senior management for their All issues, feedback points and grievances perusal and decision-making. We continually negligible (1) minor (2) raised are recorded and contribute to our improve our grievance redressal process to moderate (3) serious (4) continual monitoring and understanding align with international good practices to of stakeholder interests and advise our guarantee timely and appropriate resolution or disastrous (5). materiality review. of grievances. How We Performed We are committed to empower local communities in our areas of operations Out of all the registered grievances, we 1,059 The Environmental and Social Impact changes in the risk proﬁle of our operations The core aim of the standard is to enable our A total of didn't observe any signiﬁcant incident Assessments (ESIA) conducted for all new and sustain our positive relationship with teams to engage, negotiate and partner with related to violation of human rights. projects help in early identiﬁcation of communities. Our Cultural Heritage Land IPs/VTGs to avert negative impacts and risks potentially affected communities in the Acquisition and Resettlement Standards for all stakeholders while establishing new community grievances Further no category 4 labour incidents were project development stage. Our community include consideration of Indigenous People, projects. were recorded across our businesses, of which recorded in FY 2016-17, although lower-level relations team connects with identiﬁed and have been developed to reﬂect relevant incidents such as village road blockages communities to assess and manage environmental and social risks, and arrive at mutually acceptable solutions. ICMM guidance (including ICMM Guidance Document: 'Indigenous Peoples and Mining') and IFC Performance Standards. The standard helps to identify the unique characteristics and expectations of each group in the neighbourhood resulting in the 1,017 were actionable and were resolved in a and strikes were recorded, particularly related to employment and contractor issues, infrastructure projects and some creation of economic and social operational issues including land and trafﬁc We established a Guidance Note addressing During the operational phase, these teams development opportunities. We rolled out timely manner. management. Indigenous Peoples/Vulnerable Tribal undertake ongoing consultation with the IPs/VTGs standard along with an Groups (IPs/VTGs) to help operations interested and affected parties to manage international consultancy to implement trainunderstand these standards. the-trainer training for key staff members. 41 42 ADDING AND ADDING AND ECONOMIC SHARING VALUE SHARING VALUE RESPONSIBILITY We are in the business of producing commodities and supplying energy that impact lives and economies by serving for the essentials of creating infrastructure, like need for transportation and power, and also providing for the material requirements of manufacturing consumer goods. We are also excellently located: Vedanta operates primarily in India and Africa, countries that are endowed with an abundant supply of natural resources, and have growing economies waiting to leverage their potential. With a business model of growth, constant value creation and improved operations, our vision is focussed towards building the wealth of our shareholders in a sustainable manner while minimising the effect of our operations on the environment, and maximising the beneﬁts for the local communities. We have trifurcated our approach to value creation. Add value to the countries' Enhance value to our assets by Seed value across the workforce and the exchequer by unlocking their innovative and advanced processes community through extensive training, and longnatural resources and paying taxes that help us be more productive term projects and programmes that accelerate & royalties for our operations and competitive development and ensure equitable growth ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED (ECG&D) in US$ 11.5 bn Revenue 591.1 mn Employee Wages and Beneﬁts 8,842 mn Operating Costs 901.8 mn Payment to Providers of Capital 779 mn Payment to Government (Income Tax) 17.63 mn Community Investments 480 mn Economic Value Retained Total Full Time Payment to CSR Direct Employees Exchequer Investment (By Business) in Nos. in US$ mn (By Business) in US$ mn 1,763 84 Economic Responsibility | Employees | Community 161 992 0.15 24 4.87 335 4,556 7.6 1,982 What we earn must be returned 1,614 25,035 2,928 6,000 17.63 for the greater good of society. 19 1.98 5,684 297 0.70 Pledging 75% of wealth to social good. 1,196 112 1,783 0.99 0.80 716 6,798 0.54 Zinc India Zinc International Iron Ore Zinc India Zinc International Copper India Zinc India Zinc International Iron Ore Copper India & Australia Copper Zambia Copper International Oil & Gas Copper India & Australia Copper Zambia Aluminium Power Oil & Gas Others Aluminium Iron Ore Dividend Others Aluminium Power Oil & Gas 43 44 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE We saw a better environment for our business in FY 2016-17. The sector beneﬁted from a Employees combination of positive global economic activity, coupled with a progressive tightness of REVENUE EBITDA With over 70,000 employees, Vedanta is not only a natural resources company but also a human commodity supply. Moreover, the commodities that performed best globally zinc and oil, are also the ones in which we are strong. This meant that Vedanta's own basket of commodities outperformed the sector generally. 7% 37% resources company. FOR VEDANTA, FINANCIAL RETURNS ALONE ARE NOT THE MARK OF A GOOD At Vedanta, we complemented the beneﬁts of better market conditions by maintaining tight BUSINESS, WE ALSO CARE PASSIONATELY ABOUT THE WELL-BEING OF OUR ﬁnancial discipline. Our savings programme continued to drive down costs intelligently and 12,879.0 12,945.0 EMPLOYEES. WE INVEST IN THEM BY INTRODUCING FUTURE-LOOKING POLICIES safely, through enhanced plant productivity and material efﬁciency. 11,520.1 10,738.0 AND INNOVATIVE PROGRAMMES FOR THEIR ALL-ROUND PROFESSIONAL 4,491.0 3,191.1 3,741.0 WE DELIVERED A STRONG SET OF RESULTS THIS YEAR AND TOOK IMPORTANT STEPS DEVELOPMENT AND PERSONAL WELL-BEING. 2,336.4 TOWARDS ACHIEVING OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES. WE REACHED RECORD PRODUCTION LEVELS ACROSS SEVERAL OF OUR BUSINESSES LIKE ALUMINIUM, POWER, ZINC-INDIA We provide them best of the remuneration and beneﬁts in the industry, and uphold merit in (ZINC AND SILVER) AND COPPER INDIA AND I AM CONFIDENT OF hiring as well as career progression. To nurture this talent and motivate them, we provide ample CONTINUED SUCCESSFUL RAMP-UPS FROM OUR WORLD-CLASS ASSETS. 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 scope for personal and professional development, and maintain a conducive work environment. ANIL AGARWAL | CHAIRMAN, VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC in US$ mn Revenue EBITDA Here is a snapshot of our economic performance across the stakeholder spectrum. Dividend Industry, Shareholders & Vedanta businesses have regularly and consistently announced dividends as it gives a Supply Chain Lenders powerful message to shareholders on prospects and performance of the organisation. & Customers Society With a strong operational performance and a We believe in the philosophy of working and Against a target of US$1.2 billion savings supportive market environment, we delivered Constructive, lasting relationships are built growing with our investors. We recently in 4 years set in FY 2015-16, we delivered encouraging numbers for FY 2016-17. on the values of trust and good will. To continue maintaining a cordial relationship announced a new dividend policy at Vedanta Limited and earlier in the year at Zinc India. US$800 million In March 2017, Hindustan Zinc Limited announced dividend of US$2.1 billion with the community and the wider society, saving in 2 years. we regularly evaluate our impact on the host including dividend distribution tax. communities, understand community Together with its golden jubilee dividend expectations from us and ﬁnd means to meet paid in April 2016 and the interim these expectations. DURING FY 2017, WE DELIVERED ON THE MERGER OF CAIRN INDIA dividend paid in October 2016, this is the We have been focusing on children's wellLTD. (CAIRN INDIA) AND VEDANTA LIMITED, SIMPLIFYING THE GROUP largest dividend outﬂow by any company being and education through our STRUCTURE. THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT STEP FORWARD TOWARDS in India in single ﬁnancial year. programmes such as Nand Ghar, women ACHIEVING OUR STATED LONG-TERM VISION OF ALIGNMENT OF empowerment with the help of Subhalaxmi INTERESTS BETWEEN ALL SHAREHOLDERS FOR THE CREATION OF Vedanta Limited announced a dividend of and Sakhi projects, health through LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE VALUE. US$1.0 billion, of which US$500 million construction of hospitals and conducting was received by Vedanta Resources Plc Mining companies that effectively manage supply chain signiﬁcantly improve their proﬁtability, mobile health camps, skill enhancement productivity and product quality. At Vedanta, where supply chain management affects both, through vocational courses, and farming and upstream and downstream, supply chain management is a material issue which directly impacts animal husbandry through various projects. our business. Managing it therefore is important not only from the risk point of view but also as an opportunity to demonstrate our commitment to the communities where we operate. Social investment Government VEDANTA'S OPERATIONS ARE IN SOME OF THE MOST REMOTE US$ 17.63 million GEOGRAPHIES OF THE WORLD. WE ENGAGE WITH OUR SUPPLIERS TO MAKE THEM UNDERSTAND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS By contributing to the exchequer and the national economy, creating and supporting direct and indirect employment, and by purchasing goods and services, we have developed and maintained a productive and long-lasting relationship with governments across every country we operate in. ENVIRONMENT, SAFETY AND HUMAN RIGHTS AND SUPPORT 2.2 million THEM IN COMPLYING WITH THE INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS. beneﬁciaries We have not received any direct ﬁnancial assistance from governments during the reporting year, although as part of various direct tax holidays and similar exemptions, Vedanta did beneﬁt by Tax TO STRENGTHEN OUR RELATIONSHIP, WE SOURCE FROM THE US$204.8 mn during FY 2016-17. Transparency LOCAL SUPPLIERS WHICH BENEFITS LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND 217,000 GOVERNMENTS, CONTRIBUTES TO THE LOCAL ECONOMY AND villagers beneﬁted through Transparency is the key to long-term REDUCES CARBON FOOTPRINT. safe water & sanitation initiatives IN FY 2016-17, WE CONTRIBUTED US$6 BN TO THE EXCHEQUER sustainability and Vedanta ﬁrmly believes in it. COMPARED TO US$3.2 BN IN FY 2015-16 THROUGH DIRECT AND Irrespective of our country of operations, we Local sourcing further helps in improving the skills of the suppliers and improvement in the local INDIRECT TAXES, LEVIES, ROYALTIES AND DIVIDEND. remain transparent and open in our tax affairs. infrastructure. We have an established Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier and Contractor 124 We brought out our ﬁrst Tax Transparency toilets constructed Management Policies, Supplier Screening Checklist that encourage business partners and Report (TTR) in 2015-16. The TTR contains all in13 villages suppliers to adopt principles and practices comparable to our own. In accordance with the UK Bribery Act, it is a Vedanta Board policy that neither the Group nor its the details of the contributions we made to subsidiaries will make donations or contributions to political parties within the United Kingdom the public ﬁnances in the countries of our The Supplier Screening Checklist, which is used by our operations to screen and evaluate or European Union. In India, political donations or contributions made within the context of operations. In 2016-17, we also plan to contractor compliance includes key aspects on legal compliance, HSE management, labour legitimate business operations are made only with the approval of the Board. Last year, no publish TTR on our website to maintain To read more about our community initiatives, management, human rights and child labour. This checklist is used by operations to screen please refer to the Community section on page 54. political donation was made by any of our businesses. accountability towards our stakeholders. suppliers and contractors as part of a prequaliﬁcation process prior to awarding work. 45 46 ADDING AND Customers SHARING VALUE Vedanta is one of the major producers and marketers of the commodities across the world. We No cases of non-compliance with relevant understand customer's expectations and provide them with quality products they require in a safe and efﬁcient manner. To complement the quality products, we use advanced technology that ensures transparency, ease of access and value addition to suppliers. Our SAP supplier portal is highly efﬁcient and regulations, anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, monopoly and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of our products and services were observed or EMPLOYEES secure method of communication between purchasing organisations and vendors. It also reported. VEDANTA LIMITED RECOGNISED AS ONE OF THE allows customers to send requests for quotations, vendor bidding and online auctions. Similarly, no signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non'TOP COMPANIES TO WORK FOR IN ASIA' IN 2016 BY ACES compliance with laws and regulations Our products meet the required London Metal Exchange (LME) standards before entering the concerning the provision and use of commodity market. We continue to engage with our customers through pre-deﬁned mediums products and services were reported. and channels to understand and meet their requirements. We also evaluate customer satisfaction through third party surveys. All these activities are centred around meeting customer's need in an appropriate manner. Focus Area Exploring technology for better exploration DURING THE YEAR, WE INITIATED A Technology is changing the natural resources sector in a major way. It has not only increased operational efﬁciency and productivity, but also led to better safety of individuals working in US$30 million the sector. INVESTMENT FUND FOR IN-HOUSE At Vedanta, technology is being considered as one of the answers for major challenges such as R&D, SUPPORTING OUR WEALTH OF sustained competitiveness and productivity, innovation across existing operations and exploration KNOWLEDGE AND SPIRIT OF sites, and capital management. INNOVATION WITH MEANINGFUL RESOURCES Here is a snapshot of some of the technologies we have adopted: High speed drilling surface & underground Motorised directional drilling and 'leg' holes The workforce at Hindustan Zinc 3D modelling software to view drilling data Being a natural resources organisation, Their depth of knowledge helps us dig We invest in our employees across every Data collection direct to digital human capital is at the core of our business. deeper and their ambition takes us higher. stage of their career, right from induction Our employees are key to our success and We, on our part, introduce and enforce and on boarding, to training and honing Deeper penetration through geophysical surveys sustainability. Their safety and well-being is future-looking policies and innovative their leadership skills. This not only helps us our prime responsibility. Above 70,000 programmes to aid all-round professional leverage the power of a dynamic talent pool, Multi-element geochemical analysis workforce across the world is not only our development and personal well-being of but also enables engagement and enhances hands and brain, but also our heart and soul. our employees. motivates employees to aspire for more. Going forward, we plan to focus on technologies such as 'Big Data' analysis & modelling, Corescanning and Drone geophysics to open new avenues to more efﬁcient exploration. Launched V-Connect, Organised internal Innovation platform Eureka a landmark engagement growth workshops for initiative covering We are also actively incentivising our people to contribute their own ideas. One example is Eureka, our new digital platform to nurture and incubate house innovation and technology, which is currently being embedded throughout the business. professional population of about 1,200 high performers to create 12,000 It encourages our employees to come up with innovative ideas focusing on using technology to support mining in a sustainable way by reducing waste and improving energy efﬁciency. leadership pipeline employees TO DATE, AROUND 1,000 ideas HAVE BEEN SUBMITTED AND 200 Hired around The percentage of number Total training hours provided this year for all employees of security personnel having 2,200 HAVE BEEN SELECTED FOR IMPLEMENTATION, AND received training in the and for all reported WILL BE ROLLED OUT organisation's policies for employment category is ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS. employees across the human rights and their Vedanta Group across levels which includes application to security is 1.33 million maximum campus hires. 98.39% for the reported period. man hours. 47 48 SDG2, SDG10 OUR PRIORITIES I N I T I AT I V E ACHIEVING Talent Management GROWTH & Development AMBITIONS WITH Organisational I N I T I AT I V E THE RIGHT At Vedanta, we encourage employee development by providing enriching roles through job rotation, mentoring, coaching and career development opportunities. Over the years, we have MANPOWER deployed a range of talent management programmes and training initiatives and these have Growth ENGAGING WITH THE PEOPLE POWERED PLANT evolved over time and have helped us to remain at the top of our game. GLOBAL TALENT During the year, we organised Internal Growth Workshops across the businesses to identify, While natural resources companies globally have gone through a cycle of downturn, leading to To keep pace with the growing global develop and promote 'New Leaders' both in 'Technical' and 'Enabling' core functions. Our seniormuted hiring in the sector in the recent past, we continued to attract global talent during this time. demand for Aluminium, Vedanta Ltd. set most management team anchored the initiative, where the new leaders were identiﬁed through a During the reporting period, Vedanta up two aluminium smelting plants at structured process. The identiﬁed leaders were then given accelerated growth opportunities by Limited launched its 'Global Internship Jharsuguda, Odisha. The expansion of way of transformational roles for delivering business goals. Programme' (GIP). Through this the 1.25 mtpa smelter plant-2 was pivotal WE BELIEVE THAT FOR ORGANISATIONS TO GROW SUSTAINABLY, programme the idea is to bring on to this growth strategy. But while the board professionals who are currently EMPLOYEE TRAINING man-hours Areas of emphasis: IT IS IMPORTANT THAT ITS PEOPLE GROW PERSONALLY AND plant and the required resources were in undergoing courses in Ivy League place, we needed quality manpower to Full Time Contract PROFESSIONALLY. AT VEDANTA, OUR EMPLOYEE-CENTRIC colleges and who can share fresh DIVERSITY & HUMAN RESOURCE POLICIES NURTURE CULTURE THAT FOSTERS perspectives on business, and in the process beneﬁt from the mentorship operate it as per the Vedanta quality standards. Finding the right talent is vital Employees Male Female Employees Male Female 1 FUTURE LEADERSHIP 2 INCLUSION ENTREPRENEURSHIP, INNOVATION, CREATIVITY, RESPONSIBILITY for any natural resource industry to by leaders, on live projects. 536,837 82,923 712,255 14,499 implement the task, contribute to our AND DIVERSITY. proﬁt as well as beneﬁt themselves. Taking this challenge head on, the HR VEDANTA'S GIP ENGAGES Focus Area: Future Leadership Our operations are spread across four their race, nationality, religion, gender or age. team at Jharsuguda devised a WITH PRESTIGIOUS continents and eight countries. At all these Most of our operations are in remote and comprehensive recruitment process: Internal Growth Workshops locations, we ensure that the ratio of entry lesser privileged areas and for our operations, INSTITUTIONS LIKE Talent Attraction The team Vedanta attracts the best talent given its core strengths of high quality performance, governance level wages meets or exceeds the legal we focus on recruiting the local population. HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL, conducted recruitment drives and and value-based architecture. The challenge is to develop and groom this talent to become requirements and complies with all applicable laws. With regards to gender, the ratio is 1:1 A signiﬁcant percentage of the senior WHARTON SCHOOL AND engaged with students across highly competent professionals capable of taking up leadership roles in the organisation. We management and our employees are college campuses in India to ensure believe that the dynamism, agility and passion of our professionals will take us into the next and we don't discriminate in any way in terms THE LONDON BUSINESS recruited from the country in which our a skilled and vibrant workforce growth orbit. This led to the inception of Internal Growth Workshops. of standard entry level wages. SCHOOL, ALONG WITH operations are located. Robust Induction The internal Promoting internal talent to leadership roles has been in the DNA of the Vedanta Group since We are committed to provide equal OTHER HIGH RANKED Learning & Development team long and has been key to our rapid growth. During the reporting period, Chairman of Vedanta opportunity to our employees irrespective of INSTITUTIONS. designed a robust induction Limited, Mr. Navin Agarwal gave this process a shot in the arm by institutionalising a structured programme covering topics of process to identify, nurture and deploy young talent across hierarchies. Safety, Operations, HR, IT, Finance, In this programme, during the year, Excellence & Innovation initiatives Objectives of Internal Growth Workshops ten dynamic and diverse students from for better and faster assimilation in Total percentage of locally hired Senior Management Personnel Identifying young leaders Developing highly Providing growth London Business School were inducted. the organisation. through a structured process competent leaders & recognition The GIP is designed for high achievers Buddy Programme All the new to apply their academic knowledge, recruits were provided with a 'buddy' who would informally guide In each of these workshops there is a panel comprising senior executives from businesses and INDIA analysis and business acumen to some functions, which evaluates the talent and identifies suitable opportunities and leadership roles SOUTH NAMIBIA 93 AUSTRALIA of the most challenging projects in a and support them for the ﬁrst year. within the organisation. AFRICA 100 100 ZAMBIA real-life environment. The interns are provided mentorship throughout the Engagement In addition to recruiting 67 78 internship and their progress the right talent, it is important to keep them enthused. Several Internal Growth Workshops: monitored. employee engagement activities; 1,200 300 20% ranging from a welcome party, talent high performers new leaders including women professionals The ﬁrst batch of students commenced covered in over technical and enabling selected for higher their projects in June 2016 in the competitions, sports tournaments 50 workshops functions across Vedanta responsibilities duration ranging from 6 to 12 weeks. and cultural events to a platform for Every project had well-deﬁned interaction with senior management deliverables, targeted outcomes and was introduced. learning opportunities outlined. Focus Area: Diversity & Inclusion WITHIN A SHORT SPAN OF Women-friendly Policies TIME THE HR TEAM AT We believe in collaboration of perspectives the top companies to work for. Our support We invest signiﬁcantly in developing and retaining key talent JHARSUGUDA HAS BEEN ABLE and ideas of diverse individuals that can result for gender parity has been reiterated by to drive innovation and efﬁciency within the business. in superior outcomes for the organisation. We becoming a signatory of the 'CEO Statement TO SOURCE A TALENT POOL OF are ever committed to have a diverse of Support' for the United Nations' Women's ABOUT 800 EMPLOYEES AND workforce and groom our employees to take Empowerment Principles (WEP) ‘Equality ATTRITION RATE FY 2016-17 5.34% THROUGH FOCUSSED EFFORTS HAS ENSURED THAT THE REQUIRED MANPOWER IS up leadership roles. The Company's Board has 13% representation of women and has set out a target to reach to 33% by year 2020. Means Business' THERE TO ACHIEVE THE Our progressive women-friendly policies in the areas of internal growth opportunities, 9.4% This year, our HR teams across group companies initiated various programmes that included STATED BUSINESS GOALS. leadership development, engagement, FULL-TIME FEMALE benchmarking processes and policies. We aspire to imbibe best-in-class practices to become a women-networking forums and enhanced EMPLOYEES 'great workplace' that attracts and retains talent. (FY 2015-16: 9.4%) parental leave policy have made us the one of 49 50 In the reporting year, various Vedanta business launched unique initiatives to help women connect with other women in the organisation to share their experiences, advice and insights. I N I T I AT I V E S LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY VIRTUAL CONNECT SESSIONS During the year, Vedanta Resources Chairman Mr. Anil Agarwal interacted with more than 5,000 employees across 30 locations 5 countries Mr. Navin Agarwal, Chairman Vedanta Limited addressing employees during a town hall With a dispersed workforce, like ours, it is important that employees across the organization understand the larger picture and how they can contribute towards achieving the organisational goals. This year we organized virtual town hall meetings to share the business priorities and facilitate a two-way dialogue. Town hall has also enabled various seamless live sessions between Vedanta Senior Executives and its Networking Forums Parental Leave Policy employees using Personal Computers, laptops and mobile devices from any location through Webcast. We have various networking forums at our Settling at work, post maternity leave is challenging and often becomes a reason for high women business locations. This year, our Iron Ore attrition rate across industries. Considering this, a new parental leave policy was launched by Business launched 'Tarang', a developmental Vedanta that ensures smooth transition. V-CONNECT PROGRAMME initiative for women professionals across The progressive and proactively introduced parental leave policy provides paid maternity leave for functions including Geology, Civil, Mining, V-Connect is a programme that connects our Talent (high performers) with 'Anchors' 26 weeks, adoption leave of 12 weeks and paternity leave of 1 week. For returning mothers, the Maintenance, Finance and others. Such (senior leaders) and provides an opportunity for Talent to discuss career aspirations, policy also provides ﬂexibility to move into another job proﬁle to manage work-life balance. structured interventions support improvement share their development areas and seek guidance on development journey. In the in gender diversity in our Executive journey, the aim is to keep the talent engaged and achieve better performance. Committee teams. This initiative is being programme-managed and supported by our consulting partner, Male Female Aon Hewitt. An app called 'Aon Lead' connects both the parties seamlessly to share, During this period, TUFemina was launched No. of employees 311 168 communicate and track their performance, participate in challenges and offer feedback. by Sterlite Copper, where women employees who have taken parental get an opportunity to learn from the shared leaves in 15-16 In Phase 1, around 1,000 'Talents' were identiﬁed across the Group Companies to be a experiences of Women Leaders. part of V-Connect. For this talent, we identiﬁed a group of 70 'Anchors' including ExCo No. of employees 297 157 leaders and our Chairman Vedanta Limited. Each talent has been mapped to an Anchor who returned to work and interacts on a regular basis either one-on-one or in a group. In Phase 2, looking at after parental leave and the interests across the organisation, V-Connect has been further extended to entire who were still employed professional population of 12,000 employees. next 12 months after their return to work Retention % 95.49% 93.45% SCORECARD FOR SUCCESS Retention % is calculated basis the no. of employees who returned To bring out the best in our employees, we have put in place a Performance Scorecard for our employees and are driving this as a project and were in continuous service for next 12 months / no. of people BEST COMPANIES who went on parental leave. along with Aon Hewitt. This year we have created around 3,000 Performance Scorecards across Vedanta businesses and functions with clearer goals, measurable targets & deﬁned performance levels. FOR WOMEN Vedanta Ltd. has been recognised as one of the '100 best companies Empowering Women is integral for women' in India by to corporate philosophy, culture and Working Mother and AVTAR. environment of Vedanta Health & Well-being SDG3 We are living in a fast-paced world, where keeping abreast with the changing times often costs one's health and well-being. Staying healthy infuses enthusiasm and conﬁdence in the team and also boosts the overall productivity of an organisation. We look at overall well-being of the employee. Employee Engagement Therefore, we take immediate and corrective actions against any discrimination which could hamper the personal and business sense of the employee. This year, two such incidents of discrimination were reported in Black Mountain Mines. These were resolved and dismissed by the disciplinary committee. & Retention During the year, our Group Companies initiated a range of employee health and well-being programmes, some of them are mentioned below: Employee Engagement is one of the key pillars for us to drive business performance and productivity. Engagement initiatives are taken every year across geographies, levels and functions to keep our employees enthused and focused. Grievance Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) launched a 100-day wellness journey, Nchingilile Ubumi, a Total number of grievances Zambian phrase which means “I will protect my health”. Under this programme, in addition We understand that collective bargaining offers the opportunity to build a constructive relationship between management and union ﬁled through formal to walking, a whole host of physical activities like aerobics, soccer, golf, netball, cycling and representatives. Negotiated agreements include clauses on productivity, health and safety, working conditions, remuneration, allowances, incentives grievance mechanisms 473 volleyball were encouraged. and bonuses. We have a collective bargaining mechanism at our HZL (47%), Zinc International (79%), KCM (86%), Sesa Iron Ore (68%), CMT (36%), BMM (86%), Skorpion (79%) and BALCO (57%) operations. Grievances addressed during the year 425 Sterlite Copper's e-clinic provides a telemedicine platform where the employees can get In addition to the engagement modules mentioned in the Stakeholder Engagement section on page 37, some of the major initiatives introduced or online consultation from an in-house medical team as well as other specialist doctors and taken forward during the reporting period were: Grievances resolved during the year 395 counsellors. 2,551 employees have used this facility to get timely medical consultation. 51 52 ADDING AND WE STRONGLY ADVOCATE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT THAT IS UNDERPINNED BY COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS. A MAJORITY OF OUR INITIATIVES ARE IDENTIFIED, DEVELOPED AND CARRIED OUT IN COLLABORATION WITH LOCAL GOVERNMENT BODIES AND COMMUNITY ORGANISATIONS. THIS 'PUBLIC-PRIVATE-PEOPLE-PARTNERSHIP' SHARING VALUE (4PS) MODEL HAS INSPIRED US TO TAKE UP AMBITIOUS LONG-TERM PROJECTS LIKE PROJECT NAND GHAR. COMMUNITY SDG1 TO SDG6, SDG10 I BELIEVE IN 'TRUSTEESHIP'. THE ULTIMATE AIM OF VEDANTA OUTREACH SOCIAL INVESTMENT Our community engagement journey is steered by our Group-level CSR policy and IS TO EMPOWER PEOPLE AND ERADICATE POVERTY USD Social Investment Standard, and the In ANIL AGARWAL, CHAIRMAN, VEDANTA RESOURCES 17.63 million alignment with SDGs roadmap is charted through (a) baseline studies and need assessment surveys within our communities (b) consultation with stakeholders and subject matter experts, and 576 core villages WOMEN EMPOWERMENT (c) continual improvement in programmes based on ﬁndings of impact assessment and social audits. 3,200+ Our materiality issues are being 1,142 peripheral Self Help Groups empowering almost aligned to Sustainable Development Goals and action villages 39,000 women plans are being outlined. BENEFICIARY COUNT* FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 FY 2014-15 Corporates and communities thrive through cooperation and collaboration. It is a symbiotic relationship where the relationship, through focussed, timely and impactful investments in community development, fulﬁlling our responsibilities exchequer, generating employment and complying with the law of the land, we spearhead interventions in domains that 2.21 million 2.25 million 4 million sustainability of one is inextricably linked to as a good corporate citizen and being a have a positive ripple effect and are the *Some of the beneﬁciaries could be engaged in more than one project. the prosperity and well-being of the other. caring neighbour. Going beyond the building blocks of a fair, equitable and We continue to nourish and nurture this traditional roles of business like paying the just society. Based on the comprehensive need-based assessment conducted in FY 2014-15, and the social impact assessment studies that our businesses Our community interventions primarily fall under the following areas: undertake at regular intervals, we have enhanced our focus on activities that have greater positive impact on the communities around us. AREAS OF COMMUNITY INTERVENTION For more information about our need-based assessment study, please refer to the Neighbourhood Dialogue section on page no. 41. Children's Well-being & Education + Health Care Drinking Water & Sanitation Women's Empowerment Skilling the Youth for New Opportunities THRUST AREAS Our commitment towards 'Social License to Operate' goes beyond regulatory compliance and we are committed to sustainable development, inclusive growth and greater value creation for all our internal and external stakeholders. Our community development programmes are designed to provide quality education, health services and livelihood opportunities in the neighborhood communities. Mission Nand Ghar This is our ﬂagship intervention in the space of children's learning and health. In FY 2015-16, Vedanta signed an MoU with the Ministry of Women & Child Development to construct 4,000 Sports & Agriculture Community Environment new-age Nand Ghars (Anganwadis) across India. Over and above quality preschool education, Culture & Animal Infrastructure Protection & we have envisioned these Nand Ghars as a convergence point for a number of government Husbandry Restoration programmes with additional services such as primary healthcare and entrepreneurship training. 53 54 SDG4 Smart Class CASE STUDY 13 schools in Goa and 7 schools in TAKING NAND GHARS Children's Well-being Chitradurga district of Karnataka Under the project, Vedanta is enabling TO THE NEXT LEVEL & Education innovative learning through K-Yan, a portable device which converts any wall into an PROJECT NAND GHAR IS DESIGNED IN LINE WITH PRIME MINISTER OF INDIA'S VISION interactive teaching surface. This allows Children are at the core of communities and society their education, health and well-being OF ERADICATING MALNUTRITION, PROVIDING EDUCATION AND SKILL DEVELOPMENT. students to experience interactive multimedia determine the future of nations. Keeping this in mind, children's well-being and education have content, virtual experiments, curriculumalways been at the forefront of our CSR initiatives. Ensuring the right to quality education for based educational videos, and facilitates every child is an ambitious dream that can only be achieved through collaborative efforts across training for teachers. all quarters. A detailed baseline study has been initiated at Barmer to understand in We impacted the lives of almost 260,000 children through our Science Lab greater detail the advantage brought programmes, as well as through government schools across locations. by a Nand Ghar to the community 30 schools in Goa vis-à-vis an Anganwadi. The progress We support more than 100,000 children below 6 years across 1,900 The Science Lab incorporates a package of 55 and impact of Project Nand Ghar, Anganwadis through our preschool initiatives. different science interactive working models going forward, will be monitored mapped to the state educational curriculum, through a mobile application which will Our programmes are aligned with the government-led literacy & providing a forum for children to pursue their be one of the largest deployments of natural curiosity and inventiveness. education programmes in the countries we operate in. real-time data collection software, enabled through mobile devices and Our comprehensive approach to education covers every stage from preschool to higher education. tracking an estimated 120,000 children and 20,000 women start-ups spread across 11 states in India. EDUCATING THE GIRL CHILD School Education We acknowledge that education is the single QUALITY The problems confronting higher education in India are chieﬂy to do with quality of learning, most important factor to ensure gender equality and empowerment. Our businesses EDUCATION access and infrastructure. This section provides a glimpse of the Group-wide initiatives we are have introduced a number of short as well as We have developed a ENTREPRENEURSHIP undertaking in schools. long-term programmes to ensure education Modelled on the lines of Nobel Peace Prize-winning microﬁnance organisation We run about 20 schools and colleges, most of them close to our operations. Over 11,250 of the girl child. The programmes are aligned 40-week intensive course with the Indian Prime Minister's 'Beti Bachao, Grameen Bank, women are provided end-to-end support for promoting students are studying in these schools. Given that most of these schools are in remote parts curriculum incorporating interactive entrepreneurship at each Nand Ghar through the following steps: Beti Padhao Abhiyan' (Save the Girl Child, of the country, they are contributing to bringing quality education within reach of all. e-learning, learning kits, critical Educate the Girl Child Programme). thinking and wall designs for preschool Other than running these schools and colleges, we also collaborate with existing government education at our Nand Ghars. This is Mobilisation of women Handholding the women schools, in strengthening learning, improving infrastructure, and provisioning of mid-day meals. Sterlite Copper's 'Ilam Mottukal' aims to the ﬁrst time such a massive effort has for training through the ventures and Over 250,000 students in government schools are reached through these initiatives. ensure that girls are provided with quality been undertaken in India. providing marketing support school education in an enabling environment Providing basic orientation so that she can realise her fullest potential. on entrepreneurship, More than MID-DAY MEALS including identiﬁcation of This project is impacting HEALTHCARE Each cluster of 25-30 Anganwadis will have access to business opportunities & basics of marketing 1,600 We realise the importance of proper nutrition for school-going children and contributing by providing mid-day meals in government schools every day. Over 68,500 school children were served fresh, nutritious and delicious meals every day through the three centralised kitchens 8,046 a fully functional Mobile Mobilising credit without seeking collaterals women beneﬁtted from supported by us. Proper government-approved diet charts are followed to prepare weekly menus girls across 86 schools in Thootukudi district of Tamil Nadu. these training programmes in to suit the tastes and nutritional requirement of children. Medical Unit (MMU). MMU's provide essential primary healthcare Handholding in identiﬁcation this year and 158 women have The project, in its ﬁfth year now, has services. During the reporting period, of local business opportunities, started their micro enterprise. resulted in 80% improvement in the two such MMUs were operationalised. creating a business plan PROMOTING DIGITAL EDUCATION learning levels of girl children and 95% With the objective of promoting digital education and literacy in the rural areas, Vedanta pass percentage in the class 10 exams. Foundation & Vedanta Limited, in collaboration with the Directorate of Education, Government What started out as a pilot project in FY 2015-16, is now being scaled up on a large scale. of Goa and Government of Karnataka, have launched Smart Class & Science Lab pilot project for Vedanta Vidyarthi Vikas Yojana (VVVY) at the students. The aim is to get these students oriented to smart technology in a friendly manner. Jharsuguda has signiﬁcantly improved the The following aspects of the project STATE DISTRICT COMPLETED pass percentage of girls from will be tracked in near real time basis: GREENFIELD BROWNFIELD • Attendance of children • Improvement in learning Rajasthan Barmer Udaipur Ajmer 50 2 2 18% in 2008 to outcomes • Training for women Uttar Pradesh Pilibhit Varanasi 15 25 99.80% in 2016. Madhya Pradesh Ratlam 5 Till date 3,031 high school students • Income enhancement Goa North Goa 1 have availed academic support for women South Goa 1 through VVVY centres at rural • Use of facility for health villages of Jharsuguda. TOTAL 97 4 and immunisation The project, in collaboration with NGO There was a target of 100 Nand Ghars in greenﬁeld out of which 97 were achieved. For brownﬁeld, there were 4 pilot projects. partner AJKA, is spearheaded with active involvement of the parents, village watch committees and trained teachers. 55 56 Health + Our development programmes are devised to serve speciﬁc needs of the community. During the comprehensive business-wide need based assessment conducted two years ago, it was observed that access to medical and sanitation facility, and awareness of personal hygiene were the two glaring lacunae in rural India. In addition to providing support to local governments for ensuring access to Health & Sanitation facilities in remote locations, in FY 2015-16, we proactively extended WBCSD's WASH pledge from just our operational locations to encompass surrounding communities. SDG3, SDG6 Addressing Health through Awareness Programmes For all of us, when it comes to health, prevention really is better than cure and especially so for communities living in remote parts. And the ﬁrst step to prevention is awareness. Our awareness programmes, most often in conjunction with a health camp, cascade this awareness using easy-to-understand local language idioms and medium. As part of its week-long commemoration of world aids day, Skorpion Zinc helped generate greater awareness of HIV/AIDS The programme was attended by TSPL conducted 23 Health Awareness Sessions in Punjab which were attended by Drinking Water 'WASH' Pledge Implementation & Sanitation at Vedanta approximately more than approximately 1,374 people, across 12 villages. Improving water and sanitation infrastructure for the nearby communities is one of the Company's focus areas. As a signatory to the WBCSD 'WASH' (Water & Sanitation Hygiene) pledge, Vedanta strives to provide access to safe drinking water and promote best hygiene practices among its employees and the community. 800 employees and 400 600 community learners from all School students were also provided with dental care products under this contractors members the 3 local schools. programme. In October 2014, Vedanta Group CEO, Tom Albanese, signed the WASH Pledge, followed by 217,000 individual group companies' CEOs signing or endorsing the WASH Pledge in support of the group's commitment. Progress on implementation of WASH pledge is monitored by the Group's central sustainability team. villagers Vedanta commits to implement access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene at Celebrating Health & Raising Awareness, beneﬁted through access to safe water and sanitation initiatives. the workplace for all employees in all premises. One Day at a Time Cairn O&G Business is providing safe drinking Good health makes every day worth celebrating. During the year, various Vedanta businesses celebrated and raised water for the rural population in operational awareness in conjunction with globally observed 'special days'. vicinity by setting up water kiosks using RO technology. This also involves implementing Curative Health Services one of largest community drinking water WORLD MALARIA DAY | APRIL 25 Sesa Goa Iron Ore conducted yoga project of its kind in India, in partnership with Health camps/mobile health units in rural areas not only help in diagnosing and treating diseases sessions for its employees Vedanta Lanjigarh organised an awareness session on malaria along with a blood test camp in PHED, Government of Rajasthan, where at an early stage, they also enhance awareness about the diseases and the means to prevent Basantpada, catering to a catchment of 12 villages. Over the years, through the Zero Malaria Drive, around 330 water puriﬁcation units will be set them. We join hands with the public health system as well as NGOs and hospitals that have a Vedanta has reached out to 50,000 people including pregnant women,infants and senior citizens. Sterlite Copper at Tuticorin, Tamil Nadu, up to provide safe drinking water to the proven record of working in rural areas. While these camps mostly function as Out Patient introduced 'Upa Yoga' to relieve stress in community. Departments (OPDs), we refer complicated cases to nearby hospitals and, on a case to case basis, joints and muscles also extend support for treatment. WORLD TOILET DAY | NOVEMBER 19 The operating model will ensure Sterlite Copper dedicated three school sanitation complexes at TNDTA School, Meelavittan, MALCO Energy Limited conducted a community ownership, usage of Other than camps, we run hospitals at various company locations, that provide Yoga session for over 750 school students of TNDTA Primary School, Periyanagayapuram and R.C Primary School, Vadakkusilukkanpatti schools. 15 schools in Mettur, Tamil Nadu renewable energy to run the units, quality care to not just the employees, but are often open to public at large. doorstep delivery of water and reject WORLD AIDS DAY | DECEMBER 01 Cairn O&G Business encouraged 'desk disposal through evaporation pits. During the year, yoga' comprising 'asanas' that employees In support of the United Nations' HIV Prevention 2016 campaign to end the epidemic by 2030, across our businesses, more than Vedanta observed World AIDS Day by creating awareness among employees, contractors and can perform at their workstations the entire community about the disease. 500,000 people including employees, beneﬁtted through Pink Drive these clinics, hospitals, camps and mobile BMM, South Africa health units. The Khai-Ma region in Northern Cape, South Africa is a hotbed for various forms of cancer and has inadequate access to primary and secondary health facilities. The Black Mountain Mining partnered with Pink Drive, a non-proﬁt company to create awareness on breast cancer and make a difference in the Khai-Ma Municipality. The mobile clinic remained active through the year and Eye camps conducted 262 clinical breast exams, 52 mammograms, 152 pap smears and 85 PSA tests. Cataract and Glaucoma are major causes of blindness in the Northern Cape Area. Black Mountain Mining (BMM) supports the World Health Organization (WHO) and South African Government's 2020 strategy which focusses on improving the health status by preventing illness and disease, and eliminating avoidable blindness. Creating Medical Infrastructure With the objective of improving medical facilities for the community and medical education in the The state-of-the-art hospital, being Between January and March 2017, BMM has helped restore eyesight of 197 people in De Aar, region, Vedanta has partnered with the State Government of Odisha to set-up a Government In Lanjigarh, under Project Swachhta, built as part of the college, will Calvinia, Aggeneys, Upington and Kuruman. In partnership with the Northern Cape Department Medical College in Bhangabari at Bhawanipatna, Kalahandi District at an estimated investment of 124 provide easy access to medical of Health and the South African National Council for the Blind, BMM ensures that eye surgeons Indian Household Latrines were constructed in 13 villages in partnership specialising in cataract removal continue to reach these remote communities. Last year, the South African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy recognised this INR 1 billion. treatment for the communities residing in the region. with Health and Sanitation Department. life-changing initiative by presenting BMM with a Health and Wellness Award. Vedanta will provide infrastructural support and the college is scheduled to be completed by 2018. 57 58 CASE STUDY HARNESSING THE SUN TO PROVIDE WATER Women's Empowerment SDG5 While a lot has been done for women's empowerment in India and other developing nations, a lot still remains to be done – ONE OF THE KEY HURDLES IN ENHANCING ACCESS TO WATER, IS especially in the areas of women's education AVAILABILITY OF POWER. INTERMITTENT SUPPLY OF POWER IN and economic empowerment. DEVELOPING COUNTRIES MAKES IT DIFFICULT TO OPERATE PUMPS World over, the Self Help Group (SHG) movement has successfully and systematically THAT EXTRACT, PURIFY OR TRANSPORT WATER. HERE IS HOW VARIOUS empowered marginalised women through VEDANTA BUSINESSES HAVE OVERCOME THIS CHALLENGE. awareness raising, capacity building, economic empowerment and solidarity. At Vedanta too, we are working with women's Self Help Groups across several of our Since power availability remains unreliable in some areas of Barmer, we are locations. harnessing its abundant, year-round sunlight to power the RO plants. The THE SEWNIWALA ﬁrst plant based on this pioneering initiative has been installed at PROJECT CAIRN Sewniwala in Baytu Tehsil. This is India's largest solar operated DIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT THROUGH O&G BUSINESS community based RO Plant. The plant's MNRE certiﬁed panels SHG SUPPORT | FY 2016-17 generate a power of 5KW and store the same in batteries – adequate for 8 Total number of SHGs 3,216 Cairn O&G Business, under a to 10 hours of plant operations. Memorandum of Understanding with Total members in SHGs 38,765 Sterlite Copper's Sakhi project helped create At Lanjigarh, under Project Sakhi, during the Public Health and Engineering The Sewniwala plant also serves devotees who weather harsh conditions 112 SHGs comprising 1,464 women members. reporting period, approximately SHGs engaged with Department (PHED) of Rajasthan, is and walk hundreds of kilometres to reach Ram Devra, a local pilgrimage Credit linkages amounting to 2.5 livelihood activities 470 establishing 331 RO plants across spot in the Jaisalmer area. In order to make the plant self-sustaining in the INR million Barmer District. These plants, with capacities ranging from 1,000 to 3,000 litre per hour are being installed to long run, a nominal amount of INR 0.25 per litre is being charged from the local community. SHG members engaged in income generation activities (includes agriculture/animal husbandry/outsource activities) 3,815 INR 24.6 million were mobilised through nationalised banks. were disbursed as internal loan to various members, out of the cumulative saving of provide safe drinking water To maximise use of this renewable source of energy, some of to more than the water puriﬁcation plants are also being operated with No. of women who established micro enterprises 1,464 20 new SHGs with 242 members were formed INR 7.3 million. 1 million solar energy. (small scale business) by MALCO Energy Ltd. (MEL). Credit linkage of people living in Under this initiative, we plan to setup around Here is a snapshot of some select INR 5 million 800 villages. 35 solar operated plants SHG-related activities initiated by our businesses during the was facilitated through banks. reporting period: At HZL, the Sakhi Self Help Group (SHG) programme was re-launched in partnership At BALCO, under Project Unnati, 187 SHG with Saheli Samiti and Manjari Foundation. women were linked with various income The programme is working in a saturation generating activities like mushroom mode, aiming to cover at least 60% THE CHINGOLA cultivation, paper bowl making, snacks households in the chosen villages. PROJECT KCM making, etc. Accordingly, this year Till date During the reporting period, KCM installed a solar powered bore-well comprising a water 1,144 SHG women 505 SHGs were formed with about In addition, the SHGs created credit linkages worth puriﬁcation system in Shimulala, beneﬁtting 2,000 have been covered and 6,600 INR 6.9 million people. Being solar powered makes the system independent of the electrical 365 women have been linked to income generation women members. resulting in around 620 women being engaged in various income generating activities. Till date, around 2,183 grid and thus, more activities. A few production centres have also women have been engaged through dependable. Looking at the been set up that are making garments, 196 SHGs across 45 villages. positive response, KCM has papad, spices, etc. decided to scale up the The high point of the programme project to 4 additional this year was the International communities, eventually Women's Day celebration across all beneﬁtting 6,000 people HZL locations, in which over 6,500 in some peri-urban areas women participated. The celebrations of Chingola. consisted of discussions, songs, theatre, sports – all designed to reinforce women's self-conﬁdence. 59 60 CASE STUDY ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT Skill Enhancement SDG4 IN WOMEN Investments in human resource assets are the most impactful and long-lasting investments. Various national governments, mindful of this fact, have started putting great emphasis on education and skilling programmes aimed at making youth more employable. In solidarity with this impetus, Vedanta conducts high impact skilling programmes for youth (in partnership with government as well as non-governmental bodies), leading to enhanced family incomes while also boosting the economy. DIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT THROUGH YOUTH EMPOWERMENT 17,091 youths were provided 2,750 youth linked to vocational skills training earning opportunities in FY 2016-17 in FY 2016-17 I N I T I AT I V E VEDANTA SKILL SCHOOL TAMIRA MUTHUKKAL BALCO, CHHATTISGARH STERLITE COPPER, TAMIL NADU Since 2010, Vedanta's Skill School at BALCO (Korba, At Sterlite Copper, the 'Tamira Muthukkal' project mobilises, Chhattisgarh), in partnership with International Leasing & motivates and trains unemployed, unskilled youth and facilitates Financial Services (IL&FS), has trained nearly 6,120 youth and suitable employment linkages. Since 2014, in association with Vedanta Ltd. at Jharsuguda, under the aegis of 'Vedanta Integrated Jana Jivika Yojana (VIJJY)', promoted Subhalaxmi Cooperative linked marginalised sections of society with the mainstream IL&FS, 811 youngsters have been trained as electricians, Tally Society (SCS) one of the largest all women cooperative society in the region. The project provides capacity building support, economy. During the reporting year, it trained cum data entry operators and sewing machine operators. business development services (BDS) as well as ﬁnancial services to its members for augmenting their diversiﬁed livelihoods. SINCE ITS INCEPTION IN 2008-09, SCS HAS FORMED OVER 277 SELF HELP 947 youth. 71% of students trained, have also found employment. GROUPS CONSISTING OF 3,226 MEMBERS IN 63 PERIPHERAL VILLAGES OF JHARSUGUDA, KOLABIRA AND KIRMIRA BLOCKS. IT HAS ALSO PROMOTED SESA TECHNICAL SCHOOL MORE THAN 2,392 MICRO ENTREPRENEURS IN ITS OPERATIONAL VILLAGES. SESA IRON ORE, GOA Since its inception in 1994, the Vedanta-Sesa Technical School Here are some of the success stories: (STS) in Sakhali, Goa has trained SUSHMITA PATEL Sushmita Patel, 32, lives in Keldamal village in Kolabira Block. HIRAWATI PURUWA Whenever Hirawati found time from her household 1,341 youth in trade skills like Machinist, Fitter, Electrician and Instrument Her husband used to work as a daily wage labourer with a responsibilities, she would help her family cultivate Mechanic. Both STSs have maintained a 100% result rate in the sponge company. But the wages were both meagre and vegetables in the one acre of land they owned. In October Industrial Training Institute (ITI) trade examinations and have irregular. To augment the family income, Sushmita took up 2013, she decided to become ﬁnancially independent and recorded successful placements every year. membership in SCS and took a loan of INR 5,000. With became part of an SHG at Bhimior village. She took an initial additional credit support from the cooperative, she gradually credit of INR 7,000 to start her own chilli and tomato Another unique initiative by the Sesa Iron Ore is the Sesa established herself as a good entrepreneur and started a cultivation. SCS, in partnership with Horticulture Department Football Academy (SFA). Established in June 1999 in Goa, on a rehabilitated mine, SFA has till date produced 123 footballers at All trade courses are afﬁliated with the National paper plate unit in her house. and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, provided her with all the necessary the national and international level. Presently 36 boys are under Council of Vocational Training, New Delhi and State training support to enhance the quality of yield. Sushmita bought a machine with a capital training in the four-year long residential coaching programme Council of Vocational Training, Govt. of Goa. investment of Today, she sells chilli grown by her that includes formal schooling. INR 16,000 and started supplying different kinds of to a wholesaler at Bhubaneswar and earns approximately YUVANTARAN MINING ACADEMY paper plates to wholesalers. Her husband now supports the venture by helping in INR 15,000 HZL, RAJASTHAN Underground mining is the future of mining, but there is a dearth of enough skilled manpower in this area. HZL is working to change this and has initiated possibly the largest such initiative, focussed on preparing manpower for underground mining. Some of our early passprocurement of material and selling the products. The family per month. outs have even joined international mining companies, on the strength of this training. We are currently running 2 programmes one is an income has now crossed INR 15,000 per month. intense 18-month residential training for Heavy Earth Moving Machinery (with 110 rural youth), and the other is an 8-month residential programme for Winding Engine Drivers (with 47 rural youth). Both programmes are being implemented in partnership with the Skill Council of Mining Sector (SCMS) & Indian Institute of Skill Development (IISD). 61 62 STRATEGIC CASE STUDY PLACING WOMEN IN THE DRIVING SEAT GAMSBERG COMMUNICATION Mining is still widely regarded as a man's profession. Thus, we see fewer women working in the mining areas. While setting up the Gamsberg project, we saw great potential in training the women from Khai-Ma region to work in an open pit mine as Haul Truck Operators. Roux Mining, our contractor and business partner, joined forces with us on a pilot project to provide the required training. More than 180 applications were received. The shortlisted women were interviewed by a panel comprising representatives from Roux Mining management, Gamsberg Project HR, and the National Union of Mineworkers. 14 candidates were selected and given a 4-hour tour of Gamsberg. During this tour, they had the opportunity to ride in a 100-tonne Haul Truck while observing an experienced operator. Of these candidates, 9 women were ultimately selected for the pilot programme. The remaining candidates will be given an opportunity in the future. The programme consists of theoretical and practical training that includes 50 quality hours of operating a Haul Truck. Learners are registered with the Mining Qualiﬁcations Authority and receive a monthly stipend during their training. Both Gamsberg Project and Roux Mining are responsible for learners' well-being in terms of accommodation, meals, travel costs and stipends. Through this initiative, we aim to change the way women are viewed in mining and open doors to one more economic opportunity for them. SDG8 Agriculture & Animal Husbandry Agriculture forms the basis of food security globally. For developing countries, agriculture is key to poverty alleviation and a key driver of growth. Vedanta promotes agriculture, livestock & livelihood development programmes in the countries of its operation, especially in India and Africa. I N I T I AT I V E In FY 2016-17, we assisted UPLIFTING RURAL NAMIBIA, ONE GOAT AT A TIME SKORPION ZINC, NAMIBIA The project, started in March 2012, aims to accelerate poverty eradication in Namibia by offering 90,000 Communicating Constructively | Advocacy | Awards & Accolades rural, underprivileged families a sustainable entrepreneurial opportunity through goat farming. farmers The Goat project was launched in collaboration with the Ofﬁce of the Governor and the Nama for agriculture and allied interventions. Traditional Authorities after a needs assessment was carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture. It We operate in the belief that businesses are not is designed to be sustainable and to provide cascading beneﬁts. In order to set off a cascading effect, after three years, some of the offspring are given to a second set of beneﬁciaries who, in isolated entities. In every decision, we emphasize on turn, replicate the entire process. This essentially creates a virtuous cycle that can endure for many years to come. stakeholder dialogue and mutual respect. In FY 2016-17, the project added 5 new families, bringing the number of beneﬁciaries to 21. Each beneﬁciary receives 31 goats. More than 60% of the Our endeavour is to build a platform for transparent beneﬁciaries are women a deliberate intervention to assist women-headed households in rural Namibia. discourse on sustainability communication with all our stakeholders. 63 64 STRATEGIC STRATEGIC COMMUNICATING COMMUNICATIONS COMMUNICATIONS OVERVIEW CONSTRUCTIVELY Strategic engagement and communication help us understand our investors and wider stakeholders (customers, suppliers, employees and society) and the issues that are relevant to them. Our approach to materiality issues are based on feedback from stakeholders. We periodically assess the reputational perception of the organisation and ensure timely communication is cascaded to all relevant stakeholders. This further strengthens our INVESTORS & LENDERS engagement and creates harmony with all our diverse stakeholders. Vedanta's footprint spans over eight countries in four different continents. Diverse regions have different operational and geographic challenges Investors and lenders constantly seek information from the organisation on the how safety of their capital, how it is deployed, and what are the including demography, business environment, economic development, culture and stakeholder expectations. The goal is to ensure that the returns expected. Vedanta continually engages with all providers of capital, through detailed audited ﬁnancial reports and other focused organisation communicates in one voice across geographies on critical issues across the stakeholder spectrum. Together, we are one organisation with engagement mechanism such as SRIs and Sustainable Development Day. one vision 'One Vedanta' We are a company with a purpose. I N I T I AT I V E STRATEGIC COMMUNICATION HELPS US PROACTIVELY AND TRANSPARENTLY COMMUNICATE WITH ALL STAKEHOLDERS, CREATE SYNERGIES, COMBAT MISREPRESENTATION, MITIGATE RISKS, VEDANTA HOSTS 2ND ANNUAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DAY HARMONISE THE ENVIRONMENT, AND REINFORCE OUR REPUTATION. Vedanta is committed to deliver sustainable and responsible growth that creates value for all stakeholders. To showcase some of the milestones traversed in this journey, Vedanta Resources hosted the second Sustainable Development Day in London. Detailed updates on the Company's sustainable development activities were shared with analysts, investors and members of key industry bodies. The entire management team, including Chairman Mr. Anil Agarwal, was available for an open discussion. Ahead of the event, Vedanta had sought views from participants on the sustainable development issues they would like to know more about. In congruence with participant responses, detailed presentations were made on the Company's overall approach to sustainability and on speciﬁc areas such as climate change, environmental management, safety, fatality prevention, community relations and human rights. ANIL AGARWAL, Chairman, Vedanta Resources emphasised on sustainable development a priority for the company and its subsidiaries, and the organisation's mission to achieve the goal of zero harm, zero discharge and zero waste. PHILLIP TURNER, Group Head of Health, Safety and Environment, walked participants through the initiatives underway to develop a culture of safety at Vedanta. TOM ALBANESE, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, spoke about the Company's approach to sustainability risks embedded within the overall business, key focus areas and actions to mitigate risk. ROMA BALWANI, President, Group Sustainability, CSR & Communications detailed the efforts undertaken last year to institutionalise a transparent dialogue mechanism and embed a robust grievance process. She also explained how crucial it was to engage in an on-going dialogue with the community and other stakeholders to build trust. EUAN MACDONALD, Non-Executive Director & Chairman of Vedanta's Sustainability Committee, shed light on the Committee's achievements during three years of his leadership. We ensure that extensive information is available across reports, websites, presentations and digital communications, that help investors and analysts to understand the growth and value drivers of the company. KATYA ZOTOVA, Non-Executive Director & member of the Sustainability Committee* explained that safety and stakeholder engagement would be priorities for the Committee going forward. This pillar further reﬂects our commitment to becoming a more transparent, purpose-driven and responsible corporate citizen. DESHNEE NAIDOO, CEO Vedanta Zinc International, shared how the focus has moved from accident prevention to fatality We continually measure the outcomes and perceptions of our communication plan through a robust mechanism to gauge its effectiveness among prevention, and to identifying and managing critical hazards and controls. the stakeholders, and make improvements wherever necessary. *During the reporting period, Ms. Zotova became Chairperson of the Sustainability Committee after Mr. Macdonald's retirement from the Board. 65 66 Academia GOVERNMENT Academic institutes and industry working together is a two-way partnership. The industry gains expertise in areas such as innovation and research, and trained graduates who are better equipped to enter the business world, the academic institutes beneﬁts from the funding, ﬁnancial beneﬁts, and The natural resources industry is highly regulated and it is important to engage with the Government on project progress, local challenges, enhanced education opportunities for the students. community developments and other processes for formulating fair policies. To ensure community development through Public-PrivatePartnership model, Vedanta proactively engages with the local and national governments of the geographies it operates in, on a regular basis. VEDANTA BAL CHETNA ANGANWADI (VBCA) PROGRAMME Media The media is a source of information that helps civil society stay abreast with and to shape the public policy agenda and priorities. Our media strategy Hindustan Zinc signed an MoU with Government of Rajasthan to support 3,055 Anganwadis in 5 Districts. is to provide credible information consistently to shape the true brand image of Vedanta among our stakeholders and builds trust through transparency. We regularly communicate with international, national and regional news channels, and the print media leading to a wide coverage of Vedanta's performance and goals. ACTING AGAINST CATARACT Vedanta has strategically positioned itself as a low-cost producer equipped to face the commodity downturn and support the nation's economy Black Mountain Mining (BMM) supports the World Health Organization (WHO) and South African Government's 2020 strategy which focusses on through the signiﬁcant contribution to the exchequer. improving the health status by preventing illness and disease, and eliminating avoidable blindness. CONTRIBUTING TO HARNESS AND CONSERVE WATER I N I T I AT I V E S The Mukhya Mantri Jal Swavlamban Abhiyan (MJSA) has been launched by the state government of Rajasthan to ensure effective implementation of water harvesting projects and water conservation activities. Our businesses in Rajasthan have wholeheartedly supported this campaign and have helped construct a number of community water conservation projects. GAZING IN THE MEDIA MIRROR KEY STORIES IN THE While media is a gateway to all our stakeholders, one of our vital constituencies is the REPORTING YEAR media itself. During the reporting period, we conducted a dipstick research about Vedanta Chairman, Mr. Anil Agarwal, honoured with 25 key journalists and analysts of the natural resources sector. The ﬁndings were very by Bihar Chambers of Commerce and encouraging. Industries for his contribution to the STRATEGIC ENGAGEMENTS 80% 36% 36% 48% natural resources sector globally Year-end results, production results and respondents mentioned CSR mentioned credible indicated regulatory the Annual General Meeting Constructive competition is the need of the hour in the Natural Resources industry. We actively MAKE IN ODISHA CONCLAVE gave a bright as one of the management hurdles as being a take part in various global and local industry fora to communicate our vision for the sector as well BHUBANESHWAR, ODISHA outlook of positives of the as a positive of key challenge Announcement of Hindustan Zinc's as keep abreast with new perspectives. We also regularly interact with academia for strategic Vedanta company the Company for Vedanta Golden Jubilee dividend, which was the The 'Make in Odisha' Conclave was held in inputs and with the media to raise the industry awareness amongst the public. largest ever dividend paid by any Bhubaneswar with the key objective of company in the private sector in the showcasing the manufacturing prowess of the Indian history State and the investment opportunities Industry across focus sectors. Vedanta took active part in the conclave with a centrally-located stall SOCIAL MEDIA FAST EMERGING AS THE Letter of Award' for Redevelopment of Mormugao Port WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 2017 | DAVOS highlighting group-wide achievements in sustainability, CSR and business. ENGAGEMENT TOOL OF CHOICE Launch of 'Eureka' and the creation of a Mr. Anil Agarwal participated in the World Economic Forum, Davos 2017, where the focus was dedicated fund to augment innovative Social Media has gained traction across the group and among our leadership team. Daily around the 'Fourth Industrial Revolution', the role of technology and its potential to transform the practices & technology PETROTECH | NEW DELHI engagement helps highlight the group's achievement, trigger insightful conversations and future of mankind. Every year, the world's best minds and global leaders assemble at Davos for the maintain engagement with stakeholders. All group companies have a presence on social World Economic Forum annual meeting to discuss the state of the world. The 12th edition of the ﬂagship event of Appointment of CFO Arun Kumar as media platforms. India's hydrocarbons sector was held in Director of Vedanta Board and Bhumika INDIA ECONOMIC SUMMIT | NEW DELHI New Delhi. Cairn O&G Business' stall /VedantaResources @VedantaLimited VedantaResources Sood as Company Secretary featured scale models of the Cairn Enhanced Mr. Anil Agarwal co-chaired the India Economic Summit in New Delhi. The theme of the summit Vedanta's Global Internship Programme Oil Recovery process and Water ATM this year was 'Fostering an Inclusive India through Digital Transformation'. More than 600 delegates Our senior management as well as ﬂagship programmes are active on Twitter. was one of the key HR initiatives initiatives, eliciting tremendous interest from over 30 countries including political leaders, top policymakers and CEOs participated in the among the visitors which included Union summit organised by World Economic Forum and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Leadership participation at global and Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Mr. Dharmendra Pradhan. national events THE MINING INDABA | AFRICA Awards won by Vedanta and its various Mr. Anil Agrawal and CEO Tom Albanese participated in Investing in African Mining Indaba. It is an NATIONAL CONCLAVE ON MINES & businesses annual professional conference dedicated to the capitalisation and development of mining MINERALS | RAIPUR interests in Africa and currently the world's largest mining investment conference and Africa's Projects on literacy, skill development largest mining event. Vedanta Sesa Goa Iron Ore was awarded a @AnilAgarwal_Ved @NavinAgarwal_V @DeshneeNVedanta @NandGhar and the launch of Nand Ghar 5-Star rating at the National Conclave on Mines and Minerals at Raipur for its Codli INTERNATIONAL MINING & MACHINERY EXHIBITION | KOLKATA, WEST BENGAL and Bicholim mines in Goa. This was part of The 13th International Mining & Machinery Exhibition (IMME) in 2016 featured 290 exhibitors, with the Star Rating Scheme implementation of participants from countries such as Australia, China, Germany and Russia. At the event, Vedanta the Sustainable Development Framework showcased its CSR and Sustainability initiatives. This immersive experience was applauded by numerous visitors, ranging from company directors and government ofﬁcials to students and prospective vendors. (SDF) formulated and ﬁnalised by the Ministry of Mines. CIVIL SOCIETY Civil society plays multiple roles in the nation's governance and development agenda alongside governments and industry. They are facilitators, GLOBAL INVESTORS' SUMMIT | MOMENTUM JHARKHAND conveners, innovators as well as service providers, advocates and grantors of societal license. We strongly believe that civil society is a glue that Mr. Anil Agrawal announced various business and social initiatives for the state, at the binds public and private activity together in such a way that it ampliﬁes the common good. With an overarching mission to serve society, we are Momentum Jharkhand Global Investors' Summit. The summit aims to establish Jharkhand as a always eager to engage in a constructive dialogue and take feedback. Our recently conducted third party dipstick assessment with various premier investment destination for both foreign as well as domestic investors. stakeholders including civil society showed our improvement in creating harmony among our local communities in India, South Africa and Zambia. 67 68 STRATEGIC ENGAGING WITH COMMUNITIES We work in some of the world's most remote regions, and we have a responsibility towards the local communities. We follow a two-pronged approach: We undertake CSR activities to create a COMMUNICATIONS positive social impact, and we proactively engage with the community to resolve trust deﬁcit issues, if any. We listen intently to concerns of the community, evaluate and address them. We also share factual data on how the community will beneﬁt economically, socially and environmentally through our projects. We have close to 100 Nand Ghars operational across 5 states in India. These new-age rural preschools attract local communities and bring in effective dialogue with all stakeholders. The project also leverages digital programmes and engaging visuals, in solar-powered centres that ADVOCACY SDG17 provide uninterrupted electricity. The women and children who come to these centres lead a healthier life, learn new skills and use the communication tools that empower them. VEDANSH A NEWS MAGAZINE DEDICATED TO AND CREATED BY PARTNER COMMUNITIES In Odisha last year, Vedansh was launched to create awareness on developmental initiatives, technical excellence, innovation, sustainable efforts, commitment of our workforce in Lanjigarh and Jharsughuda and our commitment to the state and nation to a wider section of people. 'Vedansh' our As a sector leader, active industry advocacy is a responsibility of Vedanta. We invest resources to set the narrative for the future of the natural development diary, is telecast every Sunday on News 7. News 7 is among the top two Odia News Channels of Odisha with a wide viewership base resources industry. globally viewed by Odia community. We have a deep understanding of the issues that affect the industry including the strengths, weaknesses challenges and strengths of the sector. Over the years, we have nurtured a team of experts who are specialists in advocacy across speciﬁc stakeholder segments right from shaping of For more information about our community-centric initiatives and programmes, please refer to the Community section on page 53. public policies to informing the community about our efforts in education, health and livelihood. I N I T I AT I V E EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT GLOBAL NATURAL RESOURCES CONCLAVE 2017 | DELHI Our employees are our brand ambassadors and it is vital that they remain updated about the vision, mission, goals and progress of the Group and its businesses. We engage with them on a regular basis through town hall meetings, e-zines, newsletters, social media, group interactions and the newly introduced V-connect app. Our engagements have a threefold objective: receive on-ground feedback on stakeholder expectations, listen to Network 18 & The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) organized the ﬁrst 'Global Natural their views on ongoing initiatives, and receive suggestions for new ones, plus keep them informed about the organisation's actions and plans so Resources Conclave', on 4th & 5th April 2017. This event was curated by Vedanta that they feel connected and can hold informed conversations with stakeholders. Resources. This initiative aims to position India as a formidable global player in the natural resources landscape. It will, therefore, enable an opportunity for global business to partake of the untapped opportunity in India. It was endorsed by the Indian Government's Ministry Newsletters & Publications of Environment Forest and Climate Change, Ministry of Mines, Ministry of Steel. Here are some of the Group-wide and business-speciﬁc newsletters that help us engage with the employees in a transparent and timely manner. Pulse The Group-wide HR newsletter covers a plethora of topics like messages from the top BALCO Manch The BALCO newsletter leadership, engagement initiatives across the group, updates on various workshops and highlights the impacts of various CSR performance indicators and future plans keeping our employees abreast about current events. activities, the awards and accolades won by the business and shares the leadership's Weekly Buzz An E-Newsletter published by Vedanta Limited Jharsuguda, it provides vision for future. employees, a platform to share interesting aspects of their professional and personal life. Konkola News The KCM newsletter includes Zinc News The in-house newsletter of HZL includes the Chairman's message, town hall updates, the CEO's message, updates on technology, updates and impacts of various CSR activities and the seminar/workshop calendar for the month safety and training, and testimonials and case ahead. Its section 'Ask for Zinc' highlights little known usages of zinc in everyday life. studies of employees. CORPORATE CAMPAIGN Panel Discussion on Sustainable Development (L-R) Prodipto Ghosh; Ravichandran Purushothaman; Andrew MacLeod; Pierre Gratton; Anuradha Sengupta; Amita Prasad; Mark Wiseman; Kirit Parikh A strong brand effectively achieves acceptance among all its stakeholders, and builds employee Lending support to the Conclave were domain experts, country partners and global think tanks active in the space. These include The satisfaction and retention, adding value to the core purpose of the organisation. On March Energy and Resources Institute, World Economic Forum & World Business Council for Sustainable Development, International Council 27, 2017, we launched our corporate advertising campaign, to create awareness on the positive on Mining and Metals, Federation of Indian Petroleum Industry, among others. impact of natural resources in the lives of every individual. The statement 'Transforming Elements', in the form of a tagline, is the single most visible The two-day Conclave also built scale and gravitas through collaboration with Canada sharing the 'Country manifestation of our diversiﬁed natural resources business which produces metals essential to Perspective' at the Conclave. The Conclave saw proactive collaboration from 30 countries and industry leaders everyday life, infrastructure, technology and ensuring self-sufﬁciency of any country's economy as well as the most inﬂuential Indian and global names in the natural resources space spanning all sub-sectors and contributing to a sustainable future. The campaign plays a signiﬁcant role in augmenting including oil & natural gas, mining & minerals, power, metals aluminium, copper and zinc, etc. Vedanta's brand equity in the society at large with the pledge of dedicating 75% of the wealth created to social good. 69 70 STRATEGIC CORPORATE Hindustan Zinc received a commendation for DISCLOSURE & Signiﬁcant Achievement in Corporate Excellence, at the CII-ITC Sustainability Awards 2016 AWARDS & ABOUT COMMUNICATIONS INNOVATION & TECHNOLOGY ASSURANCE Team TPP (2400 MW) won the 'IPPAI ACCOLADES INNOVATION AWARD' in Energy Conservation and Alternate Usage of fuel category THIS REPORT Sustainability is an integral part of our business strategy and the awards and laurels that are bestowed upon us every year, distinguish us from the This is our eighth Sustainable Development Report and coincides with the publication of our Annual Report. competition and validates our leadership in the market. This year too, we were recognised for our excellence in various spheres of sustainability. Combined these two documents provide an overview of our approach and our achievements in FY 2016-17, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversiﬁed natural resource company. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & CSR ENERGY CONSERVATION ENVIRONMENT Reporting Scope and Boundary Covering the ﬁnancial year 2016-17, the report is structured around our Sustainable Development Model's pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding and Sharing Value, and Strategic Communications. All group subsidiary companies except Fujirah gold have been reported in full as though they were 100% wholly owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of inﬂuence the Group has over these operations. The aspect boundaries and content of this Sustainable Development Report have been deﬁned using reporting principles prescribed in the GRI G4 guidelines and is prepared 'in accordance' Core criteria of the Global Reporting Vedanta Limited won in the 'Mining Metals Cairn O&G Business was awarded the 'Game Sterlite Copper bagged '4 Star Rating' Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. and Minerals' category at the Dun & Changer Oil & Gas Company of the year' Award in the CII Southern Region Bradstreet Corporate Awards 2016 by Petroleum Federation of India Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) We followed the approach described in GRI implementation manual for designing the report content. The material PetroFed, for its continuous outstanding work Awards aspects that have been covered in the report are clearly brought out in the materiality matrix. In the report, the DMA CII survey ranked Vedanta among Top 10 on Enhanced Oil Recovery project. most Sustainable companies in India Vedanta led the India Disclosure Index 2016 (Disclosure on Management Approach) describes the Company's approach to the subjects relevant to it and the Jharsuguda CPP unit received the 'Excellent and emerged as the only company in the indicators provide details on performance on the speciﬁc subjects. Cairn O&G Business was awarded the 'Special Energy Efﬁcient Unit' award at the17th natural resources sector to achieve full Technical Award (Corporate) Sustainability National Energy Management 2016 score across all disclosure parameters There are no speciﬁc restatements of the information provided in the previous reports and no signiﬁcant changes in and Corporate Social Responsibility' at terms of acquisition and physical boundaries from the previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Petrotech Sterlite Copper received the 'Energy Efﬁcient BALCO's Bodai-Daldali Mines in Kabeerdham Unit' Award at the 17th National Energy were proud recipients of the Greentech The report is also mapped to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and United Nations Sustainable Institute of Directors commended Talwandi Management Award 2016 held by CII GBC Safety Gold Award Sabo Power Limited's efforts towards Development Goals (UN SDGs) principles. It reports our approach and disclosure towards triple bottom line principles ensuring a sustainable future Hindustan Zinc received the much-coveted Sterlite Copper was awarded the people, planet and proﬁt over the ﬁnancial year 2016-17. SAP ACE Award 2016 for its Hindustan CII National Award for Excellence in Water Hindustan Zinc Limited won in the 'NonZinc MII Project Management, for its zero-discharge plant Ferrous & Precious Metals' category at the with storage pond Dun & Bradstreet Corporate Awards 2016 BALCO awarded as the Excellent Energy GRI G4 Content and Disclosure Document Efﬁcient Unit at the 17 CII National Awards Hindustan Zinc won the CII National Award The GRI G4 detailed content index and Vedanta GRI G4 Disclosure Document FY 2016-17 includes the core and additional for Excellence in Water Management, 2016 indicators including the Mining and Metal and Oil and Gas supplements disclosure is available on our website. OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE HEALTH & SAFETY COMMUNITY Vedanta Limited Odisha received the Zinc International's Black Mountain Mining TSPL team won the 'Organization Assurance and Disclosure Best Exporter's Award 2014-15 from won the Southern African Institute of Mining Category'Social & Community Impact at Government of Odisha and Metallurgy's prestigious Health and the 9th India Power Awards 2016 Assurance of this report was carried out by KPMG under ‘limited assurance’ services in accordance with the ISAE 3000. There Wellness Award is an internal approval system in the Company for appointment of external assurance provider for the sustainability report. Sterlite Copper bagged the Golden Peacock Sesa Goa Iron Ore awarded the Best Business Excellence Award The Konkola Geology First Aid Team won the Education Improvement Award by the 11th Chamber of Mines Inter-Mine First Aid National Awards for Excellence in CSR & Vedanta's Value Addition Business won the Competition Sustainability Frost & Sullivan's India Manufacturing Excellence Awards (IMEA) EMPLOYEE LEADERSHIP Hindustan Zinc Central Research and Vedanta featured among the 100 best Vedanta was conferred the '2016 India Development Laboratory (CRDL) received the companies for Women by the Working Non-Ferrous Growth Excellence 'Par Excellence Award' at the 4th National Mother Research Institute and AVTAR Leadership Award' and the '2016 India Conclave Mining/Minerals Growth Excellence Vedanta was also awarded 'Top Companies Leadership' Award at the Frost & Sullivan Sterlite Copper bagged the to Work for in Asia' by Asia Corporate India Best Practices Awards Manufacturing Supply Award 2016, Excellence & Sustainability (ACES) presented by Future Supply Chain, for Cairn O&G Business received the National Excellence in Manufacturing Supply Chain Sterlite Copper won the Golden Peacock HR CSR Leadership Award for Cairn Centre of Heavy Engineering Excellence Award for Overall Excellence in Excellence and its Safe Drinking Water HR and People Management Practices initiatives Cairn O&G Business won the DL Shah Gold Quality Award for its Integrated Quality Jharsuguda received the coveted Sesa Goa Iron Ore won the 'Environmental Management Approach in Rajasthan BW Business World HR Excellence Award Leadership Award' in the Responsible for Excellence in Workplace Practice Business Awards Innovation for the year 2016 71 72 DISCLOSURE & ASSURANCE ASSURANCE STATEMENT KPMG (Registered) Tel.: +91 124 307 4000 Building No. 10, 8th Floor, Tower-C Fax: +91 124 254 9101 DLF Cyber City, Phase-II, Gurugram 122 002 (India) www.kpmg.com/in The Management and Board of Directors METHODOLOGY ADOPTED FOR ASSURANCE Vedanta Resources Plc Our assurance processes involve performing procedures to obtain evidence about the reliability of speciﬁed performance information. The nature, timing and extent 16th Berkeley Street, London, United Kingdom, W1J 8DZ of procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the selected sustainability disclosures whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we have considered internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE STATEMENT We have obtained sample evidence, information and explanations that were considered necessary in relation to the assurance scope and have arrived at conclusions mentioned below. Our work included a range of evidence-gathering procedures including: KPMG in India (KPMG) was engaged by Vedanta Resources Plc ('the Company' or 'Vedanta') to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report for • Assessing that the report is prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 in accordance FY 2016-17 ('the Report'). The Report is prepared by the Company based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines 'in-accordance core' disclosure criteria Core criteria). for sustainability reporting. • Reviewing the Report to ensure that there is no misrepresentation of disclosures as per scope of assurance and our ﬁndings. The development of Report, its content, identiﬁcation of key material issues, engaging with stakeholders is the sole responsibility of the management of the • Reviewing the materiality and stakeholder engagement framework deployed at Vedanta. Company. KPMG's responsibility is to provide limited assurance on the Report content as described in the scope of assurance. • Understanding the appropriateness of various assumptions used for estimation of data by Vedanta. • Assessing the systems used for data collection and reporting of the General Standard Disclosures and Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures of material aspects as listed in REPORTING CRITERIA the assurance scope above. Vedanta applies its sustainability performance reporting criteria based on Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) including the • Verifying systems and procedures used for quantiﬁcation, collation and analysis of sustainability performance indicators included in the Report. Mining and Metals and Oil & Gas Sector Disclosures, National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG) • Testing on a sample basis, the evidence supporting the data and information. framed by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), Government of India, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles, International Council on Mining and • Holding discussion with senior executives at the plant locations and at the corporate ofﬁce to understand the risks and opportunities from a sustainability Metals(ICMM) and Sustainable Development Goal frameworks for the Company as detailed in the 'Scope, Boundary and Limitations'. perspective including the strategy that Vedanta has adopted to address the same. • Assessing data reliability and accuracy. ASSURANCE STANDARDS USED • Verifying select key performance data through site visits to operational locations and corporate ofﬁce for: We conducted limited assurance in accordance with the requirements of International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), International Standard on Assurance Testing reliability and accuracy of data on a sample basis. Engagement [(ISAE) 3000, (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Under this standard, we have reviewed Assessing stakeholder engagement process through interactions with relevant internal stakeholders and review of related documentation. the selected information presented in the Report against the criteria of relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability. Limited review of the materiality assessment process Reviewing the processes deployed for collection, compilation and reporting of sustainability performance indicators at corporate and plant level. SCOPE, BOUNDARY AND LIMITATIONS OF ASSURANCE Appropriate documentary evidence was obtained on a sample basis to support our conclusions on the information and data veriﬁed. Where such documentary evidence The Assurance has been provided for sustainability performance disclosures presented by Vedanta in its Report for the period 01 April 2016 to 31 March 2017. Our Scope could not be collected due to sensitive nature of information, our team veriﬁed the same at Vedanta's premises. of assurance included veriﬁcation of the sample data and information on material aspects reported at the following units/locations and Corporate ofﬁce at Gurgaon: • Vedanta Limited (Jharsuguda smelter & power plant, Orissa) • Zinc International (Konkola Copper Mines, Zambia) CONCLUSIONS • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Chanderiya Lead Zinc Smelter, Rajasthan) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rajpura Dariba Mines & Smelter, Rajasthan) We have reviewed the Sustainability Report of Vedanta. Based on our review and procedures performed as described above, nothing has come to our attention that • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Rampur Agucha, Rajasthan) • Cairn India Ltd. (Mangla Processing Terminal) causes us not to believe that the sustainability data and information presented in the Report is fairly represented in line with the identiﬁed material issues and is in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative. • Vedanta Ltd. Sesa Iron Ore (Value Added Business, Goa) • Cairn India Ltd. (Suvali Terminal) We have provided our observation to the company in a separate management letter. These, do not, however, affect our conclusions regarding the Report. • Vedanta Ltd. Sesa Iron Ore, (Codli Mines, Goa) • Vedanta Resources Plc (Corporate Ofﬁce, Gurgaon) • Cairn India Ltd. (Rageshwari Gas Terminal) • Hindustan Zinc Limited (Corporate Ofﬁce, Udaipur) INDEPENDENCE • Cairn India Ltd. (Ravva Onshore) • Cairn India Limited (Corporate Ofﬁce, Gurgaon) The assurance was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including professionals with suitable skills and experience in verifying environmental, social and economic • Cairn India Ltd. (Bhagyam ﬁeld) information in line with the requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised) standard. Our work was performed in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance ﬁrm (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client, in relation to the scope of this assurance engagement, including not being involved in writing the The assurance scope excludes: Report. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, conﬁdentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conﬂicts regarding independence. The ﬁrm • Data and information outside the deﬁned reporting period and boundary; applies ISQC 1 and the practitioner complies with the applicable independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA code. • The Company's ﬁnancial performance; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and assertions related to Intellectual Property Rights; and RESPONSIBILITIES • Aspects of the report other than those mentioned below; Vedanta is responsible for developing the Report contents. The Company is also responsible for identiﬁcation of material sustainability issues, establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems and derivation of performance data reported. This statement is made solely to the Management of Vedanta in accordance with the terms of our engagement and as per scope of assurance. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to The General and Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures subject to assurance were as follows: Vedanta those matters for which we have been engaged to state in this statement and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Vedanta for our work, for this Report, or for the conclusions expressed in this independent assurance statement. The General Standard Disclosures assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete and true. We expressly disclaim any liability or coresponsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this assurance statement. By reading this assurance statement, stakeholders acknowledge and • Strategy and Analysis: G4-1 • Organizational Proﬁle: G4-3 to G4-16 • Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries: G4-17 to G4-23 agree to the limitations and disclaimers mentioned above. • Stakeholder Engagement: G4-24 to G427 • Report Proﬁle: G4-28 to G4-33 • Governance: G4-34 • Ethics and Integrity: G4-56 Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures • Environment: Energy (G4 EN3, G4 EN5, G4 EN6, G4 OG2, G4 OG3) | Water (G4 EN8, G4-EN10) | Biodiversity (G4 EN11, G4-EN14) Emissions (G4 EN15, G4 EN16, G4 EN18, G4 EN21) | Efﬂuents and Waste (G4 EN22 to G4 EN24,OG-5,OG-7, G4 MM3) • Labor Practices and Decent Work: Employment (G4 LA1 to G4 LA3) | Occupational Health and Safety (G4 LA6) | Training & Education (G4 LA9 to G4 LA11) Santhosh Jayaram Diversity and Equal Opportunity (G4 LA12) Partner • Human rights: Non-discrimination (G4 HR3) | Child Labor (G4 HR5) | Forced or Compulsory Labor (G4 HR6) KPMG • Society: Local Communities (G4-SO1, G4-SO2) 16 June 2017 73 74 DISCLOSURE & EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT We continue to uphold the ten principles of the UNGC. Our Sustainable Development report communicates our progress in implementing the ten principles, and below we have mapped the principles against our various sustainability aspects and speciﬁc report sections. Aspect UNGC Principle Report Reference Page No. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights 38-40 Internationally proclaimed Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights 39, 14 Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective Human Rights 39 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Child and Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Human Rights 40 Forced labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Human Rights 39 WE ARE DRIVEN BY PASSION Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Employees 50 WE DRIVE THE CHANGE Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environment 25 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental sustainability Environment 29 Governance 15 WE ASK MORE QUESTIONS Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Environment 37, 29 Customers 47 WE FIND MORE ANSWERS Ethics and Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Governance 13 Integrity extortion and bribery WE QUESTION LEGACY UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (UN SDGs) WE EMBRACE OPPORTUNITIES In September 2015, the UN member states agreed on a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to end poverty, ﬁght inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. This year, we have prioritised the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs based on materiality issues and operational competency. We are now in the process of chalking out targets and action plans to address the relevant Goals. Given below is our SDG priority list which states our endeavours that align with the said goals. WE ARE MORE GLOBALLY AWARE SDGs Page No. WE ARE SENSITIVE TO LOCAL NEEDS Report Reference SDG1 Poverty Community Relations 53-63 SDG5 Gender Equality Employee 50 Community Relations 60 WE DON'T LIKE BEING SECOND SDG6 Clean Water and Sanitation Community Relations 57 WE PUT ENVIRONMENT FIRST SDG7 Affordable and Clean Energy Environment 25,27 SDG8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Employee 48-52 SDG13 Climate Action Environment 27 Our Strategy and Approach 09 WE LIKE TO GENERATE WEALTH SDG14 Life on Land Biodiversity 29 WE LOVE TO GIVE BACK SDG2 SDG4 SDG3 Hunger Quality Education Good Health and Well-being Community Relations Community Relations Safety and Occupational Health 53-55 55, 56, 62 21,52 WE ARE THE WE ARE Community Relations 57 SDG10 Reduced Inequalities Employees 50 Community Relations 53-63 SDG11 Sustainable Cities and Communities Community Relations 53-63 SDG5 SDG9 Gender Equality Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Environment Employee Community Relations Strategic Communications 29 50 60 67, 71 FUTURE VEDANTA CEO's Message 06 SDG12 Responsible Consumption and Production Environment 25-33 SDG16 Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Governance 13 Human Rights 38 SDG17 Partnership for the Goals Advocacy 70 Stakeholder Engagement 37 75 Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street, London W1J 3DZ, Tel.: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 | Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 | vedantaresources.com GET IN TOUCH MORE ONLINE View our online Annual Report We value your feedback and View our online http://www.vedantaresources.com/ welcome comments on this report Comprehensive SD Report investor-relations/results-andor any aspect of our approach to sd.vedantaresources.com/ reports/annual-interimsustainability reporting. SustainableDevelopment2016-17/ reports.aspx sustainability@vedanta.co.in cognito This report has been printed on environment-friendly paper.
