Global Compact 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2016 Contents Dear readers, Foreword 3 Our affirmation of the Global Compact has committed With the current Progess Report, we document our Aurubis AG, since the end of 2014, to to be guided by measures and activities that fulfill the requirements Introduction the ten principles of the Global Compact regarding of responsible business operations and are thereby About Aurubis 4 human rights, work standards, environmental protection driving sustainable progress. We have, for example, set United Nations Global Compact 5 and anti-corruption throughout the Group in the shaping ourselves the goal of zero work accidents throughout of its business processes and strategies. the Group with “Vision Zero”. Starting in the summer The 10 principles of the Global Compact of 2018, an entire city district near our headquarters Human Rights 6 In our economic environment, in how we interact with in Hamburg will be heated by CO2-free district heating Labor 8 the environment, our employees and society, we act that is created through our production process. Just by Environment 9 responsibly and in an entrepreneurial spirit. extracting and reusing this heat, roughly 20,000 tons of Anti-corruption 13 CO2 will be saved each year. Aurubis presented its new Vision 2025 in March 2017. Passion for metallurgy. Metals for progress. Together with The principles of the Global Compact are in line with the you. It contains a clear commitment to sustainability. values and principles on which we conduct our business. We take concrete initiatives to fulfill this aspiration. And Global We want to be the leader in sustainable processing of I will work hard to ensure that we do this in the future primary and secondary raw materials. We want to use as well. I invite you to take a look at our activities and to our expertise in resource-efficient production of copper join the discourse with us. You can find further informaCompact for other non-ferrous metals in the future as well. tion and our Sustainability and Environmental Reports online at www.aurubis.com/responsibility. 2016 As a leading integrated copper company and the world’s largest copper recycler, we already make a deciding conKind regards, tribution to supplies in copper and non-ferrous metals through our original business activity. We want to process increasingly complex raw materials in an even more sustainable way and help close the Jürgen Schachler Your contact for this report: material cycle for copper and other metals. Hamburg, May 2017 Kirsten Kück Sustainability Manager Phone +49 40 7883-3270 k.kueck@aurubis.com Foreword 3 About Aurubis United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Aurubis has production sites in Europe and the USA and an extensive service and sales system for copper products in Europe, Asia and North America. The larger production centers are located in Germany, Belgium and Bulgaria. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing Aurubis was founded in 1866 as Norddeutsche Affinthe principles of the United Nations Global Compact. erie Aktiengesellschaft in Hamburg and celebrated its 150-year anniversary in 2016. To this day, the company, which has more than 6,400 employees around the We welcome feedback on its contents. world, is centrally managed from its corporate and administrative headquarters in Hamburg. Sustainability as an integral part of the corporate strategy Aurubis is oriented to sustainable growth and to increasing corporate value. We generate the highest Aurubis is a leading integrated copper added value from various raw materials along the entire group and the world’s largest copper value chain using the expertise that comes together Aurubis has participated in the United The following tables show guidelines, management systems and measures that Aurubis has put in place and recycler. We produce more than 1.1 milin our company in smelting, refining, metal recovery, Nations Global Compact since December executes in order to implement the principles. It also recycling and copper processing. lion t of copper cathodes annually and 2014. The UN Global Compact is based shows the specific activities and progress made in 2016. a variety of non-ferrous metal products. Sustainability plays a central role in all of our activion ten principles related to human rights, You can find further detailed information in our sustainties. This is why we treat the environment and limited Metallurgy is our passion, production natural resources with care. We exhibit responsibility labor, environment and anti-corruption. ability reports, the Aurubis Environmental Statements and Reports and, finally, in the Annual Reports (all availtowards our employees, suppliers, customers and expertise is our strength. neighbors. The same is true for the areas surrounding able at www.aurubis.com). We inform our employees as well as external stakeholders regularly about the imour plants to minimize possible negative effects of our plementation of the UN Global Compact principles. We business activities on the environment, employees and The Aurubis Group do so in events such as the new dialogue series CU2Talk, society as much as possible. Aurubis is a leading international integrated copper the interand intranet and the employee magazine CU. group whose core competencies lie in the production Our Sustainability Strategy specifies the main areas of of copper, in recycling metals and in manufacturing activity as well as the corresponding plans for action copper products. The production of other non-ferrous and goals. We report regularly – within the company metals, precious metals and special products completes and to the outside – on the degree to which these have our range of services. Aurubis is therefore represented been achieved. in the significant parts of the value chain for copper. Further information can be found at www.aurubis.com/responsibility 4 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2016 Introduction 5 Human Rights Principle 01: Affirmations, regulations and management systems Activities in 2016 and assessment of the results Businesses should support and » Affirmation of commitment to the ILO Core Labor Standards » Percentage of – mostly long-term – contracts for primary raw materials respect the protection of interna» Aurubis requires its business partners, particularly those in primary raw that contain the aforementioned clause to adhere to UN Conventions tionally proclaimed human rights. material sourcing, to adhere to UN conventions on human rights increased to more than 80 % Principle 02: » Sustainability strategy » Training sessions (for security personnel) on human rights issues at all » Supplier screening company locations. Businesses should make sure they » Code of conduct valid throughout the Group » Continuation of the stakeholder dialogue on social issues are not complicit in human rights » Compliance management abuses. » PRIMA company values* *Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, » Group-wide guideline to avoid raw materials for gold manufacturing from Mutability, and Appreciation. They form the anagram PRIMA. Employees from all conflict zones (“Gold Supply Policy”) company locations developed these five » Due diligence guidelines of the OECD (Organisation for Economic company-wide values in 2009. The principles in this form a Code of Conduct, which Co-operation and Development) is regularly checked and adjusted. » “Good Delivery” status in the London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) confirmed for the fourth consecutive time » Vision Zero: Reducing workplace accidents as an aim of the sustainability strategy Measures » Inclusion of a clause to adhere to UN sanctions and trade restrictions as well as UN conventions related to human rights, environmental protection and safety in all new supply contracts for primary raw materials » Business Partner Screening: Screening all suppliers and customers under aspects of sustainability, compliance and tax law » Whistle-blowing hotline (in multiple languages) Downloads S ustainability Report 2015 Aurubis Code of Conduct PRIMA company values (integrated into the Code of Conduct) Further Information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Sustainability Management Supply chain www.aurubis.com/corporate_governance www.aurubis.com/goldproducts 6 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2016 The 10 principles of the Global Compact 7 Labor Environment Principle 03: Affirmations, regulations and management systems Principle 07: Affirmations, regulations and management systemse Businesses should uphold the » PRIMA company values* Businesses should support a pre» Company guidelines on environmental protection freedom of association and the » Code of conduct valid throughout the Group cautionary approach to environ» Corporate Environmental Protection Policy effective recognition of the right » Compliance management mental challenges. » Strategic environmental goals to collective bargaining. » Develop measures to increase interest among girls and women for techPrinciple 08: » Affirmation of external guidelines such as Responsible Care Principle 04: nical education and professions as an aim of the sustainability strategy » Membership and active participation in the leading economic, industry Businesses should undertake and scientific associations Businesses should uphold the Measures initiatives to promote greater » Dedicated organizational units for environmental protection at every elimination of all forms of forced environmental responsibility. » Whistle-blowing hotline location or in every plant and compulsory labor. Principle 09: » Measures related to diversity » Introduction of an integrated management system (IMS) for Aurubis AG Principle 05: Businesses should encourage for the environment, quality and energy. Businesses should uphold the Activities in 2016 and assessment of the results the development and diffusion » Certification in accordance with the “WEEE End Processor Standard” effective abolition of child labor. » Training sessions carried out In 2016, approximately 400 participants of environmentally friendly tech(voluntary standard on end-processing of precious metal-containing Principle 06: attended training sessions on antitrust and anti-corruption law. nologies. WEEE fractions such as circuit boards; WEEE = Waste of Electrical and » Continuation of the stakeholder dialogue on issues of sustainability (for Electronic Equipment) Businesses should uphold the example as part of the 2016 Aurubis Sustainability Day, participation » Participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project elimination of discrimination in the process by the German federal government to create a national » Stakeholder dialogue with non-governmental organizations and environin respect of employment and action plan (NAP) for Business and Human Rights) mental associations occupation. » “Sustainability Week” held for Aurubis trainees » Hamburg master plan for climate protection *Our corporate values (PRIMA) are Performance, Responsibility, Integrity, Mutability and » Aurubis is doing intensive research and development work to continually Appreciation. PRIMA, which means “great” optimize products and processes and expand its position as a technological in German, is derived from the first letter of each value. leader through new processes. The consideration of current and future environmental standards, an efficient approach to resources and the continuous reduction of emissions are important criteria in this respect. Downloads S ustainability Report 2015 Aurubis Code of Conduct PRIMA company values (integrated into the Code of Conduct) Further Information www.aurubis.com/responsibility Sustainability Management Employees and society www.aurubis.com/corporate_governance www.aurubis.com/compliance www.mintpink.de 8 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2016 The 10 principles of the Global Compact 9 Climate protection Air Nature Protection & Water Biodiversity Measures Select examples » Group-wide environmental goals (medium and long-term) including » New off-gas treatment plant at the Pirdop site since March 2016 Noise Soil target achievement control » Optimization of the water treatment plant at the Pirdop site » Location-specific environmental goals (short and medium-term) » Optimization of the rainwater retention, treatment and usage facility to Waste including target achievement control reduce the use of city water in Lünen » Continual improvement of water, soil and emission protection as well as » Participation in the European research initiative “FORCE – Cities cooperEnvironmental targets until end efficient use of energy and resources in the production plants ating for circular economy” to develop new concepts to avoid and treat of 2018 » Commitment to the EU project on achieving an environmental balance waste, with a focus on electrical and electronic waste between organizations and products: “Organisational Environmental » Participation in the UnternehemensNatur (Company Nature) NABU Air Footprint” and “Product Environmental Footprint” (2016: testing and project » Target: Reducing dust emissions in copper development phase of the methods) » Active involvement in energy efficiency networks as part of an initiative production by over 10 % compared to 2012 » Internal and external audits to test the effectiveness of environmental, of German government and business » Example: Reduction of diffuse emissions at the KRS area in Lünen energy and quality management systems » Participation in NEW 4.0, a large interregional project to identify optimi» Regular transfer of information between the environmental and energy zation potential in the area of electricity generation Water » T argets: Reducing metal emissions to water in officers at all production locations » Energy Efficiency Award for highly efficient electricity production from copper production by about 10 % compared » Expansion of the stakeholder dialogue on environmental issues waste heat at the Lünen site to 2012 » E xample: Optimising new rain water treatment » Continued implementation of the voluntary agreement with the city of system in Lünen Activities in 2016 and assessment of the results Hamburg to further reduce emissions in collaboration with the Hamburg » More than € 15 million of investments in environmental protection for Authority for Urban Development and the Environment Soil » Target: Reducing input of harmful substances copper production in 2015, approximately € 530 million since 2000. » After being selected as “Best Newcomer” in 2015, Aurubis received the into soil and groundwater » € 13 million of investments in R&D in fiscal year 2015/16 status “Index Leader” of the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2016, making it » Example: Further sealing of plant premises in Lünen » (Re-) certification of the environmental, energy and quality management one of the top 7 MDAX companies systems at all production locations » Preparation of the lighthouse project on the use of industrial waste heat Waste » Target: Increasing the recycling rates » Achievement of the Group-wide environmental protection standards in recovery for the eastern part of Hamburg’s Hafencity » Example: Stronger marketing of fayalite all areas » The opening of a production plant (Umicast 6) at the Olen site whose in Pirdop (BG) » Significant outperformance of the emission reduction targets energy consumption is reduced by 15 % through efficient technology Noise » Completion of countless measures at all locations to improve the » Cooperation in the installation of wind turbines at the Olen site with an » Target: Reducing noise emissions especially environmental performance output of up to 28,000 MWh of electricity (annual savings of more than as part of new technical projects 12,000 tons of CO2) Nature Protection & Biodiversity » Active involvement in the Eurometaux industry association (environment, » Target: Improvement of nature protection at the production sites energy and climate change, as well as sustainability committees) » Example: Participation in the NABU project » Annual report of sustainability indicators to the International Copper „UnternehmensNatur“ in Hamburg Association (ICA) to show how the copper industry is contributing to Climate protection sustainability goals » Target: Reducing CO2 emissions by 100,000 t of CO2 compared to 2012 through energy efficiency projects and heat recovery projects » Example: Use of industrial waste heat for district heating in Hamburg 10 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2016 The 10 principles of the Global Compact 11 Anti-corruption » Official confirmation of the environmental and health compatibility of Principle 10: Affirmations, regulations and management systems Aurubis Finland’s Nordic Products through successful certification in Businesses should work against » Affirmation of the German Corporate Governance Code accordance with ISO 14025 and EN 15804 corruption in all its forms, includ» Code of Conduct » Third Aurubis Sustainability Day, “On the Path to a Real Circular Economy” ing extortion and bribery. » Compliance management (Lünen, November 2016) » Risk management » Aurubis Hamburg and Lünen: Sustainability Week for trainees » Extension of the partnership for air quality and low emission mobility Measures with the city of Hamburg until 2020 and implementation of the sixth » Compliance training sessions carried out voluntary agreement to reduce emissions; start of the Hamburg theme » Risk assessment week on the air quality partnership at the Hamburg Aurubis plant in » Business Partner Screening: Screening all suppliers and customers under September 2016 aspects of sustainability, compliance and tax law » Pirdop: Special prize “Environmentally Friendly Water Infrastructure” » Whistle-blowing hotline (in multiple languages) » Participation in the Hamburg environmental economic summit in June 2016 as part of the environmental partnership Activities in 2016 and assessment of the results » Affiliation of Aurubis Stolberg with seven additional companies to form » Focus topics of the training sessions in 2016 were: Antitrust and the Energy Efficiency Network Aachen anti-corruption » In 2016, approximately 400 participants attended training sessions on antitrust and anti-corruption law. » Examination of all business units for the risk of corruption as part of the institutionalized and regular risk assessment Downloads Aurubis Environmental Report 2015 Aurubis Environmental Statement 2016 Aurubis Sustainability Report 2015 Table of certifications by location Downloads Further Information Aurubis Sustainability Report 2015 www.aurubis.com/responsibility Environment & Energy Product Responsibility Sustainability Management Certificates Further Information www.cdp.net/en www.aurubis.com/corporate_governance www.eurometaux.eu www.aurubis.com/compliance www.sustainablecopper.org/en www.aurubis.com/responsibility www.ce-force.eu www.aurubis.com/annual report 12 Aurubis · United Nations Global Compact · Communication on Progress 2016 The 10 principles of the Global Compact 13 Global Compact 2016 aurubis.com Aurubis AG Hovestrasse 50 EN_17/05 D-20539 Hamburg Phone +49 40 7883-0 Fax +49 40 7883-2255 info@aurubis.com
