COP 2016 CONTENT Declaration of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Description of Actions Human Rights .................................................................................... 5 Labour........................................................................................... 7 Envirronment .................................................................................... 9 Anti-Corruption ................................................................................. 13 Equality and Diversity ........................................................................... 15 Selected Sustainable Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 Cover: Copenhagen International School – Nordhavn New school building for the Copenhagen International School designed to link the school premises with the public sphere in the urban environment. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT C.F. Møller Architects has since the beginning in 1924 had a strong focus and social and environmental sustainability and we are happy to say this focus has only increased over the years. C.F. Møller has been a big part of building Sincerely Yours, up the welfare states in Scandinavia and The partnership of C.F. Møller exporting the ideas of social and environmental sustainability worldwide since 1924. Klaus Toustrup Tom Danielsen We constantly strive to innovate new methods to deliver long-lasting architectural solutions Mads Mandrup Julian Weyer for the benefit of our clients, the environment and not only the users of the building but also the local surroundings rooted in a strong Klavs Hyttel Lone Wiggers ambition to set new global standards. Examples of this in 2016 are our increased use Michael Kruse Mårten Leringe of wood and timber in buildings, education of more staff to use DGNB and an enhanced holistic approach to architectural solutions Christian Dahle fortifying local integration with a global impact. With this 2016 COP, the management of C.F. Møller Architects, again proudly wishes to express their continued support for the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At C.F. Møller Architects, the key to a sustainable and great working space, great facilities and strong relations is to run the company on the principles of human rights. We comply with European laws protecting human rights. At C.F. Møller, we make sure to protect our That is one of the reasons why we are employees from workplace harassment, members of the board in the new association physical, verbal, sexual or psychological that develops and promotes social harassment, abuse or threats through clear and responsibility in the Danish property and strong internal policies. construction sector, The Danish Association for Responsible Construction (Foreningen for We provide safe, suitable and sanitary work Byggeriets Samfundsansvar). facilities. This goes for our own departments in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and England, but is When we work in countries outside the EU, also of great importance at construction sites. we strive to describe and refer to binding We also make sure to only use sub-consultants legislation and human rights laws that must and collaborators who work by the same be taken into account. We emphasize the principles and policies as we do. importance on safety of the work to be performed and on ensuring that work is We try to spread our knowledge and performed in accordance with the human experiences on human rights to the entire rights proclaimed by the United Nations. industry. Policies: C.F. Møller Architects supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We support all current legislation ensuring equal treatment in relation to human rights. We have a formulated CSR policy which can be seen at www.cfmoller.com. 5 LABOUR At our six branch offices, we comply with national laws and regulations governing health and safety, organisation, working conditions, working hours, salaries, child labour and forced labours. We constantly monitor any problems in the We focus on ensuring a working environment health and safety of our employees, and that protects and keeps all employees safe. Our develop new solutions to improve working statistics on work injuries show that our efforts conditions at our offices. do work, and in 2016 we only registered one case of physical work injury for less than two At least every three years, and currently in days. We had no cases of work injuries lasting 2017, we conduct a workplace assessment for longer than two days. (WPA) at our offices in Denmark. This means amongst other things that we evaluate the To safeguard young people working in our working environment and any stresses, the offices we have a policy to ensure fair wages employees may be exposed to – physical as for everyone including students. In our field of well as psychological. The results are analysed work, we receive portfolios every week from and shared with the entire organisation at students who wish to work without payment. practice meetings, and plans of action are We do not think this is a fair way for young implemented to solve any problems. people to enter into the world of architecture and we therefore ensure that they receive proper reimbursement for their work and talents. 7 Örnsro Timber Town will be a destination and a vibrant quarter of Örebro, with a clear ENVIRONMENT idea of how to enrich the city’s social networks by integrating nature into the urban landscape. C.F. Møller Architects keeps focusing on making the world more sustainable through our local projects setting new global standards and advocating sustainability in all our relations. In this way C.F. Møller’s contribution to an CLT Front Runners increased sustainable environment reaches This is the case with CLT (Cross Laminated much furtherthan the location of our offices Timber) where we have increased our work. as a central part our integrated design Both in more projects in Denmark and Sweden approach which seamlessly blends urban and sharing this specific knowledge on TV, in design, landscape, building design and building magazines and newspapers all over the world. component design. Also, we are a part of a national research team in Sweden seeking to constantly push the edge To strengthen this even more we have through of the envelope of what is possible with CLT. 2016 worked on describing our values starting with our vision to improve life for people Educating in Sustainability and planet and our aspiration to be global In London we have completed a Low Carbon influencers by caring for the local context Energy Centre. The Energy Centre is the largest based on innovation, quality and sustainability. new built residential heat network in Europe, This is now an important part of the very basis saving more than 20,000 tonnes of carbon for our work and the way we act. Also, we every year. The building footprint further have made an elaborated version of Code of allows for flexibility in adopting new energy Conduct based on the principles from UN. technology over the building’s substantial lifetime. This makes us global drivers of a more sustainable world through our projects and Also, the centre has a strong focus on through sharing our knowledge in the medias, transparency and insight in the heat production at conferences and through education. to educate people through a visitors’ centre. 9 We have received numerous awards and acknowledgments Education is also a significant part of our DGNB drivers for our work with creating Copenhagen International School which is As a part of the DGNB Association in Denmark architecture and spaces for the most sustainable international school in we are a driver of making DGNB the industry the common good with a Denmark. It has gained worldwide attention standard and we keep proposing the standard strong focus on social with its façade clattered by 12,000 solar to our clients and educate our employees in and environmental panels planned to deliver half of the energy using DGNB. sustainability. consumed by the school. This very visual mark of sustainability plays an important part in In this way we keep increasing focus on educating the pupils to act more sustainably working with DGNB-certified buildings for the correct, and sustainability is now a part of their State, the Regions of Denmark, and for local curriculum. awarding authorities as well as for more and more private clients. As a part of this work Acknowledged for Working we participate in conferences worldwide with for the Common Good lectures on the benefits from DGNB. We have received numerous awards and acknowledgments for our work with creating Green Influencers architecture and spaces for the common An important part of work promoting good with a strong focus on social and sustainability comes from seeking influence environmental sustainability. through relevant networking. As a result of that we are Board Members of Green Building In Aalborg our work with the waterfront Council Denmark, The Danish Association creating a new recreational space for for Responsible Construction and the Danish everybody in the city and for turning a tired Association of Architectural Firms. neighbourhood into a flourishing housing complex with a varied population and for C.F. Møller Architects keeps being involved as everybody to afford keeps being awarded research partner in the development of new and mentioned all over the world. The same sustainable high insulating bricks such as “the goes for our just completed ferry terminal CleanTech-block” with Egernsund Tegl and in Stockholm – an innovative cross between the “Turtlebrick Project” with Technological infrastructure and urban park for everybody in Institute. a new urban space in Stockholm. 10 Värtaterminalen, the city of Stockholm’s new ferry terminal, stands out as landmark for social and Architecture With Added Value The Common Right to Space environmental sustainability. It The Danish Association of Architectural Firms C.F. Møller has been a part of the Biennale in functions both as a new urban park for has in 2016 chosen two of our projects as great Venice called “The Art of Many – The Right to people to engage socially and bring examples of how good architecture adds value Space” focusing on the common right to space life to a complete new urban area to the environment and people using it. One and housing of high quality. A natural place for in Stockholm and infrastructure project is the A.P. Møller School. The school’s C.F. Møller to be present as we are constantly securing a safe and destination interior openness and organization provides a striving for a democratic architecture bringing for more than 4 million starting point for modern, democratic teaching people together and having been a major part passengers a year. in a varied educational environment. of developing Scandinavian Welfare societies through almost a 100 years. The other project is Aarhus gymnastics and motor skills hall – an extension of the Aarhus Gymnastics and Trampoline Hall. The idea of the extension has been to design a hall which motivates the 3-10-year-olds to practice movement. The hall also invites movement through its many footbridges and platforms located along the length of the hall, and flexibly furnished zones called kangaroo land with trampolines and jumping equipment, and a so-called monkey land with ropes and junglelike density. 12 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION We are committed to fight corruption and it is at the heart of our core values to never accept corruption of any kind. We have signed off on the principles of the strong focus on Corporate Social Responsibility UN Global Compact values and our company in all of our business, and we have committed policies reflect this charter. We therefore have a all our employees to the following guidelines: • We ensure, that all our employees are working within the confinements of the law • We ensure that all our workers have a working agreement which safeguard their rights • We analyze our projects to assess whether they can entail specific risk of breaching the Global Compact principles and we take action to avert the breaking of these principles • We offer our clients to take randomized test of building materials on the site of production to ensure there are no breeches of the Global Compact Principles The Maersk Tower has an open and outward-looking appearance, with a transparent ground floor that blurs the boundaries between the building and the city. The public is also invited to visit the top of the tower, where there will be a café, lounge and viewing In 2017 we have updated our Code of Conduct policy including measures and guidelines to points. prevent corruption. 15 THE TEAM 328 in total EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Diversity is the cornerstone of an inclusive and creative high 110 Architects | 66 Trainees | 41 BA Arch. Tech. & Const. Management | 23 Administration etc. | 17 Branch Heads/Leaders | 14 Engineers | 12 Technical Illustrators/ Assistants | 10 Landscape Architects | 9 Partners | 7 IT | Designers 6 | 5 Healthcare Consultants performing workplace. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN OUR OFFICES 6 Offices Women currently make up 42,24% of our In 2015 we set out a goal to recruit two woman workforce and 45% of our office managers in member by 2020 and we have not yet reached Denmark. C.F. Møller is continually looking for this goal. Our board now consists of 3 male 152 in Aarhus | 78 in Copenhagen | 42 in Stockholm | | 25 in London | 17 in Aalborg | 14 in Oslo ways to safeguard equality and diversity in and 1 female Senior Equity Partner, as well as order to continue being an Equal opportunity 2 male employee representatives. employer. For example, we seek to have at NATIONALITIES 21 Countries in total least one woman among final three candidates C.F. Møller already comply with the 60-40 for any management position. division between men (40%) and women (60%) at the senior managerial level and 233 Danes | 37 Swedes | 13 Norwegians | 8 Britons | 5 Spaniards | 5 Poles | 4 Italians | 2 Icelanders | 2 Irishmen | 2 Syrians | 2 Slovak | 1 Lithuanian | 1 Romanian | 1 Swiss | 1 German | 1 American | 1 Bulgarian | 1 Mexican | 1 Portuguese | 1 Canadian | 1 Croat C.F. Møller adopts a zero-tolerance stance 60% men and 40% women at the middle against discrimination of all kinds. We management level, and therefore the company GENDER 42% Women • 58 % Men encourage employees to report any incidences is not required by law to have an equal that they come across. C.F. Møller did not opportunity policy for the managerial levels of register any alleged discrimination cases in the organization. 137 women | 191 men 2016. C.F. Møller currently employ 328 people with December 2016 Our Board of directors consists of 6 members 21 different nationalities. We encourage our where 4 are recruited from our group of managers to employ with diversity in mind Senior Equity Partners and 2 are employee as we experience that this is beneficial to our representatives. workplace environment and gives benefit to our projects. 17 A growing need for renewal in the construction industry as well as new knowledge about the possibilities of building with industrial wood has created the foundation for innovation and SELECTED SUSTAINABLE sustainable constructions. It was the curiosity within C.F. Møller that inspired the team to develop the PROJECTS 34-floor wooden apartment C.F. Møller Architects strives constantly for new and innovative building for HSB. architectural solutions to improve life for people and planet. Here follow a few examples focusing on social and environmental sustainability that has gained international attention. Building in wood Wooden high-rise in Stockholm Wood is the natural choice when it comes The pillars and beams of the 34 storey high-rise to materials for innovative residential will be constructed using solid and cross-laminated development: It is an environmentally timber and inside the apartments floors, ceilings friendly and durable material which creates and window frames will be made from wood, a comfortable and healthy indoor climate allowing the material to also be visible from the and, surprisingly enough, also constitutes a outside through the large windows. very efficient protection against fire. Timber is a renewable material, with low energy Timber Town consumption and a limited carbon footprint. Örnsro Timber Town will be a destination and a vibrant quarter of Örebro, with a clear idea We have increased the use of wood in building of how to enrich the city’s social networks by design from a wooden high-rise in Stockholm integrating nature into the urban landscape. over a Timber Town and another high-rise. We are contributing to spread the knowledge of The residential buildings interact with an urban wooden buildings as a member of a Swedish city park including a variety of activities and national research team and by participating in plazas for social meetings and recreation. interviews and conferences worldwide. The buildings in the district will be created with solid timber frame structures, and will contribute positively to the overall lifecycle perspective of the project. 19 HIGH-RISE VÄSTERÅS 22-storey high-rise with a panoramic garden The building’s ground floor will make room The high-rise building marks a characteristic for restaurants and business premises facing a landmark for the entire district of Lilludden. sun-drenched square. The outdoor space of the The three-dimensional facades and a green square will include a generous plant wall and panoramic garden on the 15th floor overlooking green areas, and together with the panoramic the city and Lake Mälaren characterize the garden at 15th floor this is part of C.F. Møller’s architecture. strategy to integrate plants, green areas and ecosystems in the urban landscape. C.F. Møller proposes that the frame is executed as a hybrid between solid wood and concrete. Copenhagen International School Concrete is the loadbearing construction up Copenhagen International School is designed to the 15th floor at the panoramic garden, and to link the school premises with the public above this level the remaining 7 floors will be sphere in the urban environment, and give the Copenhagen framed in solid timber, making the best use of school an open ambience. The promenade International School, the two different materials. outside the school will become an urban Nordhavn port-side space providing opportunities for The school building’s unique The facades are covered with undressed wood, relaxation and various activities. The school facade will be covered in 12,000 which is weather-protected by the overlying building’s unique facade will be covered in solar panels, each individually balconies on each floor. The balconies can be 12,000 solar panels, each individually angled angled to create a sequin-like closed and serve as winter gardens with the to create a sequin-like effect, which will supply effect, which will supply more possibility of growing crops and extend the more than half of the school’s annual electricity than half of the school’s annual seasons throughout the year. consumption. electricity consumption. 20 The solar cells will cover a total area of 6,048 countryside without overlooking neighbouring envelope, use of natural cross-ventilation, and The heart of the project has been to find square meters making it one of the largest rooms, due to the building’s turns and twists. extensive heat recovery from exhaust air, waste and disseminate the different potentials and building-integrated solar power plants in Each room has a private balcony, which both water and showers. synergy effects in the tension field between Denmark. helps make the homes attractive, but also has urban life, nature, climate adjustment, traffic an environmental function: The shading internal The surrounding landscape is designed in and overall finances. The overarching aim is to The school lives up to the 2020 environmental balconies help manage solar gain, contributing accordance with principles of sustainable use make Randers an even more enjoyable city for building codes/requirements and sustainability to significant energy savings. of resources, where soil balance, precipitation residents and visitors. is a part of the pupil’s curriculum. and wildlife habitats are considered in a The Campus Hall is a low-energy construction recreational hierarchy of managed areas and Few Danish cities have an as striking The Campus Hall, made from quality materials that meets the wild nature. countryside lying right by its feet. In the future, University of Southern Denmark strict Danish codes for low-energy class 2020 the aim is to supplement the city centre with The design of the new student housing for the and gives priority to public transport and City to the water a variety of nature experiences and activities University of Southern Denmark in Odense is cycling – a bike for each resident is provided. “City to the Water” is a far-reaching urban that bind the town closely to the water, based on a strong community spirit. The building’s overall energy concept is development project. It sets out to open up opening up new residential, recreational and based on the optimization of passive design the city centre of Randers, Denmark, to the activity opportunities. First and foremost, the The 250 student residences are located in three parameters such as shape, orientation, water and connect the medieval city with its countryside and the water must no longer be a interconnected 15-storey buildings. The dorm adaptation to climatic conditions, daylighting, surrounding nature, including the Gudenå River barrier, but turned into a unique resource. rooms are located on the outer faces of the ceiling heights and structural thermal mass, as and the Randers Fjord. three towers, where they all enjoy views of the well as a highly insulated and airtight building As an urban development project, the new aspect of “City to the Water” is the thorough analysis of various development scenarios. They are created with a view to both urban planning and overall finances. In this way, the consequences and opportunities of various visions are actually comparable at an early stage, before the dreams take hold. As a consequence of this completed analysis, the Municipality of Randers has now been able to choose an unforeseen and innovative path of future development, which includes turning one of the former port basins into a “lagoon” that can handle vast amounts of urban CAMPUS HALL CITY TO THE WATER stormwater, while providing completely new 22 23 The 3000 m2 Low Carbon Energy Centre is a highly visible and important new landmark living qualities and infrastructural connections. to visit the top of the tower, where there will be that demonstrates the This has proven the success of the method in a café, lounge and viewing points. applicants’ and stakeholders’ creating value far beyond the traditional scope commitment to sustainable of masterplanning, and in unlocking the full Between the buildings, new plazas rises, and affordable energy potential of the cross-disciplinary approach. together with internal garden spaces equipped for all. with alcoves and seating. These functions as Värtaterminalen an extension of the study rooms and offices Värtaterminalen, the city of Stockholm’s new and new green oases to the city. A campus ferry terminal, stands out as landmark for social thoroughfare passing through the area, and environmental sustainability. It functions together with pedestrian and cycle paths, will both as a new urban park for people to engage create a vibrant urban park with intimate links socially and bring life to a complete new urban to the surrounding city. area in Stockholm and infrastructure securing a safe and destination for more than 4 million The facade has been innovatively constructed passengers a year. from fixed and moveable shutters that track the sun as it moves. The moveable shutters are The passenger part of the terminal is raised to made of transparent expanded metal and keep be at level with the urban zone, so it is easy for out much of the heat from the sun. The result both pedestrians and traffic to access. At the is a comfortable and sustainable. The effect of same time the roof of the terminal building is the vertical shutters fixed to the building and its designed as a public park. Solar energy and rounded corners is to reduce the effects of wind. geothermal heating/cooling are provided via the building’s integrated systems, making the The tower is Denmark’s most energy-efficient terminal possible to be self-sufficient in energy. laboratory building. Together with the rest of Värtaterminalen will receive the environmental Panum, the building is supplied with cold sea certification level Gold. water from the Port of Copenhagen which serves as a eco-friendly district cooling system The Maersk Tower to cool autoclaves, the air conditioning system, The Maersk Tower is the University of server rooms, etc. Copenhagen’s super modern research facility. The Maersk Tower has an open and outwardLow Carbon Energy Centre looking appearance, with a transparent ground The Energy Centre is the largest new build floor that blurs the boundaries between the residential heat network in Europe, saving over building and the city. The public is also invited 20,000 tonnes of carbon every year. 24 Responding to a cross-party drive to increase It is a pioneering project both in Denmark and the use of Combined Heat & Power (CHP) internationally when it comes to the concept of across the UK and to realize a vision of “healing architecture” in the healthcare sector. decentralized energy power generation in Systematic use of the working method called London, the Greenwich Peninsula Low Carbon “Knowledge and Evidence-Based Design” has Energy Centre houses technically advanced allowed the concept of “healing architecture” boilers and CHP that provide heat energy to to influence every decision concerning the the businesses and homes due to be built on physical design of the hospital. From the layout the Peninsula in the coming years and is part of of the single-bed wards, the use of daylight the Peninsula’s Sustainability Strategy. and the flow of light in all of the hospital’s rooms, to the design of the landscape and The 3000 m2 Low Carbon Energy Centre is a garden areas around the hospital. highly visible and important new landmark that demonstrates the applicants’ and stakeholders’ Large, newly-established rainwater lakes will commitment to sustainable and affordable create densely vegetated, recreational meadow energy for all. areas that are accessible for the hospital’s users and local residents. Car park areas will To demystify the process of energy generation, be connected with trees. The hospital’s many the Energy Centre’s machine room and large courtyard spaces are designed as fertile, flexible ancillary office accommodation is green gardens. The gardens fulfil patients’ supplemented with a Visitor Centre offering need for calm, recreation and restitution close an interactive educational experience for to the individual hospital departments, and prearranged groups of visitors. Construction offer spaces for relatives and staff to pause for started in 2015, and was completed in 2016. thought and rest. The building footprint further allows for flexibility in adopting new energy technology The New University Hospital is a low-energy over the building’s substantial lifetime. building design, which in addition features 3.300 m2 of solar cells delivering approx. half Hospital City on a Human Scale a million kWh of power per year, a refined Systematic use of the working method called “Knowledge and Evidence-Based Design” The New University Hospital in Aarhus’ sustainable urban drainage concept which has allowed the concept of “healing architecture” to influence every decision concerning architectural starting point is people, with the includes 18 ha of new public landscape with the physical design of the hospital. From the layout of the single-bed wards, the use of human scale as its measuring gauge. woods and lakes, and an innovative new daylight and the flow of light in all of the hospital’s rooms, to the design of the landscape concept for pre-purifying wastewater from the and garden areas around the hospital. hospital to filter out medical residues. 27 CONTACT AARHUS C.F. Møller A/S LONDON C.F. Møller Architects Ltd. Europaplads 2, 11. Metropolitan Wharf, 70 Wapping Wall 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark London E1W 3SS, United Kingdom T: +45 8730 5300 T: +44 (0)20 7427 1530 cfmoller@cfmoller.com london@cfmoller.com OSLO COPENHAGEN C.F. Møller A/S OSLO C.F. Møller Norge AS STOCKHOLM Danneskiold-Samsøes Allé 28 Prinsens gate 2, 1.et. 1434 Copenhagen K, Denmark 0152 Oslo, Norway T: +45 3288 7844 T: +47 2413 3400, kbh@cfmoller.com oslo@cfmoller.com AALBORG AALBORG C.F. Møller A/S STOCKHOLM C.F. Møller Sverige AB Strandvejen 17 Postal address: Box 15055, 104 65 AARHUS 9100 Aalborg, Denmark Stockholm, Sweden COPENHAGEN T: +45 9632 9797 Address: Krukmakargatan 21, aalborg@cfmoller.com 118 51 Stockholm, Sweden T: +46 8 555 760 00, stockholm@cfmoller.com LONDON WWW.CFMOLLER.COM 28 ”  .F. Møller Architects’ core business is to create longC term surroundings which are sustainable for both people and the environment, and which, in their social, environmental and economic aspects, create maximum benefit and shared value for our most important stakeholders.
