CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. Communication on Progress for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact 1 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • SUMMARY: • Continuous commitment to the UNGC and its principles. • 2017 Status. • 2018 Targets. 2 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT TO THE UNGC AND ITS PRINCIPLES: We are glad to confirm Cattini & Figlio’s continuos commitment to the 10 universal principles of the Global Compact. After several years of severe market downturn, new, exciting, market scenarios are now in front of us and we are resolute to exploit these opportunities to the fullest possible extent, always taking care to proceed in direction of the highest ethical behaviour. A new important Customer has been won after years of negotiations and this represents the best evidence that our efforts towards a better management model were and will very worth to be done. We are always pleased and convinced to be part of this voluntary alliance for a better corporate world and encourage all Companies’ Representatives reading this report to enrol in the UNGC soon. Casarile, December 14, 2017 Lorenzo A. Cattini – Chairman, C.e.o. 3 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio never tolerated and never will tolerate any kind of abuse in respect with the universal known human rights. • There has been no reported case of inobservance of any human rights since the e-mail anonym hotline has been established in 2010. • Cattini & Figlio will endlessly continue to stress the importance of respect of human rights throughout its entire organization and to all stakeholders including suppliers. 4 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (2): • Health and safety issues are covered by periodical meetings between employees and management representatives as well as by procedures included in the management model according to legislative decree 231, recognized by the Italian government. • Employees are represented by three qualified persons. • Cattini & Figlio has appointed a management representative for health, safety and environment duly empowered to act. • Plenary health and safety session is held annually. • The totality of employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio recognizes the right for all employees to associate to unions and confirms that the unions are not to be subject to any kind of discrimination. Year 2017 Total employees 242 Associated to unions 43 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 6 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (2): • The use of child and/or forced labour in Cattini & Figlio’s plants as well as in our Suppliers facilities has never and will never be tolerated; no person will be enrolled under the minimum age permitted by the Italian law. Age employees from 15 to 20 years 0 from 20 to 35 years 69 from 35 to 50 years 142 from 50 to 60 years 31 above 60 years 0 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 7 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (3): • One of Cattini & Figlio’s maior objectives is to take care of its human resources and to endlessly develop their potential through appropriate business climate, training, job rotation and other universally accepted practises. • During selection and recruitement of new personnel, only job specific issues are taken into account to identify the best possible candidates for the position. • Cattini & Figlio takes into account each person’s attitudes and performances only without making any gender, racial or other kind of discrimation. 8 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • ENVIRONMENT STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio takes care to minimise the impact to the environment as much as possible taking into consideration the inevitable constrainsts due to the fact that materials and manufacturing methods are specified by its Customers. • In FY 2017 we achieved the upgrade of our environmental certification to the new world standard ISO 14001:2015 as well as to integrate our second plant. We are one of the first world organizations worldwide in our business to have achieved such an important milestone. • In FY 2017 we decommissioned further 5 old machines in accordance with the environmental guidelines and are cutting over 90% of our bevel gear sets dry, without the use of any lubricant. • The use of synthetic based lubricants has been spread throughout the Company, resulting in better quality of air inside the plants and lower emissions. 9 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • ANTI-CORRUPTION STATUS: • Corruption has never and will never be tolerated by Cattini & Figlio: so far, no non compliance to our policy has been reported to the top management ouf our Company. • Our Code of Ethics has been updated and published on our website; it is extremely clear about non-ethical issues and our Company will stop or not enter into business relations with any third parties responsible for such painful acts. 10 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • STATUS 2017: WHAT WE HAVE DONE 1. We’ve been audited twice to verify the effectiveness of the voluntary management model according to the legislation act 231 with excellent results. 2. We’ve achieved an important milestone by first extending our environmental certification to the second major plant and secondly upgrading our certification to the new world standard ISO 14001:2015. 3. We are one of the first Organizations worldwide in our business to have passed the Management system audit according to the new worldwide standard IATF 16949:2016. We are now working on the corrective actions to have the certificate issued within February 2018. 11 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2017 to the UN Global Compact • TARGETS FOR 2018: 1. Continue to spread the UNGC principles throughout our supply chain; 2. Prepare for health and safety certification within FY 2019. 12 CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. END OF COP FOR YEAR 2017 Thank you for your attention! 13
