UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 EG www.global.eg.dk Contents 3 Statement of Continued Support 4 Human Rights Principles 6 Labour Rights Principles 8 Environmental Protection Principles 10 Anti-Corruption Principles Version 1.2 2017 Statement of Continued Support 29 September 2017 EG’s position as one of the leading IT service companies in We have identified a number of prioritised issues and Scandinavia is built on close relationships with our custohave initiated the process of optimising them. We will mers, on industry knowledge and on solid IT skills. follow up on our progress on a yearly basis. More than 40 years of industry experience has given us In this annual communication on progress, we describe great insight into our customers’ businesses. Our industryour actions to continually improve the integration of the specific solutions are based on best practice processes UN Global Compact and its principles into our business within the industries in which we have a strong market strategy, culture and daily operations. position. Over the years, we have accumulated experience and refined solutions which create value for companies in We also commit to sharing this information with our a number of industries, including manufacturing, construccustomers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders tion, retail, trade and transport, government, professional using our primary channels of communication. services and utilities. We serve more than 12,000 customers from our over 27 locations in Denmark, Sweden and Best regards Norway. Mikkel Bardram I am pleased to confirm that EG A/S reaffirms its support CEO, EG A/S of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our overall CSR policy, which includes our code of conduct and business ethics, has been approved by EG’s management team and the board of directors. Our CSR policy is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 3 Human Rights Principles Commitment EG supports and respects the protection of internationally psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the proclaimed human rights, and we make sure that we are work place or in work-related situations. not complicit in human rights abuses. EG supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect cultural differences and do not do business with a supplier if the supplier practices discrimination at We respect human rights within our sphere of influence work based on race, religion, gender, age, nationality or and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy sexual orientation. way. EG sees no significant risk that the company or its suppliers violate the UN Global Compact principles 1-2. We currently employ about 2,000 people of a least 10 different nationalities at our 27 Scandinavian locations. Implementation 31 percent of these employees are women and 69 We take several steps to implement our CSR policy and percent are men. code of conduct in our Scandinavian organisation. We will continue to make sure that all our managers and subconNo employee should ever be exposed to any physical tractors are familiar with our policy on human rights. punishment, threats of violence or physical, sexual, EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 4 Human Rights Principles All EG employees with management responsibility underEG defines data privacy as a human right, and we want to go performance evaluation, which includes feedback from be a 100 % trusted data partner. Our public and private employees on their ability to provide an open and respectcustomers must feel comfortable about the way we ful work environment. handle the data they entrust us with. Action KPI Status Target Action KPI Status Target ManageManagement 82 79 ImplemenAll employees Work in 100 % in ment quality must ting group must be progress 2018 training and be above index standards familiar with 360-degree 79 (index for data and have feedback 2013 + 5 %) protection signed the Information We inform all our subcontractors of our view on human Security Policy rights, and they must comply with the principles in order for the EG group to work with us. Performance evaluation Action KPI Status Target In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investiAll subconNo cases No cases No cases gations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights tractors involving violations. No incidents or violations of the human rights must sign an human rights principles have been reported to the management team. agreement violations declaring that they comply with the UN Global Compact EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 5 Labour Rights Principles Commitment EG upholds the freedom of association and the effective In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimiEG conducts a workplace assessment every three years nation of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the and continuously carries out follow-up actions. effective abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Action KPI Status Target Workplace All employees 90 % 100 % EG commits to providing a competitive salary package, assessment must particia safe and comfortable working environment, openly pate in a workcommunicated career paths and well-established perforplace assessmance and development evaluation tools. ment every three years We respect the rights of workers and operate a business with safe and attractive working conditions. We monitor employee satisfaction on an annual basis in order to detect employee issues in general and assess EG sees no significant risk that the company or its supwhether follow-up actions are required. pliers violate the UN Global Compact principles 3-6. Action KPI Status Target Implementation Monitoring The overall 74 75 We constantly work to implement our CSR policy and code employee employee satof conduct in our Scandinavian organisation. satisfaction isfaction must be at least All EG employees undergo annual performance reviews to index 75 set individual plans and targets for advancement. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 6 Labour Rights Principles We monitor the overall sickness absence in EG on a We have updated our employee handbook to include monthly basis in order to detect employee health issues guidelines on labour rights principles. and assess whether follow-up actions are required. Action KPI Status Target Action KPI Status Target ImplementaAll employees 100 % 100 % Monitoring The overall 3% 2.5 % tion of an must read and the overall sickness employee sign the emsickness absence must handbook ployee handabsence be at or below book as part of the industry our onboarding average procedure (2.6 %) Performance evaluation EG has a dedicated health and safety committee in place In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investito regularly assess and evaluate the working environment gations, legal cases or incidents involving labour rights at EG. violations. No incidents or violations of the labour rights principles have been reported to the management team. Action KPI Status Target Central and No reported Two No local workoccupational cases cases ing environinjuries ment activities EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 7 Environmental Protection Principles Commitment EG supports a precautionary approach to environmental We have improved and optimised our headquarters in challenges and undertakes initiatives to promote greater Denmark to be more energy-efficient, and we are environmental responsibility. Also, we encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. continuously upgrading our company car fleet to include more environmentally friendly vehicles. EG actively supports sustainable environmental progress through the development and distribution of IT solutions Our waste management, including the handling of chemifor various industries that enable them to reduce energy cals and dangerous materials, is in compliance with all apand material waste and transportation. plicable national laws and regulations, and we continually educate our employees in this area. We recognise that unnecessary travel by car and plane has a negative impact on the environment, and we conWe have published our company CSR policy and code of stantly work to minimise this impact by promoting virtual conduct on our website. A ”no more than” policy on CO2 meetings, investing in more environmentally friendly cars emission is enforced on company cars. and using public transportation where possible. We strive to reduce our CO2 emission in a number of Implementation ways, including optimising our car fleet and reducing the We constantly strive to become a more sustainable and number of physical meetings. environmentally friendly company. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 8 Environmental Protection Principles We aim to operate our buildings as energy-efficiently as This includes the handling of mobile phones and used possible. data equipment. Action KPI Status Target Performance evaluation In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investiImplemenA rating B rating A rating gations, legal cases or incidents involving violations of tation of any findings the environmental protection principles. No incidents or in energy violations of the environmental protection principles have assessment been reported to the management team. reports Furthermore, we take steps to ensure that our waste management vendors comply with all legal, ethical and environmental principles when handling our waste. EG A/S CSR REPORT 2017 9 Anti-Corruption Principles Commitment Corruption and bribery are recognised as barriers to Action KPI Status Target sustainable development and free trade, and EG supports ImplementaNo cases that No cases No cases the work against corruption in all its forms, including tion of a call for legal extortion and bribery. zeroaction tolerance EG acknowledges that small business gifts and reasonpolicy able entertainment, including meals, are accepted ways to build relationships and generate goodwill between A code of conduct addressing bribery has been distributed business partners. However, this practice must always be to the organisation, and bribery is covered by our whistlecarried out in a transparent manner, and only to an extent blower hotline. appropriate to our integrity guidelines and business ethics. Action KPI Status Target Implementation Internal No cases that No cases No cases whistlecall for legal Guidelines for handling issues of corruption, hospitality blower action (gifts and entertainment) and donations are provided to programme employees through our business ethics document, our CSR policy and our code of conduct. Performance evaluation In the past year, EG has not been subject to any investiThe guidelines are also implemented in our employee gations, legal cases or incidents involving violations of handbook. the anti-corruption principles. No incidents or violations of the anti-corruption principles have been reported to the management team.
