UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2016 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS AARHUS COPENHAGEN OSLO Mariane Thomsens Gade 1c, 9th floor Njalsgade 17a, 5th floor Sørkedalsveien 6 DK 8000 Aarhus C DK 2300 Copenhagen S NO 0369 Oslo +45 8730 3286 +45 8730 3286 +47 4047 5900 aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk aart@aart.dk TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 AART architects 4 Opportunity makers 7 Global Compact 7 Transparency 8 Sustainia Living 10 People, planet and profit 13 Projects with perspectives 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT AART ARCHITECTS AART architects is an award-winning architectural firm with Danish roots and Nordic reach. From our offices in Aarhus, Copenhagen and Oslo we provide highly specialised advice on architecture of every conceivable scale, from buildings and public spaces to entire master plans – always based on close dialogue with developers, users and business associates. OPPORTUNITY MAKERS We strongly believe that architecture is all about exploring, challenging and developing the environment we all share, so it can provide us with the opportunity to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives. This is the essence of everything we do. We, thus, make a virtue of exploring how contemporary life constantly evolves and changes – always with a view on combining the unexpected and spotting the unseen opportunities that deliver beyond people’s expectations. So, rather than being architects, we work as opportunity makers across traditional disciplines. We keep challenging everything we know and shape this insight into architectural solutions that provide people with the opportunities to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner / CEO 4 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT 6 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT GLOBAL COMPACT In our desire to provide people with the people with the opportunities to live healthier, smarter and more connected lives, we have joined the UN Global Compact, which is the largest voluntary corporate social responsibility initiative in the world. As a member, we are proud to commit our strategies and operations with the UN principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. By doing this and promoting the principles within our sphere of influence, we take part in improving the quality of life and the health of the environment. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our continuing commitment to supporting advances in the building industry in ways that benefit everyday life, the economy and the environment. The purpose of this report is thus to give our stakeholders and the wider community an insight into how we promote and have implemented corporate social responsibility in our core business. Torben Skovbjerg Larsen Partner / CEO TRANSPARENCY We joined the UN Global Compact in 2008 to be part of the partnership between the UN with the objective of promoting transparency and social commitment in the global business community. This is our sixth Communication on Progress report in which we commit ourselves to all four areas of the Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our Communication on Progress report 2016 is uploaded to the website of the UN Global Compact. It will also be available on our own website, just like it will be a natural part of how we present our company. We attach great importance to communicate our sustainable ambitions to all our stakeholders – employees, developers, business associates and the wider building industry. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUSTAINIA LIVING We are proud to be one of the leading partners and lifestyle pioneers in Sustainia Living: a global movement whose mission is to turn Denmark into a global lab exploring how a nation can turn the 17 UN Global Sustainable Development Goals into a new model for the world of tomorrow and of how sustainability can reinvent what competitiveness is all about. Sustainia Living was launched the 8th of February in the Royal Danish Opera House. At the launch, we and other lifestyle pioneers shared our stories of how sustainable innovations create new opportunities and business Royal Danish Opera House ventures. These stories all have one thing in common: Sustainia Living / 8th of February they highlight how some of the biggest global risks can be turned into sustainable lifestyle opportunities. 8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Architecture can provide new perspectives on how to build better lives and make the UN Sustainable Development Goals relevant for the average consumer, according to Anders Tyrrestrup, partner and CIO. — What does commitment to sustainability mean to AART architects, and how does it create value? Anders Tyrrestrup Sustainability is more than just a commitment, it Partner / CIO is an integral part of our business, as we strongly believe buildings and public spaces should pro— Towards 2030 what will be the biggest vide people with the opportunities to live healthsustainability challenges for AART architects ier and more sustainable lives. This is at the heart and the sector you operate in? of everything we do. We work with architecture to provide new perspectives on how to build betDeveloping 360-degree sustainable solutions ter lives – all with a focus on showing that buildand documenting their impact is our main goal – ings and public spaces can benefit the young and and an ongoing key challenge. We continuously elderly alike, while at the same time reducing our strive to make sustainability attractive and accesenvironmental impact. Thus, we want to show sible for everyone, from our clients or the actual that sustainability is not about making comprousers of our buildings and public spaces, and to mises; it's about enriching people's lives. This is succeed with this we must constantly strive to how we create value for our stakeholders and develop projects that bring together the “hard” society in general. economic values with the “soft” social and environmental values. — How can AART architects help the 17 Sustainable Development Goals to become — How can Denmark become the global “a people’s agenda”? frontrunner in sustainable quality of life and lifestyle products? Many take for granted the impact architecture has in our lives – but, in reality, nearly every moFor many years, Denmark has been known as ment of every day is influenced by it. We are an innovation leader within several industries constantly inside and surrounded by buildings. that have a significant sustainable impact. HowAlongside this, we should consider that buildings ever, ongoing globalization and digitalization account for about 40% of the energy used globcontinue to disrupt many traditional industries. ally. Thus, architecture offers a unique opportuThus, to stay in front, Denmark must promote nity to help the Sustainable Development Goals new kinds of partnerships and new ways of become relevant for the average consumer. sharing knowledge – and Sustainia Living is an Architecture is all about setting the stage for our excellent example of how to transcend tradilives. It is about building the world we want to tional barriers and give like-minded partners a see for ourselves and for our children – socially, common setting for exploring the sustainable sustainably, and aesthetically. opportunities of tomorrow. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFIT We support all four areas of the UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labour Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. However, we have interpreted these four areas and combined them into the triple bottom line: People, Planet and Profit. The first (People) includes Human Rights and Labour Rights and focuses on our socially responsible approach to developing buildings and public spaces. The second (Planet) includes Environment and focuses on our environmentally approach, while the third (Profit) includes Anti-Corruption and focuses on our aim to lead the development of a more transparent and economically sustainable building industry. PEOPLE We believe that buildings and public spaces should empower people to live healthier, smarter Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect and more connected lives. Therefore, we support the protection of internationally prothe UN universal principles concerning human claimed human rights. and labour rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective rec-ognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our design for the holiday centre Musholm received the 2016 IAUD Award, acknowledging the world's most socially sustainable places. 10 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLANET We believe that buildings and public spaces should have a positive impact on the environPrinciple 7 Businesses should support a precaument. The environment is the field where we as tionary approach to environmental architects can make the greatest difference, since challenges. the energy consumption of buildings is responsible for 40 percent of global energy consumption. Principle 8 Therefore, we support the UN universal principles Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental concerning the environment. responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our winning proposal for the new Aarhsus University Campus shows how adaptive reuse can reduce the material consumption in architetcure. PROFIT We believe that investments and enterprises should be powerful forces for good. Therefore, Principle 10 Businesses should work against corwe support the UN Convention Against Corruption in all its forms, including extorruption and its universal principle concerning tion and bribery. anti-corruption, just like an open and respectful relationship to developers, business associates and the wider community is at the heart of everything we do. We provide architectural advice on how businesses can be financially successful while creating social impact. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT THE WATERFRONT / STAVANGER CAMPUS FOR AARHUS UNIVERSITY / AARHUS THE CULTURE YARD / HELSINGØR VUC SYD / HADERSLEV HINDSGAVL NATURE CENTER / MIDDELFART OLD BERGEN MUSEUM / BERGEN MUSHOLM / KORSØR INSPIRIA SCIENCE CENTER / GRAALUM HOME FOR LIFE / AARHUS THE WAREHOUSES / AARHUS VIKING AGE MUSEUM/ OSLO NICOLINEHUS / AARHUS PROJECTS WITH PERSPECTIVES On the following pages, we have gathered some of our latest and most exciting projects that encapsulate our sustainable ambitions in their very own ways – ranging from a terraced building landscape in a new Danish port district to a Norwegian learning venue acknowledged as one of the world's most sustainable projects. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT ON THE DRAWING BOARD CAMPUS FOR AARHUS UNIVERSITY The whole objective is to enrich the story of Aarhus – on both the national and international level – as a vibrant, attractive university city for the benefit of students, researchers, citizens and companies. FACTS The development plan paves the way for new prospects, which will transform Aarhus LOCATION Aahus / Denmark Municipal Hospital into a new campus for SIZE 110,000 m² Aarhus University. STATUS 2017 / Winning proposal DEVELOPER FEAS The campus will be one of the most ARCHITECT AART architects characterful adaptive reuse built environments LANDSCAPE Møller & Grønborg in Denmark with a unique homogeneity in terms of geometry and materials. 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT NICOLINEHUS Nicolinehus has drawn inspiration from the old residential blocks of the city centre, rethinking the concept of a courtyard framed by flats and adapting it to suit the life and weather conditions of the waterfront. FACTS Nicolinehus is a new mixed-use development in the heart of the new port district of Aarhus LOCATION Aahus / Denmark – shaped by the pulse of the city centre and SIZE 37,000 m² merging with life on the waterfront. ­ STATUS 2016 / Winning proposal DEVELOPER Bricks The development features a staggered design ARCHITECT AART architects created to adapt to the changing light and LANDSCAPE Schønherr weather conditions of its waterfront location. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT AWARD-WINNING PROJECTS MUSHOLM The new and extended Musholm challenges the traditional notion of accessible architecture with a view to becoming the preferred sports and holiday resort for people with any type of handicap – both in Denmark and abroad. FACTS The new and extended Musholm recieved the Grand Award at the 2016 IUAD Awards in LOCATION Korsør / Denmark Nagoya, Japan. SIZE 3,200 m² STATUS 2015 / Completed With the award the International Association DEVELOPER The Musholm Foundation of Universal Design honours the world’s most ARCHITECTS AART architects inspiring places that help build a better life for AWARD IUAD Award everyone regardless of age, gender, ethnicity, or disability. 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT INSPIRIA SCIENCE CENTER Inspiria Science Center combines learning and architecture into an eventful venue with a high educative value. Designed with school children in mind, the venue inspires and educates through 70 interactive exhibitions. FACTS Inspiria Science Center was one of three finalists when the 2016 Energy Globe World Award was LOCATION Graalum / Norway awarded in connection with the UN Climate SIZE 7,000 m² Change Conference in Marrakesh, Morocco. STATUS 2011 / Completed DEVELOPER Inspiria Eiendom The Energy Globe World Award is the world's ARCHITECTS AART architects largest environmental prize, honouring AWARDS Iconic Award / Prime Property Award / Arnstein sustainable best practice projects across Arneberg Award / Østfold Universal Design Award various industries. 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS UN GLOBAL COMPACT PHOTO CREDITS Adam Mørk André Helene Høyer Mikkelsen Kirstine Mengel Torben Eskerod
