1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 AFFILIATES, SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATES: MARGA ASIA LIMITED MARGA GLOBAL TELECOM LIMITED MARGA LANDMARK DEVELOPMENT CO.,LTD. GLOBAL CALL LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 MARGA GROUP 2 Statement from the Board of Directors To Our Stakeholders, We, Marga Group with its member companies including Marga Asia Limited, Marga Global Telecom Co., Ltd, Marga Landmark Development Co., Ltd and Global Call Limited, are committed to continue our support to the ten principles of the United Nation Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We have been a member of the United Nation Global Compact since 2015. While commercial success is paramount to any business, commitment to community care is equally, if not more, important for us. Marga Group is the first foreign direct investor in Myanmar history to pledge 2% of annual profits to corporate social responsibility on our investment license. Sustainable development and philanthropy are central to our work. We are committed to adding value to the communities in which we work in and creating a better future for everyone around us. Yours Sincerely, Alex Wong Executive Director 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 OUR STORY Marga Group is a diverse international corporate with a local Myanmar presence. Our story is built upon an unwavering commitment to excellence supported by our diverse and deep experiences in our industries. Our shareholders and directors are comprised of world-class professionals from Hong Kong, Korea, Australia and the United Kingdom. Individually and collectively, our team has completed landmark projects around the world. Our core competencies lie in real estate and telecommunications, and we aim to become the most trusted and reputable foreign business in Myanmar. While commercial success is paramount to any business, commitment to community care is equally, if not more, important for us. Marga Group is the first foreign direct investor in Myanmar history to pledge 2% of annual profits to corporate social responsibility on our investment license. PURSUIT OF EXCELLENCE In real estate, this allows us to break away from the industry norms to craft finer residential living spaces and better commercial areas that raise the bar in luxury living and professional working standards. In telecommunications, this motivates us to deliver better solutions to corporates and individuals at competitive prices. Our service is unparalleled as we go above and beyond to make a distinction between scripted service and authentic engagement. In real estate and in telecommunications, we know our customers and we deliver on their needs. Winning in all categories entered, Marga Landmark OVER THE YEARS, OUR TEAM and its flagship project, The Central, made a clean sweep of the Myanmar Property Awards 2017. The HAS PURSUED EXCELLENCE IN Central received the most awards – winning Best EVERYTHING WE TOUCH. THIS Condo Development, Best Retail Development, Best Mixed Use Development, Best Universal STATE OF MIND IS CENTRAL Design Development, Best Developer as well as Special Recognition in Corporate Social TO OUR GROUP’S SUCCESS. Responsibility. MARGA GROUP 4 DIVERSITY AND DEPTH OF EXPERIENCES Through diversity, we enrich our business environment, creating more effective relationships with our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we live and work. Our team represents over 7 countries and we have worked in MARGA GROUP more. RECOGNIZES THAT While breadth of experiences is vital to the success of every development, the depth of our experiences is CORPORATE DIVERSITY what sets us apart from our peers. Our international STRENGTHENS OUR team has extensive real estate development, corporate finance, telecommunications and fund management COMPANY’S CULTURE AND experience in Australia, China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Middle East, Thailand, Singapore, ABILITIES. United Kingdom and the United States of America. We are the most experienced team in town. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 FIRMWIDE CULTURE OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We have the most comprehensive corporate social responsibility program in town. Our program benefits the lives and addresses the needs of different groups and communities ranging from disaster victims, orphans, the elderly to young musicians and professionals. MARGA COMMUNITY CARE (MCC) MARGA YOUTH FOUNDATION (MYF) Marga Community Care is an initiative that Marga Youth Foundation sets out to nurture and advocates responsive, direct and continuous actions empower young people in their pursuit of excellence to relieve and assist in the needs of deprived in academics and professional development. It also communities and Buddhist establishments. aims to cultivate channels for exchange of ideas and sharing of knowledge and experience with Since its inception in 2013, MCC had reached out international delegations and experts. to more than 20 schools and orphanages, 3,000 elderly people and 2,000 disaster afflicted households with donations of cash and supplies, and direct care-taking and assistance. MARGA GROUP 6 OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES 1 WE BELIEVE IN HONESTY, 2 WE ARE PROFESSIONALS. TRANSPARENCY AND FAIRNESS In all aspects of our business and We take great pride in the professional expect the same in our relationships quality of our work. Our team goes to with all those with whom we do great lengths to ensure flawless delivery business. We believe in fulfilling our of our work. In everything we do, we promises and doing what we say we maintain the highest international will do. standards and we strive for perfection. 3 WE HAVE AN UNCOMPROMISING 4 WE BELIEVE OUR BUSINESS RESOLVE FOR EXCELLENCE. IS SUCCESSFUL ONLY IF WE BENEFIT THOSE AROUND US. Our experience shows that if we Sustainable development and provide the best products for our philanthropy are central to our work. customers, our own success will follow. We are committed to adding value to If it came to a choice, we would rather the communities in which we work in be best than biggest. and creating a better future for everyone around us. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CORE BUSINESSES REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT The Yangon property market is rich with opportuMarga Group aims to be the largest and most nities. In five short years, reforms led by political reputable international real-estate developer in pioneers have transformed an isolated economy Myanmar, and strives to deliver the finest and into one of Asia’s most sought-after investment most exquisite properties this country has ever attractions. Yangon, once Asia’s most prosperous seen. Focusing on high-end world-class developcity half a century ago, is now regaining the inments in Yangon, our international development terest of savvy international investors as the most and management team has extensive experience vibrant and fastest growing business hub in the rein master planning, project design and managegion with the smooth transition to the new regime ment, project execution, and property and asset led by Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. management across the Asia Pacific region. Our team of industry experts has an uncompromising At the heart of a country of over 50 million people, passion for the highest quality and details, and beYangon has witnessed unprecedented growth in lieves in only bringing the best to our end-users its property market since 2012. Now in the wake that will truly define an exquisite, metropolitan as of an influx of multinational corporations and the well as sustainable lifestyle. promulgation of the new Condominium Law that allows foreign ownership of property, demands for international standard properties and commercial space at the city that has yet to see true quality development can only be expected to rise even further. MARGA GROUP 8 OUR FLAGSHIP PROJECT THE CENTRAL The Central consists of the first international retail promenade in Myanmar, stylishly fitted residential towers, a boutique shopping mall and grade-A commercial office space. The Central will become an iconic landmark for modern, sustainable living and for the local and international community to live, work and play. The Myanmar Property Awards is part of the regional Asia Property Awards program established in 2005. With a professionally run awards system supervised by an independent auditor, the Myanmar Property Awards is the biggest and most credible industry awards in the Right by Yangon’s famous Inya Lake and situated at country. This event celebrates the top names in the corner of Kabar Aye Pagoda Road and Kanbe real estate including the best developers, projects Road, two of Yangon’s busiest roads, The Central and designs in the country. sets out to be a world-class real estate development The Central, developed by Marga Landmark, was that showcases the beauty and urban vitality of the the largest winner at the 2017 awards ceremony. booming economic center in the ASEAN region. The judges panel, made up of the industry’s top Inya Lake is the largest lake in Yangon and the professionals judged each project on a series most beautiful recreation hotspot for tourists and of criteria including; architecture, quality locals. Much of the Inya Lake shoreline lies some and ingenuity of design, interiors, amenities, of the most expensive private properties in the value for money, sustainability, landscaping, country. Having the most expansive view of Inya and development concept overall. Marga Lake, The Central effortlessly links its residents Landmark took home 6 awards including; 5 to Yangon’s central business district, and the from the development categories Best Condo charming neighborhood and international hubs Development, Best Retail Development, Best inside Yankin Township, a thriving commercial Mixed Use Development, Best in Universal hub for upscale Yangon where The Central is Design, and Best Developer, and 1 as a Special located. Recognition in CSR. 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CORE BUSINESSES TELECOMMUNICATIONS within its telecommunications sector as one of the world’s last frontier markets with an enormous potential waiting to be unlocked. Capitilizing on the lucrative market of telecommunications, Marga Group operates in this hugely promising sector through its subsidiary Marga Global Telecom that sets out to be a leading telecommunications services and facilities provider in Myanmar. Strongly backed by Global Call, a leader in the Hong Kong telecommunications industry, Marga Global Myanmar’s telecommunications sector has Telecom has a world-class management team of undergone staggering transformation since 2013. seasoned professionals with extensive experience With the introduction of foreign competition, and market-leading knowledge of the sector all new mobile services have penetrated the market at across the Asia Pacific region. Currently holding breakneck speed. The liberalization of Myanmar’s the Network Facilities Services (Individual) telecommunications industry has opened up a License, the country’s most senior license in the market of 55 million users who were deprived telecommunications industry after the Master of basic network services and a country that is License, Marga Global Telecom is best positioned in dire need of principal telecommunications to lead and transform the country’s standard and infrastructure. As one of the top three fastest users’ experience, meeting the growing demands growing markets in the world in terms of mobile for world-class facilities, reliable networks and subscribers, Myanmar is witnessing a revolution seemless services. MARGA GROUP 10 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Marga firmly believes that the equal rights of men and women will promote the social progress and better standards of life for all human beings. We fully support the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Each of our stakeholders is entitled to all the rights and freedoms regardless of their race, Principle 1: Businesses should support and sex, religion, birth or other status. respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and We make sure that there are no acts of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or Principle 2: make sure that they are not punishment within our community. We sincerely complicit in human rights abuses. believe that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. We trust and practice that everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work. We strive to ensure that everyone could afford a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of themselves and of their family. We encourage our stakeholders to value the importance of education and fully grant flexibility to technical and professional education. MARGA GROUP 12 HUMAN RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION Equal Rights of Men and Women Multi-Religioned and Multi-Nationality We strive to achieve the equal rights of men and Marga is proud to be a multi-national company women with the current employment ration for with our employees from Myanmar, Hong Kong, male and female 60/40. Korea, Mainland China, Australia, United States of America. We honor and celebrate different Rest and Leisure religious activities in our company throughout the We understand that everyone must have the right whole year. to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation Health and Well-being of working hours and periodic holidays with pay. Our employees are entitled to fully paid leaves for We value our employees. We care about their marriage, maternal and parental in addition to health and well-being and make sure everyone has casual, annual and paid sick leaves. a fair health insurance. In case of health problems, our employees are granted paid leaves until full recovery, even in excess of the government’s policy. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We believe our business is successful only if we benefit those around us. Sustainable developments and philanthropy are central to our work. We are committed to adding values to the communities in which we work in and creating a better future for everyone around us. A visit to Eden Centre for Children with Diabilities Marga firmly believes that all children should have an equal opportunity to have a wonderful childhood in their life and we are committed to support and enrich the health, welfare and education of the less fortune children. On 1st November 2017, we paid a visit to Eden Centre for Disabled Children in Insein. We prepared a wheel of fortune with many interesting gifts. We was a great blissful time to play and create such beautiful smile for the talented children. Paying Respect to Our Beloved Senior Citizens We are always grateful and respectful to our senior citizens for the services they had contributed to our community. We are indebted to provide them comfortable facilities and much needed care during their vulnerable stage of life. On 1st July 2017, we paid our second visit to Seesar Yaik nursing center to donate a few equipment for the elderly and to spend quality time with them. We talked with the elderly and felt so humbled to learn about their life stories with many exciting events. It was very rewarding to be able to create a moment of joy and put a smile on their faces. MARGA GROUP 14 A Lifetime Honor for the New Children’s Choir The New Children’s choir, launched in March 2016, is composed of talented young children from monastic schools and orphanages in the Yangon region as well as international students from International School of Yangon. On 10th August 2017, the New Children’s Choir performed with great honor as they were graced by the presence of Her Excellency State Councellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi in Nay Pyi Taw. Her Excellency the state councellor personally told the children that she could not be more proud of the children of the New Children’s Choir. It was truly heartwarming to see Her Excellency being so supportive of music education for the young children in Myanmar. As a patron of the New Children’s Choir, we are very proud and honored to be able to contribute to the achievements and success of the children. 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 LABOUR ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS Marga fully understands the right of all employees to freely set up, join or run their own organizations without interference. Marga is proud to have employees who are the members of different organizations, social and political. We practice Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the open door policy with the effective recognition of freedom of association and the effective our employees’ right to bargaining and negotiating, recognition of the right to collective individually or collectively. bargaining; We condemned all forms of forced and compulsory Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of labour. We believe that forced labour is, for the forced and compulsory labour; most part, rooted in poverty, inequality, and discrimination. Creating a safe, healthy, nonPrinciple 5: the effective abolition of child discriminative and harmonious workplace for our labour; and employees is core to our principle with respect to labour. We also nurture and reward performance, Principle 6: the elimination of devotion and hard work. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We take great pride in the complete absence of child labour in Marga and in corporations, the contractors and suppliers, we work together with. We are committed to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our employees are selected on the basis of their suitability to do the job and that there is no distinction, exclusion or preference made on other grounds. MARGA GROUP 16 LABOUR IMPLEMENTATION Safety Policy Rewards and Compensation We put ‘safety’ as the first priority in our working A bonus scheme and a commission scheme are environment. We provide a safe working in place to reward employees with improved environment for our employees, especially for performance and a yearly performance review is our construction workers. We appoint a safety in place to assess the employees’ performance and manager to make sure that nobody is allowed achievements. inside the construction site without full Personal Every hour above the legal working hours is Protective Equipment (PPE) and to monitor that compensated in accordance with the International safety measures and precautions are taken at all Labour Law. times. Site Safety Manual We are committed to providing a safe and sound working environment for our employees. We have a strict “Site Safety Manual” and make sure every employees are complied with it. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 LABOUR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In addition to our endeavor to develop a safe and fair working environment of internal standards for our employees, we encourage our employees to engage in community services that we have been serving since 2013. Facilitating the Preservation of the Exquisite Old Library Marga is committed to the people and future development of this great country. We have been supporting many aspects of the community with particular emphasis on education which is integral and vital to development and progress. We responded immediately when we learned about the need of new set of air-conditioning and dehumidifying system of University of Yangon Library. After completion of successful installation and test running of the new set of air-conditioning and dehumidifying system, our committed volunteers set out to help dust the books and the shelves of the 4-storeyed library. MARGA GROUP 18 ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS We understand the importance of establishing a corporate policy on the use of environmentally sound technologies. Principle 7: Businesses should support a We are working closely with our contractors, precautionary approach to environmental suppliers and employees to develop and promote challenges; an environmentally responsible strategy. We take great care to ensure that construction activities Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote within our site will only cause minimum possible greater environmental responsibility; and harm to the environment. Principle 9: encourage the development We fully embrace the importance of clean water and diffusion of environmentally friendly assessment for a vibrant and stable environment. technologies. Marga is always working actively with the government and local NGOs for a cleaner and greener environment. 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ENVIRONMENT IMPLEMENTATION With a mandate that research and development related to more environmentally friendly products can have significant long-term benefits, we partnered with Yangon Technological University and pledged to provide fundings for the research programmes for 5 years through U Nyi Hla Nge Foundation. We will continue to be committed towards effective preservation and raising of public awareness, so as to preserve the environment for generations of Myanmar people to enjoy. MARGA GROUP 20 ENVIRONMENT MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Marga recognizes that other than our philanthropic efforts, effective and proper preservation is required to help preserve the environment and the community we live in. Preserving the Beauty of Inya Lake In the morning of 6th May, 2017, we held a community cleaning day at Inya Lake in collaboration with Yankin – Agora Center. Our enthusiastic volunteers did not just stop at collecting trash along the Inya Lake bank, but even ventured further and took additional efforts to collect bottles, plastic bags, and other trash from the shoreline. Aside from cleaning up Inya Lake, our other main objective was to raise awareness and reduce littering in Yangon public spaces. Renovation of Existing Ehildren Playground at Yankin Children Hospital Good healthcare system is essential for the wellbeing of the community. It enhances the livability and is necessary for a quality life. We responded immediately to the request from the hospital to help renovate the existing children playground to enable for a better recreational facility for the children and staff. Children are the future; and we will continue to contribute and brighten the lives of the children. 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Nurturing the Next Generations of Scientists and Technological Professionals We understand the vital role of research and advanced innovation for a more sustainable and eco-friendly environment, especially in a fast developing country like Myanmar. On 22nd November 2017, we signed a supplemental agreement with U Nyi Hla Nge Foundation to mark our 2nd year sponsorship for Yangon Technology University Research Fund. We are honored and thrilled to be given this opportunity to contribute to the technological and scientific progress of Myanmar in partnership with U Nyi Hla Nge Foundation. Pitching in for a Greener Yangon We understand the importance of trees to the eco-systems. Trees increase our quality of life by bringing natural elements and wildlife habitats into urban settings. On providing a green environment for the local community and the city at large, Marga has worked with community leaders and taken steps to ensure the sustainability of a healthy and beautiful environment. In 2017, Marga donated 20 acres of lands for tree plantation to the city of Yangon and the trees have been planted in the outskirts of Yangon. MARGA GROUP 22 ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT, POLICY & GOALS We fully agree with United Nation’s Global Compact’s description of corruption. Corruption is inherently wrong. It is a misuse of power and position. It undermines the integrity of all involved and potentially decrease morale and Principle 10: Businesses should work therefore productivity. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Marga does not engage in any corrupt practices. We strictly forbid any forms of corruption, bribery or extortion, within our company and in our relation with the contractors and suppliers. We are committed to playing our parts in fighting against the corruption in all its forms. 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION We practice ‘zero-tolerance’ policy on all forms of corruption, bribery and extortion. All our stakeholders, both management and employees, have to comply the anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. We sign “Anti-corruption Agreement” with all our contractors. The agreement states that the contractor shall not offer any advantage in any form (including but not limited to gifts, cash, gift coupons, banquets and loans) to us, the client. We develop an effective reporting system for corrupt crimes, through which the whistleblowers get rewarded for reporting any acts of corruption. We undertake thorough interrogation against any suspect of corrupt and take serious actions to stop any forms of corruption. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Through our effective reporting system, there were zero cases of corruption and bribery in 2017. MARGA GROUP 24 COPYRIGHT STATEMENT All rights, title and interests in and to all copyright and other intellectual property rights (present or future) of all the Information contained herein on this website (“IP Rights”) is vested in, owned by and shall remain the exclusive property of Marga 23. The IP Rights shall not be directly or indirectly used, exploited, disclosed nor adopted, for any purposes without Marga 23’s prior written approval. Any unauthorised dissemination, reproduction, display or usage of any IP Rights shall be deemed to constitute an infringement of Marga 23’s rights, is strictly prohibited and shall be dealt with swiftly and severely. No interest, license or any right respecting any IP Rights is granted by Marga 23 to any person under this website by implication or otherwise. By using this website, you agree to comply with this website disclaimer and acknowledge that the exclusions and limitations of liability set out in this website disclaimer are reasonable. DISCLAIMER All information contained herein, including but not limited to numbers, figures, statements, drawings, designs, logos, illustrations, photographs, visual representations, models, renderings, areas, specifications, dimensions, plans, graphic materials, features and amenities, and other displays (the “Information”) are published in good faith and are for purposes of general reference only. Any part or all of the Information are subject to modification, revision, change or withdrawal at the sole discretion of Marga 23 Investment Limited (“Marga 23”) without any prior notice to any person, and should not be relied upon as representations or warranties, of any kind, express or implied, about the completeness, accuracy, reliability, suitability or availability with respect to the report or the Information, products, services, or related graphics contained on the report for any purpose, and consequently cannot and should not form part of a binding offer or contract with any person. Any reliance you place on such Information is therefore strictly at your own risk. In no event will Marga 23 be liable for any loss or damage including without limitation, indirect or consequential loss or damage, or any loss or damage whatsoever arising from any business losses, loss of revenue, income, profits or anticipated savings, loss of contracts or business relationships, loss of reputation or goodwill, or loss or corruption of information or data arising out of, or in connection with, the use of this report.
