Annual Report 2016 and Sustainability Report “We build Sweden as a nation of knowledge” Contents Our mission 1 Akademiska Hus: Swe President and Chair of the Board 2 Value creation 5 Driving forces 6 for higher education a Stakeholders 8 Materiality analysis and objectives 10 Strategy 11 Objectives and objective achievement 12 Employees 13 Case 14 Description of business 19 Akademiska Hus owns, develops and manages Campus and business development 20 properties with a focus on higher education and Projects 21 Property Management 25 research. We are wholly owned by the Swedish state. Our property portfolio is worth SEK 73 billion and ADMINISTRATION REPORT we have a market share of approximately 60 per Akademiska Hus 2016 28 Five-year summary 30 cent in our segment. Market development and competition 32 Property valuation 34 Financing 37 Risk 40 RESEARCHERS AND STUDENTS SQUARE METRES Corporate Governance Report 44 300 3.2 IN OUR PREMISES EACH DAY RENTABLE SPACE Board of Directors 47 Executive Management 49 Board of Directors’ Internal Control Report 50 Other information 52 Allocation of unappropriated earnings 53 THOUSAND MILLION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Income Statements 54 Statement of Comprehensive Income 55 Balance Sheets 56 73 16.7 TOTAL PROPERTY PORTFOLIO PROJECT PORTFOLIO Changes in Equity 58 Statements of Cash Flows 60 Notes 61 Signatures of the Board of Directors 88 Auditor’s Report 89 SEK BILLION SEK BILLION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT About the Sustainability Report/GRI data 92 GRI and COP index 94 Signatures of the Board of Directors 96 Auditor’s Report 97 PERFORMANCE MEASURES FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 AND DEFINITIONS 98 INCOME STATEMENT, SEK M INFORMATION AND ADDRESSES 100 Property management income 5,666 5,646 5,681 5,588 5,511 Net operating income 3,667 3,740 3,717 3,506 3,588 Change in value, properties 3,682 2,655 3,529 232 –291 Profit before financial items 7,264 6,323 7,200 3,665 3,231 PROPERTY SPECIFICATION Net financial income/expense –549 –182 –939 –390 –682 See Profit before tax 6,714 6,141 6,261 3,275 2,549 www.akademiskahus.se Profit for the year 5,148 4,780 5,215 2,568 3,149 KEY FIGURES Return on operating capital, % 6.2 6.9 7.3 7.2 7.8 Annual Report 2016 Yield, % 5.7 6.4 6.9 6.8 7.1 The audited Annual Report comprises pages 28–88. Our Net operating income ratio, % 65 66 65 63 65 sustainability initiatives are incorporated in the Annual Equity ratio, % 41.4 40.7 48.0 46.8 46.0 Report and presented in line with GwRI G4 guidelines. The Sustainability Report comprises the pages listed on page 92 and has undergone a cursory audit. This Annual Report is a translation of the Swedish original. den’s leading property company nd research Internationally attractive Long-term contracts with campus and knowledge creditworthy customers form environments our base Internationalisation and digitisation are two major issues for the Colleges and universities, which are essentially government future. We take full responsibility and work with our customers to agencies, are the source of 90 per cent of our revenue. Long-term develop knowledge environments of the future. By doing so we contracts and a high leasing level with customers who have the can help to strengthen the international competitiveness of the highest credit rating create stability. It also creates investment centres of education. opportunities so that we continuously improve our offering. Resource-efficient and sustainable High credit rating – governance in construction and a requirement for financing property management investments Optimising operations, energy efficiency, and choosing the right We have a substantial investment portfolio. Cash flow from our materials are important aspects of our sustainability efforts. By operating activities is good, but the debt portfolio will continue partnering with both customers and suppliers, we accelerate the to be significant. We strive to achieve relevant and transparent pace of our efforts to reduce both environmental impact and costs. disclosure to enable financiers and rating agencies to find support for their credit assessments of Akademiska Hus. DISTRIBUTION PREMISES CATEGORY, % TENANT CATEGORIES, % Offices, 14% Colleges and universities, 87% Laboratories, 35% Chalmersfastigheter, 3% Classrooms and lecture halls, 44% Publicly financed operations, 4% Other facilities, 7% Other, 6% NET OPERATING INCOME FAIR VALUE BY CITY, % SEK m % 4,000 80 Stockholm, 44% 3,000 60 Uppsala, 18% Gothenburg, 9% 2,000 40 Lund, 9% Umeå, 5% 1,000 20 Linköping, 4% Other, 11% 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 Net operating income, SEK m Net operating income ratio, % Akademiska Hus 2016 Transfer of major Student accommodation in construction projects collaboration and on our own Several major construction projects were completed Good access to student accommodation makes the during the year and tenants moved in. Examples include centres of education more attractive. Our campus plans the new research facility Biotronen in Alnarp, the renoalways address the issue of undergraduate and graduate vated V-Building in Lund and the Royal College of Music student housing, whether construction is by others or in Stockholm, which is shown on the cover. Read more under our own auspices. In 2016 our renovation projects about the Royal College of Music on page 15. created student accommodation on the Alnarp Campus and at Frescati. In addition, we broke ground for 340 housing units at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) Important construction starts Campus in Stockholm. Read more about the KTH Campus on page 14. We have a large project portfolio with many planned and ongoing projects. In 2016 one of the most important building starts was the Humanisten building, a new construction and extension project that will co-locate the activities of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Gothenburg. The project is a first step in the effort to make the campus a unique and creative meeting place for art, culture and the humanities. On the Umeå Campus, construction began on two projects: the new Medical Biology Centre (MBC) and a new building for the police training programme. Humanisten in Gothenburg Student accommodation just off-campus Reorganisation Beginning on 1 January 2017 we have a new organisational structure. Instead of regional divisions, we now base the organisation on our three main processes: property management, projects, and campus and business development. This approach shifts the focus to our property management business, improves our efficiency and our development capacity, and provides even better Letter of intent paves the way opportunities to create competitive knowledge environments throughout Sweden. for energy-saving initiative During the year Akademiska Hus initiated several Akademiska Hus is subject to LOU collaborations to improve the energy efficiency of our university campuses. For example, we signed a letter of intent along with the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences formulating a common vision for the three In June 2016 the Supreme Administrative Court concampuses in Uppsala, Alnarp and Umeå. The letter of firmed that Akademiska Hus is considered to be a intent aims to reduce the amount of delivered energy contracting authority that is subject to the Public by 25 per cent over the next ten years. Procurement Act (LOU). Read more on page 24. Vision Values Leading knowledge environments. ATTENTIVE Attentiveness and mutual understanding are essential for building strong, long-term relationships. Business concept COMMITTED Wholeheartedness and commitment are reflected Working in collaboration with our customers, we in everything we do. develop, build and manage knowledge environments that further Sweden’s success as a nation of knowlVALUE CREATION edge. Through our experience, expertise and size, Together we take overall responsibility for buildwe provide effective, sustainable environments for ing lasting success for customers, the owner and education, research and innovation. each other. OUR MISSION – to contribute to strengthening Sweden as a nation of knowledge “Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will own, develop and manage properties for universities and colleges where the primary focus is on education and research and it will carry on operations compatible therewith. Operations will be run on a commercial basis and generate a yield that is in line with the market by setting rents that take into account the operating risk. Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will work to bring about long-term sustainable development of university and college campuses.” “Akademiska Hus will contribute to the creation of more student accommodation by making clear that the Company’s focus includes the construction and management of student accommodation.”  AKADEMISKA HUS’ MISSION IS DECIDED BY THE RIKSDAG 2 STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CHAIR OF THE BOARD Integrated approach for a wiser Sweden The development of tomorrow’s campuses and an in-depth and more trusting dialogue with Swedish universities dominated the conversation when Akademiska Hus’ Anitra Steen, Chair of the Board, and Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President, summarised the past year. A more in-depth, improved dialogue with your customers, ute to the visions of the higher education institutions. I think these the Swedish universities, has been a key priority over the past discussions have been constructive and mutually increased awareyear. What needs improvement? ness of our respective circumstances.” AS: “Good relationships with our customers are crucial for us to successfully conduct our business and achieve our goals – and ultiIn practical terms, how would you make relationships mately, if we are to deliver the modern, innovative and high-quality with customers even better in the future? knowledge environments that our customers demand. AS: “Above all, of course, is that we can create world-class learning Nor will we deny the fact that the cooperative climate with some environments so that Swedish universities and colleges can continue Swedish colleges and universities has been strained. to hold their own in international competition. To reach those goals, The centres of education have expressed distrust to varying we need to further develop the campus approach and adapt both degrees regarding Akademiska Hus’ mission to work under market-­ new construction and existing facilities to the new demands that, based business conditions. As the newly appointed Chair of the Board for example, digitisation and mobility place on education.” in 2016 it has therefore been valuable to visit the Swedish universiKLG: “Which in turn places demands on both us and our customties together with Kerstin where we could engage in a sincere ers to streamline the building processes. Unfortunately, some of straightforward dialogue with them.” the new knowledge environments we build today – often high-­ profile buildings that we and our customers are justifiably proud What has been the biggest challenge at these meetings of – are also expensive investments. Dealing with this issue is a with customers? shared responsibility: The centres of education have to focus more AS: “The most important thing for us has been to explain our on ordering the features that the new environments will offer and mission and how we have achieved it. When Akademiska Hus was we have to improve at providing solutions to their needs and preformed in 1993 the purpose was to increase the efficiency of the senting more cost-effective proposals, while being clear about State’s property management, both by providing a more accurate what drives costs without necessarily providing better functionalpicture of local costs in all official expenditure reporting, as well as ity. It’s a matter of working together to determine what the ‘right by ensuring that the substantial value of the State’s properties was quality’ is. This will require us at Akademiska Hus to increase our properly utilised. This is where the division of roles in the system own pace of development and innovative skills, while getting comes into play, where the universities don’t have to set priorities involved at an even earlier phase of campus planning.” between property maintenance and new construction investments and its core activity – education and research. The appropriations It sounds simple in theory, but harder in practice? allow for rental of premises and the fact is that facility costs as a AS: “Yes, it is, and that’s why these are important issues for the percentage of total expenses for the universities have fallen over Boards at the colleges and universities to consider. They have to the 24 years that Akademiska Hus has been active. At the same make the trade-off between the cost of new buildings and the existtime, we have been able to build up a unique expertise in campus ing education activities.” development and delivered a variety of high-quality education and KLG: “We have good examples where universities have placed research environments – premises that might never have been built orders for functionality based on which we’ve formulated proposals if Akademiska Hus had not existed. We’ve been able to do so because and processes that combined high quality with cost effectiveness, we also built a good reputation in the financial markets and have where the customer has been satisfied with the process and the the financial strength that provides stability and minimises risk, collaboration. creating conditions that allow the centres of education to develop Beginning in the summer of 2016 Akademiska Hus has been based on their needs and visions, regardless of fluctuations in the subject to the Public Procurement Act (LOU). Our ambition is to economy.” handle procurement according to LOU so that it benefits both us KLG: “In discussions about the future we also want to highlight and our customers, for example by applying slightly more pressure the importance of increased cooperation that enables us to contribon prices and offering an even higher degree of transparency.” AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CHAIR OF THE BOARD 3 “Our top priority is to fulfil our mission and to strengthen Sweden’s centres of education” An important way to both increase the quality of your services ment is extremely useful here, where we include those factors and and to improve the cooperative climate with your customers is can also take an integrated approach to sustainability issues on the reorganisation that Akademiska Hus implemented during campus. This involves energy issues and climate-smart solutions, the year. How will the change be noticed? of course, as well as diversity, accessibility and security issues. KLG: “Demands on the centres of education, and therefore also on A comprehensive approach like this offers a number of advantages the design of premises and campuses, are rapidly changing, especially and Akademiska Hus has the skills to lead this trend. the rapid digital transformation. For us it is crucial that the experience We still have much to learn, especially from universities in other we acquire in one development project at a university benefits other parts of the world, where the entire campus is a learning environuniversities and colleges. With the new organisation we depart from ment with extremely flexible facilities. At the same time, we are a regional division and work with our main processes instead, which pleased to note that we are at the forefront, even in an international will facilitate the transfer of expertise throughout Sweden while perspective, when it comes to creating meeting places and offering enabling us to take a more structured approach to building and campus-wide internet connectivity.” strengthening our skills. We will also be able to focus more on innovation in collaboration with the centres of education and others to Two years ago Akademiska Hus was tasked with provide even more value moving forward.” helping to increase construction of student accommodation. How has that gone? You talk a lot about the importance of campus development. KLG: “The development work for student accommodation has Why is that so important? moved at a fast pace and we’ve really been able to make a difference. KLG: “Traditionally, the campus environment as a whole, where In Stockholm, where the housing situation for students has been people both live and study, has been typical at foreign universities the most difficult, we will have 6,000 new student housing units in a completely different way than in Sweden. A rapid development ready for occupancy in 2017 through the Stockholm 6000+ cooperis now under way where Swedish higher education institutions are ation initiative. In the Gothenburg region, we are responsible for increasingly demanding full-scale campuses that offer services, coordinating Gbg7000+, which should provide more than 7,000 housing, good public transportation and an integrated business new student housing units within ten years and similar major initicommunity. Our knowledge and methodology in campus developatives are under way in Lund, Umeå and Luleå.” AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 STATEMENT FROM THE PRESIDENT AND CHAIR OF THE BOARD “Nobody should AS: “Our strategy is to take responsibility for construction of on-campus student housaffects overall market rent levels. The trend in the property market has also led to have to turn down ing, where we need to have future control over the area, while others can build on land continued strong interest and increased transaction volumes for the type of properthe opportunity on the outskirts of the campus.” ties in the Akademiska Hus portfolio, while competition in the community property Will the initiative to build new student sector has intensified.” to study at a unihousing continue at the same pace? KLG: “Student accommodation is a key Finally, what are your expectations versity because component of a vibrant campus, and the general housing shortage itself is a major for 2017? KLG: “I hope to see our customers conthey don’t have obstacle for the development of higher edutinue to be more accepting of both our cation institutions. Nobody should have mission and role in the Swedish university to turn down the opportunity to study at sector, as well as of our daily property mananywhere to live.” a university because they don’t have anywhere to live. This issue is enormously agement work and the way we lead development of new campuses. I also expect that Kerstin Lindberg Göransson important for the higher education instituwe will take additional steps forward in tions so here we have to collaborate even digitisation, in our own operations and in more and do everything we can to produce the design of future research and education as many student housing units as possible. environments. But another major challenge involves We will also continue our important developing a long-term plan so that we can sustainability initiatives. Akademiska Hus’ build student accommodation with reasonsustainability issues are integrated in the able living expenses. To succeed, we must operation and we support and run our continue to cooperate with external partbusiness in accordance with the corporate ners, and reduce costs by investing in large responsibility principles of the UN Global volumes of new construction and more preCompact and the OECD Guidelines for fabricated housing.” Multinational Enterprises. We will continue to do so moving forward.” 2016 has been an exceptional year AS: “My hope is that over the coming year for the property sector. How has that we will further develop discussions with affected Akademiska Hus? our customers about how we drive down AS: “The strong growth in the value of costs for our development projects and properties has meant that the value of thereby reduce rent costs and that we will Akademiska Hus’ holdings has continued to continue to contribute to maintaining the grow and at year-end totalled SEK 73,013 high pace of construction of more student million, an increase of 5.7 per cent. This housing.” Akademiska Hus profitability is based on… AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION 5 …sustainable values A strong education and research sector is important for Sweden’s competitiveness. Akademiska Hus aims to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge and to create sustainable values for our customers and other stakeholders. How we plan, set goals and develop our business are affected by global trends and the expectations placed on us by the outside world. Driving forces Most external factors, internationally and properties. Two-lasting trends are of particuthat affect our in Sweden, affect the conditions under which lar importance for our development over Akademiska Hus conducts business. Such the next few years: digitisation and internadevelopment factors range from changing educational needs to the increased interest in community tionalisation. page 6 High Insight into the issues that are relevant to Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders is expectations both internal and external stakeholders is particularly important now, when conditions crucial for our ability to prioritise the right in both the property industry and the higher from our activities. This enables us to act in good time on issues that Akademiska Hus stakeholders education sector are rapidly changing. stakeholders page 8 consider to be urgent. The materiality By analysing the issues that are most essenimprove our offering to our customers and analysis lays tial for our long-term value creation, we as a major participant in the community become aware of how we can add value for construction industry we take responsibility the foundation our customers, owner and other stakeholders. We continue to work hard to develop and and drive development forward. for our goals page 10 Long-term Development capacity, efficiency and custerm priorities can be translated into action. strategy guides tomer value are key concepts that permeate Leveraging our expertise in collaboration the Akademiska Hus strategy. with our customers is crucial if we are to our work Our strategy can be broken down into busiachieve our goals. page 11 ness and operational plans so that our longAssessing fulfilShort-term and long-term objectives ensure by listening to and pursuing an ongoing diament of objectives continual development. By measuring our logue with our customers, we improve our performance we can adapt and adjust our opportunities to strengthen Sweden as a nation ensures that we are operations so we remain on course towards our long-term goals. of knowledge. Akademiska Hus employees are our primary resource for us to be on the right path page 12 The road may have its twists and turns, but able to achieve our goals. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION 6 External driving forces Internationalisation and digitisation of Swedish higher education institutions Sweden’s colleges and universities face intensifying global competition. Attractive campus, research and education environments are growing in importance for positioning our universities on the international academic map in order to attract increasingly mobile students and researchers from all over the world. The role of colleges and universities in higher education is changing. broadening their efforts in moving towards greater digitisation of Swedish centres of education are now in competition with internaboth education and their operations in general. Local planners and tional players for undergraduate and graduate students, attracting educators need to work together to a greater degree to create techcutting-edge research centres, and of course, for funding. A growing nology-supported learning environments for the future offering number of Swedish centres of education are actively working on internet-based teaching that no longer needs to be tied to a physical branding and specialisation in an effort to strengthen their position location. among international competitors. Most of the universities are also AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION External driving forces 7 Internationalisation – Swedish higher education institutions from a global perspective It has become increasingly common to either spend some time An additional factor suggesting an increased focus on internationstudying abroad, or to obtain a full university education in another alisation is that the nationwide student base for most Swedish country. The number of students enrolled at a university or college higher education institutions is not large enough, where more interoutside their home country has significantly risen in recent years, national students contribute increased revenues to the universities an increase of more than 50 per cent between 2005 and 20121. and colleges. There are also international funding opportunities The Riksdag and the Government, which have overall responsiif the centre of education succeeds in attracting investments in bility for higher education and research in Sweden, are in favour research and local incubator companies. Successful positioning in of a continued globalised education sector. Politically, they aim to the international arena can strengthen the reputation of the centre achieve greater internationalisation in order to raise the quality of education, since international rankings are becoming increasof research and higher education, improve the competitiveness of ingly important. Swedish higher education institutions and make them more attracThe increasing internationalisation of higher education and tive. The foundation created by the Riksdag to promote internaresearch makes it even more desirable for Akademiska Hus to tionalisation of higher education and research works to implement contribute even more in the process of developing internationally the political goal of increased enrolment of foreign students at competitive campus and learning environments. In this context, Swedish universities. The EU-wide target is for 20 per cent of stucreating more undergraduate and graduate student housing closer dents in Europe who graduate in 2020 to have studied or practised to campuses becomes an important issue. Enabling undergraduate abroad during their studies. Sweden is not there yet – we are curand graduate student mobility and continuing to promote accessirently at 14 per cent. It is therefore likely that in the future Swedish bility in higher education for more people require the right condicentres of education will be able to apply for state funds for further tions on campus. internationalisation initiatives. Digitisation – promoting new solutions Our world features always-connected mobile devices, cloud computKnowledge and research environments at higher education instiing solutions and digital as the first choice for media consumption. tutions play an important role in how Sweden develops as a nation Digitisation has rapidly changed, and continues to change, how of knowledge. We are working together with the higher education people live all over the world. This trend provides both new opportuinstitutions and other stakeholders to create competitive knowlnities and challenges for companies, organisations and authorities edge environments throughout the country. With digitisation, the to consider. And Akademiska Hus is no exception. competition for undergraduate and graduate students will intensify Students have quickly embraced a more digital approach, which and become increasingly global. International boundaries will no also changes expectations on campus. The ability to schedule studies longer be as crucial when choosing where to pursue undergraduate based on daily life is viewed as a requirement. Individual students or graduate studies. It is therefore important that we and our cusstudy wherever it is most convenient: at home, in cafés, or at digital tomers remain vigilant and work together to create the most attracor physical hubs with their mobile devices. This trend presents a tive knowledge environments possible. challenge for traditional knowledge environments and educational The change is here, and it is here to stay. Digitisation will be an programmes. important perspective in our development and management of our For Akademiska Hus, and for centres of education all over Sweden, campuses. With our collective expertise in campus development, technological developments entail new opportunities and challenges our understanding of the needs of future knowledge environments when designing buildings and campuses. Combining distance learnand our awareness of global developments in this sector, we will be ing with campus-based education is becoming increasingly common able to work together with universities and colleges to meet these and leads to changes in how premises are used. These changing future challenges and to benefit from the opportunities presented education patterns mean there is a greater need for flexible premby digitisation. ises, while learning environments need to be inspiring, fit for purpose, and stimulate education and development. 1 OECD (2016), Education at a Glance 2016: OECD Indicators, OECD Publishing, Paris. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION 8 Stakeholders Commitment – the core of our stakeholder relations We want to build trust and understanding for Akademiska Hus’ mission and role in society. Through open dialogue relating to issues that affect development both for us and for our stakeholders, we create shared commitment and opportunities for collaboration. Customers, business partners, employees, business from the individual universities suppliers and the owner all expect different and colleges, during the year our Chair things from Akademiska Hus. All of our and our President met with most of the sustainability goals are based on close colVice-Chancellors of the higher education laboration between us and our stakeholders. institutions where we own properties. The An open dialogue increases understanding meetings build valuable relationships at the MARIA LINDROTH, E.ON of our individual priorities and challenges, same time that they complement the daily thereby promoting an inspiring and stimuconversations between the facilities man“Energy provider E.on supplies both lating relationship. Effective collaboration is agement department at the centres of eduheating and cooling to Akademiska Hus crucial if we are to jointly develop Sweden’s cation and Akademiska Hus. Read more in several locations in Sweden. We’ve set most attractive campuses and knowledge about this dialogue on pages 2–4. a high bar for our sustainability work and we welcome Akademiska Hus’ initiaenvironments. In 2016 our Customer Satisfaction tive to discuss how we can achieve a Index (CSI) survey was revised. The survey fossil-­free service. We consider it to be MULTI-LEVEL DIALOGUE resulted in a CSI of 61, which is not satiscrucial to have a dedicated and knowledgeable partner in our efforts to As a major player in the built environment factory. The customers are satisfied with achieve a fossil-­free society, which will industry, we have a challenging and complex our staff, but also indicate that we need to benefit both our own market position mission. Diverse interests must be addressed improve our interpersonal skills and and that of our customers.” with a sound and balanced approach. We become more attentive to their needs. We therefore engage in a variety of ways to procreated our new organisation with these mote a positive and productive dialogue. issues in mind. We carry out structured dialogues with our COLLABOR ATIVE DEVELOPMENT customers to continuously develop campus INCREASED INTEREST FROM Akademiska Hus is a partner in CityLab and learning environments, we discuss THE CREDIT MARKET Action, a process approach for sustainable requirements and expectations with our Akademiska Hus has a substantial investurban development. The method is based suppliers, and we listen closely to our ment portfolio and with that comes a great on collaboration among the players that employees through surveys and perforresponsibility. During the year we met with influence and are influenced by urban develmance reviews. Community and business the banks and ratings agencies to discuss our opment and the goal is to provide conditions representatives, as well as politicians, are sustainability ambitions. The conversations for an engaging and effective process through invited to our development processes and will lead to greater consensus on the non-­ which goals for sustainable urban developwe actively contribute to industry-wide financial aspects, thereby increasing the ment are achieved. The pilot session condevelopment projects. transparency of the credit rating of our ducted in 2016 included 12 urban developCompany. In addition to our previous rating ment projects and the Albano Campus was CUSTOMER PROXIMITY IS KEY from Standard & Poor’s, we added a shortour contribution. Our customers and employees continually term rating from Moody’s during the year. Akademiska Hus also launched a share their knowledge and experiences, both national industry-wide network to promote in their daily work and through structured ENERGY ROADMAP an accident-free workplace in the construcmeetings. Strengthening the customer In order to realise our goal of a CO2 -free opertion industry. Today, 13 companies and relationship is crucial to developing existing ation, we are dependent on a fossil-­free energy organisations have signed a manifesto for operations and new offers. Akademiska Hus supply. We have therefore met with most of the upcoming initiative. The strength of meets regularly with the Association of our energy suppliers to learn about their roadthis collaborative effort can be found in the Swedish Higher Education, where we try to maps to fossil freedom. These dialogues, scope of the network in which both customcreate a collective picture of the needs of the which were conducted with mutual trust and ers and providers participate in joint discentres of education. To identify developrespect for the complexity of the energy cussions of requirements and methods. ment needs and obtain feedback on our systems, were consistently appreciated. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION Stakeholders 9 Focus areas We engage in dialogue with our key stakeholders on • An attractive employer that offers good many different levels to understand what areas they working conditions. consider to be top priorities. • A safe and healthy working environment. • Good opportunities for competence development. • Provide attractive knowledge environments • Understanding one’s own role in the and campuses that enable the customer to operations of Akademiska Hus. compete in national and international arenas. • Contribute to increased construction of student accommodation. • High resource efficiency and proactive sustainability efforts. Customers • Clarity of the Akademiska Hus business model (and their Employees and rent setting. employees) • Contribute to the customer’s long-term sustainability efforts. Local and •A ctive participation in dialogue on business • Contribute to the Government’s how society and the region can be objective of reinforcing Sweden developed, e.g. in urban developas a nation of knowledge. communities ment projects. • Increased customer benefit •P ossibility of including businesses through collaboration with centres Owner on campus. of education. •C ontribute to increased construc• Act as a forerunner in corporate tion of student accommodation. social responsibility. • High resource efficiency. •C  ontribute to increased construcFinanciers, tion of student accommodation. banks and ratings Politicians agencies • Clear and relevant procurement terms Suppliers • L ong-term capital structure. and conditions. •P  rofessional risk exposure • Contribute to the development of • Clear and ambitious management. Sweden as a nation of knowledge, requirements for the •S  table, long-term operaboth nationally and locally. environment, health tions with profitability and • Contribute to the long-term sustain­ and safety, quality and yield in accordance with able development of knowledge social responsibility. objectives and strategies. environments. • Long-term relationships. • Clear financial communi• Contribute to increased construction  cation. of student accommodation. Stakeholders & dialogue venue CUSTOMERS (AND THEIR EMPLOYEES) FINANCIERS, BANKS AND OWNER • Meetings with various executives RATING AGENCIES • Annual strategy seminar • Development of campus plans • Financial statements • Meetings with a focus on corporate • Customer Satisfaction Survey • Meetings governance LOCAL AND BUSINESS COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES • Regional and city-wide planning • Meetings related to procurement • Performance reviews and goal-setting and development meetings of framework contracts, purchase process • Meetings to discuss establishment orders and supplier meetings • Employee surveys plans • Audits • Meetings with e.g. interest groups POLITICIANS and industry organisations • D ialogue about urban and regional development AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION 10 Materiality analysis and objectives Issues that create value Stakeholder dialogues, along with the owner’s mission, external factors and personal experience form the basis of our assessment of the business and its impact on the economy, society and the environment. The materiality analysis addresses the issues that Akademiska Hus deems to be strategically important. A WORLD IN CHANGE tation are important components. Our owner underscores the role Every year the Board of Directors and management of Akademiska of Akademiska Hus in society as a model in terms of energy and the Hus arrange a strategy day to provide an opportunity to jointly environment, as well as in diversity, equality and transparency. assess and discuss a selection of the areas of greatest strategic The investor community is showing growing interest in our sustainsignificance to the Company’s future role and long-term value ability work and sees it as an asset in its valuation. creation. The issues that are highlighted are based on an analysis The Company carries out its annual risk analysis in connection that includes everything from trends to market and skills issues, with the annual business plan process. The ability to manage such as well as the insights and lessons extracted from dialogues with risks and opportunities is analysed and improvement measures are our stakeholders. During the year, a special focus was placed on planned. Read more about our risk management procedures on the development of undergraduate and graduate student housing, pages 40–43. as well as on analyses of the effects of digitisation on our Company and our customer offering. ANALYSIS AND CONSENSUS ON KEY ISSUES We continue to work hard to develop and improve our offering to TRUST AND RESPONSIBILITY our customers and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Akademiska Hus is dependent on the trust of the world around us. The materiality analysis was carried out this year with a broad repBy taking a balanced approach to the areas highlighted in the resentation of various skills from the Company to capture many stakeholder dialogues, we can improve our customer offering and perspectives and approaches. It is crucial that the process of identimake our business stronger and well equipped to meet future needs. fying key issues is well established within the operation as they are Akademiska Hus expected to take great responsibility and the important data for the business plan and operational planning. highlighted areas are often complex. Our customers see benefits The key issues are essentially the same as in previous years, but in campuses evolving into functioning neighbourhoods, where an have been reworded for clarity. integrated approach that includes housing, services and transporKEY ISSUES OWNER’S FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES: • Development of campuses and knowledge environ• Return on operating capital should be at least ments, as well as undergraduate and graduate 6.5 per cent (excluding change in value). student housing with a long-term and integrated • D ividend should be between 40 and 60 per cent focus. of the profit for the year after tax, after reversal • Resource-efficient and sustainable governance of changes in value and with related deferred tax. in construction projects and property management. • The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. • Openness and transparency in our business relation­ ships. STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: • Collaboration on innovations, where involvement • Energy purchased each year, kWh/m2, will decrease and a high development capacity are key. at such a rate that there will be a 50 per cent reduc• Responsible and sustainable supplier management. tion by 2025 compared with 2000. • Greater inclusion in our actions and our delivery • Eliminate CO2 footprint from operations. through a proactive approach to diversity and equal • I nitiate sustainability initiatives with customers. opportunities. •A  ccident-free workplaces. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION Strategy 11 Strategy for increased value creation Development capacity is key in Akademiska Hus’ long-term strategy, which extends to 2025. We work with customers to create attractive campuses as part of the effort to strengthen Sweden as a nation of knowledge. Our customers and owner have high expectations of Akademiska Hus. Our role Deliverables includes meeting major societal challenges such as digitisation of education, properties p lo er Measure and improve r f Me and urban development, as well as helping ve of f or a our daily work m su to increase the number of student housing De he a n re t ce units and taking full responsibility for pe sustainable campuses. As 2017 begins, Devel­ Dialogue Akademiska Hus has taken an additional step in its development through a new organisational structure. With increased opment Improve Product & service customer development capacity, clearer governance development, as relations to and a more efficient administration, we can well as experi­ understand mentation in what our better leverage the potential and expertise collaboration customers in the Company and deliver greater value with customers value er Insight to our customers and our owner moving g om in forward. Read more on page 19. R s t nd ex e i n cu ta p e fo r t rc e Cooperate with customers er rs t t de ADDITIONAL STR ATEGIES is d e to acquire insight into B e un knowledge environments In addition to the overall strategy, there is and to develop our employees an energy strategy and a financial strategy. Read more on pages 26 and 38. In 2016 an innovation strategy was also The primary focus of our strategy is cooperation with our customers. Through dialogue with customimplemented to enable clearer control and ers we promote insight and consensus on important issues such as sustainability and campus development. Consequently, even in the future we will be able to provide modern knowledge environments prioritisation of the Company’s innovation that help to make the centres of education attractive. Our strategic model comprises a ‘development efforts. The initiatives focus on challenge-­ wheel’ that drives us forward towards our vision and serves as the foundation of our business plan. driven innovation areas of great significance for Akademiska Hus: • K nowledge and learning environments GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE of the future DEVELOPMENT GOALS • Campus and urban development During the year Akademiska Hus analysed • Building and energy technology how the operations help to achieve the 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals. One project that encompasses several of Our broad mission incorporates clear links these areas is the development of Johanne­ to several of the objectives. In addition, we berg Science Park in Gothenburg. Read see that our approach to sustainable develmore about this on pages 16–17. opment of campuses, our focus on energy and material efficiency and the way we interact with others helps to achieve the global goals. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION 12 Objectives and objective achievement Working towards our vision We promote long-term, active and sustainable property development and management with goals to achieve our vision – leading knowledge environments. DESCRIPTION FULFILMENT OF OBJECTIVES 2016 COMMENT OWNER OBJECTIVES RETURN ON OPERATING 6.2 per cent. The target for the year was not achieved because CAPITAL many large ongoing investment projects have not At least 6.5 per cent (excluding yet started to produce a return. See the sensitivity change in value)1 analysis in Note 3 on page 66. DIVIDEND The proposed dividend will amount to SEK For further information about the allocation of profit Between 40 and 60 per cent of 1,393 million, corresponding to 60 per cent of see page 53. profit for the year after tax, after profit available for the payment of a dividend. reversal of changes in value and with related deferred tax EQUITY RATIO 41.4 per cent. Should be between 30 and 40 per cent BUSINESS GOALS ENERGY The amount of purchased energy fell during Major investments in energy efficiency measures Energy purchased each year, the year by 4.0 per cent, which exceeds the have been carried out all over Sweden. kWh/m2, will decrease at such goal. Since the starting point in 2000, the An analysis of energy use has been initiated. a rate that there will be a decline has been just over 34 per cent, which 50-per cent reduction by 2025 means that the long-term reduction commitcompared with 2000 ment is being followed. ELIMINATE CO2 FOOTPRINT Greenhouse gas emissions levels from properDuring the year, several major energy efficiency improveFROM OPERATIONS ties declined during the year to 7.4 kg/m2. ments were carried out, which reduced the carbon footRefers to CO2 footprint The total reduction of indirect greenhouse print. Discussions with energy suppliers on their roadmap for heating, cooling and gas emissions was just over 10 per cent. to fossil free delivery resulted in agreements for addielectricity tional products with reduced environmental impact. The amount of solar electricity has increased by 60 per cent from 2015. SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES During the year several sustainability Sustainability initiatives are based on a shared Initiate 19 sustainability initiatives were launched with customers. desire, between Akademiska Hus and our customers, initiatives jointly with our Taken together they exceed the goals that to act and invest in sustainable choices. The initiacustomers were set. tives are implemented with a focus primarily on energy, the environment and the indoor climate, but also relating to social aspects and innovation. ACCIDENT-FREE An action plan has been formulated with the A major training initiative has been carried out interWORKPLACES themes Awareness, Dialogue, Prevention and nally to provide our employees with more knowledge The objective applies both Follow-up. The initiative is on schedule and and raise awareness about the safe workplace. to our own employees and will continue in 2017. Steering toward the goal is accomplished by measurto those whom we hire for our projects The national Safe Construction Council neting the implemented activities and ultimately the work, which was initiated by Akademiska Hus, impact they have on the business. signed a declaration of intent relating to collaboration on work environment issues. ESI The most recent survey was conducted in Employee feedback indicated that the organisation Increase Employee the first quarter of 2016. The results present needs to increase clarity and reduce decision-making Satisfaction Index (ESI) a snapshot of employee satisfaction in 2015 paths, issues that have been addressed in the ongoing to 72 and part of 2016. reorganisation. The ESI in this survey was 61. CSI The Customer Satisfaction Survey was revised The results of the CSI survey are not satisfactory. Increase Customer for 2016 in order to create a basis for further The customers are satisfied with our staff, but also Satisfaction Index (CSI) work. indicate that we need to improve our interpersonal The CSI in this survey was 61. skills and become more attentive to their needs. We created our new organisational structure with these issues in mind. 1) Earnings before financial items, excluding changes in value in relation to average operating capital. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 VALUE CREATION Employees 13 The strategy is translated into the daily work of our employees Employees are crucial to our success. Akademiska Hus’ strategy can be broken down into business and operational plans so that each employee can apply the strategy in their daily work and help us to create value. case The following pages provide examples of how our strategy is converted into actual projects and inspiring campuses. all employees and managers with a special focus on the Work Environment Authority’s new regulations on the organisational and social environment. As part of our wellness SKILLS MANAGEMENT – CRITICAL attractive. For example, Akademiska Hus initiatives, we have also held lectures on ISSUE FOR THE FUTURE offers apprenticeships, internships, summindfulness aimed at all employees. Creating internationally competitive cammer jobs, and opportunities to write theses. pus and knowledge environments requires The Company also has collaborations with EMPLOYEE SURVEY TAKES PULSE cutting edge expertise and the ability to secondary schools, upper secondary schools, In 2016, two short employee surveys were work in close collaboration with customers and vocational colleges with a focus on conducted, one focusing on employee satisto effectively take development concepts property management, and relevant colleges faction and motivation, and the other on from design to final construction. In propand universities. The entire organisation is the psychosocial work environment. The erty management, there is a large need for involved in employer branding work. During score on the Employee Satisfaction Index experienced operating engineers and techthe year Akademiska Hus was designated (ESI) was 61 and reflects employee satisnicians with high technical skills in order to the most attractive employer in the propfaction in 2015 and part of 2016. This result effectively manage complex and digitised erty sector by engineering students, in a is not at a desirable level, although it does properties. To ensure the proper skills are survey conducted by Universum. correspond to the average in the industry. available and to obtain different perspecEmployee feedback indicated that our tives on future solutions, we believe in being OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY organisation needs to achieve increased an inclusive company that attracts diversity The pace in the construction industry is clarity and shorter decision-making paths, at every dimension. high and the demand for fast yet sustainable issues that have been addressed in the Hiring is a challenge for participants in construction processes is growing. Tight ongoing reorganisation. the property sector today and there is strong schedules and complex projects increase competition for the attractive candidates the importance of occupational health and CHANGE MANAGEMENT CRITICAL currently on the market. The sector has safety initiatives. Akademiska Hus has set TO CUSTOMER VALUE traditionally recruited internally, but broada goal of achieving a completely accident-­ In 2017 Akademiska Hus’ new organisation ening the selection and taking advantage free workplace, for both the Company’s own goes into effect with the aim of increasing of skills found in other sectors and target employees and others involved in our procustomer value, enhancing development groups, such as recent immigrants, will be jects. In 2016, major initiatives were carried capacity and running the business with an important issue to address. out to strengthen the safety culture and greater resource efficiency. A more process-­ awareness of a safe workplace. Read more oriented organisation offers potential for PROACTIVE INITIATIVES on page 24. development. It also means that leadership PRODUCE RESULTS Absenteeism due to illness in 2016 was and employee empowerment need to be To ensure that the appropriate skills are 3.3 per cent, compared with 3.7 the previadapted. Company managers play an imporavailable, Akademiska Hus participates in ous year. Stress is our biggest occupational tant role in paving the way for the transition both its own and industry-wide initiatives, hazard. During the year we completed to a new approach, where the ability to lead in order to make such employment more occupational health and safety training for during the change becomes crucial. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 Tomorrow’s learning environments The KTH Campus in Stockholm has been further integrated into the city in recent years and evolved into a separate neighbourhood. Sustainable learning environments of the future will evolve with the Education Building, which in its design is an educational tool for aspiring architects and community builders. Bringing more student accommodation to the area has been crucial for strengthening the campus as a neighbourhood. Akademiska Hus has both provided land on which other contractors can build and has also begun working on its own housing project for over 400 undergraduate and graduate students at Teknikringen. More student housing will contribute to a more vibrant campus with round-the-clock activity, which strengthens both the centre of education and the city. Kristianstad campus plan weaves campus and city together The Kristianstad University campus plan was completed with the city and the surrounding activities, including the with the goal of increasing the attractiveness of the campus Krinova science park, has been important. The next step in and developing both its proximity to and interaction within the plan involves formulating a bicycle strategy to make the the neighbourhood. The university is housed in a former milicampus more accessible and creating a university satellite tary facility outside the city centre with buildings in classic at the station where commuting students can spend time national romantic architecture. Interweaving the campus between lectures and rail travel. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 The new premises at the Royal College of Music will provide long-awaited facilities for all forms of music. In addition to creating an outstanding and inspiring setting for the students, the public will be able to enjoy open concerts almost every day. Room for music at the new KMH In September, the new College of Music old royal stables plays a leading role. facilities were ready for occupancy by Building around a heritage building the tenant, the Royal College of Music placed high requirements for sustaina(KMH). The project has been special in bility, architecture and interaction. many respects. Its location in Östermalm The new College of Music will meet the and the heritage building with the old requirements for a Silver rating accordroyal stables made the project particuing to the Miljöbyggnad environmental Cecilia Rydinger Alin larly challenging and set particularly certification system. Vice-Chancellor high demands on collaboration between The result is a beautiful modern comTogether with Akademiska builder, customer and contractor. position of three buildings with concert Hus we have created the The College of Music has needed new halls, studios, classrooms, an experimenmost modern college of music in the world. The new premises for a long time. It was importal stage for students, choir rooms and KMH campus will facilitate tant for Akademiska Hus to work with student union facilities. Indoor passages world-class education KMH to create long-term, sustainable connect the three separate buildings and research and further facilities that can address the specific with their individual personalities. The strengthen us in our vision needs of the college with room for future Royal College of Music campus is open to be a leading internaprofessional musicians. to both students and the public, and tional training centre for with the new architecture the idea is high-quality musicians The new KMH facility reflects the existthat the college will be more visible and music teachers. ing operation, while preserving the culand accessible. tural heritage of the area, in which the AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 In recent years, Johanneberg Science Park at Chalmers in Gothenburg has grown through collaborative projects. The addition of the JSP Work Lab will be a creative meeting place that will strengthen the entire Chalmers campus. JSP Work Lab – a construction project characterised by innovation Johanneberg Science Park phase 2, or JSP Work Lab, with for the Swedish Miljöbyggnad gold certification level, which construction scheduled to start in March 2017, is Akademiska sets high demands on the construction process and continHus’ first building with its own innovation programme for both ued good management when the property is completed and the construction process and its continued life as an innovatransitions to daily use. Some of the projects that are being tion arena. The latest ideas in a number of areas will be tested pursued with this purpose involve converting direct current here to design an innovative and sustainable building that will from solar cells and creating a measurement infrastructure be a value-adding meeting place and collaborative environthat can also be taken out in other buildings. The goal is to ment for academia, industry and community stakeholders. minimize the carbon footprint at both the production and Many innovative solutions are already being tested at Chalmthe operation stages in a building designed to meet future ers’ Johanneberg campus. For example, with the ElectriCity climate challenges. bus line, research on public transportation of the future is The vision of the JSP Work Lab also includes digitisation being conducted and students have been living at the HSB opportunities, once we fill the building with learning environLiving Lab, an active research laboratory, since the beginning ments and workplaces. A multifunctional auditorium and an of the autumn term. With the JSP Work Lab we want to help Active Learning Workshop room are also planned for the promote progress in the property industry and find innovative building. Akademiska Hus has the expertise that can assist solutions relating to both the construction process and the Swedish centres of education in their efforts to take future collaborative environment that is created. requirements for flexibility and efficiency into account while To address the identified challenges, we want to build a susmeeting the needs of the individual – which is becoming an tainable building with energy solutions that can serve as a increasingly important competitive factor. The innovation model for our own operations and for the industry as a whole. programme permeates the project from planning to comThe building will be certified to comply with the standards pleted building with its operations up and running. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 New innovation arena at Johanneberg Science Park Actively working with innovation is fundamental if we are to in projects related to innovation, Akademiska Hus has adopted create customer value and contribute to sustainable developan innovation strategy that has identified three focus areas. ment in the community. Akademiska Hus is investing in sevThe initiatives focus on challenge-driven innovation areas of eral development projects that strengthen our business and great strategic significance for Akademiska Hus: Knowledge generate customer benefit in various ways. In order to take a and learning environments of the future, Campus and urban structured approach to managing the Company’s investments development, and Building and energy technology. IDENTIFY AND ADDRESS INNOVATION CHALLENGES Both the construction process and the future use of the JSP Work Lab innovation arena are highly ambitious in nature. Several parties will pursue innovative projects here, with the building serving as a test and demonstration arena. The point of departure for the process driving construction of the building is the adoption of innovation challenges. JSP Work Lab will address three key challenges: design of flexible and digital learning environments and workplaces, development of value-adding meeting places within the building, and construction of a climate-­ F lexible digital learning friendly and resource-efficient building with a small CO2 footprint. environments and workplaces Value-adding meeting places A climate-friendly and resource-efficient building with a low CO2 footprint INNOVATION PROJECTS Understand MEET CHALLENGES challenges Below is a selection of planned and create projects at the JSP Work Lab, visions classified by innovation challenge. Introduce Generate Cold storage new solutions ideas Microgrid in building on a large energy (PCM) scale DC current Multi­ Wooden from solar functional frame cells Valueauditorium acoustics adding Measuresquare & Electricity ment infraShared structure Learn from Implement Smart office/Work Space Active Learning Measurement CO 2 development development lab WS-Room footprint projects projects BIM in Visualisation management CONTINUOUS LEARNING ENSURES QUALITY IMPLEMENTATION OF DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS While the JSP Work Lab was under development, lessons were continually drawn, both from the The idea generation phase is an important step in the comprehensive innovation process with support adopted innovation strategy. Akademiska Hus has applied from researchers at Chalmers and KTH, and from a structured process, along with key partners, to identify completed innovation projects. Documentation and plan 13 innovation projects to meet the innovation and structured evaluation help to ensure that challenges of the main project. these lessons are properly applied. In the next The innovation projects will be carried out together with step of the process, the lessons from the innovainnovation partners. tion projects are systematically disseminated to the relevant external parties. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 Our facilities engineers can now remotely manage the control systems in the buildings. Not only has the project made it possible to implement measures more quickly and thus save more energy, it has also resulted in software that can be used by the entire organisation. Sustainable digitisation with Mobile Portal The project with Akademiska Hus’ ing all existing control systems that Mobile Portal has involved the entire were initially installed in the buildings, organisation and is a clear example of the focus has been on software develophow sustainability and digitisation go ment. By linking the tool to Akademiska hand in hand. After receiving a request Hus’ Energy Portal the results are clearly Maryam Holmner from property management, the IT visible. In addition to saving energy in IT Project Manager department developed a new energy the buildings, more time is also created management application. The goal was for the facilities management organisaDeveloping the Mobile Portal to enable remote management of the tion to be visible and meet our customhas been a major project that included many parts of the control systems in the buildings, allowers out on the campuses. The aim was organisation. Working in close ing facilities engineers to regulate and to streamline working methods for collaboration with the facilities troubleshoot ventilation and temperaproperty management, but the Mobile and management organisation, ture issues in the buildings faster and Portal project also enhanced mobile we successfully designed a more efficiently. access throughout the Company. The digital toolbox for all roles in tool has grown with multiple functions the operation. We introduced The Mobile Portal tool enables the faciland was implemented in the fall for all a mobile approach that saves ities engineers to carry out adjustments employees in the organisation. time for employees and creates and controls using iPads, inside the value for our customers. building or remotely. Instead of replacAKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 19 We develop, build and manage for a wiser Sweden We take a long-term strategic approach to continually create attractive and sustainable knowledge environments with our customers. We take full responsibility for the development of campuses at colleges and universities, where student accommodation plays an important role. Akademiska Hus owns and manages many sational structure was introduced in early sation is complemented by a project organof Sweden’s knowledge environments for 2017. Our new core process-based organisaisation and three geographic units that are education, research and innovation. To tion is resource-efficient and creates value responsible for campus and business develstrengthen our future development capacity as we apply our expertise throughout opment. and increase customer value, a new organiSweden. A collective management organiCampus and business development Campuses that are vibrant during all the hours of the day and interact with the surrounding community are crucial for Sweden’s higher education institutions to be competitive. Consequently we formulate campus plans to develop entire campuses in close cooperation with our customers. With our collective knowledge we create campuses that provide, in addition to education and research, other services such as cafés, sport facilities, restaurants and supermarkets. Our campus plans always include the issue of student accommodation. The campus and business development units have a special focus on public and customer relations. Read more on page 20 Projects The construction process represents a substantial portion of Akademiska Hus’ business. The con­ struction projects vary in nature from small-scale renovations to new advanced research facilities. Akademiska Hus has a large project portfolio that evolves in close cooperation with our customers and other players. One of our strengths is the ability to coordinate and run the extensive and complex collaborative processes that are the key to a successful result. The ability to build sustainably is a key competitive advantage. Cost efficiency, skills development and experience feedback will be key development areas in the newly created projects unit. Read more on pages 21–24 Property Management We apply a long-term strategic approach to management of our facilities and properties. The focus is on continually delivering high-quality maintenance services while pursuing efficient resource management. Proactivity in collaboration with our tenants is essential for increasing business benefits and value for our customers. An open dialogue with our customers is therefore a top priority for the entire management organisation at Akademiska Hus. Read more on pages 25–27 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 20 Campus and business development Campus and business development Current and future students will spend more waking hours at their chosen centre of eduction. On-campus services and opportunities will help attract undergraduate and graduate students from all over the world. Campus development is a key issue for us with other stakeholders to ensure an attraccentres of education are profiled to appeal to at Akademiska Hus. In collaboration with tive range of services. Restaurants, opportuan increasingly international target group Sweden’s centres of education we take full nities for cultural and sports activities and of researchers and masters students. The responsibility and contribute with our access to child care and preschools in close key to success is to leverage the joint knowlexpertise and know-how in the developproximity to campus are examples of seredge we share with our customers and ment of tomorrow’s attractive and sustainvices that make life easier and increasingly convert it into clearly defined development able knowledge environments. integrated into and around the campus. plans and campus plans. The campus plan Sustainable transport services and access is always based on the vision of the individVIBR ANT CAMPUS ENVIRONMENT to accommodation are other key issues. ual university or college, and is developed in The campus is a venue for research and close cooperation with our customers. We learning, as well as for encounters with the CAMPUS PLANS AS TOOLS follow a structured approach with a focus business community and the interface for Campuses become more attractive with on the long-term and sustainability. encounters with the community at large. increased accessibility and integration In addition to developing efficient and with the surrounding urban environment. COLLABOR ATIVE INNOVATION inspiring learning environments, we meet Opportunities for meetings and collaboraTo meet the challenges we face as a commucustomer needs by working in collaboration tion with others are further examples of how nity builder we must enhance our power of innovation to ensure our delivery and contribute value to customers. We will develop sustainable products, services and practices through structured innovation partnerships, thereby contributing to sustainable develLand use, architecture opment in the community. Knowledge and and urban learning environments of the future, along design with campus and urban development, are two areas in which we have prioritised Ecology and Resources environment and energy innovation. Read more on page 17. PREMISES FOR EFFECTIVE LEARNING Participation Premises and rooms in the buildings need and process to be adaptable and functional to optimise use in both the short term and the long term. Innovation Transport The flexibility of the premises to allow difand business and travel ferent learning methods is important. One example of facilities that support learning is the Active Learning Classroom (ALC), Social which promotes effective teaching in interwelfare active classrooms using digital tools. We have been working since 2014 with To ensure that the campus offers a sustainable environment, Akademiska Hus Umeå University, where we are building has developed a sustainability model that addresses a series of issues related interactive learning environments that to vibrant and attractive campuses. Innovative campus development solutions will be completed in 2018. Akademiska Hus that lead to economically, ecologically and socially sustainable environments are is funding two research projects in order to encouraged. The model is designed with a special focus on the needs of centres of education and its activities. evaluate them and learn from the new learning environments. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Projects 21 Projects Akademiska Hus’ project portfolio consists of approved and planned projects for SEK 16.7 billion. We work with long-term property ownership and a clear customer perspective where we apply our combined expertise to create added value for the customer. All of our projects are developed to permit long-term management, which provides us with excellent opportunities to invest in sustainable and innovative solutions. By setting clear project requirements for the entire construction process, we can deliver a product of the right quality according to a common vision. Investing activities are pursued according to a systematic evaluation process from project concept to approved investment. Investments exceeding SEK 30 million, which include about 85 per cent of our investments, are decided by the Board of Directors. UNDERSTANDING FOR THE OPER ATION We create buildings for undergraduate and graduate students as well as teachers, which results in great diversity in our construction projects. The nature of the projects vary The investment in the Albano Campus is expected to be SEK 3.2 billion over the next few years. from minor renovations and office space to high-tech research facilities and entire urban plex, collaborative processes required for Akademiska Hus’ building process is well-­ development projects. In addition to extenthe buildings to increase customer value. established and developed in close collabosive experience and expertise, construction ration with our customers. The process is of such specialised buildings requires a very CLOSE COLLABOR ATION adapted depending on the type of project good understanding of the type of activities WITH SEVER AL PARTIES and contract. Collaborative contracting in which the tenants will engage. Akade­ Dialogue with relevant stakeholders begins often provides high efficiency and a good miska Hus’ strength lies in coordinating already when the colleges and universities opportunity to take advantage of the knowland running comprehensive, often comengage in long-term campus planning. edge and experience of the contractors. PROJECT PORTFOLIO SEK m 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 The different investments are categorised as: Decided projects 13,400 9,600 • D ecided projects. Planned projects 3,300 7,900 • Planned projects – have an inquiry or planning DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 16,700 17,500 framework, where some form of agreement exists between the Company and the tenant. of which already invested in current projects –4,800 –3,500 • Concept projects – projects likely to be carried REMAINDER OF DECIDED AND PLANNED PROJECTS 11,900 14,000 out within five years. Concept projects 7,600 5,300 TOTAL REMAINING PROJECTS 19,500 19,300 Total excl. previous investments 24,300 22,800 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 22 Projects Our largest projects COMPLETED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2016 > SEK 100 MILLION Additional Total annual New construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment and extension SEK m Customer years SEK m Royal College of Music Stockholm New construction and redevelopment 848 Royal College of Music 20 43 Luleå A-house Renov for New construction, redevelopment ETS and SRT Luleå and extension 238 Luleå University of Technology 10 9 V-Building Lund Lund Redevelopment 221 Lund University 10 26 Parking level, Solna Campus Solna New construction 111 Akademiska Hus — 6 Total 1,418 84 APPROVED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2016 > SEK 100 MILLION Additional Total annual New construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment and extension SEK m Customer years SEK m Biomedicum Stockholm New construction 2,731 Karolinska Institutet 25 192 Albano Buildings 1, 2, and 4: Stockholm New construction 2,388 Stockholm University 20 149 Biomedicum – Comparative Medicine Stockholm New construction 1,005 Karolinska Institutet 25 76 Segerstedt Building Uppsala New construction 718 Uppsala University 20 42 Humanisten Gothenburg New construction and redevelopment 668 University of Gothenburg 10 56 Albano Building 3 Stockholm New construction 438 Royal Institute of Technology 20 28 Valla Student Building Linköping New construction 411 Linköping University 10 43 Student accommodation KTH Stockholm New construction 400 Royal Institute of Technology 10 22 Student accommodation Teknikringen Stockholm New construction 400 Akademiska Hus 1 22 Built Environment Project Gothenburg Redevelopment 357 Chalmersfastigheter 10 36 Lab of the Future Huddinge Redevelopment 321 Karolinska Institutet 10 28 MBC Umeå Redevelopment and extension 315 Umeå University 20 21 Police programme, Södertörn Stockholm New construction and redevelopment 281 Södertörn University 10 21 Albano Development costs Stockholm New construction 258 Stockholm University —1 —1 A-House Stockholm Redevelopment 241 Karolinska Institutet 5 15 KTH 43:25 Stockholm New construction 185 Royal Institute of Technology 10 13 Police training programme Umeå University Umeå New construction and redevelopment 172 Umeå University 10 13 Education Building Stockholm New construction 160 Royal Institute of Technology 10 9 Humanities Theatre Uppsala New construction 129 Uppsala University 20 8 Albano Detail Planning Stockholm New construction 127 Stockholm University — — EES School Stockholm Redevelopment 122 Royal Institute of Technology 10 10 GIH swimming centre Stockholm Redevelopment 118 City of Stockholm 20 6 Total 11,945 808 1) No rental period or annual rent since it is part of the total Albano project PLANNED PROJECTS, 31 DEC. 2016 > SEK 100 MILLION Additional Total annual New construction/ investment, Lease, rent, Project name Location redevelopment and extension SEK m Customer years SEK m Ångström Phase 4 Uppsala New construction and redevelopment 1,423 Uppsala University 20 72 KAR New construction accommodation for researchers Solna New construction 396 Karolinska Institutet 10 31 SIS Tomteboda Solna Redevelopment and extension 360 Swedish International School 25 26 JSP2, Johanneberg Science Park 2 Gothenburg New construction 293 Several, though not completed 7 23 Solibro Ultuna New construction and redevelopment 115 Solibro AB 1 6 MTC Annex Solna Redevelopment 114 Karolinska Institutet 10 15 Office adaptations Frescati backe Stockholm Redevelopment 100 Stockholm University 10 4 Total 1,378 177 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Projects 23 BUDGET AND FORECAST ANALYSIS OF PROJECT PORTFOLIO ward is expected to remain at approxiEach year Akademiska Hus formulates Investments during the past five years mately SEK 3,500 million per year. Our long-term forecasts with a focus on the next have resulted in a significant expansion project portfolio at the end of 2016 reprethree years, as well as a one-year budget. in Akademiska Hus’ property holdings. sents most of our major initiatives for the By doing so we ensure that our operations Demand for new premises is greatest in future. Planned and approved projects are run efficiently and with a cost-conscious those centres of education that focus on largely consist of high-tech research faciliapproach, while meeting the goals of our research. The investment portfolio includes ties and digitised new construction proowner. The forecast for the next three years new construction, redevelopment and jects for tomorrow’s learning environments. is largely influenced in terms of cash flow refurbishment of existing properties. by the large project portfolio that is being The majority of the project portfolio can completed with solitaires like Biomedicum be found in Stockholm and Uppsala, with and Albano. examples like Biomedicum for about SEK Future yield is expected to remain 3,800 million and Albano for about SEK stable at around six per cent. Our equity 3,200 million. As the investment portfolio ratio remains strong and return on operatis gradually completed, it is expected that ing capital will initially drop, after which the average remaining lease term will it will gradually increase as new investincrease, since the properties that are ments begin to produce returns. being added to our property holdings have Despite this, the interest coverage long leases. The project portfolio contains ratio has been strong throughout the entire the approved projects of almost SEK 13,500 period and will strengthen further as the million that will affect the accounts over new properties begin generating rental revthe next few years. At year-end, about SEK enue. No changes in the value of properties 4,800 million had already been invested. are forecast and nor are acquisitions or sales. The annual investment rate moving forFORECAST Forecast Forecast Forecast 2016 2017 2018 2019 PROPERTY HOLDINGS Average rentable floor space, 1,000 m2 3,231 3,232 3,292 3,334 Property values, SEK m 73,013 76,800 80,300 82,500 Net investment in properties, SEK m 3,717 3,800 3,500 2,200 KEY FIGURES Net operating income, SEK/m² 1,135 1,248 1,330 1,354 Yield, properties, % 5.7 5.7 6.0 6.0 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Rental revenue, SEK m 5,482 5,600 5,900 6,100 Net operating income, SEK m 3,667 4,000 4,400 4,500 Profit before tax, SEK m 6,714 3,500 3,800 3,900 Equity ratio, % 41.4 41.2 41.7 42.0 Return on operating capital, % 6.2 6.3 6.6 6.4 Return on equity, %1 16.3 8.4 8.5 8.6 Interest coverage ratio, % 694 764 773 749 1) 2016 includes changes in value of properties. Forecasts for 2017–2019 do not include changes in value of properties. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 24 Projects Responsibility for the future SUSTAINABLE CHOICES ARE A GIVEN Our largest purchase volumes are in contory requirement to qualify for all procureBoth Akademiska Hus and many of our struction, architectural and construction ment contracts. The Code of Conduct is customers have set high sustainable develengineering services, as well as in the energy based on the ten fundamental principles opment goals. Our role as a long-term propsector. Akademiska Hus purchases services of the UN Global Compact, and we hope to erty owner provides an excellent opportuand goods for approximately SEK 4 billion jointly develop sustainable supplier pronity for building wisely and sustainably. per year from almost 3,000 suppliers. cesses and value chains together with our Our goal is always to deliver the highest On 29 June the Supreme Administrative suppliers. possible customer value through resource Court ruled that Akademiska Hus is a conIntegration and segregation are major efficiency and good cost management. At tracting authority. Since then, the Company societal challenges and to contribute to the same time, Akademiska Hus constantly has implemented a new LOU-adapted progreater integration, we are exploring the strives to minimise environmental impact curement process and centralised responpossibility of setting employment requirethrough sustainable construction processes sibility for all procurement proceedings. ments for our contractors. The goal is to and carefully considered material choices. Since the summer all new calls for tender offer jobs to socially excluded individuals All new construction and major renovaare announced in public databases and the in an effort to create value for both society tion projects must qualify, at a minimum, ability to directly award bids has been and the individual. This is being done on a for a silver rating in the Miljöbyggnad envisharply limited in accordance with the small experimental scale to date, but may ronmental certification system. Building to Public Procurement Act. evolve over time. Miljöbyggnad standards provides confirmaThe Procurement Policy of Akademiska tion of important qualities in a building in Hus describes the fundamental values that terms of energy, indoor environment and underlie purchasing and procurement. We material choices. To achieve this, we stay require suppliers to meet “shall” criteria, up to date on the latest methods and techincluding environmental, quality and safety nologies. We currently have 32 certified standards, and conduct audits on a sample buildings, including 3 at the gold level and of them. We have screened 43 per cent of our 29 at the silver level. active supplier base (providers with more than SEK 100,000 in annual purchasing SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY volume) which account for 86 per cent of & CODE OF CONDUCT the aggregate purchasing volume. Our main contribution to a more integrated A Code of Conduct specifically for supand sustainable society goes through the pliers was launched during the year and requirement specifications of our suppliers. compliance with the code is now a mandaWE SUPPORT Accident-free workplaces One of the Company’s overarching sustainability goals is to During the year Akademiska Hus has also taken the initiative, achieve an accident-free workplace within Akademiska Hus’ along with other stakeholders in the industry, to establish a netconstruction operations, including both construction projects work called the Safe Construction Council. The goal is to reduce and construction work in our managed property operations. the number of construction site accidents by working to improve knowledge and modify the culture, as well as by setting common A strong safety culture is fundamental for success and we are standards and strengthening requirements in the projects. working hard to build our internal expertise. We have focused extra on: • clarifying our responsibility and role as builder and contractor • raising awareness of risks and knowledge of legal requirements related to occupational health and safety and construction • creating security by daring to speak up and give positive feedback to influence the safety culture at the construction site AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Property Management 25 Property Management Akademiska Hus practises long-term, resource-efficient property management. We deliver a robust product of the right quality while optimally using our resources. We practice management by goals and responsible energy consumption is a top priority. Akademiska Hus manages more than 3.2 million square metres of rentable space. Our properties consist of high-tech research facilities, various types of classrooms and lecture halls, and offices. Versatility, flexibility and adaptability are therefore crucial for effectively working with strategic management of our properties. ACTIVE OWNERSHIP AND LONG-TERM MANAGEMENT Akademiska Hus’ properties must maintain a high standard for a long time. Our property management includes all of the technical and financial measures carried out during the life cycle of a building. Ongoing and preventive maintenance in consultation with our customers is important for meaningful active ownership. Long-term management requires an ongoing dialogue with both our tenants and other parties who influence the use of facilities. This approach enables us to adapt our property management in line with the changing needs of our customers. Years of experience in management of various kinds of properties, combined with well-developed processes for sharing expewith electricity consumption, at the same Akademiska Hus strives to achieve longriences, knowledge transfer and continutime that the focus on output is becoming term collaborations with suppliers and in ous dialogue with customers and other more important since efficient energy order, for example, to realise our goal of suppliers, set the stage for Akademiska Hus consumption is based not only on using CO2 -free operation in the long term, we are to use the best and most resource-efficient less energy, but also on using it at the right dependent on a fossil-free energy supply. solutions for each property, which time of day. During the year we have therefore met with increases long-term customer value. To maintain an even price trend over most of our energy suppliers to discuss the time, we have a hedging strategy for elecroadmap for both the short and the long GOOD SUPPLIER DIALOGUE ESSENTIAL tricity extending over several years. In term. Through continuous dialogue with FOR EFFICIENT OPER ATION addition to steady energy costs, it allows suppliers we can create a good overview of The heating, cooling, water and electricity us to find long-term solutions to bring new future cost trends while achieving a high costs of our properties account for about renewable electricity to the market. The standard of reliability. 40 per cent of our operating and maintecombination of good supplier dialogue and nance costs. The costs are thus largely negotiation, along with effective maintedirectly linked to energy consumption, nance, provide important conditions for with electricity the single largest cost commanagement that generates value for our ponent. Akademiska Hus is working hard customers. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION 26 Property Management REDUCE, INFLUENCE, CREATE Supported by our energy strategy, we are Energy strategy working hard to achieve our energy consumption and CO2 footprint goals. Accordexisting portfolio ing to these ambitious goals, by 2025 we will reduce our energy consumption by half through collaboration REDUCE and eliminate the CO2 footprint from our with customer operations. Our energy strategy is based in part on reducing energy use in our current construction property portfolio, as well as on building energy-efficient buildings. For example, INFLUENCE suppliers when working on preliminary development AKADEMISKA HUS ENERGY TARGETS work for a campus we explore the potential CREATE renewable energy of sharing excess energy with nearby buildings. This strategy enables us to reduce the Akademiska Hus’ energy strategy is based on three elements, each of which has the goal of having an actual influence. We will REDUCE energy consumption to one half of what it was in 2000 by 2025. At the same time, need for energy delivered. Ensuring that a we want to INFLUENCE and interact with our energy suppliers to achieve a fossil-free and renewable product. We also strive to ensure that new renewable electricity is CREATED that is equivalent to our needs, which building design is durable and energy effimeans that we try to find parties who are willing to cooperate with us. cient over time is the first step. In new construction projects, and regularly throughout the lifetime of each buildNEW OPER ATIONAL TECHNOLOGY DISTRIBUTION OF ENERGY COSTS ing, we ensure that it has well-adapted and AND DIGITAL ENERGY PORTAL Our aggressive energy targets are based in energy-efficient systems and maintenance High energy savings goals, along with part on a partnership with our customers solutions. To ensure that we achieve our management responsibility for a variety of on energy issues. For this initiative to be goals, both the management and the Board of complex buildings, place high demands on effective, the party that actually uses the Directors of Akademiska Hus are involved facilities engineers as well as on effective energy must have the incentive to act. In our in follow-up and assessment of the results tools and processes. The Energy Portal is existing buildings investments are required of the energy strategy. a key tool in Akademiska Hus’ facilities to reduce energy consumption and someAkademiska Hus’ business goal regardoperations and was developed to monitor times this involves maintenance to replace ing reduced energy consumption also energy savings for the entire property equipment that is still functional but ineffiincludes energy consumption by our cusportfolio. cient. tomers. One way to reduce the quantity The Energy Portal is based on a measureThe aim is to allocate energy costs of energy used, and thus operating costs, ment database that is updated each hour between Akademiska Hus and our customis to divide the cost of energy between with consumption and energy values from ers so that both parties have an incentive Akademiska Hus and our customers. an array of measuring systems. Through to improve energy efficiency for the aspects Since 2014 Akademiska Hus has had a continuous and detailed analysis of a buildover which each party has control. In pracgoal under which we engage in cooperation ing’s energy performance, our facilities tice this means that as property owner, in initiatives with a focus on sustainability engineers can use the Energy Portal to calmost cases, Akademiska Hus has the greatest together with our customers every year. culate benefits and implement measures, control over the building’s utilities (heating, The initiative is based on a shared desire, both financially and environmentally. New cooling and some of the electricity). between Akademiska Hus and our customand often digitised operational technology ers, to act and invest in sustainable choices. systems help to streamline management In 2016 initiatives were implemented with a but also place high demands on the skills focus primarily on energy, the environment of our facilities engineers. and the indoor climate, but also relating to Read more about how we manage our properties on social aspects and innovation. page 18. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Property Management 27 Effective management is the foundation of our rental model The Akademiska Hus rent setting system is based on several factors where negotiations with the tenant are the foundation. With a total market share of 60 per cent, our leading position is associated with great responsibility – both for delivery to the customer and for development of the local rental market. Internal rent The rent that Akademiska Hus charges Market rent level Market rent the centres of education is usually Akademiska Hus divided among the various departments rents comprise of the colleges and universities within Market costs a basic rent that each centre of education, along with is intended to other expenses for facilities, which are • Operation and maintenance cover operating, not charged by Akademiska Hus. The • Land value maintenance and departments are then charged an inter• Construction cost capital costs, nal rent that often also includes costs and sometimes for central premises, such as communal a supplement for spaces. Sometimes the internal rent also tenant adaptaincludes supplements for equipment, Market risks tions. security and cleaning. The internal rent • Financing • Location that departments pay per square metre • Property • Counterparty can therefore be higher than the price per square metre that Akademiska Hus has agreed with the centre of education. Akademiska Hus operates in an open market tives of our customers with the aim of creatand our rents are competitive. Rents are set ing additional consensus regarding how using the same methods as other property rents are set and other key rental terms. Detailed information about companies. This means that our calculations We strive for openness in negotiations rent levels per building can be reflect the risk and costs associated with, for with customers, and through our experience found in our property specification example, construction and management. and long-term relationships we can often at www.akademiskahus.se We also take into account general market find solutions to use premises wisely and rent levels for the particular city, location, efficiently. type of property and lease length. To compare rental prices charged by Akademiska Hus in relation to those charged by other PROPORTION OF COST OF PREMISES FOR SWEDEN’S CENTRES OF EDUCATION, % property owners in a comparable portfolio, analyses are carried out regularly with assis% tance from an external valuation company. 15 We customise plans on customer request, at Transparency in how we set rents is the same time that we 12 improve them to achieve important in our dialogues with the customlower energy requirements and reduced operating ers. Following a review of the rental model, 9 costs. Regarding the the standard costs for administration and 6 proportion of costs, the biggest change between operation, the standard risk assessment for 2005 and 2015 is that the 3 proportion of personnel vacancy at the end of the rental period and costs increased from 60.0 the cost of capital during construction have 0 to 62.7 per cent while the 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Year proportion of costs for fallen in recent years. In 2016 the managepremises dropped from 14.3 per cent to 12.7 per ment of Akademiska Hus continued to engage Source: Swedish Higher Education Authority statistics database cent. in the important dialogue with representaAKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 28 Our performance Administration Report Akademiska Hus 2016 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT CHANGES IN VALUE Rental revenue was SEK 5,482 million (5,450). The increase of SEK The changes in property values for the year in the income state32 million can mainly be attributed to completion of new buildings ment amounted to SEK 3,682 million (2,655), corresponding to a at the Royal College of Music in Stockholm, Arrhenius at Stockholm change in value of 5.7 per cent. University, Malmö University and the Ull Building in Uppsala. NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Net interest income and expense totalled SEK –549 million (–182), Operating costs for the year amounted to SEK 764 million (771), of which SEK –241 (165) relates to changes in value of financial equivalent to SEK 237/m2 (242). Of the operating costs, media proderivatives. SEK –24 million (297) of the change in value is unrealvision amounted to SEK 519 million (519), equivalent to SEK 161/m2 ised and SEK –217 million is realised (–132). The changes in value (163). The decrease is mainly attributable to lower costs due to our are due to the somewhat declining market interest rates in 2016. systematic energy work, as well as to somewhat lower energy prices. Maintenance costs amounted to SEK 686 million (618). The RESULTS increase is attributable to maintenance costs within projects. The Profit before tax amounted to SEK 6,714 million (6,141) and profit cost amounts to SEK 212/m2 (194). We continue to invest in mainfor the year was SEK 5,148 million (4,780). The increase can be tenance in order to maintain a good standard in our property holdattributed to positive changes in property values but reduced by a ings. Costs for property administration amounted to SEK 294 millower net financial income. lion (316). The decrease is mainly attributable to the decision last year to co-finance an expansion of the underground from Odenplan INVESTMENTS AND SALES to Arena­staden with SEK 40 million. Costs associated with the Net investments in properties totalled SEK 2,716 million (2,466) in implementation of a new organisation were charged to the second 2016. Properties worth SEK 46 million (33) on the balance sheet half of 2016. were sold in 2016. NET OPER ATING INCOME CASH FLOW Net operating income amounted to SEK 3,667 million (3,740). The Group’s cash flow from current operations amounted to SEK The decrease of SEK 73 million can mainly be attributed to main2,721 million (2,485), which was mainly reinvested in the business. tenance costs within projects. Cash flow from investing activities totalled SEK –2,548 million (–2,204). The dividend paid during the year totalled SEK –3,290 million and consisted of the regular dividend of SEK 1,290 million, as well as the final instalment of the additional distribution of SEK 2,000 million. The dividend is primarily debt-financed. NET OPERATING INCOME EQUITY RATIO TOTAL YIELD SEK m % % % 4,000 80 50 14 12 45 3,000 60 10 40 8 2,000 40 6 35 4 1,000 20 30 2 0 0 0 25 –2 12 13 14 15 16 Year 12 13 14 15 16 Year 12 13 14 15 16 Year Net operating income, SEK m Upper target Total yield, % Net operating income ratio, % Lower target Change in value, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Our performance 29 PARENT COMPANY The Company’s revenue totalled SEK 5,702 million (5,750). Of this amount, revenue from subsidiaries accounted for SEK 0 million (0). The profit before financial items was SEK 2,599 million (2,192) Owner objectives and net financial income/expense was SEK –625 million (–290). The profit after financial items was SEK 1,974 million (1,902). Return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 per cent (excluding change in value). CAPITAL STRUCTURE Dividend should be between 40 and 60 per cent of the The stable result from management, though primarily the unrealprofit for the year after tax, after reversal of changes ised changes in the value of properties, helped to maintain the in value and with related deferred tax. equity ratio at an even level of 41.4 per cent (40.7). Return on equity The equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent. remains steady and amounted to 16.3 per cent (15.0), which was largely due to the unrealised changes in the value of the properties. YIELD AND TOTAL YIELD The yield (excluding properties under construction) was 5.7 per cent (6.4) on assessed fair value. The yield requirements in the market fell further in 2016. Total yield for 2016 was 11.4 per cent (11.0), where the difference compared with the direct yield is 5.7 percentage points (4.6) and comprises the change in value of the properties. RETURN ON OPER ATING CAPITAL The yield on operating capital in 2016 was 6.2 per cent (6.9). Return on operating capital is lower mainly because equity and borrowed capital are larger than the previous year given the major changes in property values. The owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, excluding changes in value should be at least 6.5 per cent. The target for the year was not achieved because many large ongoing investment projects have not yet started to produce a return. RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL LOAN-TO-VALUE RATIO INTEREST COVERAGE RATIO % % % 10 40 800 8 35 600 6 30 400 4 25 200 2 0 20 0 12 13 14 15 16 Year 12 13 14 15 16 Year 12 13 14 15 16 Year Return on operating capital, % Target, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 30 Five-year summary Five-year summary 2016 20156 2014 2013 20127 Income statement, SEK m Property management income 5,666 5,646 5,681 5,588 5,511 Operating costs –764 –771 –808 –889 –870 Maintenance costs –686 –618 –621 –668 –564 Property administration –294 –316 –326 –272 –278 Net operating income 3,667 3,740 3,717 3,506 3,588 Change in value, properties 3,682 2,655 3,529 232 –291 Central administration costs –85 –72 –46 –73 –66 Profit before financial items 7,264 6,323 7,200 3,665 3,231 Net financial income/expense –549 –182 –939 –390 –682 Profit before tax 6,714 6,141 6,261 3,275 2,549 Profit for the year 5,148 4,780 5,215 2,568 3,149 Statement of financial position, SEK m Fair value, properties 73,013 66,575 61,437 57,557 54,677 Other assets 9,417 7,858 8,282 5,785 6,955 Equity 34,152 30,271 33,432 29,614 28,336 Interest-bearing liabilities 35,627 30,831 26,082 23,860 24,212 Other liabilities and provisions 12,651 13,331 10,205 9,868 9,084 Cash flow, SEK m Cash flow from current operations 2,721 2,485 3,161 3,060 2,126 Cash flow from investments –2,548 –2,204 –439 –2,459 –2,388 Cash flow before financing 172 281 2,722 601 –262 Cash flow from financing 893 –534 –853 –1,159 –1,081 Cash flow for the year 1,065 –253 1,869 –558 –1,343 Property-related key figures Total yield, properties, % 11.4 11.0 13.4 7.2 6.8 of which direct yield, %1 5.7 6.4 6.9 6.8 7.1 of which change in value, % 5.7 4.6 6.5 0.4 –0.3 Rental revenue, SEK/sq. m 1,697 1,710 1,715 1,664 1,644 Operating costs, SEK/sq. m 237 242 252 276 272 Maintenance costs, SEK/sq. m (including tenant adaptations) 212 194 194 208 176 Net operating income in relation to administration income, % 65 66 65 63 65 Net operating income, SEK/sq. m 1,135 1,174 1,160 1,089 1,120 Level of vacant space, area, % 3.9 3.8 3.6 2.1 2.6 Level of vacant space, rent, % 0.9 1.1 1.2 0.9 1.0 Fair value, properties, SEK/sq. m2 20,638 19,238 17,471 16,188 15,504 Energy use kWh/sq. m 204 212 224 231 235 CO2, kg/sq. m 8 8 11 12 12 Financial key figures Return on equity, % 16.3 15.0 15.5 8.8 6.9 Return on operating capital, %3 6.2 6.9 7.3 7.2 7.8 Return on total assets, % 10.8 10.7 10.9 6.1 5.6 Interest-bearing net loan liability, SEK m 26,962 23,924 18,871 19,278 18,528 Equity ratio, % 41.4 40.7 48.0 46.8 46.0 Interest coverage ratio, % 694 743 671 647 558 Interest cost in relation to average capital in interest-bearing liabilities, % 2.2 1.2 5.0 2.6 4.2 Loan-to-value ratio, % 37.0 35.9 30.7 33.5 33.9 Internal financing level, % 84 132 278 124 93 Ordinary dividend, SEK m 1,3935 1,290 1,445 1,374 1,355 Additional distribution, SEK m4 — — 6,500 — — Personnel Average number of employees 440 409 408 407 403 Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) 61 61 66 68 69 1) E  xcluding properties under construction. 5) D ividend proposed by the Board of Directors on 13 March 2017. 2) E  xcluding the value of properties under construction and expansion 6) 2  015 figures have been adjusted to facilitate comparison. The reason reserves land with building rights. is the change in accounting of tenant improvements. In addition, 3) The owner’s yield target is that the return on operating capital, the distribution between property administration costs and central excluding changes in value should be at least 6.5 per cent. administration has changed. 4) D ecision at Extraordinary General Meeting on 19 October 2015. 7) 2 012 recalculated according to IAS 19R. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FÖRVALTNINGSBERÄTTELSE Underavsnitt 31 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 32 Market development and competition Community properties and the education sector ATTR ACTIVE SEGMENT GOVERNMENT GR ANTS Sweden demonstrated strong economic growth in 2016. The lack Sweden’s colleges and universities are financed by both governof inflation represented a challenge, however, accompanied by a ment grants and external funding. The level of grants for education continued loose monetary policy. The property industry benefits purposes is based on the number of students and their accomplishdirectly from the low interest rates with continued declining yield ments. Grants are also awarded for research and education at the requirements as a result. As a result of rising property prices, more postgraduate level. Between 2014 and 2015 the total revenue of the and more investors were attracted to the community property centres of education increased by 2 per cent2 . Sweden invests the sector because of its lower risk due to more secure cash flows and equivalent of approximately 3.3 per cent3 of GDP in research, which longer leases. Transaction activity increased during the year. proportionally is among the largest investments in the world. Transaction volumes in community property amounted to approximately SEK 18 billion in 20161. STRONG POSITION Akademiska Hus has a market share of about 60 per cent4 in premEDUCATION AND RESEARCH ises for higher education and research. Its presence is strongest in The number of applicants to colleges and universities in 2016 the large well-established university towns. These cities account declined by 1 per cent and the number admitted declined by 5 per for approximately 70 per cent of total rental revenue. cent compared with the same period in 2015. However, the number Investments in new construction, redevelopment and extensions of applications to colleges and universities remains high in relation are primarily attributable to Stockholm, Gothenburg and Uppsala. to the number admitted and the largest share of applications come One emerging area is our contribution to building student accommofrom 19-year-olds. dation, which is in line with the objective of developing more attracEducation and research are a constantly relevant and important tive campuses. issue. Consequently colleges and universities have a continued need Despite the slowly growing competition in the field of community for competitive research and education environments. The accelerproperties, there is no corresponding national player in the segment ating digitisation trend places further demands on high-tech standpremises for higher education and research, but mainly local and ards and new solutions for facilities. This development is taking regional players. place in close collaboration with the centres of education, including 1) Newsec through an established network of future learning environments. 2) Swedish Higher Education Authority (UKÄ) 2015 Annual Report 3) Statistics News from Statistics Sweden 201612 Offering attractive knowledge environments that appeal to inter4) Swedish National Financial Management Authority national undergraduate and graduate students helps to maintain interest in Swedish university education over the long term. OTHER PARTICIPANTS IN THE MARKET SEGMENT Location Participants1 Stockholm Clara Foundation Fysikhuset Stockholm KB National Property Board 19–23-YEAR-OLDS IN THE POPULATION 2006–2016, Gothenburg Chalmersfastigheter AB FORECAST 2017–2030 Hantverksoch Industrihus i Göteborg AB Higab AB Thousands Uppsala National Property Board 800 County Council Service in Uppsala County 2016 600 Lund Fastighets AB ML 4 400 National Property Board Stiftelsen AF Bostäder 200 Umeå Balticgruppen Design AB 0 Universitetshallen Foundation 2006 2010 2020 2025 2030 Year Linköping Region Östergötland Source: Statistics Sweden, 2016 Östergötland County Council Universitetshallen Foundation 1) O  ther participants in our market segment are reported in square metres and presented in descending order. Source: Swedish National Financial Management Authority AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Market development and competition 33 Luleå Luleå Luleå Luleå Umeå Luleå Luleå Luleå 16 WE CAN BE FOUND IN Gävle COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY CITIES Gävle Gävle Uppsala Karlstad Stockholm Gävle Karlstad Örebro Presence in citiesKarlstad Örebro Skövde Gävle Norrköping with good growth Örebro Norrköping Skövde Gävle Norrköping Linköping Karlstad Skövde Gothenburg Karlstad Örebro and research are conducted Higher education Gävle Borås throughout Sweden. Our market share is Norrköping Örebro Skövde 60 per cent. Of the total market share, about Karlstad 65 per cent is located in university cities and Norrköping Skövde Borås 30 per cent in college Örebro Boråstowns. Of the total Karlstad Lund property value of SEK 73 billion, 95 per cent Kristianstad Norrköping Örebro is located in university cities and 5 per cent Skövde Alnarp in college towns. Kristianstad Population growth >1% Borås Norrköping Kristianstad Skövde Alnarp Malmö Population growth <1% Alnarp Population decline Borås Malmö Source: Statistics Sweden Malmö Kristianstad Borås Alnarp Kristianstad Market share, Market value Largest centres Market share, Market value Largest centres Borås Alnarp Malmö per city/town and area of education per city/town and area of education Malmö Stockholm Alnarp SEK 32 billion Kristianstad Stockholm University Lund SEK 6 billion Lund University Malmö 893,000Kristianstad m 2 Karolinska Institutet 360,000 m 2 Alnarp Royal Institute of Technology Malmö Stockholm Göteborg Umeå Lund SEK 3Umeå billion Umeå University Linköping Swedish UniverGothenburg 7 billion Stockholm SEK Göteborg University of Uppsala Gothenburg Uppsala Lund Umeå Linköping 231,000 m sity 2 of Agricultural Sciences, 353,000 m2 Chalmers University of Umeå SEK 3 billion Technology Linköping Linköping Linköping Stockholm Göteborg Uppsala Lund Umeå University Uppsala Stockholm Göteborg SEK 13Uppsala billion Uppsala Lund University Umeå Linköping 225,000 m2 595,000 m 2 Swedish University of AgriculSource: Swedish National Financial Management Authority Stockholm Lund tural Sciences, Umeå Linköping Göteborg Uppsala Ultuna kholm Lund Umeå Linköping Göteborg Uppsala AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 34 Property valuation Long-term contracts with creditworthy tenants LONG-TERM CONTR ACTS WITH CREDITWORTHY TENANTS HIGH LEASING LEVEL The majority of Akademiska Hus’ revenue, approximately 90 per At the turn of the year the rentable area of the property portfolio cent, comes from colleges and universities. Since colleges and uniwas approximately 3.2 million square metres with a vacancy rate versities are essentially government agencies, this customer group of approximately 3.9 per cent (3.8). The majority of vacant space has the highest credit rating. Major investments are required to involves simple facilities, for which reason the rental value is only meet customer needs for facilities. Long leases are required to SEK 52.7 million (64), or 0.9 per cent (1.1) of total holdings. The ensure that the investments pay for themselves within the contract largest individual blocks of vacant space can be found on the Ultuna period. During the year the average lease term was 10 years (11). Campus and amount to about 78,000 square metres. The occupancy At year-end, the average remaining lease term for all properties rate is high compared with the sector at large. Leases are always signed was 6 years (5.8). Currently, government approval is required for before construction begins, which reduces the risk of vacant space. a public university or college to sign a lease of 10 years or longer. Discussions are under way regarding the possibility of increasing the mandate to allow longer leases to be signed by the individual TENANT CATEGORIES university or college. If the proposal goes through, Akademiska Hus’ counterparty risk will be even lower. Universities and colleges, 87% Chalmersfastigheter AB, 3% Publicly financed operations, 4% Other, 6% LEVEL OF VACANT SPACE, % MATURITY STRUCTURE, PROPORTION OF LEASE VALUE, SEK million % Mkr 4 900 800 3 700 600 500 2 400 300 1 200 100 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Year 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 21 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 38 39 47 Year Vacant space, area Vacant space, rent AVERAGE REMAINING LEASE TERM, years 10 LARGEST CUSTOMERS, ANNUAL RENT, DECEMBER 2016 SEK m % Year Lund University 577 11.1 9 Karolinska Institutet 551 10.6 8 Stockholm University 496 9.6 7 Royal Institute of Technology 469 9.0 6 5 Uppsala University 369 7.1 4 University of Gothenburg 332 6.4 3 Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences 312 6.0 2 1 Linköping University 286 5.5 0 Umeå University 237 4.6 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Year Karlstad University 167 3.2 3,797 73.1 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Property valuation 35 Property valuation With its strong position in regional sub-markets and long-term leases with creditworthy tenants, Akademiska Hus has a property portfolio with stable revenue flows and low risk. Major investments and a favourable trend in the property market in general have resulted in continued positive value growth. FAIR VALUE The fair value of Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio as at DecemPROPERTY PORTFOLIO’S ACCUMULATED VALUE GROWTH ber 2016 was SEK 73,013 million (66,575). The value of Akademiska AND NUMBER OF SQUARE METRES FLOOR SPACE Hus’ property holdings has developed favourably during the year, SEK m Thousand m² in part due to the completion of several major projects in progress 80,000 3,400 and in part because of the increase in value of existing properties. The projects in progress relate largely to improvements of existing 60,000 3,300 space and the total fair value has increased in recent years at a 40,000 faster pace than the number of square metres. The fair value per 3,200 square metre as at 31 December 2016 is SEK 22,598 (20,705). The 20,000 3,100 fair value of the property holdings was calculated by means of an 0 internal property valuation covering all of the Company’s proper–10,000 3‚000 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 ties and projects in progress. Floor space, m² Other acquisitions Other change in value Acquisitions from the Swedish state Construction Sales 73 PROPERTY VALUE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, PROPERTY VALUE Impact on Impact on fair fair value, value, percentSEK BILLION Change SEK m1 age points Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 389 0.5 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 421 0.6 Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 80 0.1 VALUATION METHODS of which media provision 39 0.1 Akademiska Hus’ holdings have been valued individually without Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,384 –6.0 any account being taken of portfolio effects. The property holdings Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,831 6.6 are divided into three different valuation categories: properties Yield target, + one percentage point –5,655 –7.7 valued according to an internal cash flow valuation (91 per cent), Yield target, – one percentage point 8,318 11.4 expansion reserves (2 per cent) and properties valued using a spe1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. cial valuation basis due to an abnormal risk assessment (7 per cent). The valuation methods comply with good market practice in the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that are used are justified based on both property-specific and industry-specific YIELD REQUIREMENTS AND COST OF CAPITAL, % conditions. The risk exposure in Akademiska Hus’ property portfolio has primarily been reflected by variations in yield targets, % which is a central measure of risk in the property sector. Each year 9 Akademiska Hus allows the yield requirement, cost of capital and other valuation conditions to be verified by two external independ8 ent valuation institutes, NAI Svefa and Cushman & Wakefield. Read Note 16 for more detailed information about Akademiska 7 Hus’ valuation methods. 6 All property valuation involves estimation elements, which customarily is associated with some uncertainty. A normal uncer5 11 12 13 14 15 16 Year tainty range in property valuation is +/– 5 to 10 per cent, which for Akademiska Hus would be equivalent to approximately SEK 3,300 Average cost of capital, % Average yield requirement, % million to SEK 6,600 million. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 36 Property valuation To verify the internal valuation, selected properties are also valued In Akademiska Hus’ valuation model, the cost of capital and yield each year by external valuation companies. During the year, 73 valutargets are adjusted for each valuation building based on rental ation buildings at a fair value of SEK 17,637 million were valued period, city/location and type of building. The change in value for externally, corresponding to approximately 27 per cent of Akade­ the year attributable to the changes in these parameters is SEK miska Hus’ total fair value. The valuations were carried out by –179 million (256). It is mainly the rental period that changes from Cushman & Wakefield, which is authorised by the Swedish Society year to year as contracts gradually expire and new leases are signed. of Real Estate Economics. The external valuations confirm the reliability of the internal valuation model. Other changes in value The post ‘Other changes in value’ refers to cash-flow related RESIDUAL VALUE RISK changes that derive from a change in net operating income. Change Akademiska Hus operates in a specific segment of the property for the year amounted to SEK 1,466 million (1,172) and largely market, which means that a substantial share of our property holddepends on new leases signed or renewed in connection with new ings are more adapted to specialist uses and consequently they projects. Impairment losses arise when premises are vacated or have a slightly more uncertain residual value than for more general when costs for items such as operation and maintenance increase. properties, such as office buildings and residential buildings. Residual risk for our customised properties is quantified mainly in the form of charges to cash flow and in the direct yield target. CHANGE IN VALUE, PROPERTIES Change in property holdings, SEK m 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 CHANGE IN VALUE 2016 Opening fair value 66,575 61,437 The total increase in the carrying amount of properties for the + Investment in new construction year was SEK 6,438 million (5,138), for a closing fair value of SEK and redevelopment 2,761 2,497 73,013 million (66,575), including construction in progress brought + Acquisitions — 2 forward of SEK 4,802 million (3,484). Of the total change in value, + Capitalised interest expense 75 108 SEK 2,761 million (2,497) relates to investments in new construc– Sales –46 –33 tion and redevelopment. The unrealised change in value in the +/– Change in fair value 3,647 2,564 income statement was SEK 3,647 million (2,564). Of which change in value due to a change in the cost of capital and yield requirement 2,435 1,245 Of which change in value due to adjusted Investments, purchases and sales value index (valuation status, average Change in value attributable to investments consist of projects remaining term, property type) –179 256 completed during the year and change in construction in progress. Of which capitalised interest expense –75 –108 The Royal College of Music in Stockholm is the largest completed Of which other change in value 1,466 1,171 project, along with several smaller projects. Current projects in Closing fair value 73,013 66,575 progress include Biomedicum in Stockholm, the new Humanisten SEK 65,495 million (90 per cent) of the fair value has been set by means of an internal cash flow valuation. Other properties have been valued individually building in Gothenburg and the new building for the Police trainusing the most appropriate valuation method, see Note 16. ing programme in Umeå. During the year three small properties in Lund and land in Stockholm were sold. The sales resulted in a change in the balance sheet of SEK –46 million. Valuation conditions To reflect the general rise in prices and demand for community properties, the yield targets and cost of capital in the internal valuation were lowered by between 0.05 and 0.35 percentage points. The average cost of capital was 7.7 per cent (7.9) and the average yield target was 5.6 per cent (5.8) after adjustment for stamp duty. The positive change in value due to the reduction amounted to SEK 2,435 million (1,245) in 2016. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing 37 Financing Risk premiums in the credit market have decreased during the year. Political risks renew uncertainty in Europe. Akademiska Hus completed nine bond issues. FINANCIAL MARKET IN 2016 The fixed income market has been relatively stable, though political The year reflects a financial landscape with increased political risk. surprises resulted in declining interest rates after Brexit and rising Both Britain’s vote on withdrawal from the EU (Brexit) and the US interest rates at the end of the year in connection with the US presipresidential election with Donald Trump as the winner came as dential election. surprises where the polls proved to be inaccurate. Recovered commodity prices and the slow pace of the discontinuation of the stimDEBT MANAGEMENT IN 2016 ulative monetary policy in the US improved conditions for emerging The Riksbank has conducted Swedish monetary policy in the shadow economies this year. The exceptionally stimulative monetary policy of the ECB, with limited room to manoeuvre, and carried out both that is still being pursued is a concern in the event of a renewed ecorate cuts and additional bond purchases. Long-term rates demonnomic slowdown. Central banks have noted a need to begin a normalistrated good adaptation to international markets with influences sation process to recover the capacity for future stimulus measures. from Brexit and the US presidential election. Upward pressure on The US Federal Reserve (Fed) raised interest rates for the first time long-term rates, combined with indications of continued easing of in December 2015, which was intended to be followed by additional monetary policy in Sweden, contributed to steeper yield curves rate hikes in 2016. Although the US economy performed relatively with associated added costs from the borrower’s perspective. well, the recovery has been somewhat slower than expected, for The fixed interest period in the basic portfolio has generally which reason rates were not increased up until December 2016. remained at a stable level over course of the year. The risk scenario Meanwhile, the European Central Bank (ECB) decided on furfrom a net borrower perspective is still considered asymmetric in ther easing since inflation had not reached a level deemed to be the medium term; even if the time horizon for negative interest rates sustainable. In March the key rate was cut to a record low of minus is prolonged, the additional cost for an extension can be justified, 0.4 per cent and bond purchases continued during the year. provided that it takes place in effective periods. This risk scenario The world’s central banks face many challenges after a prolonged with extremely depressed interest rates combined with the growing period of extremely stimulative monetary policy. A common conclurisk of additional increases in long-term international interest rates sion at this time is that monetary policy is approaching the end of the justifies an upward adjustment of the lower limit of the fixed interest road where additional measures would only have a limited effect on mandate from two to three years for 2017. In 2016, a major restructhe economy. In combination with unusually high levels of debt, turing of the interest rate swap portfolio was carried out in which however, a rate increase process could result in a tightening effect ineffective fixed-interest periods were replaced with more effective that is stronger than it would otherwise be, which could cause the risk coverage for rising interest rates. Interest rate derivatives concentral bank to proceed cautiously once normalisation does begin. tinue to serve as an important means to maintain the fixed interest Meanwhile, in recent years the central banks have underscored the period. importance of structural measures since the generally acting monetary policy produced undesired effects in the form of inflated asset prices. FINANCING SOURCES, SEK bn DEBT MATURITY STRUCTURE, SEK bn 35 30 Banklån 30 25 CP 25 20 ECP 20 15 EMTN excl CHF 15 10 EMTN CHF 10 5 MTN/EMTN SEK 5 Övrigt 0 0 Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Oct 17 20 24 28 32 36 40 45 Year 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Other MTN/EMTN SEK EMTN CHF EMTN excl. CHF ECP CP Bank loans AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 38 Financing WELL-DIVERSIFIED FUNDING OUTLOOK FOR FINANCING ACTIVITIES IN 2017 During the year Akademiska Hus completed adjusting the capital The divergent trends between the economy in the US and in structure, as decided by the owner, through the final payment of Europe represent yet another challenge for financial markets to SEK 2,000 million of the additional distribution in April. The net value. Although the questions relating to US policy are many, there liability portfolio totalled SEK 26,962 million at year-end, which is broad consensus that the Fed will continue to raise interest rates. was an increase of SEK 3,038 million. The equity ratio was 41.4 per The risks of a premature tightening of monetary policy are deemed cent. As in 2015, financing activities focused on a balanced and cost-­ to be significant, for which reason the extraordinarily loose moneeffectively implemented well-diversified financing of the increase in tary policy can be expected to continue in 2017 despite pronounced debt, primarily through the EMTN and ECP programmes. In this criticism. context the slight decline in credit risk premiums in the bond marIn 2017, the refinancing need consists of maturing bonds of SEK kets during the year provided a positive contribution. Akademiska 1,000 million, as well as short-term financing in the ECP and cerHus completed nine bond issues for a total of about SEK 4,800 miltificate market of EUR 748 million. Investments in the property lion during the year, with SEK 2,400 million related to refinancing. portfolio are estimated at about SEK 4,000 million. The strong A further diversification was achieved through bond issues denomicash flow allows a high proportion of self-financing. The limited nated in Hong Kong dollars and Australian dollars in the Asian need for refinancing in the bond portfolio allows debt management market for over SEK 1,800 million. in 2017 to focus on the continued restructuring and further developPrior to the additional distribution in 2015 the committed ment of financial risk management in the now significantly larger credit facilities were increased by SEK 2,000 million. Liquidity debt portfolio. The extensive bond issues of SEK 12,600 million during the year remained at a good level to meet fluctuations in over the past two years have ensured good maturity. The mandate payment flows. With the final payment from the additional distrifor loans maturing within 12 months (maturity mandate) was bution completed and with good access to funding on the shortraised for the financing of the dividend in 2015. For 2017 a someterm credit market, committed credit facilities were reduced by what lower liquidity reserve is considered to be fully satisfactory SEK 1,000 million during the year. The trend in the banking marand the mandate has therefore been adjusted downwards from 50 ket with increased demands for cost-driving capital adequacy to 45 per cent. justifies a continued increased focus on bond financing. The lion’s share of short-term funding was obtained through the ECP proFINANCING POLICY, STR ATEGIES AND OBJECTIVES gramme, where activity was maintained at a high level. At yearAkademiska Hus carries on active debt management where the end cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 5,370 million. strategy is to weigh up the financial risks against the desired low During the fourth quarter Akademiska Hus completed a rating financing cost over time. The two key policy documents adopted by process with Moody’s, which announced in January 2017 that the Board are: Akademiska Hus had received the highest short-term rating of • Financing Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, Prime-1 (P-1), which was also awarded to the ECP programme. The the Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to hanrating, which complements the existing Standard & Poor’s rating, dle these risks, as well as the allocation of liability. is expected to contribute to continued stable financing conditions • Plan for handling financial risks (risk plan): Justifies annual in the short-term credit market. The rating reflects Akademiska mandates for financial risk management in the light of the risk Hus’ leading market position as the dominant player for campuses scenario and existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developintended for the extremely stable state-funded Swedish higher ments in financial markets, including both opportunities and education sector. challenges from the point of view of debt management. INTEREST RATE TRENDS AND AKADEMISKA HUS’ COMPARISONS, DIFFERENT CALCULATIONS FINANCING COST, % OF FINANCING COST, % % % 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2.15 2 1 1.76 0 1 –1 0 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Year 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Year Annualised Interest, Accrued Mortgage bonds, 5 years Period-allocated financing cost, rolling 12-month basis, % Government bonds, 5 years STIBOR 3 months Financing cost according to IFRS rolling 12-month basis, % AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financing 39 The financing objectives are: FORMS OF FINANCING AND R ATING • Use centralised financial management to leverage economies of Exposure to the various financial risks is managed within each scale and facilitate efficient handling of exposure to financial mandate adopted annually in the risk plan. The choice of fixed interrisks within the Group. est period in the basic portfolio and the percentage of the long bond • Use the strong financial position and good rating, within the portfolio has a large impact on net interest income and expense. framework of the risk mandate, to achieve as low a financing cost as possible. • Use public financing programmes to maintain stable and continFINANCING PROGRAMMES AND RATING uous access to cost-effective financing in relevant markets. Rating Standard & Framework Utilised nom. Poor’s 31-12-2016 31-12-2016 FIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY Committed credit facilities in bank SEK 3,000 m 0 The exposure to financial risks derives from the capital structure Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m SEK 1,500 m with the distribution between loans and equity. Financing activiECP (Euro ties primarily manage exposure to interest rate and refinancing Commercial Paper)1 A1+ EUR 1,200 m EUR 748 m risk. In a normal situation, financial markets price in long-term MTN (Medium fixed interest periods and maturities at higher risk premiums. The Term Note)2 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 770 m objective of risk management is therefore to balance the additional EMTN (Euro Medium Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 2,208 m costs of long-term fixed interest periods and maturities, and thus 1) Moody’s P-1 beginning in January 2017 limit uncertainty, against savings of more short-term fixed inter2) Not updated since 2009 est periods and maturities, where greater uncertainty is accepted. Systematic risk analyses are carried out to identify and utilise opportunities that financial markets offer. FINANCING COST • Long-term portfolio – bonds with fixed interest and maturity Net interest income and expense amounted to SEK –549 million terms in excess of 15 years. (–182) during the period, of which SEK –241 (165) relates to changes • Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest in value of financial derivatives. SEK –24 million (297) of the change rate. in value is unrealised and SEK –217 million is realised (–132). The • Basic portfolio – remaining portion of ECP, commercial papers, changes in value can mainly be attributed to the somewhat declinloans, bonds and interest rate derivatives. ing market interest rates. The significant share of realised losses is attributable to the ongoing restructuring of the interest rate swap portfolio so that ineffective interest rate periods have been termiFIXED INTEREST PERIOD AND MATURITY nated and replaced with more effective protection. As a result, defiFixed Fixed cit values have been gradually realised throughout the year. Net interest, interest, Maturity, Maturity, years, years, years, years, interest income and expense is equivalent to an interest cost of 2.1 SEK m Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 Dec. 2016 Dec. 2015 per cent (1.2) during the period in which the changes in value corBasic portfolio 22,962 4.7 3.6 2.3 2.6 respond to an increase in interest expense of 0.8 percentage points Non-current portfolio 3,611 23.7 24.7 23.7 24.7 (decrease 0.7). Interest-bearing net loan liability increased by SEK Index-linked 3,038 million during the year and amounted to SEK 26,962 million. bond portfolio 900 5.8 6.8 5.8 6.8 The interest coverage ratio, calculated on the cash flow impact of Total portfolio 7.2 6.9 5.2 6.1 net interest income and expense, amounted to 694 per cent (743). Since derivative financial instruments account for a significant proportion of the fixed interest period, variations in the outcome MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS of net interest income and expense will become noticeable during AND NET DEBT MATURITY AS AT 31/12/2016 periods of major interest rate changes. The diagram on page 38 preYear Fixed interest, SEK m Maturity, SEK m sents a comparative calculation in which the present value effect of 2017 5,034 11,729 changes in value, both realised and unrealised, is placed against the 2018 4,408 2,064 remaining term of the instruments. 2019 2,420 2,220 2020 1,370 950 2021 5,045 2,850 FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN 2022 0 1,200 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2023 426 400 Loan financing cost, including charges, % 0.83 1.38 2.01 2.24 2.75 2024 and later 7,715 5,005 Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.47 0.58 0.42 0.39 0.40 TOTAL 26,418 26,418 Financing cost, % 1.30 1.96 2.43 2.63 3.15 Changes in value, financial derivatives, % 0.85 –0.74 2.61 –0.01 1.06 Total financing cost, % 2.15 1.22 5.04 2.62 4.21 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 40 Risks and risk management Risks and risk management Akademiska Hus is one of Sweden’s largest property companies with a focus on knowledge environments designed for higher education and research. A prerequisite for creating value and developing our role in society is our ability to manage opportunities and risks. ‘Risk’ in this case refers to a possible impact due to external events. objectives. Each year the Board of Directors also adopts policy Risk is not unequivocally negative with cost-driving effects, but documents such as the Sustainability Policy, Code of Conduct, rather an expression of uncertainty. There is also usually a positive Financing Policy and Procurement Policy, which are intended to potential that can be leveraged. document how the Company manages its risks. The mandate from our owner stipulates that operations will be run on a commercial basis by setting rents that take operating risk RISKS AND LIABILITY into account. The yield targets will be achieved over time by leverDuring the year, the risk assessment process was further develaging opportunities and managing exposure to significant risks. oped to ensure that all significant risks are continuously included A requirement for achieving this is to have a conscious and reasonand managed. Risk management is a continuous process in which able level of risk-taking along with good internal governance and a clearly allocated ownership and general awareness of risks in the control. organisation is crucial. Risks identified in this year’s process were analysed with ANNUAL BUSINESS PLAN PROCESS respect to the likelihood of their occurrence, their potential impact Each year Akademiska Hus’ Board of Directors addresses the and the ability to manage the individual risk. The graphic below Company’s long-term strategy and decides on a new business plan. presents the assessment of risk areas based on these perspectives. The business plan takes into account the Company’s overall risks The assessment was carried out taking into account the protection that have been identified, based on its strategy and long-term that is already in place in the area. HIGHLY PROBABLE Fair value, properties Project risk Transparency Income and vacancy risk and trust PROBABILITY Operation and maintenance LIKELY Political risk as well as facilities risk Skills supply Financial risk risks Compliance Environmental risk UNLIKELY CONSEQUENCE/IMPACT VERY LIMITED SERIOUS DISASTER AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management 41 Strategic risks Operating risks Consist of external market factors that cannot Mainly refer to the risks of financial consequences be controlled, but whose negative impact could and consequences related to trust which ensue from be limited. shortcomings in internal procedures and systems, as well as operational risks related to management and construction. Legal risks Financial risks Encompass both ethical positions for our employees Mainly involve exposure to interest rate and and our stakeholders, as well as good knowledge of refinancing risk. the rules and laws that apply in construction and management. STRATEGIC RISKS ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT FAIR VALUE OF The fair value of buildings is influenced by Fair value risk is managed by regularly analysing the risk BUILDINGS market trends, yield targets, rent trends and profile and business opportunities of the property portfolio. vacancy rates, as well as redevelopment and Concentrating the property portfolio to university cities Risk of a negative new construction. provides good development potential and good sales opporimpact on earnings due tunities. Because lease terms are long, changes in value to changes in the fair demonstrate less variation when yield targets change. value of properties A large share of the property portfolio is located in cohesive campuses. The Akademiska Hus property portfolio is updated and modified through purchases, sales and investments in new construction and redevelopment. For more information see the Property valuation section on pages 34–36. TRANSPARENCY Trust and good relations can be achieved and To strengthen our ability to inspire trust we work proacAND TRUST maintained by behaving as a role model and tively with our values and our corporate culture. During with high transparency. Setting rents, planning the year we trained our staff on diversity issues and impleRisk of a lack of trust and development of campuses as well as the mented a process model for sustainability as support for from the owner and Company’s sustainability work are areas where campus development. We have also introduced a Code of other stakeholders our stakeholders demand great openness. Conduct for suppliers with a clear focus on transparency and human rights. INCOME AND External factors that affect the Company’s Akademiska Hus strives to achieve generally designed VACANCY RISK rental income and vacancy rates include the facilities that can be redesigned based on the development development needs of the centres of educaneeds of the centres of education. Buildings specially adapted Risk of loss of income tion, their access to research grants, political for research and development often have long lease terms due to vacancies or decisions and economic fluctuations. with a high probability of renewal. Investing in properties reduced rental income requires leases to be signed before construction begins. Colleges and universities are primarily StateTaken together, this gives a low risk of vacancy. funded, for which reason the risk of reduced revenue and non-payment is low. In recent Our regional presence and regular dialogue with our cusyears, the interest of private property compatomers will help to strengthen our position as a supplier nies in community properties, strong regional of knowledge environments. players and increased client demands have contributed to intensified competition. POLITICAL RISK The operation is affected by Government poliThe risk scenario can be kept up to date through a systemcies in general and education policy in particuatic business intelligence analysis. We engage in continuous Risk of changing lar. A change in this brief from the owner, the dialogue with our owner and stakeholders to ensure consenconditions as a result Swedish state, could entail both risks and sus on goals and strategies. of political decisions opportunities. As a major energy user, changes in national and international energy policies could have an impact on the Company’s financial performance. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 42 Risks and risk management OPERATING RISKS ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT PROJECT RISK Each year Akademiska Hus invests billions of Investments are not initiated until an agreement is reached SEK to build new and develop existing properwith the tenant and are regulated contractually regarding This risk relates to ties. Projects are complex and involve many both entrepreneur and tenant, for which reason production financial, scheduling parties for which reason the clarity of agreerisk is limited. Risks linked to the physical design and impleand technical impact ments and structured processes are crucial. mentation are limited through structured project briefings. associated with project A high level of expertise and structured sustainability initidelivery Production costs and decisions related to physatives, including efforts to achieve an accident-free workical design are key for achieving a process that place, provide higher cost effectiveness and quality. Our is safe, resource-efficient and cost-effective. suppliers must meet high ethical standards since they are required to comply with the Code of Conduct for suppliers. OPERATION AND A focus on operation and maintenance costs We engage in dialogue with our customers to learn about MAINTENANCE AS WELL is important for the net operating income ratio their activities in order to achieve high operational reliabilAS FACILITIES RISK of the properties and thus their fair value. ity and prevent disruptions. This risk relates to the Neglected maintenance leads to higher mainTo ensure high level of operational reliability, each building effects of poor operation tenance costs in the long term. Several of our has a maintenance plan, which leads to cost-effective and maintenance, as customers have facilities with highly advanced maintenance of the properties. well breakdowns in the and sensitive activities; consequently disrupfacility tions in operations, both temporary and longAkademiska Hus works actively to hedge future electricity term, can have serious consequences. prices, providing greater security regarding future costs. Electricity price risk is an area that can have major financial consequences if not managed wisely. SKILLS SUPPLY RISK Today there is strong competition and high We cooperate with several vocational colleges and training demand for skills in property management as programmes and participate in activities to promote access The risk of not being well as in construction and project management. to the right skills in the industry. able to attract, recruit, Being perceived as an attractive employer is retain and develop staff positive and promotes the possibility of ensurWe actively work to ensure attractive working conditions with the right skills ing that the right skills are available. with good skills development and duties that encourage growth. The ongoing process of change with the new organBroadening recruitment and influencing young isation causes extra focus on clarity regarding employees’ people and groups that do not normally apply roles and responsibilities in the organisation. for work in the property business will be crucial to ensure the availability of employees with the The safety culture is a high priority and we are focusing right skills over time. on awareness-raising initiatives to achieve our ambition of being a leader in the industry. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK When managing and developing campuses, Akademiska Hus works with long-term strategic developas well as in new construction and redevelopment of campuses by formulating campus plans with a Risk of impact on ment, it is important to plan the change in such strong focus on sustainability. the environment and a way that responsibility is taken for ensuring society that materials and resources are used in a All new construction and major renovations are environresponsible manner. mentally certified according to the Miljöbyggnad system, for at least a silver rating. Materials are assessed with regard Responsible management, construction and to their impact on the environment through the Byggvaru­ development of campuses require a long-term bedömningen (BVB) scheme. Resource and energy efficiency approach, good skills and high ambitions. initiatives are conducted throughout the operation. The Company is certified to ISO 14001 for the environment and AFS 2001:1 for the working environment. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Risks and risk management 43 LEGAL RISKS ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE Compliance with applicable laws and regulations Akademiska Hus’ Code of Conduct offers guidance on how affecting our business is of great importance we should act. Each year, managers and employees engage The risk that laws and to Akademiska Hus to avoid unnecessary costs in a dialogue on compliance with the Code of Conduct. regulations are not foland to ensure that we set a good example. lowed The Company has established an ethical council and an Compliance with applicable laws and regulaexternal whistle-blower system that is independent of the tions should be easy and obvious and leave company, to which both employees and external partners little room for interpretation. As a state-owned can report suspected irregularities. company, it is crucial to set a good example, in business as well as in other relationships. FINANCIAL RISKS ANALYSIS MANAGEMENT INTEREST RISK The added cost of the long fixed interest period Fixed interest mandate is balanced against the increased uncertainty • basic portfolio 3–6 years Risk that profit will vary of short fixed interest periods. • long-term bond portfolio – maximum of 20 per cent because of changes in of total portfolio market rates • index-linked bond portfolio – maximum of 10 per cent of total portfolio REFINANCING RISK The added cost of the long maturities is Maturing loans within a twelve-month period – maximum balanced against the increased uncertainty of 45 per cent of the total portfolio. The risk that financing of short fixed interest periods. potential is limited when loans are due to be refinanced and that the cost is higher than expected CREDIT AND Exposure occurs with both liquidity manageThe credit limit is based on the rating and the term of the COUNTER­PARTY RISK ment and derivative transactions and depends commitment. ISDA agreements are always signed before on the creditworthiness of the counterparty derivative transactions are carried out. CSA agreement The risk of a loss and the duration of the commitment. cover the very high proportion of exposure to derivatives. because a counterparty does not meet its undertakings CURRENCY Underlying property operations are conducted When financing in a foreign currency, the exchange rate EXPOSURE RISK in Sweden and in Swedish kronor. risk is eliminated. Risk that exchange rate changes affect the income statements and balance sheets Sensitivity analysis, Note 3 on page 65 and Note 16 on page 74. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 44 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report This corporate governance report describes the structure and principles for governance of operations at Akademiska Hus. With a clear allocation of responsibility between different Company bodies and procedures that ensure transparency, the operation is efficiently governed to guide us towards our goals. FOUNDATIONS OF CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE AT AK ADEMISK A HUS AKADEMISKA HUS’ MISSION ACCORDING TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Akademiska Hus (publ) is a property company that is wholly owned by the Swedish state. Administration is handled by the The object of the Company’s operations is to own, develop and manage properties for colleges and univerMinistry of Enterprise and Innovation on behalf of the Ministry sities, where the primary focus is on education and of Education and Research, which is the principal. The Company research, as well as activities compatible therewith. is subject to the State’s ownership policy and guidelines for compaOperations will be run on a commercial basis and genernies with state ownership and applies the Swedish Code of Corpoate a yield that is in line with the market by setting rents rate Governance (the Code). Because the Company is wholly owned that take into account the operating risk. Akademiska Hus Aktiebolag will work to bring about long-term susby the Swedish state, certain provisions of the Code do not apply, tainable development of university and college campuses. as it is primarily written for businesses with diversified ownership. Deviations from the Code are described on page 46. Objective IMPORTANT ISSUES 2016 FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES • Public Procurement Act judgement and adaptation to it The General Meeting has adopted three • Organisational changes financial objectives for Akademiska Hus. • Customer relations and customer satisfaction SUSTAINABILITY GOALS Read more • Digitisation on page 12. The Board of Directors has adopted four • Appointment of new CFO/Vice President sustainability goals for Akademiska Hus. • Energy strategy Examples of external Governance and organisational chart governing regulations: • Companies Act • Accounting Act • Annual Accounts Act • State ownership policy • IFRS General Meeting • Swedish Code of Corporate Governance • Code about gifts, rewards and External auditor other benefits in business Finance Committee • UN Global Compact principles • Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Board of Directors Audit Committee guidelines G4 • Stock market rules Remuneration Committee Examples of internal Internal audit governing regulations • Articles of Association • Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors President/management • Instructions to the President • Allocation of responsibility and authority Operations Common support functions • Strategy documents • Code of Conduct • Sustainability Policy, Procurement Policy and Financing Policy • Attestation and authorisation guidelines • O ther guidelines AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 45 GENER AL MEETING INTERNAL AUDIT The General Meeting is the highest decision-making body at Akademiska Hus has an Internal Audit function comprising an Akademiska Hus. The shareholder formally exercises influence at employed internal auditor. The Internal Audit reports directly to the General Meeting. The General Meeting appoints the Board of the Board, and also to the Audit Committee on an ongoing basis. Directors and auditors. According to the State’s ownership policy, The work of the Internal Audit is governed by internal audit the Annual General Meeting must be held before 30 April each instructions and an annual internal audit plan, both of which are year. Notice of General Meetings shall be published no earlier than adopted by the Board of Directors. six weeks and no later than four weeks prior to the Meeting in Postoch Inrikes Tidningar, as well as on the Company’s website. BOARD OF DIRECTORS Members of the Riksdag and the public have the right to participate The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and for and must register their participation as described in the notice. management of the affairs of the company. The Board of Directors convenes the Annual General Meeting. Each year the Board of Annual General Meeting 2016 Directors adopts Rules of Procedure for its work. The Rules of The Annual General Meeting was held on 28 April 2016. The meeting Procedure govern the allocation of work among the directors, the was opened by Chairperson of the Board Eva-Britt Gustafsson, who number of regular Board meetings, matters to be addressed at was also appointed to chair the proceedings. The owner was repreregular Board meetings and the responsibilities of the Chairman sented by Malin Fries, Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. of the Board. The Rules of Procedure also include instructions for the Board committees. The division of responsibilities between Decisions at the 2016 Annual General Meeting the Board and the CEO is regulated by special instructions to the The Annual General Meeting adopted the income statement and President. The Board has also adopted the document “Instructions balance sheet for the 2015 financial year and discharged the Board for financial reporting” which regulates financial reporting proceof Directors and the President from liability for the year. The AGM dures to the Board. approved the Board’s proposal for profit distribution, which entails a dividend of SEK 1,290,000,000 to the owner. Other matters Nomination process addressed included adoption of the principles for remuneration and Directors of state-owned enterprises are appointed through a other terms of employment for senior executives, resolutions on structured nomination process with common uniform principles as fees to the Board of Directors and committees, as well as election outlined in the “State ownership policy and guidelines for companies of Board members and auditor. The minutes and other documents with state ownership 2015”. These principles replace the rules in related to the AGM are posted on the Akademiska Hus website the Code for preparation of decisions for nomination of Directors www.akademiskahus.se. and auditors. The Board nomination process is co-ordinated by the state ownership unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. Extraordinary General Meeting To determine potential hiring needs a work group analyses the needs In January 2017 an Extraordinary General Meeting was held to for expertise based on the Company’s operations, future challenges elect an additional Board member. and the composition of the Board. Directors are selected from a broad recruitment base in order to take advantage of the expertise Annual General Meeting 2017 of both men and women as well as among people with different backThe next Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2017 in grounds and experiences. Upon completion of the process nominaStockholm. tions are announced in accordance with the Code. A consistent and structured approach ensures a high standard of quality throughout AUDITORS the nomination process. The 2016 AGM resolved to re-elect KPMG AB to serve as auditors for a one-year period until the 2017 AGM. KPMG appointed Björn Composition of the Board of Directors Flinck, authorised public accountant, to serve as lead auditor. According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors for The auditors perform a limited review of the interim report as at Akademiska Hus shall consist of a minimum of three and a maximum 30 September and audit the annual and consolidated accounts. of ten Directors with no deputies. The Board consisted of eight They also conduct a limited review of the sustainability report. Directors until the AGM in 2016, after which it had seven elected In addition, the auditors express their opinions of this corporate Directors. The Board also includes two employee representatives governance report and whether Akademiska Hus complies with designated by their respective trade unions. Five members were the Government Guidelines for terms of employment for senior re-elected and two new members were elected to the Board at the executives, and submit their statements to the meeting. Every year Annual General Meeting. The AGM concluded that the Board has the auditors review their audit plan and risk assessment with the the relevant skills to manage the Company and that the Board as a Audit Committee. The auditors participate in at least two Audit whole has experience of areas that are important for the Company Committee meetings per year. Each year the auditors attend at such as corporate governance, management, the real estate indusleast one meeting with the Board of Directors that is not attended try, universities and higher education, change and development by the President. initiatives, as well as financial expertise. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 46 Corporate Governance Report BOARD OF DIRECTORS – ANNUAL CYCLE • Year-end report • Interim report Q3 • Investment matters • Investment matters • Annual Report and Sustainability Report • Business concept Q4 Q1 • Principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for senior executives • Internal Audit plan • Notice of Annual General Meeting • Risk plan • Interim report Q1 • Investment matters Q3 Q2 • Statutory meeting • Interim report Q2 •B  oard of Directors’ Rules of Procedure, instructions to the President and other policy documents • Investment matters • EMTN prospectus • External analysis and strategy meeting Work of the Board of Directors in 2016 meeting. No extraordinary meetings were held during the year. In its Rules of Procedure the Board set a schedule for information The attendance by the members of the Board of Directors is presented and decisions during its work year that essentially follows the in the tables on page 48. Board’s annual cycle. At all Board meetings during the year the President presents a Board committees report on significant events involving the Company and the respecThe Board has established three committees to specifically monitor tive committee chairs present reports from the committee meetings and prepare Board issues in specific areas. Committee members are that were held between Board meetings. During the year the Board’s elected at the statutory Board meeting held immediately after the AGM. discussions focused on customer benefit and customer satisfaction. • The Finance Committee is responsible for: At the beginning of the year the Board resolved to restructure the – Support and follow up financing activities. organisation of Akademiska Hus commencing on 1 January 2017, and – Prepare matters to be decided by the Board, including Financthen monitored the progress of the internal initiatives to achieve ing Policy and a risk plan. that goal. One reason for the reorganisation is to improve efficiency • The Audit Committee shall perform the tasks required of an and thereby increase customer value. As part of its efforts to achieve audit committee under the Companies Act and the Code with the Company’s sustainability goals, the Board adopted a common responsibilities to include: energy strategy during the year. Other important issues that the – Monitor the Company’s financial reporting and ensure that it Board addressed included digitisation from a customer perspective, maintains a high standard of quality. student housing on campus and adaptation of operations to the – Regarding the financial statements, monitor the efficiency of announcement from the Supreme Administrative Court that the Company’s internal control systems and risk management. Akademiska Hus is subject to the Public Procurement Act (LOU). – Meet regularly with the Company’s auditors to learn about the A number of investment matters were also addressed, the largest scope and focus of the audit. of which was the establishment of a new campus at Albano for – Discuss coordination between the external and internal audit Stockholm University. and views on the Company’s risks. In 2016, ten regular Board meetings were held, including the – Remain informed about the audit of the annual accounts and statutory meeting. To inform and update members about its activithe consolidated accounts. ties, some Board meetings are held at the centres of education that – Establish guidelines for non-audit services that may be proare Akademiska Hus customers and combined wherever possible cured from the Company’s auditors. with meetings with the leadership of these institutions. During the – A ssist in the preparation of proposals for the election of audiyear the Umeå Campus was visited in connection with one Board tors at the Annual General Meeting. DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORTING OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF BOARD MEMBERS (CODE RULES 1.3–1.4, 2.1–2.7, 4.6, 8.1 AND 10.2) (CODE RULE 4.5) The Code has mainly been prepared for companies with a spread The purpose of this code rule is to protect minority shareholders of ownership. At such companies, the election committee is in in limited liability companies, which is not applicable to wholly the first instance a body for shareholders to prepare decisions state-owned companies. regarding appointments. For state-owned companies, the rules regarding an election committee are replaced by principles governing a structured nomination process according to the Government’s ownership policy. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 47 Board of Directors ANITRA STEEN BRITTA BURREAU OLOF EHRLÉN KRISTINA EKENGREN THOMAS JENNLINGER Chair since 2016. RemunerMember since 2014. Member since 2011. Member since 2016. Audit Employee representative ation Committee Chair­ Finance Committee Year of birth: 1949 Committee Chairperson. (Ledarna union) since person. Chairperson. Year of birth: 1969 2008. Other positions: ChairYear of birth: 1949 Year of birth: 1964 man of the Board for Position: Deputy Director Year of birth: 1956 Other positions: Chair­ Position: CEO of KPA Svevia AB and Instalco at the Ministry of EnterPosition: Operating person of the Board for Pension. Intressenter AB as well prise and Innovation. manager at Akademiska AFA Försäkring, and Board Other positions: Chair­ as advisor for FSN Capital. Other positions: Hus Uppsala. member of PostNord, person for the Scouts. Previous positions: Board member of JernEducation: Production Attendo AB and Oral Care AB. President and CEO of husen, Teracom Group, engineering studies. Previous positions: Previous positions: CEO of Nordea Liv and NCC AB. VisitSweden and others. Under-secretary at the MinAccenture. Education: M.Sc. Eng. Previous positions: istry of Finance, State SecDeputy Director and Education: M.Sc. and MBA. retary at the Ministry of Department Secretary Education and Ministry of at the Ministry of Finance. Finance, Director General Financial analyst at Delphi of the National Agency for Economics. Higher Education Services Education: M.A. and the National Tax Board, as well as CEO of Systembolaget AB. Chairperson of Stockholm University and Board member of SAS, Södersjukhuset hospital, Lantmännen and others. Education: B.A. ANDERS LARSSON INGELA LINDH CHRISTER NERLICH GUNNAR SVEDBERG INGEMAR ZIEGLER Employee representative Member since 2014. Left Board member elected in Member since 2009. Member since 2007. (SEKO union) since 2009. the Board of Directors 2017. Year of birth: 1947 Year of birth: 1947. Year of birth: 1963 31 Dec. 2016. Year of birth: 1961 Other positions: Board Other positions: Board Position: Operating Year of birth: 1959 Position: Chief Financial member of Uppsala Univermember of Stockholm engineer at Akademiska Position: Deputy city manof Officer Vasakronan. sity, Kemakta Konsult AB Concert Hall and the Clara Hus Stockholm. ager and CEO of Stockholm Other positions: – and the Göran Gustafsson Foundation. Education: Production Stadshus AB. Foundation for Scientific Previous positions: CEO Previous positions: Chief engineering studies. Other positions: Board and Medical Research. of AB Storstockholms Financial Officer of AP member of the Royal ColMember of the board of IVA Lokaltrafik, Locum AB, Diös­ Fastigheter and Corporate lege of Music and Sweden and KVVS in Gothenburg. förvaltning, Stockholms finance NewSec. Green Building Council. Previous positions: CEO Markoch LokaliseringsEducation: MBA. Previous positions: Direcof Innventia AB, Vice-­ bolag. Finance Secretary tor of City Planning for the Chancellor at the University of the City of Stockholm. City of Stockholm. President of Gothenburg, Vice-­ Education: B.A. of AB Stockholmshem. Chancellor at Mid Sweden University, and Deputy Vice-­ Education: Architect MSA. Chancellor at the Royal Institute of Technology. Education: PhD. in engiAUDITORS, KPMG AB, BJÖRN FLINK, LEAD AUDITOR neering Professor of Born 1959. MBA. Lead auditor for Akademiska Hus since 2014. Authorised public accountant. Energy Technology. Other audit assignments, selection: Hemfosa Fastigheter, Axfast and Stenvalvet. Directorships: Member of the board of FAR, the trade association for auditors, accounting consultants, and advisers. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 48 Corporate Governance Report • The tasks of the Remuneration Committee are to: efforts to achieve the financial goals through a number of strategic – Prepare decisions regarding terms and conditions for salaries and control parameters that are monitored internally, linked to a longemployment for the President and the Executive Management. term economic plan. Business planning begins with joint strategy – Formulate proposals for guidelines for remuneration and other days held by the Board and management in the spring and ends terms of employment for the President and other senior executives. when the Board adopts the business plan at its December Board – Monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for meeting. A business intelligence analysis that includes customers, remuneration to senior executives prior to adoption by the AGM. business locations, market segments and finance is carried out as part of the planning process. The President, Vice President, CFO and the Treasurer may particiThe business plan, which covers the entire company, is broken pate at committee meetings in the capacity of presenters. down into clear operational plans for regions and support functions. The operational plans include operational objectives and Evaluation of the work of the Board and the President in 2016 activities to meet the goals. The operational plans are continuously The Board of Directors uses a structured, systematic process to monitored with quarterly feedback sessions between management evaluate the work of the Board and the President. Evaluation takes and the coordinator for the respective regions and functions durplace once a year with the aim of developing the working forms and ing which the operational objectives and operational control efficiency of the Board of Directors. The chairman leads the evaluparameters are addressed. ation, which is carried out by all members of the Board. The owner, To implement the Company’s strategy and business plan the through the Government Offices, is informed about the results of organisation is structured as shown on page 44. A reorganisation the evaluation. The work of the Government Offices related to the of the operation began in 2016, which mainly entailed replacement Board nomination process also includes an ongoing evaluation of of existing regions with two operational areas and three market the boards of all state-owned companies, which includes their areas. The new organisation is effective as of 2017. The description work, the composition of the Board and their skills. below reflects the structure in 2016. GOVERNANCE OF AK ADEMISK A HUS President, Vice President and management group The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring that At the beginning of the year Executive Management consisted of the Company is managed in compliance with laws and regulations, thirteen members including the President and Vice President. The as well as the instructions provided by the owner. As part of this President, or the Vice President acting on behalf of the President, work, the Board formulates relevant policies and governing docuis responsible for ongoing management in compliance with appliments. Akademiska Hus’ long-term strategy, the financial targets cable laws and regulations and in accordance with the instructions adopted by the AGM and the Board’s sustainability goals, serve for the President approved by the Board. In addition to the Presias the basis of the annual process of formulating a business plan. dent and Vice President, the Executive Management team comThe business plan, together with policy documents, comprises prises the six Regional Directors, the CFO, the Corporate Commuthe overall basis for control of the Company. nications Director, the Purchasing Director, the General Counsel The business plan describes the way Akademiska Hus deals and the Human Resources Director, all of whom report directly to with customers, manages assets and addresses the future. The plan the President. Executive Management is a forum for information specifies activities to be implemented to achieve the strategic goals and decisions regarding joint strategic Company matters. It is also of the business and metrics for monitoring. It also describes the the steering committee for the prioritised processes. ATTENDANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS – FINANCIAL YEAR 2016 Number of meetings of Number of meetings of Number of meetings of Number of Board meetings the Finance Committee the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee Anitra Steen 7/7 1/1 Eva-Britt Gustafsson 3/3 3/3 2/2 Britta Burreau 8/10 3/3 Olof Ehrlén 9/10 Kristina Ekengren 7/7 3/3 1/1 Thomas Jennlinger 8/10 Anders Larsson 10/10 Ingela Lindh 6/10 Leif Ljungqvist 3/3 1/1 3/3 2/2 Pia Sandvik1 2/3 0/1 1/3 Gunnar Svedberg 9/10 3/3 Ingemar Ziegler 9/10 2/2 5/6 1) Left the Board of Directors in connection with the Annual General Meeting in April 2016. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 49 Executive Management 1 January 2017 KERSTIN LINDBERG GÖRANSSON ULF DÄVERSJÖ President. Employed 2011. Head of Innovation and sustainable Year of birth: 1956 development. Employed 2014. Other positions: Board member of Year of birth: 1979 AP3 and Jernhusen AB, Board member of Previous positions: Management K2 National Knowledge Centre for Public consultant for Capgemini Consulting, Transport. Global Purchaser at Arla Foods, Business Previous positions: Airport Director of Analyst at Arla Foods. Stockholm-Arlanda Airport, Accounting Education: MBA. and Finance Director and Vice President of the Scandic Group. HAYAR GOHARY KERSTIN CATARINA FRITZ Education: MBA. Project Manager. Employed 2007. LINDBERG GÖRANSSON Year of birth: 1975 CATARINA FRITZ Previous positions: Project manager for CFO and Vice President. Employed 2016. Vallentuna Municipality. Project manager Year of birth: 1963 for Akademiska Hus. Previous positions: CFO of Keolis Sweden, Education: M.Sc. Eng. Investor and Stockholm Stock Exchange. Education: MBA. MAGNUS HUSS Market area director. Employed 1993. PETER BOHMAN Year of birth: 1967 Market area director. Employed 2013. Other positions: Board member of AFF Year of birth: 1972 Forum. PETER BOHMAN BIRGITTA VAN DALEN Other positions: Board member of Previous positions: Project Manager, Head Realus AB and IFU Arena AB. of Property Management, and Property Previous positions: Terminal Manager Manager for Akademiska Hus Stockholm. and on-call Airport Director at Stockholm-­ Engineer and facilities technician at the Arlanda Airport. Various management National Board of Public Buildings. positions at Swedavia. Education: Engineering degree, technical Education: B.Sc. in Business Administracollege. tion with focus on real estate. CECILIA NIELSEN BIRGITTA VAN DALEN CIO. Employed 2012. Market area director. Employed 2005. Year of birth: 1969 Year of birth: 1958 Previous positions: Head of Corporate Previous positions: Planning adviser for Communications at SP Sveriges Tekniska ULF DÄVERSJÖ HAYAR GOHARY Forskningsinstitut AB. Akademiska Hus, Head of property supply and operating manager at Karlstad UniverEducation: B.A. sity, Planning Manager at the Property Department, Karlstad Municipal Authority. Education: B.A. Soc. Admin. MEMBERS OF EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BEGINNING 1 MARCH 2017 JONAS BJUGGREN MARIE HALLANDER LARSSON Administrative Manager. Human Resources Director. MAGNUS HUSS CECILIA NIELSEN EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 2016 Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President. David Carlsson Regional Director, North. Catarina Fritz CFO and Vice President Left Executive Management 30 Sept. 2016. Joined Executive Management 1 Oct. 2016 Lars Hagman Regional Director, East. Peter Bohman Regional Director, Uppsala. Left Executive Management 31 Dec. 2016. Birgitta van Dalen Regional Director, West. Tomas Ringdahl Regional Director, South. Ulf Däversjö Purchasing Director. Left Executive Management 31 Dec. 2016. Cecilia Nielsen Director of Communications. Sten Wetterblad Regional Director, Stockholm Region. Left Executive ManageCarolin Åberg Sjöqvist General Counsel. ment 31 Dec. 2016. Left Executive Management 31 Dec. 2016. Jonas Ragnarsson CFO. Left Executive Fredrik Färm acting Human Resources Management 31 Jan. 2016. Director. 1 April 2016–31 Jan. 2017. Kristina Korsgren Human Resources Roger Granberg acting Regional Director, Director. Left Executive Management North. 1 Oct. 2016–31 Dec. 2016. 31 March 2016. Mikael Walmerud Vice President. Anders Ruth acting CFO. Left Executive Management 30 Sept. 2016. 1 Feb. 2016–30 Sept. 2016. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 50 Corporate Governance Report Regions Company. Following a tip received by the Company’s whistle-­ Akademiska Hus conducts business in six regions. Each region is blower system and completion of an internal investigation, it was headed by a Regional Director who is responsible for operations in discovered that the employee abused his executive position in the the region and reports to the President. The Regional Director for Company and was probably guilty of financial irregularities. The each region is included in the Executive Management team. Investemployee was terminated effective immediately. As a result of this ment matters are initiated and prepared by the regional manageevent, the Company reviewed its ethical guidelines and procedures ment and are then reviewed by Executive Management. The Board for handling invoicing and monitoring of construction projects. decides on major investments. Beginning in 2017 Akademiska Hus has a new organisational structure, see page 19. REMUNER ATION • The AGM resolved on principles for remuneration and other terms Common support functions and conditions of employment for executives. The principles are in A number of support functions with a variety of areas of expertise line with the States’s “Guidelines for terms and conditions of provide support to management and the business in it day-to-day employment for senior executives in state-owned companies”. work. Business & Finance, HR, purchasing, legal affairs and commu• A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according to a nication report directly to the President and specialist functions decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. The members of for property management, sustainability and IT report directly to the Board of Directors who are employed within Akademiska Hus the Vice President. and the Government Offices do not receive any fee for this work. See the table on page 69 for information about remuneration. Ethical Council and whistle-blowers • Payment to the President and other senior executives comprises a Akademiska Hus has a Code of Conduct that provides guidance on basic salary and a pension. Payment to the President is decided by how employees should act to live up to the Company’s positions the Board of Directors following a recommendation from the and values and provides guidance in potentially difficult situations. Remuneration Committee. Remuneration to other senior execuA basic requirement is to act in compliance with the principles of tives is decided by the President following consultation with the the UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic salary and Human Rights, the ILO Core Conventions and the OECD and a defined contribution pension based on the ITP premiums Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The Company has an according to a collective agreement. No variable or bonus-based Ethical Council that provides support to employees to which susremuneration is paid. Salary surveys are conducted to make a compected deviations from ethical guidelines or other irregularities parison with other property companies. No changes will be made can be reported. Akademiska Hus has also set up an independent regarding the principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors system for whistle-blowing, to which both Akademiska Hus and senior executives for 2017. employees and external parties can anonymously report suspected irregularities. For a detailed description of remuneration, pensions, periods of In September Akademiska Hus filed a police complaint against notice, severance pay and fees to auditors, see the administration an employee in a senior position and a supplier who worked for the report on page 52 and Notes 10 and 11. Internal control of financial reporting The responsibility of the Board of Directors for internal control is CONTROL ENVIRONMENT governed by the Swedish Companies Act and the Code. This report The basis for internal control comprises the control environment has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act with the organisation, decision procedures and responsibility. and the Code and is thus limited to internal control of financial Each year the Board of Directors adopts a number of policy docureporting. The purpose of internal control of financial reporting is ments such as the Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of exterinstructions to the President, allocation of responsibility and nal financial reporting in the form of interim reports and annual authority, attestation and authorisation guidelines, instructions reports, and that they are prepared in compliance with relevant for financial reporting and financing policy describing the division laws, regulations, accounting standards and the specific guidelines of responsibilities and delegation of authority. The control envifor external reporting that apply to state-owned companies. ronment also encompasses the culture and the values based on The description below is based on the five components that the which the Board of Directors and management communicate and Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commisact, which is communicated in part via the Code of Conduct that is sion (COSO) defined in its framework for internal management and adopted by the Board Of Directors each year. control. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance Report 51 The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for internal conThe Audit Committee receives regular updates from both the trol of financial reporting. The Board of Directors has established internal auditor and external auditors and is thereby kept up to an Audit Committee which has tasks that include preparing the date on current findings in internal management and control. The Board’s work with quality assurance of the Company’s financial Audit Committee and the Board receive financial information reporting. The responsibility of the Board of Directors and the from Executive Management at each balance sheet date. internal allocation of work within the Board and its committees External reporting complies with the State’s ownership policy are clarified in the Rules of Procedure. guidelines. Akademiska Hus’ accounting and financial reporting is handled by a central unit. The CFO is responsible for ensuring that internal FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION accounting policies and guidelines for financial reporting are in Internal management and control of financial reporting are moniplace and in compliance with current legal requirements, listing tored and evaluated continuously by the Board of Directors, Presirequirements and accounting standards. dent, Executive Management and the accounting and finance department to ensure that procedures are appropriate and efficient. RISK ASSESSMENT Opportunities for improvement are identified through controls Risk assessments regarding financial reporting, which aim to and analyses. Any shortcomings in the system are reported to the identify and evaluate the business areas and processes where the relevant person to ensure that improvements can be made. On each greatest risk of errors that could have a material impact on finanbalance sheet date, the President, Vice President and CFO review cial reporting can be found, are carried out on several levels in the the financials with the individual responsible for each region and Company. Executive Management identifies and evaluates ongoing support function to monitor and discuss performance, financial risk areas in order to ensure that reliable controls aimed at avoiding position and other relevant issues. errors in financial reporting are in place in the relevant processes. Each quarter the Board receives financial information and an Risk analysis and risks relating to financial reporting are regularly analysis, as well as a report from the most recent meetings of the discussed with the external auditors, who also present their annual different committees. The Audit Committee has a specific responrisk assessment to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. sibility to follow up audit matters and more extensive matters of principle with regard to financial reporting, including property CONTROL ACTIVITIES valuation. Control activities that are designed to prevent, detect and correct The internal audit unit is instructed by the Board of Directors errors and deviations are incorporated in the financial reporting to independently review and evaluate the Company’s internal process used by Akademiska Hus. These controls have been management and control procedures, including internal control designed to deal with the risk of significant errors that may arise over financial reporting. in financial reporting, and comprise both general and detailed Akademiska Hus continuously reviews and updates internal checks. Control activities take place at several different levels in management and control procedures within the Company, for the Company and include approval of transactions, account reconexample, to take into account and implement measures regarding ciliations and analytical follow-up. recommendations from both the internal audit and the company’s All IT systems that are used for financial reporting include external auditors. built-in automatic controls to ensure reliable financial reporting. Control measures also take place in the general IT environment, in the form of well-developed regulations that govern system permissions, system updates and backup procedures. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Governing documents such as policies and accounting guidelines are available for all employees on the Company’s intranet. Special guidelines and instructions relating to final account events are distributed by the head of accounting to all concerned employees through a shared files area. Internal information channels in general include regular meetings of Executive Management, regional information meetings for all staff and meetings in various forums for concerned specialist functions. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 52 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Other information REMUNER ATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES Other senior executives within the Group have an agreed period Principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and of notice of between six and twelve months depending on when the senior executives agreements were signed. Agreements entered into after 2009 follow Akademiska Hus follows the owner’s guidelines governing terms government guidelines with a period of notice of six months and in and conditions of employment for senior executives. Payment to the event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is the President and other senior executives comprises a basic salary payable for a maximum of eighteen months. Agreements entered and a pension. Pension expenses refer to the cost charged to the into before 2009 stipulate a period of notice of twelve months and profit for the year. Payment to the President is decided by the Board severance pay for twelve months. All agreements, however, fall of Directors following a recommendation from the Remuneration within the framework of twenty-four months, including the period Committee. Remuneration to other senior executives is decided by of notice. Salary payable or remuneration for work performed during the President of the Parent Company following consultation with the time severance pay is received shall be set off on a krona-bythe Remuneration Committee. Remuneration comprises a basic krona basis. salary and a defined contribution pension based on the ITP premiOther information about salaries and remuneration can be seen ums according to a collective agreement. No changes are proposed in Note 10 on pages 69 and 70. regarding the principles for remuneration to the Board of Directors and senior executives for 2017. PERMITS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS A fee is paid to the members of the Board of Directors according A number of facilities within the Group require a permit or need to a decision reached at the Annual General Meeting. Board memto be reported to a supervisory authority in order to be used. These bers who are employed in the Akademiska Hus Group, or who work facilities have been reported and applications for permits (as at the Government Offices, do not receive any fee for this work. required) were submitted to the supervisory authorities concerned Remuneration for committee work was set at the 2016 Annual and have been granted. The facilities in question are as follows: General Meeting. One facility for combustion technology research that requires a permit, and a number of facilities classified as subject to declaration Pensions with respect to energy production and sewer system. Akademiska Hus has taken out an individual occupational pension solution for the President, Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, where the EVENTS AFTER THE YEAR-END agreed retirement age is 65 years. Akademiska Hus allocates 30 per Akademiska Hus has a new organisational structure as of 1 January cent of Kerstin Lindberg Göransson’s fixed monthly salary, which 2017. We are replacing the regional divisions with our core processes. is paid into an occupational pension insurance plan according to a On 17 January 2017 an Extraordinary General Meeting was held special agreement drawn up with a pension company. during which Christer Nerlich was elected to serve on the Board of The pension package includes a sickness and early retirement Directors. Otherwise no events of a material nature occurred after pension, a retirement pension and optional survivor’s pension and/ the end of the reporting period. or repayment cover. Other senior executives have similar defined contribution FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS agreements with a maximum allocation of 30 per cent of their Akademiska Hus has a project portfolio with approved and salary, or what is termed a high-income earner solution with an planned investments of SEK 16.7 billion. The property portfolio is opt-out premium that is cost­neutral compared with traditional, expected to increase in value by approximately SEK 10 billion over collectively agreed ITP. the next three years. As new properties are completed, streamlining initiatives make progress and economies of scale are leveraged, net Periods of notice and severance pay operating income will increase. The good cash flow limits the need An agreement has been reached with the President, Kerstin Lindberg for new financing to approximately SEK 4.5 billion for the upcoming Göransson, regarding a mutual period of notice of six months. In the three-year period. In the current situation with continued low event of notice being given by the Company, severance pay is payable interest rates the interest coverage ratio will also continue to be for a further eighteen months. The severance pay shall be considered very good. to include payment for holidays and pension benefits. The severance pay is reduced by any amount Kerstin Lindberg Göransson may receive from other employment or through other activities. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 ADMINISTRATION REPORT 53 Proposed allocation of unappropriated earnings According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PURSUANT which were adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2014, TO SECTION 18, SUB-SECTION 4 OF THE COMPANIES ACT the dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the Company’s liquidprofit after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and related ity can be maintained securely. On observance of the relationship deferred tax. When deciding on a dividend, consideration should be between the Company’s assets, liabilities and equity, and with due given to the Group’s capital structure and capital requirements consideration given to profit forecasts and investment requirements (equity ratio 30 to 40 per cent). The other economic objectives are as of this date, we believe that the proposed dividend is justifiable in that the return on operating capital should be at least 6.5 per cent the light of the demands that the nature, extent and risk of operaand the Group’s equity ratio should be 30 to 40 per cent. The avertions make on the level of equity. The proposed dividend is thus age yield on operating capital over five years was 7.1 per cent whilst acceptable in the light of the Company’s consolidation requirements, the target was 6.5 per cent. Return on operating capital in 2016 was liquidity and position in general. 6.2 per cent. At the end of 2016, the equity ratio was 41.4 per cent The dividend does not affect the Company’s capacity to discharge for the Group and 19.1 per cent for the Parent Company. After the its short-term and long-term obligations or to implement necessary proposed dividend, the equity ratio will be 40.4 per cent for the investments. It is also the opinion of the Board of Directors that the Group and 16.9 per cent for the Parent Company. Company’s financial position, in the light of the proposed dividend, is secure for the creditors. Nor can the Board of Directors identify Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: any other circumstances that indicate that the dividend ought not Retained earnings SEK 1,041,014,599 to be paid in accordance with the proposal presented by the Board Profit for the year SEK 1,314,644,758 of Directors. The proposed value transfer can thus be justified in Total SEK 2,355,659,357 the light of what is stated in Section 17, sub-section 3, paragraphs 2–3 of the Companies Act. The Board of Directors and the President propose that the profit be allocated in such a way that SEK 1,393,000,000 is paid to the shareholder and SEK 962,659,357 is carried forward. For details of the financial results and the financial position in general, reference can be made to the following financial statements. The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 April 2017 in Stockholm. PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M Outcome consolidated Changes in value Profit used for results in the Group calculation of dividend Income from property management 5,666 — 5,666 Property management expenses –1,999 — –1,999 Net operating income 3,667 — 3,667 Central administration costs –85 — –85 Changes in value, properties 3,682 –3,647 35 Profit before net financial income/expense 7,264 –3,647 3,617 Total, financial items –550 24 –526 Profit/loss before appropriations and taxes 6,714 –3,623 3,091 Tax/current tax –1,566 797 –769 Profit after tax 5,148 –2,826 2,322 Dividend, 60% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,393 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 28 April 2016 was SEK 1,290 million. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54 Income Statements Income Statements Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2016 20151 2016 20151 INCOME FROM PROPERTY MANAGEMENT 4 Rental revenue 6 5,482,031 5,450,189 5,482,030 5,450,189 Other property management income 7 184,000 195,591 220,133 299,467 Total property management income 5,666,031 5,645,780 5,702,163 5,749,656 PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EXPENSES Operating costs 9 –764,146 –770,685 –762,374 –768,620 Maintenance costs –686,339 –617,609 –686,339 –617,609 Property administration 9 –293,607 –316,446 –283,052 –297,594 Other property management expenses 8 –255,064 –200,936 –245,554 –203,933 Total property management expenses 5 –1,999,156 –1,905,676 –1,977,319 –1,887,756 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,666,875 3,740,104 3,724,844 3,861,900 Central administration costs 5 –85,264 –72,613 –85,264 –72,612 Depreciation and impairment as well as reversed impairment in property management 9 — — –1,040,307 –1,597,712 Changes in property values, positive 5,042,194 3,683,216 — — Changes in property values, negative –1,359,994 –1,027,851 — — Total changes in property values 16 3,682,200 2,655,365 — — PROFIT BEFORE FINANCIAL ITEMS 10, 11, 29 7,263,811 6,322,856 2,599,273 2,191,576 Financial income 78,679 360,299 78,679 360,299 Financial expense –628,088 –541,733 –703,471 –649,965 Total, financial items 12, 28, 29 –549,409 –181,434 –624,792 –289,666 PROFIT AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS 6,714,402 6,141,422 1,974,481 1,901,910 Appropriations 13 — — –174,672 –157,558 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6,714,402 6,141,422 1,799,809 1,744,352 Tax 14 –1,566,375 –1,361,314 –485,164 –393,928 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 15 5,148,027 4,780,108 1,314,645 1,350,424 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,148,027 4,780,108 PROFIT PER SHARE Profit per share, SEK 2,411 2,239 Profit per share after dilution, SEK 2,411 2,239 Number of shares, average and at the period-end 2,135,000 2,135,000 1) 2  015 figures have been adjusted to facilitate comparison. The reason is the change in accounting of tenant improvements. In addition, the distribution between property administration costs and central administration has changed. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income 55 Statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 5,148,027 4,780,108 1,314,645 1,350,424 ITEMS THAT HAVE BEEN RECLASSIFIED OR CAN BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 27 51,819 –21,217 51,819 –21,217 Tax attributable to cash flow hedges 14 –11,566 3,542 –11,566 3,542 Cash flow hedges, net after tax, dissolved against profit or loss 27 754 5,118 754 5,118 ITEMS THAT CANNOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT FOR THE YEAR Revaluation of defined benefit pensions 29 –23,867 22,025 — — Tax attributable to defined benefit pensions 14 5,251 –4,845 — — Total, other comprehensive income 22,391 4,623 41,007 –12,557 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 5,170,418 4,784,731 1,355,652 1,337,867 Of which attributable to the shareholder in the Parent Company 5,170,418 4,784,731 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 56 Balance Sheets Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Tangible non-current assets Properties 16, 17 73,012,860 66,574,882 41,590,753 39,899,507 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 18 11,104 14,189 11,104 14,189 Total tangible, non-current assets 73,023,964 66,589,071 41,601,857 39,913,696 Financial assets Shares in Group companies 19 — — 650 650 Derivatives 20, 33 2,172,381 1,657,964 2,172,381 1,657,964 Other non-current receivables 21 223,516 343,273 223,516 343,273 Total financial assets 25 2,395,897 2,001,237 2,396,547 2,001,887 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 75,419,861 68,590,308 43,998,404 41,915,583 CURRENT ASSETS Current receivables Rent receivables and accounts receivable 22 317,130 271,407 317,130 271,407 Current prepaid tax 14 15,267 32,655 15,267 32,655 Other receivables 23 1,015,831 896,413 1,015,830 896,412 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 24 77,624 86,688 77,624 86,688 Derivatives 20, 33 214,551 250,618 214,551 250,618 Total current receivables 25 1,640,403 1,537,781 1,640,402 1,537,780 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS/CASH AND BANK BALANCES Current investments 33 4,823,977 2,503,989 4,823,977 2,503,989 Cash and bank balances 545,640 1,800,596 545,492 1,800,447 Total cash and cash equivalents/cash and bank balances 26 5,369,617 4,304,585 5,369,469 4,304,436 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 7,010,020 5,842,366 7,009,871 5,842,216 TOTAL ASSETS 82,429,881 74,432,674 51,008,275 47,757,799 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheets 57 Balance Sheets Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY (ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE PARENT COMPANY’S SHAREHOLDER) RESTRICTED EQUITY Share capital 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 2,135,000 Other contributed equity 2,134,950 2,134,950 — — Statutory reserve — — 2,134,950 2,134,950 Hedge reserve 27 9,592 –31,415 — — Actuarial profit and loss 21,413 40,029 — — Fair value reserve 27 — — 9,592 –31,415 Retained earnings, including profit for the year 29,850,722 25,992,695 — Retained earnings (in the Parent Company) — — 1,031,422 970,998 Profit for the year (in the Parent Company) — — 1,314,645 1,350,424 TOTAL EQUITY 34,151,677 30,271,259 6,625,609 6,559,957 Untaxed reserves 13 — — 4,025,123 3,850,452 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Loans 28 22,805,209 18,621,944 22,805,209 18,621,944 Derivatives 20, 33 632,093 601,526 632,093 601,526 Deferred tax liability 14 9,981,816 8,761,330 2,218,713 2,074,187 Other liabilities 30 110,717 50,747 110,716 50,747 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 29 442,794 401,434 282,484 271,800 Total non-current liabilities 33,972,629 28,436,981 26,049,215 21,620,204 Current liabilities Accounts payable 213,144 301,808 213,144 301,808 Liabilities to Group companies — — 2,152 2,152 Other liabilities 30 2,061,217 3,570,029 2,061,818 3,570,629 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 31 2,021,527 1,858,660 2,021,527 1,858,660 Loans 28 9,951,354 9,776,909 9,951,354 9,776,909 Derivatives 20, 33 58,333 217,028 58,333 217,028 Total current liabilities 14,305,575 15,724,434 14,308,328 15,727,186 TOTAL LIABILITIES 32 48,278,204 44,161,415 40,357,543 37,347,390 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 82,429,881 74,432,674 51,008,275 47,757,799 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 58 Changes in equity, Group Changes in equity, Group Attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder Other Profit for the contributed Hedge Actuarial year brought Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital capital reserve profit and loss forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS AT JANUARY 1, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 22,849 29,157,587 33,431,528 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — — 4,780,108 4,780,108 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 27 — — –12,557 — — –12,557 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — 17,180 — 17,180 Total, other comprehensive income — — –12,557 17,180 4,780,108 4,784,731 Bonus issues, etc. Reduction of share capital1 –5,000,000 — — — 5,000,000 0 Bonus issue1 5,000,000 — — — –5,000,000 0 Total bonus issues 0 — — — 0 0 Transactions with shareholder Dividend2 — — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 Total transactions with shareholder — — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –31,415 40,029 25,992,695 30,271,259 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — — 5,148,027 5,148,027 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 27 — — 41,007 — — 41,007 Revaluation of defined benefit pensions — — — –18,616 — –18,616 Total, other comprehensive income — — 41,007 –18,616 5,148,027 5,170,418 Transactions with shareholder Dividends3 — — — — –1,290,000 –1,290,000 Total transactions with shareholder — — — — –1,290,000 –1,290,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 2,135,000 2,134,950 9,592 21,413 29,850,722 34,151,677 1) O  n 28 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 5,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 2) D  ividend of SEK 1,445,000,000 authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2015 and additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 authorised by the Extraordinary General Meeting 19 October 2015. 3) Dividend of SEK 1,290,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in equity, Parent Company 59 Changes in equity, Parent Company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Profit for the Statutory Fair value year brought Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note Share capital reserve reserve forward Total equity OPENING BALANCE AS AT JANUARY 1, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –18,858 3,915,998 8,167,090 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,350,424 1,350,424 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 27 — — –12,557 — –12,557 Total, other comprehensive income — — –12,557 1,350,424 1,337,867 Bonus issues, etc. Reduction of share capital1 –5,000,000 — — 5,000,000 0 Bonus issue1 5,000,000 — — — 5,000,000 Total bonus issues 0 — — 5,000,000 5,000,000 Transactions with shareholder Dividend2 — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 Total transactions with shareholder — — — –7,945,000 –7,945,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2015 2,135,000 2,134,950 –31,415 2,321,422 6,559,957 Comprehensive income Profit for the year — — — 1,314,645 1,314,645 Other comprehensive income Profit/loss from cash flow hedges 27 — — 41,007 — 41,007 Total, other comprehensive income — — 41,007 1,314,645 1,355,652 Transactions with shareholder Dividends3 — — — –1,290,000 –1,290,000 Total transactions with shareholder — — — –1,290,000 –1,290,000 CLOSING BALANCE AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 2,135,000 2,134,950 9,592 2,346,067 6,625,609 1) O  n 28 April 2015 the Annual General Meeting reached a decision to reduce the Parent Company’s share capital by a total of SEK 5,000,000,000 for allocation to non-restricted equity. Furthermore, the Annual General Meeting approved a bonus issue of SEK 5,000,000,000 by raising the value of properties. 2) D  ividend of SEK 1,445,000,000 authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2015 and additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 authorised by the Extraordinary General Meeting 19 October 2015. 3) D ividend of SEK 1,290,000,000 was authorised by the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 Statements of Cash Flows Statements of Cash Flows Group Parent Company Amounts in SEK 1,000 Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 CURRENT OPERATIONS Profit after financial items 38 6,714,402 6,141,422 1,974,481 1,901,910 Adjustment for items not included in the cash flow 39 –4,106,076 –2,593,655 655,639 1,645,793 Tax paid –334,816 –295,669 –334,816 –295,607 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS BEFORE CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL 2,273,510 3,252,098 2,295,304 3,252,096 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in current receivables –156,078 –373,324 –156,078 –373,324 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in current liabilities 603,069 –394,467 581,275 –394,403 CASH FLOW FROM CURRENT OPERATIONS 2,720,501 2,484,307 2,720,501 2,484,369 INVESTING ACTIVITIES 40 Investment in properties –2,761,150 –2,498,769 –2,761,150 –2,498,769 Sale of properties 103,072 124,134 103,072 124,134 Investment in other non-current assets –2,457 –6,867 –2,457 –6,867 Sale of other non-current assets — 209 — 209 Decrease in non-current receivables 112,275 177,630 112,275 177,630 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES –2,548,260 –2,203,663 –2,548,260 –2,203,663 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Raising of interest-bearing loans, excluding refinancing 4,182,791 5,410,848 4,182,791 5,410,848 Dividend paid –3,290,000 –5,945,000 –3,290,000 –5,945,000 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 892,791 –534,152 892,791 –534,152 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 1,065,032 –253,508 1,065,032 –253,446 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 4,304,585 4,558,093 4,304,436 4,557,882 Closing cash and cash equivalents 26 5,369,617 4,304,585 5,369,468 4,304,436 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 61 Notes 1 2 3 Amounts are in SEK 1,000 unless stated otherwise. 4 5 6 7 Note 1 General information 61 1 General information 8 Note 2 General accounting principles 61 Akademiska Hus AB (publ), registration number 556459-9156, is a lim9 Note 3 Estimates and assessments 65 ited liability company registered in Sweden. The Company’s registered Note 4 Segment reporting 66 10 office is in Gothenburg. Akademiska Hus is wholly owned by the Swedish Note 5 Categorised operating costs 67 state. 11 Note 6 Rental revenue 68 The Company is the Parent Company in the Akademiska Hus Group, 12 the principal task of which is to own and manage university and college Note 7 Other property management income 68 13 properties. Note 8 Other property management expenses 68 The Parent Company’s functional currency is SEK. All amounts are 14 Note 9 Depreciation, impairments and reversed 68 in SEK 1,000 unless stated otherwise. 15 impairments in property management 16 Note 10 Employees and personnel costs 69 Note 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors 70 2 General accounting principles 17 out of pocket expenses The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the 18 Note 12 Financial income and expense 71 EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as at 19 Note 13 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 71 31 December 2016. The Group also applies Swedish Financial Reporting Board recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Rules for Consolidated 20 (Parent Company) Financial Statements, which specifies the supplements to IFRS disclo21 Note 14 Tax 72 sures required pursuant to the rules in the Annual Accounts Act. Note 15 Dividend 73 22 In the Annual Report, items have been valued at cost, except with Note 16 Properties (Group) 74 regard to revaluation of properties, financial assets that can be sold and 23 Note 17 Properties (Parent Company) 76 financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives) valued at fair value 24 in the Statement of Financial Position. The following is a description of Note 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 76 the more material accounting principles that have been applied. 25 Note 19 Shares in Group companies 76 26 Note 20 Derivatives (Group) 77 NEW AND AMENDED IFRS STANDARDS AND 27 Note 21 Other non-current receivables 78 INTERPRETATIONS 2016 No new or amended IFRSs that have a material impact on Akademiska 28 Note 22 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 78 Hus’ reporting have entered into force in 2016. 29 Note 23 Other receivables 79 Note 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 79 NEW AND AMENDED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 30 THAT HAVE NOT YET COME INTO EFFECT 31 Note 25 Maturity structure, receivables 79 The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued the Note 26 Cash and cash equivalents/ 79 following new and amended standards, which had not yet come into 32 Cash and bank balances effect at the time of publication of this Annual Report: 33 Note 27 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 79 Will be applied for the financial 34 Note 28 Loans 79 Standard year commencing: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments January 1, 2018 or later 35 Note 29 Provisions for pensions 81 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts 36 Note 30 Other liabilities 83 with Customers January 1, 2018 Note 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 83 37 IFRS 16 Leases1 January 1, 2019 or later Note 32 Maturity structure, liabilities 83 38 1) Not yet approved for application in the EU, but adopted by IASB in 2016. Note 33 Financial instruments valued at fair value 83 39 Note 34 Financial risk management (Group) 84 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was adopted by the EU in autumn 2016 40 Note 35 Asset management (Group) 86 with effective date 1 January 2018. The recommendation provides for a 41 new classification of financial assets and liabilities and a new model of Note 36 Pledged assets 86 credit provisions that take into account the Group’s expected credit losses. 42 Note 37 Contingent liabilities 87 In practice, these will not have any major impact on Akademiska Hus, but 43 Note 38 Interest received and paid 87 they may need to be documented. The largest change in the regulatory framework for Akademiska Hus relates to hedge accounting. Here, too, Note 39 Adjustments for items not included 87 Akademiska Hus is mainly affected regarding documentation and a review in the cash flow will be carried out well in advance of the transition to the new rules. Note 40 Purchase sum in conjunction with 87 IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition was also adopted during the autumn investments, acquisitions and disposals of 2016, effective 1 January 2018. Clarifications to the recommendation Note 41 Change in interest-bearing net loan liabilities 87 were also formulated in 2016 and are expected to be adopted by the EU Note 42 Transactions with related parties 87 during the first half of 2017. Akademiska Hus’ income consists primarily of rental revenue. Regarding the clarifications issued in 2016 and not yet Note 43 Events after the year-end 87 adopted by the EU, they include identifying performance obligations of principals in relation to agents. The distinction between principal and AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 62 Notes 1 agent can affect recognition of revenue in respect of invoicing to the tributions to a separate, independent legal entity and has no obligation tenant, which in turn determines whether Akademiska Hus acts as printo make further contributions. The Group’s profit is charged with costs 2 cipal or agent in such situations. In 2017, an analysis of current leases as the benefits are earned, which normally concurs with the point at 3 will be carried out to clarify the principal and agent relationship and to which premiums are paid. investigate the possible distinction between rental and service revenue. 4 Defined benefit plans 5 CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS For defined benefit pension plans, the cost of the pension plan is based The consolidated accounts cover the Parent Company and companies on actuarial calculations according to what is termed the Projected 6 over which the Parent Company has a controlling influence. A controlling Unit Credit Method. A calculation is made each year by an independent 7 influence means a right to formulate strategies for financial activities actuary. Revaluations, including actuarial gains and losses, effects of 8 with the aim of securing financial advantages. The existence and effect changes in the asset ceiling and the yield on plan assets (excluding the of potential voting rights that can currently be exercised or converted interest component, which is reported in the Statement of Compre­ 9 are taken into account when assessing whether the Group can exercise a hensive Income) are reported directly in the Statement of Financial 10 controlling influence over another company. All subsidiaries are wholly Position as income or a cost equivalent to the change in the Statement owned. The subsidiaries are included in the consolidated accounts with of Total Comprehensive Income during the period in which they arise. 11 effect from the point at which the controlling influence is achieved and Revaluations, which are reported under Other comprehensive income, 12 they are not included at the point at which the controlling influence ceases. affect the retained earnings and will not be reversed to profit or loss. 13 The consolidated year-end accounts have been prepared according Service costs from previous periods are reported in the Statement of to the acquisition method, which means that the Parent Company’s Comprehensive Income for the period in which the plan was changed. 14 carrying amount of shares in subsidiaries is eliminated against equity, Net interest is calculated on application of the discount rate at the 15 including the capital share of untaxed reserves in the subsidiaries. beginning of the period on the net defined benefit liability or asset. The discount rate is the interest rate at the year-end on high-quality 16 SEGMENT REPORTING mortgage bonds with a maturity corresponding to the Group’s pension 17 Operating segments are reported in a way that concurs with the interobligations. When there is not a functioning market for such mortgage nal report presented to the highest-ranking executive decision-maker. bonds, the market for government bonds with similar maturity is used 18 The highest-ranking executive decision-maker is the function that is instead. 19 responsible for allocating resources and assessing the results of operatThe defined benefit costs are divided into the following categories: 20 ing segments. At Akademiska Hus, this function has been identified as • Service costs (including service costs for the current period, service the President of the Parent Company. costs for previous periods and profits and losses in respect of reduc21 The Group is organised and controlled based on a geographical tions and/or adjustments) 22 division into markets/administration areas. The geographical areas • Net interest cost or net interest expense (segments) are exposed to similar risks and opportunities, which differ • Actuarial profit and loss 23 compared to other geographical areas (segments). Geographical areas 24 concur with each region and thus constitute the segments for which The first two categories are reported in the Statement of Comprehenreports are presented. sive Income as a personnel cost (service cost) or net interest income and 25 Segments are consolidated according to the same accounting princiexpense (net interest expense). Profits and losses in respect of reductions 26 ples as for the Group as a whole. and adjustments are reported as service costs from previous periods. 27 Revaluations are reported under Other comprehensive income. REVENUE RECOGNITION The defined benefit pension obligations reported in the Statement of 28 In its capacity as property owner, the Group has signed operational lease Financial Position are equivalent to the current surplus or deficit related 29 agreements with customers and consequently the Group’s reported to the Group’s defined benefit obligations. A surplus is only reported to income mainly comprises rental revenue. Where applicable, reported the extent that it is equivalent to the current value of future repayments 30 rental revenue has been reduced by the sum of the discounts granted to from each pension plan or future reductions in premium payments into 31 tenants. In those cases where lease agreements result in reduced rent the plan. 32 during a certain period, which is equivalent to a higher rent during another (later) period, this higher or lower rent is allocated to a specific TAX 33 period over the term of the lease. Rental revenue, lease revenue and The tax expense (– income) for the period comprises current and 34 parking revenue are reported in advance and the allocation of rents to deferred tax. Taxes are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive specific periods therefore takes place so that only part of the rents that Income with the exception of the underlying transaction, which is 35 accrue to the period are reported as revenue. Revenue recognition norreported under Other comprehensive income or directly against equity, 36 mally takes place linearly over the term of the lease agreement apart whereupon the associated tax effect is reported under Other comprefrom exceptional cases when another method better reflects how finanhensive income or against equity. 37 cial advantages accrue to the Group. Current tax is the tax computed on the taxable profit for a period. 38 Other property management income is reported, where applicable, The taxable profit for the year differs from the reported profit for the 39 in the same way as rental revenue. This post largely comprises revenues year in the fact that an adjustment has been made for non-taxable and as a direct result of the leases and mainly consists of revenues from non-deductible items. The Group’s current tax liability is computed 40 parking, services for tenants and other management tasks. according to the tax rates stipulated or notified as of the year-end. 41 Interest income is reported as income divided across the term on Deferred tax is reported in accordance with the Statement of Finanapplication of the annual equivalent rate method. cial Position method. According to this method, deferred tax liabilities 42 Dividend income is reported when the right to receive payment has are reported in the Statement of Financial Position for all taxable tem43 been confirmed. porary differences between the carrying amounts and taxable values of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are reported in the Statement REMUNER ATION TO EMPLOYEES of Financial Position with regard to deficit deductions and all deductible Remuneration to employees in the form of salary, paid holiday, payment temporary differences to the extent it is likely that the amounts can be while off sick etc., as well as pensions, are reported as they are earned. offset against future taxable surpluses. The reported value of deferred As regards pensions and other remuneration following termination of tax assets is examined at each year-end and reduced to the extent it is employment, these are classified as defined contribution pension plans no longer probable that a sufficient taxable surplus will be available for or defined benefit pension plans. utilisation. Deferred tax is computed using the tax rates that are expected to Defined contribution plans apply for the period in which the asset is recovered or the liability settled. In the case of defined contribution plans, the Company pays fixed conTax receivables and tax liabilities are offset and reported at a net AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 63 amount in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right EQUIPMENT, FIXTURES AND FITTINGS 1 to offset and when there is an intention to either receive or pay a net Equipment, fixtures and fittings mainly comprise IT equipment and amount or receive payment of a receivable and pay the liability at the office equipment. These are reported at the acquisition value reduced 2 same time. by depreciation according to plan and possible impairment 3 Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition 4 TR ANSLATION OF ITEMS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY value reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear Financial assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated at the basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. 5 year-end rate, whereupon realised and unrealised translation differDepreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the 6 ences are capitalised. Translation differences in operating receivables following percentages of the acquisition value: and liabilities are reported under Other property management income 7 or Other property management expense whilst translation differences Computer equipment 33 % 8 attributable to financial assets and liabilities are reported under Net Equipment, fixtures and fittings 20 % interest income and expense. 9 10 PROPERTIES Depreciation according to plan of equipment, fixtures and fittings is Properties, i.e. properties that are held to generate rental revenue or reported as an operating cost or under property administration. 11 gains from an increase in value, are valued continuously at fair value The profit or loss that arises on scrapping or disposal of equipment, 12 (assessed market value). The fair value is based on the assessed market fixtures and fittings is reported as Other property management income or Other property management expense. 13 value at the year-end, which means the value at which a property could be transferred between knowledgeable parties who are independent of 14 each other and who have an interest in the transaction being implemented. IMPAIRMENT 15 Changes in fair value are reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Impairment takes place in those cases where the reported value of the Income under the heading Changes in value of the properties. asset exceeds the recovery value. Reported values for the Company’s 16 The term ‘properties’ includes buildings and land, land systems, assets are checked at each period-end to determine if there is any indi17 building and land equipment as well as properties under construction cation of an impairment requirement. If there is such an indication, the recoverable value of the asset is calculated. The recoverable value is the 18 (new construction in progress). Property sales and property purchases are reported in conjunction higher of the value in use and the net realisable value. 19 with the risks and benefits linked to title being transferred to the purWhen computing the value in use, future cash flows are discounted at 20 chaser or seller, which normally takes place on the completion date, as a rate of interest before tax that it is envisaged will take into account the long as this does not conflict with the terms and conditions in the conmarket’s assessment of risk-free interest and risk linked to the specific 21 tract of sale. For property sales through companies, the sale is reported asset. For an asset which does not, independent of other assets, generate 22 at the date of taking possession. any cash flow, the recoverable value of the cash-generating unit to which A profit or loss that arises on the sale or disposal of properties comthe asset belongs is calculated. 23 prises the difference between the sales price and the most recent valuaReversal of previous impairments takes place when the recoverable 24 tion (reported value based on the most recent revaluation at fair value). value for a previously impaired asset exceeds the carrying amount and the need for impairment made previously is no longer considered neces25 The result in conjunction with sale or disposal is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading Changes sary. The reversal is reported in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 26 in the value of properties. In the Parent Company the result is reported An examination of past impairments takes place on an individual basis. 27 as other property management income/expense. In those cases where Akademiska Hus uses part of a building for its FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 28 own administration, the property is only classified as a property for The general principles for the valuation of financial instruments are 29 investment if an insignificant part is used for administrative purposes. that financial investment assets and all derivatives should be valued at If a property is reclassified as a property held for resale or an invenfair value whilst other financial assets and financial liabilities are valued 30 tory item, the property is reported at the assumed acquisition value, at the accrued acquisition value. 31 equivalent to the fair value of the property at the time of reclassification. Financial instruments are reported initially at the acquisition value, corresponding to the fair value of the instrument with an addition 32 FAIR VALUE, PROPERTIES for transaction costs for all financial instruments apart from those that 33 The Group’s properties are measured at fair value (assessed market belong to the category Financial Assets, which are valued at fair value 34 value). An internal valuation model is used for this purpose that is through profit or loss. Reporting subsequently takes place depending quality-assured in part by checking conditions with external property on how they are classified, as stated below. 35 valuers and in part through externally performed valuations. The A financial asset or financial liability is recorded in the Statement of 36 valuation is based on each property’s expected cash flow during the Financial Position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual terms and conditions of the instrument or when applicable according 37 coming ten years and an estimated residual value for year eleven. The yield target has been differentiated for different types of property and to ‘regular way purchase’ principles. Accounts receivable are recorded 38 the rental period as well as the town and location assessment. The in the Statement of Financial Position when an invoice has been sent. 39 rental revenue included in the valuation has been assessed on market A liability is recorded when the counter-party has performed and there terms and in the model, normalised operating costs have been used. is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been 40 Maintenance costs have been calculated on a standardised basis received. Accounts payable are recorded when an invoice has been 41 according to the use of the property. received. A financial asset is removed from the Statement of Financial Position 42 CARRYING AMOUNT INVESTMENT PROPERTIES when the rights in the agreement are realised, fall due or the Company 43 Depreciation according to plan is based on the original acquisition loses control over them. The same applies to part of the financial asset. value reduced by the estimated residual value and takes place on a linear A financial liability is removed from the Statement of Financial Position basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or is extinguished Depreciation according to plan is normally carried out using the in some other way. The same applies to part of a financial liability. following percentages of the acquisition value: The Group categorises its financial instruments as: Land systems 5% •A ssets valued at fair value in profit or loss Assets in this category are reported initially at the acquisition value, Buildings 1.7 % i.e. fair value at the time of acquisition, and are subsequently valued Building equipment 10 % continuously at fair value. The change in value is reported continuLand equipment 20 % ously through profit or loss. All Akademiska Hus investment assets AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Notes 1 and outstanding derivatives (with a positive fair value) fall into this Loan financing category. All loan financing is reported initially at fair value, net after transaction 2 •L oan receivables and accounts receivable costs. Borrowing is subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition 3 Assets in this category are non-derivative financial assets with estabvalue and any difference between the amount received and the repayment lished or establishable payment flows that are not listed on an active amount is reported in net interest income and expense divided over the 4 market. These assets are reported and valued on a continuous basis at loan period on application of the annual equivalent rate method. 5 the accrued acquisition value. Akademiska Hus’ accounts receivable Borrowing that constitutes a hedged item in conjunction with fair also fall into this category and are reported and valued continuously value hedging is reported and valued on an ongoing basis after the 6 at the acquisition value. At each period-end, an impairment examinaacquisition point at fair value with account taken of the hedged risk. 7 tion is made of this asset. Non-current security holdings fall into this Changes in value are reported in net interest income and expense. 8 category and are valued at the accrued acquisition value unless an Loan financing in foreign currency is translated and the effects are impairment requirement has been identified. reported through profit or loss. 9 •L iabilities valued at fair value through profit or loss The Group applies IAS 23 Borrowing Costs. IAS 23 means that the 10 These liabilities are reported initially at the acquisition value and Group capitalises interest expense attributable to properties under thereafter on an ongoing basis at fair value. The change in value is construction that take a significant period of time to complete. Capital11 reported on a continuous basis through profit or loss. Akademiska ised interest expense has a positive effect on net interest income and 12 Hus’ outstanding derivatives with a negative fair value fall into this expense and a negative effect on the change in fair value of properties to 13 category. the equivalent amount. Financing costs for properties under construc•O ther financial liabilities tion that do not take a significant period of time to complete are charged 14 Liabilities in this category are reported and valued at the accrued in full to the financial result for each year. 15 acquisition value according to the annual equivalent rate method. Direct costs when loans are raised are included in the acquisition Accounts payable and other liabilities 16 value. All debt financing is included in this category. Akademiska Accounts payable and other liabilities have a short expected term and 17 Hus’ accounts payable and other liabilities are classified under this are valued at the nominal value without discounting. category but are reported at the acquisition value. 18 Financial derivatives 19 Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Derivatives are held primarily with the aim of securing long-term, 20 Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported at a net amount cost-effective debt financing and handling the Group’s financial risk in the Statement of Financial Position when there is a legal right to offset exposure by hedging interest and currency exposure against fluctua21 and when there is an intention to settle the items at a net amount or at tions in interest rates and exchange rates. 22 the same time realise the asset and settle the debt. Information relating Derivatives are valued at fair value and changes in value are reported to offset financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 7 can be seen in the on an ongoing basis against net financial income and expense with the 23 notes to the balance sheet. exception of the outstanding derivatives, which comprise hedging 24 instruments. In a hedging situation where the underlying Statement 25 Calculation of fair value, financial instruments of Financial Position item is business-related, the changes in value of When establishing the fair value of current investments, derivatives the derivative are reported against operating profit. Changes in value 26 and loan liabilities, the official market listing at the period-end is used attributable to the derivatives that comprise hedging instruments in a 27 and calculation takes place according to generally accepted methods. cash flow hedge are reported under Other comprehensive income, are In those cases where such listings are not available, a valuation is made accumulated in equity and are reported against financial or operating 28 through discounting of future cash flows at the listed market interest profit at the time the underlying exposure affects the profit. 29 rate for each term. Translation into Swedish kronor takes place at the Interest derivatives (interest future contracts, interest swap agreelisted rate at the period-end. Calculated and estimated fair values are ments, FRA contracts and interest options) are held mainly to secure 30 indicative and will not necessarily be realised. the desired fixed interest period in existing debt financing. Interest 31 The nominal value of accounts receivable and accounts payable, derivatives are valued on an ongoing basis at fair value and the effects 32 reduced by possible estimated credits, is assumed to be equivalent to attributable to the changes in value are reported against net interest their fair value. Information according to IFRS 13 about the level in the income and expense in conjunction with hedging of fair value and against 33 fair value hierarchy for different items can be found in Note 33. Other comprehensive income in conjunction with cash flow hedging. 34 The net of the accrued interest income and interest expense is allocated Rent receivables, accounts receivable and other receivables to specific periods and expensed over the term of the derivative. 35 Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported initially at the fair In conjunction with financing in a foreign currency, all future pay36 value and are then reported at the invoiced amount following a deducment flows are hedged so that no currency risk remains. Currency risk tion for any impairment (bad debts), which is equivalent to the accrued hedging takes place with the aid of currency derivatives (currency 37 acquisition value. The estimated term of rent receivables and accounts future contracts, currency swap agreements or combined with an 38 receivable is short and consequently the value is reported at the nominal interest swap agreement). Currency derivatives are translated at the 39 amount without discounting. Doubtful receivables are assessed indiperiod-end exchange rate and when hedge reporting is applied, the vidually and any impairment is reported within operating costs. effects of the currency translation of the derivative naturally meet the 40 effects of the currency translation of the debt in the financial result. 41 Cash and cash equivalents Independent derivatives, i.e. derivatives that are not included in any Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and curhedging relationship, are valued at fair value and the change in value is 42 rent investments with a term shorter than three months. These assets recorded directly against the net interest income and expense. 43 are regarded as being sellable immediately with a negligible risk of With the aim of evening out price variations on the electricity market, changes in value, which means that the reported value (acquisition and in doing so achieve an even trend for the Group’s electricity costs, value plus accrued coupon) is equivalent to the fair value. future electricity use is hedged with the aid of electricity futures. Electricity futures are valued continuously at fair value and when hedge reporting Current investments according to the cash flow method is applied, the changes in value are Current investments with a term in excess of three months comprise reported directly against Other comprehensive income. The effects of price interest-bearing securities and are reported and valued at fair value. hedging, the difference between the electricity future’s hedged price and Changes in value (unrealised profits and losses) are reported on a conthe average spot price during the term of the electricity future, are offset tinuous basis through net interest income and expense. against profit and are transferred on maturity from equity and reported as In the Statement of Cash Flows, current investments with a term in an operating cost. Consequently, the result of the electricity future and the excess of three months are not classified as cash and cash equivalents. Group’s physical electricity purchases constitute the actual electricity cost. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 65 Hedge accounting RFR 2 means that in the annual accounts for the legal entity, the Parent 1 Akademiska Hus’ hedge accounting takes place through a division into Company shall apply all EU-endorsed IFRSs and statements as far as two different methods of hedging depending on the aim of the hedging: this is possible within the framework of the Annual Accounts Act and 2 fair value hedging and cash flow hedging. the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and with consideration given to the 3 In the case of fair value hedging, both the hedged item/exposure and link between accounting and taxation. The recommendation states the 4 the hedging instrument are valued at fair value. The changes in value exceptions and addenda that are to be made to IFRS. The differences are reported continuously in profit or loss. between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles 5 With cash flow hedging, the hedging instrument is valued at the fair are stated below. 6 value at the same time that the hedged item in conjunction with borrowing is valued according to the current valuation method (categorisation). Amended accounting principles 7 According to the demands for cash flow hedging, a change in value attribNo amendments to RFR 2 with a material impact on the Parent Compa8 utable to a derivative that qualifies for hedge accounting is reported on ny’s financial statements were made during 2016. an ongoing basis in Other comprehensive income and is accumulated in 9 equity until the underlying transaction/exposure affects the Statement Properties 10 of Comprehensive Income. Properties are reported in a legal entity at the acquisition value with 11 One of the criteria for hedge accounting to be applied is that the a deduction for accumulated depreciation, impairments and reversed hedging relationship is expected to be effective both at the time of impairments. The depreciation period is based on each property’s use12 entering into the relationship as well as during the hedging period. The ful life. 13 ineffective part of the hedging, i.e. the difference between the changes in During the year 0 (34) properties were revised upwards. Depreciavalue in the exposure (interest, electricity price or exchange rate risk) tion on the upwards revaluation occurs linearly with such an amount 14 which are hedged in the underlying transaction/flow and the change in that the revaluation is completely written off when the properties are 15 value in the hedging instrument’s (derivative’s) equivalent risk is otherwise fully depreciated. 16 expensed. When a hedging measure is entered into, the relationship between Shares in subsidiaries 17 the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the aim of the Shares in subsidiaries are reported at the acquisition value. 18 hedging measure and the method used to calculate the effectiveness, are documented. Remuneration to employees 19 The Parent Company’s pension undertakings have been calculated 20 PROVISIONS and reported based on the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act. Provisions are reported in the Statement of Financial Position when the Application of the Safeguarding of Pension Commitments Act is a pre21 Company has a formal or informal undertaking because of an event that requisite for the right to make a tax deduction. 22 has occurred and where it is probable that an outflow of resources is 23 required to settle the undertaking and a reliable estimate of the amount Deferred tax can be made. The amounts that are allocated to untaxed reserves comprise taxable 24 temporary differences. Because of the link between accounting and 25 PARENT COMPANY, ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES taxation, the deferred tax liability that is attributable to the untaxed The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts according to the reserves is not reported separately in a legal entity. These are thus 26 Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Accounting Standards Board reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Financial Position. 27 recommendation RFR 2 Reporting for Legal Entities and applicable The appropriations are reported at the gross amount in the Statement of Comprehensive Income. 28 statements from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. 29 30 31 32 When calculating the Group’s pension liability in accordance with 3 Estimates and assessments IAS 19, a number of assumptions are made, including the discount rate 33 When preparing reports in compliance with IFRS, the Executive Manin current value assessment, expected salary increases, inflation, staff 34 agement and the Board of Directors must make assessments and assumpturnover, remaining period of service for those covered by the pension 35 tions that affect the reported asset and liability items and income and plan as well as expected mortality assumptions. The levels of these cost items in the final accounts as well as information provided generparameters are adapted to company-specific conditions and partly to 36 ally, including contingent liabilities. These assessments are based on normal external conditions (see also Note 29). 37 historical experience and different assumptions the Executive Management and the Board of Directors have considered reasonable under the SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT 38 prevailing circumstances. The conclusions drawn form the basis for The sensitivity analysis shows how the pre-tax profit, return on equity 39 decisions regarding reported values of assets and liabilities in those and fair value of the properties would be affected in the event of changes in different variables. The analysis shows the impact on an annual basis 40 cases where these cannot be established easily through information from other sources. The actual outcome could differ from these assessat full effect. 41 ments if other assumptions are made or if other conditions emerge. Changes in the cost of capital or yield target are factors that affect 42 Assessments could have a material impact on the Akademiska Hus the fair value most. The impact on profit of a change in value, however, profit and financial position, particularly within regard to valuation would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. In the sensitivity 43 of properties (see also Note 16). analysis, the current lease portfolio has been taken into account with regard to rental revenue and vacant space. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 66 Notes 1 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, IMPACT ON PROFIT Impact on return 2 Impact on pre-tax on operating capital, Impact on fair value, Impact on fair value, 3 Change profit, SEK m percentage points SEK m1 percentage points Rental revenue, +/– one percentage point 55 0.1 389 0.5 4 Vacant space, +/– one percentage point 52 0.1 421 0.6 5 Operating costs, +/– one percentage point 8 0.0 –80 –0.1 6 of which media provision 5 0.0 –39 –0.1 7 Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,384 0.2 –4,384 –6.0 8 Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,831 –0.2 4,831 6.6 9 Yield target, + one percentage point –5,655 0.3 –5,655 –7.7 10 Yield target, – one percentage point 8,318 –0.4 8,318 11.4 1) Refers only to properties subjected to discounted cash flow analysis. 11 12 13 4 Segment reporting ‘Investments’ refer to gross investments in properties, construction of 14 properties in progress and equipment, fixtures and fittings. ‘Other The Group’s operations are controlled and reported on a regional basis. operations’ refer to operations that are not attributable to the regions. 15 Segment reporting has been prepared using the same accounting prinNet operating income is the most important measure of perforciples applied to the Group as a whole. Revenue per segment is based on mance and is reported and followed up on a regular basis by the Group’s 16 the tenant’s geographical location whilst assets and liabilities are supreme decision-maker. The profit after net operating income is not 17 based on the tenant’s physical location. reported and is not followed up for each segment. Properties are the 18 All revenue is generated in Sweden and all regions carry on property asset measurement that is reported internally and is followed up for management. each segment. Internal follow-up of other assets and liabilities only 19 For details of larger customers, see Note 6. takes place on the overall level for the Group. 20 No sales between the segments have taken place. 21 Total, operating Other 22 Segment information 2016 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group 23 Rental revenue 776,539 741,538 511,404 1,028,787 1,979,682 444,075 5,482,025 6 5,482,031 24 Other property management income 17,691 51,389 15,156 20,656 61,023 17,818 183,733 267 184,000 Total income 794,230 792,927 526,560 1,049,443 2,040,705 461,893 5,665,758 273 5,666,031 25 26 Operating costs –115,134 –111,353 –81,222 –153,350 –241,069 –62,014 –764,142 –4 –764,146 27 Maintenance costs –66,392 –104,982 –41,229 –59,404 –363,319 –51,013 –686,339 –686,339 — 28 Property administration –23,367 –25,745 –15,769 –24,427 –38,639 –10,929 –138,876 –154,731 –293,607 29 Other property management expenses –36,447 –40,313 –7,704 –22,024 –99,350 –45,609 –251,447 –3,617 –255,064 30 Total costs, property management –241,340 –282,393 –145,924 –259,205 –742,377 –169,565 –1,840,804 –158,352 –1,999,156 31 32 NET OPERATING INCOME 552,890 510,534 380,636 790,238 1,298,328 292,328 3,824,954 –158,079 3,666,875 33 34 Central overheads –85,264 Changes in value, properties 3,682,200 35 Profit before financial items 7,263,811 36 37 Profit/loss from net financial income and expense –549,409 38 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,714,402 39 40 Properties 8,255,233 9,123,585 5,139,266 13,851,038 31,848,993 4,794,746 73,012,860 — 73,012,860 41 of which invested during the year 72,114 290,008 51,329 527,608 1,564,391 255,700 2,761,150 2,761,150 — 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 67 Total, 1 operating Other Segment information 2015 South West East Uppsala Stockholm North segments operations Group 2 Rental revenue 773,179 730,725 525,312 1,043,076 1,911,463 466,434 5,450,189 — 5,450,189 3 Other property management income 28,056 49,327 10,674 16,883 74,786 15,431 195,157 434 195,591 4 Total income 801,235 780,052 535,986 1,059,959 1,986,249 481,865 5,645,346 434 5,645,780 5 6 Operating costs –121,767 –111,821 –84,548 –150,805 –240,702 –61,042 –770,685 — –770,685 Maintenance costs –96,862 –85,527 –43,626 –77,814 –223,927 –89,853 –617,609 –617,609 7 — Property administration –24,920 –25,833 –14,759 –24,557 –79,342 –11,693 –181,104 –135,342 –316,446 8 Other property management 9 expenses –28,163 –36,522 –5,351 –17,789 –86,626 –25,325 –199,776 –1,160 –200,936 10 Total costs, property management –271,712 –259,703 –148,284 –270,965 –630,597 –187,913 –1,769,174 –136,502 –1,905,676 11 NET OPERATING INCOME 529,523 520,349 387,702 788,994 1,355,652 293,952 3,876,172 –136,068 3,740,104 12 13 Central overheads –72,613 14 Changes in value, properties 2,655,365 15 Profit before financial items 6,322,856 16 Profit/loss from net financial income and expense –181,434 17 PROFIT BEFORE TAX ACCORDING TO THE STATEMENT 18 OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 6,141,422 19 20 Properties 8,191,267 8,123,673 4,934,488 12,690,913 28,214,159 4,420,382 66,574,882 — 66,574,882 of which invested during the year 207,792 124,700 26,461 241,465 1,752,309 146,041 2,498,768 2,498,768 21 — 22 23 5 Categorised operating costs 24 Group Parent Company 25 2016 2015 2016 2015 26 Functions reported in the Income Statements 27 Property management –1,999,156 –1,905,676 –1,977,319 –1,887,756 Central administration costs –85,264 –72,613 –85,264 –72,612 28 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS ACCORDING TO FUNCTION –2,084,420 –1,978,289 –2,062,583 –1,960,368 29 30 CATEGORISED FUNCTION COSTS 31 Energy, fuel and water –531,559 –563,347 –531,559 –563,347 32 Property administration –37,281 –64,253 –33,536 –45,402 33 Maintenance costs, material and services purchased –808,670 –722,407 –799,160 –722,407 34 Site leasehold charges –61,586 –58,226 –61,586 –58,226 Property tax –3,399 –3,737 –3,399 –3,737 35 Personnel costs –419,261 –352,830 –412,452 –352,830 36 Depreciation –5,518 –6,190 –5,518 –6,190 37 Other costs –217,146 –207,299 –215,373 –208,229 38 TOTAL CATEGORISED OPERATING COSTS –2,084,420 –1,978,289 –2,062,583 –1,960,368 39 40 41 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 68 Notes 1 6 Rental revenue 2 All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and genyear includes KSEK 474,979 (533,395) for variable charges. Lund Uni3 erate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period amounted versity and Karolinska Institutet account for 11 per cent and 10 per cent 4 to KSEK 5,482,031 (5,450,189) and the direct costs for the properties of rental revenue, respectively. during the period totalled KSEK 1,999,156 (1,905,676). Profit for the 5 6 CONTRACTED RENTAL REVENUE AS AT 31-12-2016 LEASE TERMS AS AT 31-12-2016 ACCORDING TO THE SIZE OF THE LEASE 7 Number of Contracted Number of Contracted 8 Due date leases annual rent Proportion, % Annual rent leases annual rent Proportion, % 9 Non-residential premises Non-residential premises 2017 235 257,660 4 > 70,000 3 388,256 7 10 2018 263 467,571 8 30,000 – 70,000 36 1,527,595 26 11 2019 187 559,648 10 10,000 – 30,000 141 2,359,467 41 12 2020 176 846,382 15 7,500 – 10,000 44 379,986 6 13 2021 58 481,469 8 5,000 – 7,500 63 390,090 7 14 2022 26 149,027 3 2,500 – 5,000 102 382,335 7 15 2023 and later 179 3,029,577 52 < 2,500 735 363,605 6 16 Other 263 24,056 0 Other 263 24,056 0 TOTAL 1,387 5,815,390 100 TOTAL 1,387 5,815,390 100 17 18 19 7 Other property management income 20 Group Parent Company 21 2016 2015 2016 2015 22 Parking revenue 61,533 60,297 61,533 60,297 23 Profit on the sale of other non-current assets — — 36,089 103,876 Income from external property management assignments 24 and similar assignments 54,766 78,154 54,766 78,154 25 Income from services performed on behalf of tenants 65,076 48,298 65,076 48,298 26 Other 2,625 8,842 2,669 8,842 27 TOTAL 184,000 195,591 220,133 299,467 28 29 8 Other property management expenses 30 Group Parent Company 31 2016 2015 2016 2015 32 Site leasehold charges, property tax and other risk costs –70,871 –67,945 –70,871 –67,945 33 Studies –18,299 –20,336 –18,299 –20,336 34 Loss on the sale and disposal of other non­current assets –24,765 — –12,283 –2,211 Costs for external property management assignments and similar assignments –39,568 –53,394 –39,568 –53,394 35 Costs for services performed on behalf of tenants –60,371 –41,133 –60,371 –41,133 36 Other –41,190 –18,128 –44,162 –18,914 37 TOTAL –255,064 –200,936 –245,554 –203,933 38 39 40 9 Depreciation, impairments and reversed impairments in property management 41 Group Parent Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 42 Properties — — –1,034,789 –1,591,522 43 Equipment, fixtures and fittings –5,518 –6,190 –5,518 –6,190 TOTAL –5,518 –6,190 –1,040,307 –1,597,712 In the Group and Parent Company, KSEK 3,746 (3,095) has been reported as property administration and KSEK 1,772 (3,095) as operating costs. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 69 10 Employees and personnel costs 1 SALARIES, OTHER REMUNERATION AND SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS 2 The average number of employees was as follows: Group Parent Company 3 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 4 AKADEMISKA HUS AB SALARIES AND REMUNERATION 5 Head Office, Gothenburg 94 86 Board members, President 6 Southern Region 50 48 and Vice President 7,115 6,005 7,115 6,005 7 Western Region 67 59 Other employees 263,833 221,462 263,833 221,462 Eastern Region 30 27 8 TOTAL 270,948 227,467 270,948 227,467 Uppsala Region 61 59 9 Stockholm Region 101 97 10 SOCIAL SECURITY COSTS Northern Region 37 33 Board members, President 11 and Vice President 4,081 3,511 4,081 3,511 12 Subsidiaries — — (of which pension costs) (2,557) (2,065) (2,557) (2,065) 13 GROUP, TOTAL 440 409 Other employees 120,041 104,200 124,041 104,200 14 (of which pension costs) (70,227) (56,994) (70,227) (56,994) The proportion of women (based on the average number of employees) TOTAL 124,122 107,711 128,122 107,711 15 in the Parent Company and the Group is 28 per cent (26). 16 (of which pension costs) (72,784) (59,059) (72,784) (59,059) GENDER DIVISION, BOARD, GROUP MANAGEMENT 17 AND OTHER PERSONS IN EXECUTIVE POSITIONS The Group’s and Parent Company’s outstanding pension obligations to 18 The Board comprises 6 (8) members elected at the Annual General the President, Regional Directors and other members of Executive Meeting and 2 (2) members appointed by the employees. 3 (4) of the Management total KSEK 3,443 (3,349). The subsidiaries do not have 19 members are women, i.e. 38 per cent (40). any employees and no salaries have been paid. 20 Overall management of the Group rests with the Executive Manage21 ment, which comprises 7 (8) men and 5 (5) women. The Executive Management comprises the President, Vice President, CFO, Human 22 Resources Director, Corporate Communications Director, Purchasing 23 Director, General Counsel and Regional Directors. 24 REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD 25 2016 2015 26 Remu­ Remu­ Director’s neration Finance Audit Director’s neration Finance Audit 27 fees Committee Committee Committee fees Committee Committee Committee 28 Chair Eva-Britt Gustafsson2 135 5 — 10 260 10 10 10 Chair Anitra Steen2 115 10 — — 29 Member Britta Burreau1 138 — 20 — 130 — 20 — 30 Member Olof Ehrlén 135 — — — 130 — — 10 31 Employee representative Thomas Jennlinger — — — — — — — — 32 Employee representative Anders Larsson — — — — — — — — 33 Member Ingela Lindh1 138 — — — 130 — — — 34 Member Leif Ljungqvist 2 — — — — — — — — 35 Member Kristina Ekengren2 — — — — Member Pia Sandvik 2 68 — 10 10 130 — 20 10 36 Member Gunnar Svedberg 138 10 — — 130 10 — — 37 Member Ingemar Ziegler 145 — 10 20 130 — — 20 38 TOTAL 1,012 25 40 40 1,040 20 50 50 39 1) Member for part of 2015. 40 2) Member for part of 2016. 41 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 70 Notes REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES 1 2016 2015 2 Basic salary 9 Pension cost Basic salary 9 Pension cost 3 CEO/President Kerstin Lindberg Göransson 3,482 933 3,108 813 4 Vice President Michael Walmerud1 1,735 513 1,689 454 5 CFO/Vice President Catarina Fritz2 540 138 — — Regional Director, South Tomas Ringdahl 1,533 359 1,516 326 6 Regional Director, West Birgitta van Dalen 1,314 553 1,258 495 7 Regional Director, East Lars Hagman 1,187 252 1,168 227 8 Regional Director, Uppsala Peter Bohman 1,586 375 1,469 313 9 Regional Director, Stockholm Sten Wetterblad 1,915 481 1,829 480 10 Regional Director, North David Carlsson3 1,039 311 1,344 277 11 Regional Director, North Roger Granberg4 270 64 — — 12 CIO Cecilia Nielsen 1,068 204 968 184 General Counsel Carolin Åberg-Sjöqvist 1,043 267 939 228 13 CFO Jonas Ragnarsson5 283 59 1,994 461 14 Purchasing Director Ulf Däversjö6 1,580 370 1,167 215 15 Human Resources Director Kristina Korsgren7 250 78 1,103 260 16 Human Resources Director Fredrik Färm8 668 144 — — 17 TOTAL 19,493 5,101 19,552 4,733 18 1) Michael Walmerud left Executive Management on 30 September 2016. 2) Catarina Fritz took over as CFO on 1 October 2016. 19 3) David Carlsson left Executive Management on 30 September 2016. 20 4) Roger Granberg joined Executive Management on 1 October 2016. 5) Jonas Ragnarsson took up the position of CFO 1 October 2014 and stepped down on 11 February 2016. 21 6) Ulf Däversjö became a member of Executive Management on 1 February 2015. 22 7) Kristina Korsgren left Executive Management on 29 February 2016. 8) Fredrik Färm took up the position of acting Human Resources Director on 1 March 2016. 23 9) No payments were made in addition to the above reported basic salary. 24 25 11 Fees and disbursements to auditors out of pocket expenses 26 Group and Parent Company 27 2016 2015 28 KPMG AB 29 Audit assignment 899 833 30 Audit work in addition to the audit assignment 204 185 31 Tax consulting 63 137 Other services 90 150 32 TOTAL 1,256 1,305 33 KPMG AB was elected to serve as auditors at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2014. 34 35 ‘Audit assignment’ refers to payment to the auditor for the statutory such an examination or the performance of other such duties. ‘Tax audit, such as work necessary to submit the audit report. ‘Audit work in consulting’ is self-explanatory. ‘Other services’ refers mainly to fees 36 addition to the audit assignment’ in effect refers to what can be desigfor consultation in conjunction with examination of tax returns and 37 nated quality assurance services (for example, examination of a proconsultation regarding financial instruments, the Sustainability 38 spectus for an EMTN programme) as well as the provision of advice or Report and accounting-related issues. other assistance as a result of observations made in conjunction with 39 40 41 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 71 12 Financial income and expense 1 Group Parent Company 2 2016 2015 2016 2015 3 OTHER INTEREST INCOME AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS 4 Interest income, other1 8,862 11,918 8,862 11,918 5 Changes in value, independent derivatives 69,817 348,381 69,817 348,381 6 RESULT, FINANCIAL INCOME 78,679 360,299 78,679 360,299 7 8 OTHER INTEREST EXPENSE AND SIMILAR PROFIT/LOSS ITEMS Interest expense, other 1 –166,601 –187,360 –241,984 –295,592 9 Changes in value, independent derivatives –437,129 –259,305 –437,129 –259,305 10 Changes in value, fair value hedges –24,358 –95,068 –24,358 –95,068 11 RESULT, FINANCIAL EXPENSE –628,088 –541,733 –703,471 –649,965 12 13 RESULTAT FRÅN FINANSIELLA POSTER, NETTO –549,409 –181,434 –624,792 –289,666 14 1) o  f which interest income/interest expense deriving from financial instruments that are not valued at fair value through profit or loss. –157,740 –175,442 –233,123 –283,675 15 16 Group Parent Company 17 Changes in value, financial items, are as follows: 2016 2015 2016 2015 18 UNREALISED CHANGES IN VALUE Independent derivatives –221,174 221,520 –221,174 221,520 19 Fair value hedging, hedging instruments –24,358 –95,068 –24,358 –95,068 20 TOTAL –245,532 126,452 –245,532 126,452 21 22 REALISED CHANGES IN VALUE 23 Independent derivatives –146,138 –132,444 –146,138 –132,444 24 TOTAL –146,138 –132,444 –146,138 –132,444 25 TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE –391,670 –5,992 –391,670 –5,992 26 27 28 13 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 29 Parent Company 30 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31 APPROPRIATIONS 32 Change in tax allocation reserve –136,189 –52,265 Difference between recorded depreciation and depreciation according to plan –38,483 –105,293 33 TOTAL –174,672 –157,558 34 35 UNTAXED RESERVES 36 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2010 — 397,454 37 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2011 437,485 437,485 38 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2012 449,374 449,374 39 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2013 441,894 441,894 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2014 447,887 447,887 40 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2015 507,298 510,801 41 Tax allocation reserve, provision made 2016 537,145 — 42 Additional depreciation 1,204,040 1,165,557 43 TOTAL 4,025,123 3,850,452 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 Notes 1 14 Tax 2 The following components are included in the Group and Parent Company tax expense: 3 Group Parent Company 4 2016 2015 2016 2015 5 TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 6 Current tax 7 Current tax on profit for the year –352,204 –337,129 –352,204 –337,129 8 Total current tax –352,204 –337,129 –352,204 –337,129 9 10 DEFERRED TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO TEMPORARY DIFFERENCES Financial instruments –10,488 –73,498 –10,488 –73,498 11 Properties –1,175,219 –942,398 –122,472 16,699 12 Tax allocation reserve –29,962 –11,498 — — 13 Pension provisions 1,498 3,239 — — 14 Other 0 –30 — — 15 Total deferred tax –1,214,171 –1,024,185 –132,960 –56,799 16 TOTAL TAX ON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR –1,566,375 –1,361,314 –485,164 –393,928 17 The difference between the reported tax expense and tax expense based on the current tax rate comprises the following components: 18 19 Group Parent Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 20 Reported profit before tax 6,714,402 6,141,422 1,799,809 1,744,352 21 Tax at the current tax rate –1,477,169 –1,351,113 –395,958 –383,757 22 Tax effect of expenses that are not tax deductible/taxable 23 (permanent differences): Non-deductible expenses –225,910 –87,332 –225,910 –87,332 24 Non-taxable income1 139,477 80,926 139,477 80,926 25 Taxable standard interest calculated on the tax allocation reserve –2,773 –3,765 –2,773 –3,765 26 Other — –30 — — 27 TOTAL REPORTED TAX EXPENSE –1,566,375 –1,361,314 –485,164 –393,928 28 1) Non-taxable income includes the tax effect from disposal of trade-related shares totalling KSEK 0 (10,535). 29 Reported deferred tax receivables/liability: 30 Group Parent Company 31 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 32 Deferred tax assets attributable to temporary differences 33 Financial instruments 10,215 20,702 10,215 20,702 Cash flow hedge — 9,490 — 9,490 34 Properties 17,615 22,664 17,615 22,664 35 Pension provisions 35,268 28,519 — — 36 Total, reported deferred tax receivables 63,098 81,375 27,830 52,856 37 38 Deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences 39 Tax allocation reserve –620,638 –590,677 — — 40 Properties –9,422,219 –8,252,048 –2,244,467 –2,127,043 Financial instruments –2,076 — –2,076 — 41 Other 19 20 — — 42 Total, reported deferred tax liability –10,044,914 –8,842,705 –2,246,543 –2,127,043 43 TOTAL, REPORTED DEFERRED TAX LIABILITY –9,981,816 –8,761,330 –2,218,713 –2,074,187 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 73 The following deferred tax assets/liabilities refer to items where a change has been reported in Other comprehensive income. 1 Group Parent Company 2 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 3 Cash flow hedge 4 – currency derivatives –159 1,890 –159 1,890 5 – electricity derivatives –11,407 1,652 –11,407 1,652 – actuarial gains and losses 5,251 –4,845 — — 6 TOTAL DEFERRED TAX REPORTED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –6,315 –1,303 –11,566 3,542 7 8 UNREPORTED DEFERRED TAX consolidated accounts do not include any material unreported No deferred tax in respect of untaxed reserves has been reported in the temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax values for 9 Parent Company. The deferred tax liability related to untaxed reserves assets and liabilities. All tax deficit deductions within the Group can 10 totals KSEK 885,527 (847,009) and is included in these reserves. The be utilised for an unlimited period in the future. 11 12 15 Dividend 13 The dividend paid to the shareholder on 30 April 2016 totalled SEK The dividend has not been recorded as a liability in the Annual Report. 14 1,290,000,000 (1,445,000,000). The dividend per share was SEK 604.22 15 (676.81). In 2015 an additional distribution of SEK 6,500,000,000 (0), Available for allocation at the Annual General Meeting: equivalent to SEK 3,044.50 per share, was approved at the Extraordinary 16 Retained earnings SEK 1,041,014,599 General Meeting on 19 October 2015. Of this additional distribution, Profit for the year SEK 1,314,644,758 17 SEK 4,500,000,000 was paid in 2015. The remaining SEK 2,000,000,000 Total SEK 2,355,659,357 18 was paid before the 2016 Annual General Meeting and the amount was reported as a current liability in the 2015 financial statements. 19 As regards the dividend for the year, the Board proposes a dividend The Board of Directors propose that the profit be allocated in such 20 of SEK 652.57 per share, for a total of SEK 1,393,000,000, to be paid to a way that SEK 1,393,000,000 is paid to the shareholder and SEK the shareholder as instructed by the owner. A decision regarding a divi962,659,357 is carried forward. 21 dend will be reached by the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting. 22 PROFIT USED AS A BASIS FOR CALCULATION OF DIVIDEND, SEK M 23 Outcome consolidated Changes in value Profit used for 24 results in the Group calculation of dividend 25 Income from property management 5,666 — 5,666 26 Property management expenses –1,999 — –1,999 NET OPERATING INCOME 3,667 — 3,667 27 Central administration costs –85 — –85 28 Changes in value, properties 3,682 –3,647 35 29 PROFIT BEFORE NET FINANCIAL INCOME/EXPENSE 7,264 –3,623 3,617 30 Total, financial items –550 24 –526 31 PROFIT/LOSS BEFORE APPROPRIATIONS AND TAXES 6,714 –3,441 3,091 Tax/current tax –1,566 797 –769 32 PROFIT AFTER TAX 5,148 –2,826 2,322 33 34 Dividend, 60% of the profit available for the payment of a dividend 1,393 35 The dividend as decided at the Annual General Meeting held on 28 April 2016 was SEK 1,290 million. 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 74 Notes 1 16 Properties (Group) 2 The fair value of properties has changed during the year as follows: 3 4 Group puted for the cash flow generated each year using a nominal cost of capiChange in property holdings, in SEK 1,000 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 tal. In addition, the residual value from year 11 is calculated based on the 5 Opening fair value 66,574,882 61,436,648 market’s actual yield targets. This residual value is in turn calculated at 6 the current value using nominal cost of capital. The property’s fair value + Investment in new construction comprises the sum of the current cash flows during the calculation 7 and redevelopment 2,761,150 2,496,968 period and the current residual value. 8 + Acquisitions 0 1,800 The starting point when choosing the cost of capital is the nominal 9 + Capitalised interest expense 75,384 108,234 interest rate on the secondary market for government bonds with a term – Sales –45,500 –32,971 equivalent to the length of the calculation period. A risk premium is 10 added to cover the market risk and the property-related risk. +/– Change in value, unrealised 3,646,944 2,564,203 11 The yield targets are assessed, as far as possible, using the property Of which change in value due to a change transactions that have been completed on the market and, as far as pos12 in the cost of capital and yield requirement 2,435,057 1,244,997 sible, using comparable properties. Each year, Akademiska Hus has the 13 Of which change in value due to adjusted yield target, cost of capital and other valuation prerequisites verified by value index (valuation status, average two independent valuation institutes, NAI Svefa and Cushman & 14 remaining term, property type) –179,181 255,928 Wakefield. 15 Of which capitalised interest expense –75,384 –108,234 Both the cost of capital for discounting the cash flow as well as the 16 Of which other change in value 1,466,452 1,171,512 yield target have been differentiated for each property depending on CLOSING FAIR VALUE 73,012,860 66,574,882 the town, location, lease term and type of premises. The risks are thus 17 analysed in several dimensions and are generally assessed to be higher 18 for properties with shorter leases, installation-intensive premises and 2016 2015 properties in less attractive locations. 19 Changes in value, property holdings Expansion reserves, SEK 1,282 million (2 per cent) have been valued 20 Positive 5,006,937 3,592,054 using the location prices for construction rights with a deduction for 21 Negative –1,359,994 –1,027,851 development costs, supplemented by developer calculations. In some Result from sales and disposals cases, the planning conditions for new construction are unclear and 22 consequently the pure land values have been used to establish the fair Positive 35,257 91,162 23 value. The expansion reserves include construction rights covering a Negative — — gross area of approximately 1.8 million square metres. 24 TOTAL CHANGES IN VALUE, PROPERTIES 3,682,200 2,655,365 SEK 6,236 million (8 per cent) relates to properties valued using a 25 special valuation basis due to abnormal risk. These have been valued individually using the valuation method that was deemed to be most 26 VALUATION MODELS/METHODS appropriate. Akademiska Hus has an internal property valuation process that is 27 The total fair value of properties includes new construction in prohighly developed and has been quality assured. Information regarding gress amounting to SEK 4,802 million (3,484), which has also been val28 valuation principles as well as levels of input data, assumptions and ued using the internal cash flow valuation with a deduction for remain29 prerequisites are produced by the Company’s valuation specialists and ing investment. ultimately adopted by the President. 30 The properties are on level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. Akademiska Hus valuation models comply with good market prac31 tice in the property industry and the cash flows and yield targets that Valuation conditions 2016 are used are justified based on both property-specific conditions and Yield requirements and cost of capital declined by between 0.05 and 0.40 32 industry-specific conditions. The properties have been valued individpercentage points during the year, due to general price-driving factors 33 ually without any account being taken of portfolio effects. in the property market for community properties. Overall, the positive 34 The fair value of the Group’s properties as at 31 December 2016 has change in value attributable to changes in yield requirements and cost been set using an internal property valuation. The valuation has been of capital in 2016 amounted to SEK 2,435 million (1,245). Well-­located, 35 conducted using different valuation methods as follows: efficient properties with a strong customer base and good rental poten36 tial are in greatest demand and are naturally less sensitive to external SEK m Share, % changes. 37 Internal cash flow valuation 65,495 90 Characteristic of Akademiska Hus are long leases with stable, credit38 Expansion reserves 1,282 2 worthy customers. The majority of tenants have a public principal and thus a very good credit rating, which means a low rent risk during the 39 Other valuation (including properties under construction and development properties) 6,236 8 term of the lease. Around 89 per cent of income derives from the domi40 nant customer group, universities and colleges. All centres of education, TOTAL 73,013 100 41 apart from Chalmers University of Technology, have the Swedish state as principal and thus have a high credit rating. The average remaining 42 SEK 65,495 million (90 per cent) of the fair value has been set through lease term is 6.0 years (5.8). The valuation divided the leases into three 43 an internal cash flow valuation, where the cash flow figures used comcategories based on average remaining lease term. For valuation properprise the revenue and costs for each property, i.e. the net operating ties with a longer remaining lease term, the relative risk is lower as the income. Rental revenue was calculated based on current leases. If the cash flow valuation is based predominantly on hedged flows. rent level at the end of the lease is deemed to be in line with the market, The city, town and location classifications have been based in part it is assumed that the agreement can be extended subject to the same on the general division of the property market. Larger and important terms and conditions. In other cases, rents are adjusted to the market cities and towns have been assigned a higher degree of attractiveness level. Operating costs are assessed based on historical outcome and from, for example, a demographic, employment and economic point of forecasts. Property administration costs are assessed based on the view. This is also the case from the point of view of higher education and average cost level within Akademiska Hus and the maintenance costs research, where Sweden’s three largest cities, Stockholm, Gothenburg are assessed based on actual costs and key figures for the industry. and Malmö, but also the classic university towns of Lund and Uppsala For an initial calculation period of 10 years, a current value is comand to a certain extent Linköping and Umeå, are more attractive and AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 75 are considered to be more stable and secure education and research after the contract period a standard vacancy rate of 5 per cent is applied. 1 locations in the long term. The division into different cities, towns and Standard formulas are applied for property administration costs and locations reflects the demand on the market and the attractiveness of maintenance costs. Operating costs are assessed according to historic 2 the properties. Inner-city locations in Stockholm and Gothenburg are outcome and forecast. 3 in greatest demand and most attractive while smaller, rural locations 4 are less in demand. Sensitivity analysis Akademiska Hus operates in a specific segment of the property The sensitivity analysis shows how the fair value is affected in conjunc5 market, which means that our properties are more adapted to specialist tion with changes in different variables. The impact on profit of a change 6 uses and consequently they have a slightly more uncertain residual value in value, however, would not affect the cash flow as it is unrealised. than for more general properties, such as office buildings and residential 7 buildings. This means that many of our properties are not available for Impact on fair 8 new tenants or other purposes without substantial redevelopment. Impact on fair value, percentChange value, SEK m age points 9 After an initial calculation period, assessment of the residual value needs to reflect the more property specific risks in more concrete terms. Rental revenue, +/– one per cent 389 0.5 10 An assessment of the uncertainty regarding modernity, standard/conVacant space, +/– one percentage point 421 0.6 11 dition, technical risk and redevelopment/adaptation requirements is Operating costs, +/– one per cent 80 0.1 made at the point at which residual value is calculated. These risks are 12 of which media provision 39 0.1 quantified mainly in the form of charges to cash flow rather than the 13 direct yield target. Maintenance costs, +/– SEK 10/m² 509 0.8 The cost of capital for the cash flow varies for different properties Property administration, +/– SEK 10/m² 509 0.8 14 within the range 6.28–11.89 per cent depending on the lease term, town/ Cost of capital, + one percentage point –4,384 –6.0 15 city, location, and type of premises. The long-term yield target varies Cost of capital, – one percentage point 4,831 6.6 16 between 4.20 per cent and 9.70 per cent depending on the town/city, location and type of premises. Yield target, + one percentage point –5,655 –7.7 17 The average yield target and cost of capital for each region are shown Yield target, – one percentage point 8,318 11.4 18 in the table below. The impact on fair value has been calculated based on a standard maintenance cost and standard property administration cost in the valuation model. 19 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 20 Yield Cost of Yield Cost of Other There are no limits with regard to the right to sell the properties or use 21 target, % capital, % target, % capital, % the rental revenue. 22 South 6.1 8.2 6.2 8.3 All properties are leased under operational lease agreements and West 5.5 7.6 5.8 7.9 23 generate rental revenue. The rental revenue during the period East 6.4 8.5 6.5 8.6 amounted to KSEK 5,482,031 (5,450,189) and the direct costs for the 24 Uppsala 6.0 8.1 6.1 8.2 properties during the period totalled KSEK 1,999,156 (1,905,676). 25 Stockholm 5.0 7.1 5.3 7.4 External valuation 26 North 6.2 8.4 6.4 8.6 To assure the internal valuation, selected properties are valued each 27 Group 5.6 7.7 5.8 7.9 year by external valuation companies. During the year, 73 valuation 28 buildings/sellable units at a fair value of SEK 17,637 million were valued Other assumptions externally, corresponding to approximately 25 per cent of the Akadem29 The following assumptions form the basis for the internal market iska Hus total fair value. The valuations in 2016 were carried out by 30 valuation: Cushman & Wakefield, which is authorised by the Swedish Society of Real Estate Economics. The external valuations confirm the reliability 31 Valuation assumptions of the internal valuation model. 32 Lease term => 10 years, > 6 years, =< 6 years 33 Division into town, city, location 25 towns, cities, locations 34 Special adaptation/type Installation-intensive premises/ of premises non-installation-intensive premises 35 Calculation period 10 years 36 Inflation assumption, year 1 1.0% 37 Inflation assumption, years 2–10 2.0% 38 Vacant space Actual and/or 5% 39 Deduction for stamp duty 4.25% 40 Property administration SEK 45/m² Maintenance costs, non-­ 41 installation-intensive premises SEK 100/m² 42 Maintenance costs, installation-­ 43 intensive premises SEK 140/m² Assumptions about inflation have been made based on the views of different forecasters, such as the National Institute of Economic Research, the Riksbank and other banks. The long-term inflation assumption of 2 per cent corresponds with the Riksbank’s long-term inflation target. The rent trend during the term of the lease is estimated at maximum of inflation (CPI), with consideration taken to the index share of the lease. After expiration of the contract period, adjust the rent when necessary to estimated market rent. Actual vacancy is applied as it occurs and AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 76 Notes 1 17 Properties (Parent Company) 18 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 2 Group Parent Company Carrying amount for properties amounts to KSEK 41,590,753 3 (39,899,507). The amount includes land, land systems, buildings, build31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 4 ing equipment and land equipment. Fiscal residual value amounts to Opening KSEK 25,190,871 (25,581,843). acquisition value 75,851 76,244 75,851 76,244 5 Purchases 2,457 6,867 2,457 6,867 6 The carrying amount of properties changed as follows during the year: Transferred from 7 new construction Parent Company in progress — — — — 8 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Sales and disposals –2,053 –7,260 –2,053 –7,260 9 Opening acquisition value 50,481,344 48,024,992 CLOSING Investment in new construction ACCUMULATED 10 and redevelopment 2,761,150 2,496,968 ACQUISITION VALUE 76,255 75,851 76,255 75,851 11 Acquisitions — 1,800 12 Sales and disposals –56,427 –42,416 Opening depreciation –61,662 –62,528 –61,662 –62,528 13 CLOSING ACCUMULATED Sales and disposals 2,029 7,056 2,029 7,056 ACQUISITION VALUE 53,186,067 50,481,344 Depreciation 14 Opening impairments 7,424,690 1,250,000 for the year –5,518 –6,190 –5,518 –6,190 15 Revaluations for the year — 6,410,256 CLOSING 16 ACCUMULATED Depreciation for the year on revaluations –170,967 –235,566 DEPRECIATION –65,151 –61,662 –65,151 –61,662 17 CLOSING ACCUMULATED 18 REVALUATIONS 7,253,723 7,424,690 CARRYING AMOUNT 11,104 14,189 11,104 14,189 19 Opening depreciation –17,659,736 –16,308,505 20 Reclassifications –42,401 –5,855 21 Sales and disposals 21,312 14,558 22 Depreciation for the year –989,945 –1,359,934 23 CLOSING ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION ACCORDING TO PLAN –18,670,770 –17,659,736 24 25 Opening impairments –346,791 –361,229 26 Reclassifications 42,401 5,855 27 Sales and disposals — 4,605 28 Reversed impairments 137,483 29,144 29 Impairments for the year –11,360 –25,166 CLOSING ACCUMULATED IMPAIRMENTS –178,267 –346,791 30 31 CARRYING AMOUNT 41,590,753 39,899,507 32 33 34 35 19 Shares in Group companies 36 Parent Company 37 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Opening acquisition value 650 700 38 Acquisition of subsidiaries — — 39 Sale of subsidiaries — –50 40 CARRYING AMOUNT 650 650 41 42 Specification of the Parent Company’s shareholdings in Group companies: Parent Company 43 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Registered Total number Share of Carrying Carrying Subsidiaries Company reg. no. office of shares equity in %1 amount amount Akademiska Hus Utveckling och Support AB 556610-2975 Göteborg 500 (500) 100 (100) 500 500 Kunskapsmiljön 7 AB 556966-0037 Göteborg 500 (500) 100 (100) 50 50 Akademiska Hus Holding AB 556981-6803 Göteborg 100 (100) 100 (100) 100 100 TOTAL 650 650 1) Corresponds to the number of votes. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 77 20 Derivatives (Group) 1 2 Derivatives are used to handle interest risk exposure and to eliminate capital amounts and accrued interest. The Group’s risk management is currency risks in conjunction with financing in a foreign currency and presented in Note 34 Financial risk management. 3 for electricity price risk management. The fair value of interest and Carrying amounts, derivatives, are broken down as follows: 4 cross currency interest rate swap agreements includes the underlying 5 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 6 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 7 NON-CURRENT Independent derivatives 8 – interest rate derivatives 586,884 616,432 461,669 585,273 9 Hedging instruments, fair value hedging – cross currency interest rate swap agreements 1,582,460 15,661 1,196,258 — 10 Hedging instruments, cash flow hedging 11 – currency derivatives — — 37 208 12 – electricity derivatives 3,037 — — 16,045 13 TOTAL, NON-CURRENT 2,172,381 632,093 1,657,964 601,526 14 15 CURRENT Independent derivatives 16 – interest rate derivatives 3,399 33,124 12,166 65,652 Hedging instruments, fair value hedging 17 – cross currency interest rate swap agreements — — 226,566 — 18 Hedging instruments, cash flow hedging 19 – currency derivatives 211,152 24,794 11,886 119,709 20 – electricity derivatives — 415 — 31,667 21 TOTAL, CURRENT 214,551 58,333 250,618 217,028 22 23 TOTAL, DERIVATIVES 2,386,932 690,426 1,908,582 818,554 24 Fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount in the table above. Derivatives and swap agreements are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, 25 see Note 33. 26 The maturity structure of the Group’s derivatives is as follows, SEK m: 27 28 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 29 Independent Independent derivatives1 Fair value hedging2 Cash flow hedging3 derivatives1 Fair value hedging2 Cash flow hedging3 30 Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Nominal Fair 31 amount value amount value amount value amount value amount value amount value 32 2017 7,573 175 0 0 –1,214 10 100 –18 0 0 –74 –13 2018 –850 –4 –3,002 834 –25 1 -3,600 –46 –2,822 640 –19 –3 33 2019 9,800 –105 0 0 –11 –7 1,000 –123 0 0 — — 34 2020 –1,500 57 0 0 — — 100 149 0 0 — — 35 2021 850 4 –3,316 640 — — 2,326 –25 –1,700 279 — — 36 2022 1,200 –58 0 0 — — 1,200 –38 0 0 — — 37 2023 1,708 22 –453 24 — — 700 –25 –2,545 –85 — — 38 2024 and later 1,407 32 –2,619 70 — — — — — — — — 39 TOTAL 20,188 124 –9,390 1,568 –1,250 4 1,826 –126 –7,067 834 –93 –16 40 1) Nominal amount, independent derivatives. A positive amount constitutes an extension of the portfolio’s fixed interest. 41 2) Nominal amount, fair value hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. 3) Nominal amount, cash flow hedging. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency and/or a purchase of electricity derivatives. 42 43 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 78 Notes 1 The table below shows the maturity structure for electricity and currency derivatives, SEK m, which constitute hedging instruments 2 in cash flow hedging. 3 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 4 Currency derivatives1 Electricity derivatives2 Currency derivatives1 Electricity derivatives2 5 Nominal Nominal Nominal Nominal 6 amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value 2017 –1,150 8 –64 2 –24 — –50 –13 7 2018 — — –25 1 — — –19 –3 8 2019 — — –11 –7 — — — — 9 TOTAL –1,150 8 –100 –4 –24 0 –69 –16 10 1) Nominal amount, currency derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of foreign currency. 11 2) Nominal amount, electricity derivatives. A negative amount constitutes a purchase of electricity derivatives. 12 The following table shows the maturity structure for forecast electric13 ity use together with electricity derivatives and currency derivatives 14 entered into with the aim of hedging the electricity price. 15 Forecast use, MWh Hedging level, price, % 16 2017 420,000 84 17 2018 420,000 63 2019 420,000 41 18 19 20 21 Other non-current receivables 22 Rent receivables and accounts receivable 21 Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 22 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 23 Other non-interest­ Rent receivables and bearing receivables 223,516 343,273 223,516 343,273 accounts receivable 318,183 273,298 318,183 273,298 24 TOTAL 223,516 343,273 223,516 343,273 Provision, doubtful 25 rent receivables and accounts receivable –1,053 –1,891 –1,053 –1,891 26 Of the Group’s non-current receivables, KSEK 131,427 is expected to be TOTAL 317,130 271,407 317,130 271,407 27 realised within five years of the year-end and KSEK 92,089 later than five years. 28 Rent receivables and accounts receivable are reported at amortised 29 The interest-bearing promissory note changed as follows: cost. The fair value of rent receivables and accounts receivable concurs with the carrying amount as of the year-end and there is no impairment 30 Group Parent Company requirement. 31 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Of the rent receivables and accounts receivable that had fallen due as at 31 December 2016, KSEK 28,475 had fallen due by 1–5 days, KSEK 32 Opening balance — 192,911 — 192,911 2,106 had fallen due by 5–30 days, KSEK 2,179 had fallen due by 30–60 33 Reclassification to days and KSEK 2,677 had fallen due by more than 60 days. Receivables current receivables — –192,911 — –192,911 34 falling due do not include impaired receivables. CLOSING BALANCE 0 0 0 0 35 The provision for doubtful rent receivables and accounts receivable 36 Other non-interest-bearing receivables changed as follows: changed as follows: 37 Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 38 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 39 Opening balance 343,273 278,247 343,273 278,247 Opening balance –1,891 –128 –1,891 –128 40 Purchases for the year 39,751 263,955 39,751 263,955 Provisions for the year –92 –1,845 –92 –1,845 Allocation against Reversed provisions 885 — 885 — 41 profit or loss for the Established credit 42 year –151,389 –189,073 –151,389 –189,073 losses 45 82 45 82 43 Reclassification to CLOSING BALANCE –1,053 –1,891 –1,053 –1,891 current receivables –8,118 –9,856 –8,118 –9,856 CLOSING BALANCE 223,517 343,273 223,517 343,273 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 79 23 Other receivables 27 Hedge reserve/Fair value reserve 1 Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 3 Interest-bearing Opening balance –31,415 –18,858 –31,415 –18,858 4 promissory note 192,911 192,911 192,911 192,911 Change in value, 5 VAT receivable 243,834 118,740 243,834 118,740 derivatives (cash flow hedging) 6 Settlement, taxes and charges 491,799 461,235 491,799 461,235 – currency derivatives –53 –13,769 –53 –13,769 7 Other current – electricity derivatives 51,872 –7,448 51,872 –7,448 8 receivables 87,287 123,527 87,286 123,526 Transferred to TOTAL 1,015,831 896,413 1,015,830 896,412 operating profit 754 5,118 754 5,118 9 Tax effect –11,566 3,542 –11,566 3,542 10 Other current receivables are reported at amortised cost. CLOSING BALANCE 9,592 –31,415 9,592 –31,415 11 12 The tax effect, KSEK –11,566 (3,542) refers to the change for the year. 24 Prepaid expenses and accrued income The closing deferred tax receivable/payable is reported in Note 14 Taxes. 13 Group Parent Company 14 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 15 Accrued rent 35,103 44,750 35,103 44,750 28 Loans 16 Accrued interest income 1,199 2,470 1,199 2,470 The Group’s financing takes place mainly through the public financing 17 Prepaid operating costs 28,285 12,637 28,285 12,637 programmes. Through their standardised terms and conditions, these permit rational, cost-effective financing. The Group has international 18 Other 13,037 26,831 13,037 26,831 TOTAL 77,624 86,688 77,624 86,688 ECP and EMTN programmes, as well as a domestic commercial paper 19 programme. The MTN programme has not been updated since 2009. 20 Bank financing is used to a limited extent. The average capital for bank financing during 2016 was SEK 231 million (113). 21 25 Maturity structure, receivables Loans in the Group are reported at amortised cost. 22 Group Parent Company The Group’s risk management is presented in Note 34 Financial risk management. 23 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 24 Receivables expected FINANCING COST to be cleared within one 25 Net interest income and expense amounted to SEK –549 million (–182) year of the year-end 1,640,403 1,537,781 1,640,402 1,537,780 and the average net liability portfolio was SEK 25,443 million (21,628). 26 Receivables expected The financing cost amounted to 2.15 per cent (1.22), calculated as interest to be cleared within 1–5 27 years of the year-end 1,945,880 1,322,761 1,945,880 1,322,761 expense in relation to average interest-bearing net loan liability, excluding cash and bank holdings. The changes in value in the financial deriv28 Receivables expected ative instruments correspond to an increase in interest expense of 0.85 29 to be cleared later than five years after the per cent (decrease 0.74). 30 year-end 450,017 678,476 450,017 678,476 FINANCING COST, BREAKDOWN, % 31 TOTAL 4,036,300 3,539,018 4,036,299 3,539,017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 32 Loan financing cost, 33 26 Cash and cash equivalents/ including charges, % 0.83 1.38 2.01 2.24 2.75 34 Cash and bank balances Interest swaps, net interest, % 0.47 0.58 0.42 0.39 0.40 35 Current investments comprise temporary surplus liquidity, invested in Financing costs, % 1.30 1.96 2.43 2.63 3.15 36 the short term, totalling KSEK 4,692,814 (2,160,838) and collateral Changes in value, 37 granted attributable to Credit Support Annex (CSA) agreements totalfinancial derivatives, % 0.85 –0.74 2.61 –0.01 1.06 ling KSEK 131,164 (343,151). Blocked bank funds in respect of pledged 38 TOTAL FINANCING COST 2.15 1.22 5.04 2.62 4.21 assets for stock market-cleared derivatives are included to the amount 39 of KSEK 297,757 (245,597) in the reported amount for cash and bank balances for the Group and the Parent Company. This is a buffer to EFFECT OF FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES ON PROFIT 40 cover expected daily collateral requirements. Independent interest rate derivatives are reported at market value (fair 41 value) and variations in market value are recognised in net interest Group Parent Company income and expense. Interest derivatives are mainly entered into with 42 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 the aim of extending the fixed interest period in the liability portfolio, 43 Current investments 4,823,977 2,503,989 4,823,977 2,503,989 which largely consists of financing at variable interest rates. Falling interest rates entail a negative impact on profit from these interest rate Cash and bank balances 545,640 1,800,596 545,492 1,800,447 derivatives; the opposite is true when interest rates rise. The changes TOTAL 5,369,617 4,304,585 5,369,469 4,304,436 in value relate to the changed current value of future cash flows from interest rate derivatives, at prevailing interest rates. Consequently these Cash and cash equivalents are reported and valued according to the do not have any immediate effect on cash flow, as long as they remain category ‘assets valued at fair value through profit or loss’. Fair value is unrealised. Certain interest rate derivatives are closed and settled on an equivalent to the carrying amount of cash and bank holdings and current ongoing basis (monthly or quarterly) and replaced with new ones, which investments. Cash and bank holdings are on level 1 and current investmeans that profits are continuously realised. Falling interest rates, comments are on level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. bined with interest rate derivatives for purposes of extension, mean AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 Notes 1 that interest expense will be higher than if the extension had not been rency-interest rate swaps. The changes in value for each instrument implemented. However, the lower interest rate can be used when refinanccan be attributed to changes in both exchange rates and interest rates. 2 ing and with sales of fixed interest at a later date. As time passes, no surHedge accounting is applied for these forms of financing, where only 3 plus or deficit values of interest rate derivatives will remain at maturity. the inefficiencies that arise due to different valuation practices are recThe currency and interest risks that arise in conjunction with longognised in the income statement. 4 term financing, usually bonds in foreign currency, are hedged with cur5 Borrowing can be broken down as follows, SEK m: 6 Group Parent Company 7 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 8 Carrying Carrying Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value amount Fair value 9 NON-CURRENT LOANS 10 Category, other financial liabilities 11 Bonds & MTN 770 837 770 831 770 837 770 831 12 EMTN 12,049 12,565 10,046 9,941 12,049 12,565 10,046 9,941 13 Other loans 356 426 372 426 356 426 372 426 TOTAL 13,175 13,828 11,188 11,198 13,175 13,828 11,188 11,198 14 15 Category, financial liabilities at fair value 16 through profit or loss according to the fair value hedging method 17 EMTN 8,840 8,833 6,714 6,712 8,840 8,833 6,714 6,712 18 Other loans 790 790 720 719 790 790 720 719 19 TOTAL 9,630 9,623 7,434 7,431 9,630 9,623 7,434 7,431 20 21 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LOANS 22,805 23,451 18,622 18,629 22,805 23,451 18,622 18,629 22 CURRENT LOANS 23 Category, other financial liabilities 24 Commercial paper 1,500 1,503 2,001 2,003 1,500 1,503 2,001 2,003 25 ECP 7,436 7,449 5,528 5,534 7,436 7,449 5,528 5,534 26 Bonds & MTN — — 350 357 — — 350 357 27 EMTN 1,000 1,011 605 621 1,000 1,011 605 621 Other loans 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 15 28 TOTAL 9,951 9,978 8,499 8,530 9,951 9,978 8,499 8,530 29 30 Category, financial liabilities at fair value 31 through profit or loss according to the fair value hedging method 32 Bonds & MTN — — 1,278 1,283 — — 1,278 1,283 33 EMTN — — — — — — — — 34 Other loans — — — — — — — — 35 TOTAL 0 0 1,278 1,283 0 0 1,278 1,283 36 TOTAL CURRENT LOANS 9,951 9,978 9,777 9,813 9,951 9,978 9,777 9,813 37 38 TOTAL LOANS 32,756 33,429 28,399 28,442 32,756 33,429 28,399 28,442 39 40 The above table shows nominal amounts excluding accrued coupon interest. 41 Fixed interest Variable interest 42 Loans Derivatives Total Loans ECP Derivatives Total Total 43 2017 500 160 660 500 8,973 –400 9,073 9,733 2018 4,602 –3,002 1,600 500 0 2,308 2,808 4,408 2019 1,420 800 2,220 1,000 0 –800 200 2,420 2020 650 300 950 720 0 –300 420 1,370 2021 5,316 –2,466 2,850 200 0 1,995 2,195 5,045 2022 0 1,200 1,200 0 0 –1,200 –1,200 0 2023 453 –53 400 0 0 26 26 426 2024 and later 7,580 –2,319 5,261 118 0 2,246 2,364 7,625 TOTAL 20,521 –5,380 15,140 3,038 8,973 3,874 15,886 31,026 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 81 The table on the preceding page shows financing (nominal amount) The ITP 2 plan exposes the Group to a number of actuarial risks, such 1 together with outstanding interest and currency derivatives. Loans as an interest risk, risk regarding life expectancy and the increase in and derivatives in foreign currency have been translated at the yearthe income base amount. 2 end exchange rate. As all loans raised in a foreign currency are swapped Interest risk – A reduction in the bond rate of interest will increase 3 to Swedish kronor, the exchange rate effect is eliminated. A positive figthe pension liability. Possible future falls in the interest rate on first4 ure means that the Group pays interest and a negative figure means that class mortgage bonds in SEK could thus entail a risk that the Group’s the Group receives interest. pension expense and undertakings could increase. 5 Life expectancy risk – The current value of the defined benefit obli6 MATERIAL CONTR ACTUAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS gation is calculated with consideration given to the Group’s best assessThe general terms and conditions for the EMTN and MTN programmes ment regarding mortality for members of the plan, both during and 7 include a clause which specifies that if the Swedish state ceases, directly after employment. There is a risk that life expectancy will increase for 8 or indirectly, to hold more than 50 per cent of the shares, equivalent to the members of the plan, which would in that case increase both the more than 50 per cent of the shareholding and more than 50 per cent of pension costs and the Group’s commitment. 9 the votes, the loans and any interest shall fall due for repayment immeSalary risk – The current value of the defined benefit commitment is 10 diately. The contractual terms and conditions for the short-term financcalculated in the light of future salaries for members of the plan. Major 11 ing programmes do not include any equivalent undertaking. Ever since salary increases compared with what was included in the actuarial calthe programmes were established, the Group’s policy has been not to culations entail a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could 12 accept any terms and conditions that require, for example, that a certain the Group’s pension expense. 13 rating, equity ratio or interest coverage ratio be maintained. Income base amount – The current value of the defined benefit obligations is calculated in the light of future increases in the income base 14 HEDGE ACCOUNTING amount. A larger increase than assumed in the actuarial calculations 15 When financing in a foreign currency, all future payment flows are hedged means a risk that the Group’s liability could increase, as could the 16 so that the exchange risk is eliminated. Through cross currency interest Group’s pension expense. rate swap agreements, all interest payments, both fixed and variable, are The actuarial computation of the pension commitments and pension 17 hedged as well as future repayments. All the measures taken have the costs is based on the following assumptions: 18 express purpose of hedging and eliminating an exchange rate risk so that all financing is denominated in Swedish kronor. Effective hedging Assumptions 2016 2015 19 means that changes in the value of the hedged position and the actual Discount rate, % 2.65 3.00 20 hedging transaction on balance counteract each other. Salary increase, % 1.50 1.50 21 Inflation, % 1.50 1.50 22 Income base amount, % 2.50 2.50 29 Provisions for pensions 23 Personnel turnover, % 2.00 2.00 The Group’s pension commitments include both defined contribution Mortality DUS14 DUS14 24 and defined benefit pension plans according to collective bargaining 25 agreements. Assumptions regarding life expectancy are based on public statistics and 26 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PENSION PLANS experience of mortality calculations in Sweden and have been adopted 27 The Group’s defined contribution pension plans, ITP 1 and Alternative in consultation with actuarial experts. These assumptions result in the ITP (a pension for high-income earners) cover all Group employees. following average remaining life expectancy for a person who retires at 28 The defined contribution pension plans mainly comprise a retirement the age of 65: 29 pension, sickness pension and family pension. The premiums are paid Estimated average remaining 30 continuously throughout the year to different insurance companies. life expectancy, years 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 The premiums are based on salary. 31 The total cost for the financial year for defined contribution pension Retirement at the year-end 32 plans excluding payroll tax (Group and Parent Company) amounted to Men 20.4 20.4 KSEK 22,788 (21,695). 33 Women 23.3 23.3 Retirement 20 years after the year-end 34 DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS Men 22.3 22.3 35 All Group employees are covered by the Group’s defined benefit pension plan, ITP 2. According to this plan, the employees are entitled to pension Women 24.6 24.6 36 benefits based on their pensionable income as well as the number of years 37 of service. The pension plan mainly comprises a retirement pension, sickThe following amounts regarding the defined benefit pension cost are ness pension and family pension. The pension commitments are secured reported in the Income Statement: 38 through provisions in the FPG/PRI system as well as the ITP plan family 39 pension, sickness pension and occupational group life through insurance Amount reported in the premiums. All pension commitments which the Akademiska Hus Group Income Statement 2016 2015 40 took over from the National Board of Public Building when the Company Benefits earned during the year 25,074 22,821 41 was formed on 1 October 1993 are defined benefit plans, secured through Interest on pension provision 11,837 9,771 42 provisions in the Statement of Financial Position, guaranteed by the National Debt Office and administered by the National Government PARTS OF THE DEFINED BENEFIT 43 PENSION COST REPORTED IN THE Employees’ Pension Board (SPV). All defined benefit pension commitPROFIT FOR THE YEAR 36,911 32,592 ments are credit-insured by PRI Pensionsgaranti. The most recent actuarial calculation of the current value of the defined benefit commitment was carried out by an authorised actuary The defined benefit costs have been reported as a personnel cost and on 31 December 2016. When calculating the current value of the interest cost respectively. defined benefit commitment and associated costs for employment during the current period and associated costs for employment during previous periods, the Projected Unit Credit Method was used. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 Notes 1 The following actuarial gains and losses have been reported under FUTURE PAYMENTS Total comprehensive income: The Group is expected to pay KSEK 39,111 (36,911) in charges for the 2 defined benefit plan during the forthcoming financial year. 3 Total amount reported under Other comprehensive income 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS 4 Revaluation of the net defined IN THE PARENT COMPANY 5 benefit liability The reported pension liability in the Parent Company comprises: Actuarial gains and losses that arise 6 as a result of changes in demographic 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 7 assumptions — 4,304 FPG/PRI pensions 216,604 205,799 8 Actuarial gains and losses that arise Other pensions 65,880 66,001 as a result of changes in financial 9 assumptions 24,207 23,299 TOTAL 282,484 271,800 10 Actuarial gains and losses that arise as a result of changes in experience –340 –5,578 Other pensions in the Parent Company mainly refer to the historical 11 TOTAL AMOUNT REPORTED UNDER pension liability that was taken over from the National Board of Public 12 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 23,867 22,025 Building when the Akademiska Hus Group was founded in 1993. 13 The change for the period in the defined benefit obligation can be seen Pension commitments and provisions for pension commitments for the 14 defined benefit plans in the Parent Company have changed as follows: in the following table: 15 Change in the defined benefit Pension commitments 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 16 obligation for the period 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Opening balance 271,800 270,208 17 Opening balance 401,434 407,140 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 13,223 5,267 18 Service costs during the period 25,074 22,821 Interest expense 11,085 10,027 19 Net interest cost 11,837 9,771 Payments –13,624 –13,702 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) CLOSING BALANCE 282,484 271,800 20 Changes in demographic assumptions 0 –4,304 21 Changes in financial assumptions 24,207 –23,299 The total pension cost in the Parent Company is broken down as follows: 22 Experience-based adjustments –340 5,578 23 2016 2015 Pension payments –19,418 –16,273 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 13,223 5,267 24 CLOSING BALANCE 442,794 401,434 Interest part of the pension cost 11,085 10,027 25 PENSION COSTS, 26 The estimated term of the Group’s defined benefit pension commitDEFINED BENEFIT PLANS 24,308 15,294 ment can be seen in the following table: 27 28 Estimated term for the Pension costs, defined contribution plans 22,788 21,695 pension commitment 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 Employer’s contribution and tax 29 Fall due for payment within one year on the yield, other pension costs 11,131 8,607 30 of the year-end 14,048 13,682 TOTAL PENSION COSTS 58,227 45,596 Fall due for payment 1–5 years after 31 the year-end 56,358 56,401 32 ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS Fall due for payment later than five years after the year-end 372,388 331,351 The actuarial calculation of pension commitments and pension costs in 33 the Parent Company is based on the actuarial assumptions laid down in TOTAL 442,794 401,434 34 the FPG/PRI system and by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. 35 Below is a sensitivity analysis of the defined benefit obligations reflect36 ing changes in the applied assumptions for the discount rate, inflation and wage growth. The sensitivity analysis is based on the change in one 37 assumption while all other assumptions held constant. Such a scenario 38 is unlikely in practice, and changes in certain assumptions can be cor39 related. 40 Sensitivity analysis, pension obligations 31-12-2016 41 Recorded pension obligation under the reported assumptions 442,794 42 Discount rate increases by 0.5 percentage points 408,846 43 Discount rate decreases by 0.5 percentage points 481,364 Inflation increases by 0.5 percentage points 487,919 Wage growth increases by 0.5 percentage points 470,442 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 83 30 Other liabilities 33 Financial instruments valued at fair value 1 Group Parent Company 2 The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities that are 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 valued at fair value. These are purchased to be held to maturity and are 3 Other interest­bearing identified already at initial recognition. They are classified in a hierar4 liabilities 1,762,042 1,380,100 1,762,042 1,380,100 chy, comprising three levels and based on the information used to set 5 Other non-interest­ their fair value. bearing liabilities 409,892 2,240,676 410,492 2,241,276 Level 1 refers to when fair value is set based on listed prices on active 6 TOTAL, OTHER markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 refers to when fair 7 LIABILITIES 2,171,934 3,620,776 2,172,534 3,621,376 value is set based on observable data other than listed prices on active markets. Level 3 refers to when the set fair value is essentially based on 8 data that is not observable, i.e. the Company’s own assumptions. Other liabilities are reported and valued according to the Other financial 9 The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is set by using inforliabilities category. The fair value is equivalent to the carrying amount 10 mation that is attributable to one or more of the above-mentioned levels. of other liabilities. The Group’s other liabilities are on level 2 in the fair The classification is determined by the lowest level in the hierarchy for 11 value hierarchy. the information that has a material impact on the value. The Parent Company has entered into a supplementary agreement, 12 The Group mainly holds derivatives that are on level 2. The valuation a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to the ISDA agreement, with the aim of of the instruments is done according to the zero coupon method, which 13 handling exposure to counter-party risks in derivatives. The agreement means that all the future cash flows of the instrument are set at the means that the parties mutually undertake to furnish collateral in the 14 current value. The zero coupon interest rates used to discount the cash form of cash and cash equivalents or securities with a good rating for flows are calculated with the aid of STIBOR/LIBOR for short-term 15 undervalues in outstanding derivatives. The agreement in turn gives the interest rates and swap notations for longer terms. The source of this secured party right of disposal of collateral received. As of the year-end, 16 information is real-time data from Thomson/Reuters. the Group received collateral through the CSA agreements totalling 17 KSEK 1,631,000 (1,380,100). Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 18 Of the Group’s other liabilities, KSEK 2,061,218 falls due for payment within one year of the year-end, KSEK 104,469 within one to five years ASSETS 19 of the year-end, and KSEK 6,247 later than five years after the year-end. Investments 20 – current investment — 4,692,812 — 4,692,812 21 Independent derivatives 31 Accrued expenses and prepaid income – interest rate derivatives — 590,283 — 590,283 22 Group Parent Company – currency derivatives — — — — 23 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 – cross currency interest 24 Prepaid rental revenue 1,487,165 1,335,956 1,487,165 1,335,956 rate swap agreements — — — — 25 Accrued salary and Hedging instruments, personnel costs 35,098 31,582 35,098 31,582 fair value hedging 26 Accrued operating and – interest rate derivatives — — — — 27 maintenance costs 89,139 88,617 89,139 88,617 – cross currency interest 28 Accrued investments 195,441 198,292 195,441 198,292 rate swap agreements — 1,582,461 — 1,582,461 Hedging instruments, 29 Accrued interest 196,289 184,689 196,289 184,689 cash flow hedging 30 Other interim liabilities 18,395 19,524 18,395 19,524 – currency derivatives — 211,152 — 211,152 TOTAL 2,021,527 1,858,660 2,021,527 1,858,660 31 – electricity derivatives — 3,037 — 3,037 32 TOTAL ASSETS — 7,079,745 — 7,079,745 33 32 Maturity structure, liabilities LIABILITIES 34 Group Parent Company Independent derivatives 35 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 – interest rate derivatives — 665,218 — 665,218 36 Liabilities due for payment within one – currency derivatives — — — — 37 year of the year-end 14,305,575 15,724,434 14,308,328 15,727,186 – cross currency interest 38 Liabilities due for rate swap agreements — — — — payment within 1–5 Hedging instruments, 39 years of the year-end 14,984,129 8,447,157 14,984,129 8,447,157 fair value hedging 40 Liabilities due for – interest rate derivatives — — — — payment later than 41 five years after the – cross currency interest year-end 18,988,500 19,989,824 11,065,086 13,173,047 rate swap agreements — — — — 42 TOTAL 48,278,204 44,161,415 40,357,543 37,347,390 Hedging instruments, 43 cash flow hedging – currency derivatives — 24,793 — 24,793 – electricity derivatives 415 — — 415 TOTAL LIABILITIES 415 690,011 — 690,426 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 Notes eign currency are swapped to Swedish kronor, the exchange rate effect 1 34 Financial risk management (Group) is neutralised. A positive figure means that the Group pays interest and 2 a negative figure means that the Group receives interest. 3 Akademiska Hus carries on active debt management where the strategy is to weigh up the financial risks against the desired low financing cost CURRENCY EXPOSURE RISK 4 over time. The two key policy documents adopted by the Board are: A currency risk is the risk that exchange rate changes will have an 5 • Finance Policy: Describes the long-term strategic orientation, the impact on the Income Statements and Consolidated Balance Sheets. Group’s approach to financial risks and the mandate to handle these The policy is that all currency exposure risk in conjunction with 6 risks, as well as the allocation of liability. financing in foreign currency should be eliminated as the operation is 7 • Plan for handling financial risks (Risk Plan): Justifies annual mandenominated exclusively in Swedish kronor. All payment flows in for8 dates for financial risk management in the light of the risk scenario and eign currency attributable to financing are exchange-hedged with the existing exposure. Also includes analysis of developments in financial aid of forward rate agreements and cross currency swap agreements. 9 markets, including both opportunities and challenges from the point 10 CURRENCY BREAKDOWN, LOANS AND DERIVATIVES, SEK M of view of debt management. 11 Original currency Loans Derivatives Total The Parent Company’s Treasury Department handles the Group’s finan12 AUD 393 –393 0 cial management. This arrangement fosters effective and co-ordinated 13 financial risk management that also allows utilisation of the opportuniCAD 54 –54 0 ties offered in the financial markets. CHF 6,234 –6,234 0 14 GBP 3,116 –3,116 0 15 INTEREST RISK HKD 1,535 –1,535 0 16 The term ‘interest risk’ refers to the risk that the Group’s net interest JPY 776 –776 0 income and expense may vary due to a change in market interest rates. 17 Exposure to interest rate risk is high due to the high net liability portSEK 15,669 15,357 31,026 18 folio, where one of the largest expenses is net interest income and USD 4,756 –4,756 0 expense. A balance must be reached between saving and uncertainty TOTAL 32,532 –1,506 31,026 19 on the one hand and higher costs (risk premium) and predictability on 20 the other. The average fixed interest period is a measure of the sensitivity in net interest income and expense in conjunction with a change in The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts 21 the market interest rates; the longer the fixed interest period, the longer have been recalculated at the year-end rate. 22 it takes for an interest rate change to be reflected in current cash flow. Since it is not possible to achieve a desired fixed interest on individual LIQUIDITY AND REFINANCING RISK 23 financing occasions, the Group uses interest derivatives as a means of Refers to the risk that the Group will be exposed to higher than expected 24 adjusting and securing the desired fixed interest period. expenses or that financing potential is limited when loans are due to be 25 According to the Finance Policy, there should be a mandate to manrefinanced. The aim is to limit the costs by seeking to strike a balance age interest rate risk in the three main sub-portfolios as follows: between short-term, medium-term and long-term financing, and 26 endeavouring to achieve diversification between different financing Long-term bond portfolio – bonds with fixed interest and maturity 27 terms in excess of 15 years. These bonds represent a significant interest arrangements and markets. The Group’s extremely high creditworthirisk exposure, which justifies a separate mandate. The portfolio is ness allows a diversified supply of credit through the public financing 28 therefore permitted to amount to a maximum of 20 per cent (20) of the programmes. 29 total portfolio. At the turn of the year, long-term bonds totalling SEK According to the maturity mandate, a maximum of 50 per cent (50) 3,611 million (3,619) were issued, equivalent to 11.2 per cent (13.3) of the may fall due for refinancing within a 12-month period. 30 total portfolio. Unutilised credit facilities should be in place to guarantee good pay31 Index-linked bond portfolio – bonds linked to the real interest rate, ment capacity. 32 must not exceed 10 per cent (10) of the total portfolio. At the turn of the The Group’s cash and bank balances at the end of 2016 totalled SEK year, index-linked bonds totalling SEK 900 million (900) were issued, 5,370 million (4,305). At the year-end, bank facilities granted totalled 33 SEK 3,000 million (4,000). equivalent to 2.8 per cent (6.75) of the total portfolio. 34 Basic portfolio – consists of the remaining portion of commercial FACILITIES AND RATING 35 paper, bonds and interest rate derivatives. The portfolio is managed within an average fixed interest period mandate. The current mandate is Rating Utilised, 36 a fixed interest period of 2 to 6 years (2–5 years). The fixed interest period Standard & Framework nominal Poor’s 31-12-2016 31-12-2016 37 at the year-end was 4.7 years (3.6), including interest derivatives. Bank SEK 3,000 m 0 38 MATURITY STRUCTURE FOR FIXED INTEREST PERIODS Commercial paper A1+/K1 SEK 4,000 m SEK 1,500 m 39 AND NET DEBT MATURITY, SEK M ECP (Euro Commercial 40 Fixed interest, Maturity, Paper) A1+ EUR 1,200 m EUR 748 m SEK m SEK m MTN (Medium Term 41 2017 5,034 11,729 Note)1 AA SEK 8,000 m SEK 770 m 42 EMTN (Euro Medium 2018 4,408 2,064 43 2019 2,420 2,220 Term Note) AA/A1+ EUR 3,000 m EUR 2,208 m 2020 1,370 950 1) Not updated since 2009. 2021 5,045 2,850 2022 0 1,200 The following table shows the remaining contractual term for the Group’s financial liabilities. The liquidity flows are not discounted 2023 426 400 and foreign flows have been translated at the rate on the closing date. 2024 och senare 7,715 5,005 For those instruments where the future variable rate of interest is TOTAL 26,418 26,418 unknown, the rate of interest has been calculated with the aid of the implicit forward interest rates for the yield curve on the closing date. The table above shows the nominal amounts. The nominal amounts Use is made primarily of rental revenue to meet the obligations linked have been recalculated at the year-end rate. As all loans raised in a forto the Group’s financial liabilities presented in the following table. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 85 The rental revenue falls due for payment quarterly and is subject to long CREDIT RISK AND COUNTER-PARTY RISK 1 agreement terms. The credit risk associated with rental revenue is conThe risk of a loss if a counter-party does not meet its undertakings. The sidered low. Group is exposed when surplus liquidity is placed in financial assets 2 and in conjunction with changes in the value of derivatives. The Risk 3 LIQUIDITY RISK, SEK M Plan includes a limit system where permitted exposure depends on the 4 counter-party’s credit rating or ownership and the term of the involveCurrent Hedged Derivative Derivainvestment. The limits are related to the Group’s risk capacity in the form of 5 Loans loans insurance tives ments Total equity. In addition, investments should be characterised by good 6 liquidity in the secondary market. 2017 –2,746 –7,635 367 –80 4,937 –5,157 The Group’s policy is that internationally standardised netting 7 2018 –2,339 –3,164 815 –58 — –4,746 agreements, ISDA agreements, should always be signed with a counter-­ 8 2019 –2,251 –100 –370 –45 — –2,765 party before uncleared derivative transactions take place. As at 31 December 2016, the total counter-party exposure in derivatives (calcu9 2020 –1,587 –100 13 20 — –1,655 lated as the net claim per counter-party) stood at SEK 1,508 million 10 2021 –2,388 –3,416 486 23 — –5,296 (1,008). With the aim of reducing exposure to a counter-party risk, the 2022 –172 –31 –44 3 — –244 11 Group has entered into a number of supplementary agreements, Credit 2023 –172 –478 –24 32 — –642 Support Annexes (CSA), to the ISDA agreements. The agreements mean 12 2024 and that the parties mutually undertake to make collateral available in the 13 later –6,774 –2,665 –556 106 — –9,888 form of cash and cash equivalents or bonds for the undervalues in outstanding derivative contracts. At the year-end, the Group had received 14 TOTAL –18,429 –17,590 687 2 4,937 –30,393 SEK 1,631 million (1,037) net. 15 Positive value = payments received, negative value = payments made. 16 17 The table below shows financial assets and liabilities (derivatives) that are not offset in the balance sheet, but are covered by framework agreements for netting or similar agreements: 18 19 Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by Amounts that are not offset, but are covered by framework agreements for netting or similar agreements framework agreements for netting or similar agreements 20 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 21 Reported Reported financial assets/ Cash collateral financial assets/ Cash collateral 22 liabilities gross received Net amount liabilities gross received Net amount 23 ASSETS 24 Derivatives 2,386,932 –1,762,042 624,890 1,908,582 –1,380,100 528,482 25 TOTAL 2,386,932 –1,762,042 624,890 1,908,582 –1,380,100 528,482 26 LIABILITIES 27 Derivatives 690,426 –131,164 559,262 818,553 –343,151 475,402 28 TOTAL 690,426 –131,164 559,262 818,553 –343,151 475,402 29 30 The table below shows the Group’s exposure to counter-party risks ELECTRICITY PRICE RISK divided according to different rating categories: The risk approach and mandate for handling the electricity price risk is 31 governed by the guidelines for purchasing electricity. The term ‘electric32 COUNTER-PARTY RISK, EXCLUDING RENT RECEIVABLES, SEK M ity price risk’ refers to the risk that the future price of electricity will 33 affect the Group’s operating costs negatively and with low predictability. Collateral With the aim of reducing exposure to changes in the electricity price, 34 Receiv­ received/ Net different financial price-hedging instruments are used (electricity derivable Liability granted exposure 35 atives). The Group stipulates a long-term price hedging strategy. Trade INSTITUTIONS WITH in physical electric power (spot) and financial price-hedging instruments 36 A LONG RATING takes place through Nord Pool. To limit the counter-party risk, all finan37 AA–/Aa3 237 –54 62 121 cial trading is cleared through third party against which Akademiska A+/A1 229 –73 –87 243 Hus pledges and receives security, depending on whether the derivative 38 A/A2 1,216 — 1,321 –105 position has a positive or negative value. 39 A–/A3 1,601 — 311 1,290 40 CREDIT RISK ATTRIBUTABLE TO RENT RECEIVABLES BBB+/Baa1 441 –14 42 385 A large proportion of the Group’s receivables are rent receivables. 41 INSTITUTIONS WITH The maximum credit risk exposure for rent receivables and accounts 42 ONLY A SHORT RATING receivable is equal to their carrying amounts. However, the assessed K-1 350 — — 350 credit risk in rent receivables is low in the light of the high credit rating 43 Companies wholly owned of the tenants. by the Swedish state 1940 — — 1,940 Companies wholly owned RISK CONTROL by the Swedish state 550 — — 550 Ongoing work is being done to improve the level of expertise, routines and internal control. There is strict allocation of responsibility between TOTAL 6,564 –141 1,649 4,774 the Treasury and Risk Control. The unit handles accounting and administration as well as compliance with the mandates. The task of developPositive figure = Group receivable, negative figure = Group liability. ing and refining analytical support and risk control is ongoing. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Notes 1 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS, LIABILITY PORTFOLIO As the fixed interest period is diversified and in accordance with the The interest-bearing liability portfolio is constantly exposed to interest current risk mandate, a minimum of two years on average, the variations 2 rate changes on the market. The analysis of the liability portfolio interin the interest cost will fluctuate to a lesser extent than if the fixed inter3 est sensitivity is divided into two parts: est period had been very short, e.g. three months. • Changes in the value of interest derivatives (current values). The Company has fixed interest periods both within and outside the 4 • Cash flow effects (net interest income/expense) over a calendar year Statement of Financial Position in the form of interest derivatives. The 5 for items with a short fixed interest period, which are given a new aim of these derivatives is to facilitate a change in the liability portfolio’s short-term rate of interest for the remainder of the year. fixed interest period in addition to what is achieved directly in the 6 financing. 7 The table shows the impact on profit of a rise in interest of one percent8 age point. The calculations are based on an unchanged liability amount. 9 Net interest income/expense 10 Interest with 100 interest 11 Fixed risk, one Change in value points, SEK m Nominal Maturity, interest, interest of +100 interest during the 12 amount, years, years, point, Interest, points, SEK m as remainder of the SEK m average average SEK m % of the year-end1 calendar year1 13 Fixed interest positions with a fixed 14 interest period longer than one year within the Statement of Financial Position2 10,631 10.9 10.4 9.6 2.1 0 0 15 Interest derivatives, fixed interest 4,250 0.0 4.3 3.6 2.1 184 0 16 Interest derivatives, variable interest –4,250 0.0 0.2 0.3 0.2 0 36 17 Variable interest within the Statement 18 of Financial Position3 20,395 3.0 0.2 0.5 –0.2 0 –167 19 TOTAL 31,026 13.9 15.1 14.0 4.2 184 –131 1) Refers to +100 interest points in a parallel displacement of the yield curve. 20 2) F ixed interest positions with a fixed interest period in excess of one year within the Statement of Financial Position refer to issues in SEK that are not included 21 in fair value hedges. 3) Variable interest within the Statement of Financial Position refers to the total effect of issues in a foreign currency which, via derivatives, have been swapped 22 to variable interest in SEK and which are reported as hedges and FRN issues. 23 24 35 Asset management (Group) The Group’s capital is as follows: 25 The Group strives to achieve good growth in profit, financial sustaina31-12-2016 31-12-2015 26 bility and financial capacity. The financial objectives are set to provide Loans from financing programmes 27 a combination of a high return on equity, high growth capacity and (Note 28) 32,756,563 28,398,853 28 financial stability. Collateral received for derivative According to the owner’s financial targets for Akademiska Hus, the transactions entered into (Note 30) 1,762,042 1,380,100 29 dividend should amount to between 40 and 60 per cent of the net profit Financial derivatives (Note 20) –1,696,506 –1,090,028 30 after tax after reversal of changes in fair value and related deferred tax. Cash and cash equivalents (Note 26) –5,369,617 –4,304,585 When deciding on a dividend, consideration should be given to the 31 INTEREST-BEARING Group’s capital structure and capital requirements (equity ratio 30 per NET LOAN LIABILITY 27,452,482 24,384,340 32 cent to 40 per cent). 33 The other financial targets are that the equity ratio should be between 30 and 40 per cent and that the return on operating capital EQUITY 34,151,677 30,271,259 34 should be at least 6.5 per cent. 35 At the end of 2016, the equity ratio was 41.4 per cent (40.7) for the Group and 19.1 per cent (20.0) for the Parent Company. After the divi36 dend of SEK 1,393 million proposed by the Board of Directors, the 36 Pledged assets 37 equity ratio will be 40.4 per cent for the Group and 16.9 per cent for the Group Parent Company Parent Company. 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 38 Financing operations are described in the Financing section in the Blocked bank funds 297,756 245,597 297,756 245,597 39 Administration Report, Note 28 Loans and Note 34 Financial risk management. Current investments 131,164 343,151 131,164 343,151 40 The Group’s capital structure comprises an interest-bearing net TOTAL 428,920 588,748 428,920 588,748 41 loan liability and equity attributable to the Parent Company’s share42 holder (share capital, other contributed capital, retained earnings, Unsettled results from transactions as well as standardised computed including profit for the year). safety margins using stock exchange-cleared derivatives have been 43 secured through blocked bank funds. Pledged assets have decreased by SEK 160 million. The Group also received collateral of SEK 1,762 million, see Note 34. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes 87 37 Contingent liabilities 41 Change in interest-bearing net loan liabilities 1 Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 3 Contingent liability, Opening amount 23,923,104 18,870,044 23,923,272 18,870,274 4 FPG/PRI 4,332 4,116 4,332 4,116 Increase (–)/ 5 TOTAL 4,332 4,116 4,332 4,116 Decrease (+) in interest-bearing 6 receivables –478,875 375,902 –478,875 375,902 7 Increase (–)/ 38 Interest received and paid Decrease (+) in 8 current investments –2,378,588 282,773 –2,378,588 282,710 Group Parent Company 9 Increase (–)/ 2016 2015 2016 2015 Decrease (+) in cash 10 Interest received 2,933 13,515 2,933 13,515 and cash equivalents 1,254,956 –29,264 1,254,956 –29,264 11 Interest paid –533,460 –580,630 –533,460 –580,630 Increase (–)/ Decrease (+) in 12 TOTAL –530,527 –567,115 –530,527 –567,115 current receivables 30,564 –461,235 30,564 –461,235 13 Increase (+)/ Decrease (–) in interest-­ 14 39 Adjustments for items not included bearing liabilities 4,611,254 4,884,885 4,611,254 4,884,885 15 in the cash flow CHANGE IN 16 INTEREST-BEARING Group Parent Company NET LOAN LIABILITIES 3,039,311 5,053,060 3,039,311 5,052,998 17 2016 2015 2016 2015 18 Depreciation, impairAMOUNT AT ments and reversed THE YEAR-END 26,962,415 23,923,104 26,962,583 23,923,272 19 impairments 5,518 6,190 1,040,307 1,597,712 20 Change in value, properties –3,722,328 –2,672,437 — — 21 Capital gain (–)/loss (+) 42 Transactions with related parties 22 on sale of tangible, non-current assets –35,257 –91,346 –23,849 –101,130 In conjunction with intra-Group purchases and sales, the same pricing 23 principles are applied as would have been the case in transactions with Change in value, 24 financial instruments –424,077 163,719 –424,077 163,719 an external party. Intra-Group property purchases and sales take place subject to a fiscal residual value. Purchases and sales of other current 25 Cash flow hedge 52,575 –16,100 52,575 –16,100 assets take place at the carrying amount. There were no transactions 26 Change in pension with the President, Board of Directors or senior executives, apart from provisions and similar salary and other remuneration, see Note 10. 27 commitments 17,493 16,319 10,683 1,592 Transactions with Group companies are shown in the table below. 28 Other — — — — Group Parent Company 29 TOTAL –4,106,076 –2,593,655 655,639 1,645,793 2016 2015 2016 2015 30 Income 31 40 Purchase sum in conjunction with Companies within the 32 Akademiska Hus Group — — — 16,648 investments, acquisitions and disposals 33 TOTAL — — 0 16,648 For investments and acquisitions for the period, a total of KSEK 34 2,763,607 (2,505,635) has been paid, of which KSEK 2,763,607 was Liabilities 35 paid in cash and cash equivalents. The Parent Company also invested KSEK 0 (0) in shares in subsidiaries. For disposals for the period, a Companies within the 36 Akademiska Hus Group — — 2,153 2,153 total of KSEK 103,072 (124,343) has been received, of which KSEK 37 103,072 was received in cash and cash equivalents. TOTAL — — 2,153 2,153 38 39 43 Events after the year-end 40 Akademiska Hus has a new organisational structure as of 1 January 41 2017. We are replacing the regional divisions with our core processes. 42 On 17 January 2017 an Extraordinary General Meeting was held during 43 which Christer Nerlich was elected to serve on the Board of Directors. Otherwise no events of a material nature occurred after the end of the reporting period. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Signing of the Annual Report Signing of the Annual Report The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the Annual Consolidated Accounts have been prepared in accordance with InterReport has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as endorsed by the EU, and RFR 2 and provides a fair picture of the Company’s position and and provide a fair picture of the Group’s position and results and that results and that the Administration Report provides a fair overview of the Administration Report for the Group provides a fair overview of the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and the development of the Group’s operations, position and results and describes material risks and uncertainties facing the Company. describes material risks and uncertainties facing the companies that The Board of Directors and the President hereby certify that the form part of the Group. Gothenburg, 13 March 2017 Anitra Steen Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Kristina Ekengren Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Board member Employee representative Employee representative Christer Nerlich Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President Our Audit Report was submitted on March 17, 2017. KPMG AB Björn Flink Authorised Public Accountant AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor’s Report 89 Auditor’s Report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Akademiska Hus AB (publ) , corp. id 556459-915 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts OPINIONS BASIS FOR OPINIONS We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Akademiska Hus AB (publ) for the year 2016, except for the corporate Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. governance statement on pages 44–51. The annual accounts and conOur responsibilities under those standards are further described in the solidated accounts of the company are included on pages 28–88 in this Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent comdocument. pany and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountIn our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities ance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material in accordance with these requirements. respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 2016 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and KEY AUDIT MATTERS present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional as of 31 December 2016 and their financial performance and cash flow for judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reportand consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were ing Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate governance statement on thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but pages 44–51. The statutory administration report is consistent with we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY See note 2 General accounting priciples, note 16 Properties (Group) and note 17 Properties (Parent Company) on pages 61, 74 and 76 respectively in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit Investment property is held at fair value in the consolidated accounts. We have considered if the valuation methods used are reasonable by comAs per 31 December 2016 Investment property amounts to MSEK paring them with our experience from methods used by other property 73,013, which is approximately 90 % of total consolidated assets. companies and external property appraisers and those assumptions and Accounting for investment property at fair value requires signifiprerequisites normally used in investment property valuations. cant judgements and estimates of future events. Fair value has been We have assessed the expertise of the internal valuation organization. determined through internal valuations. In addition, in order to valiWe have taken part of and assessed the relevance of the information date reliability in valuations, external valuations have been obtained gathered by the Company from external sources to support significant for a selection of properties held by the group. assumptions and preconditions in valuation models used. Given the significant share of total consolidated assets and the We have tested controls established by the Company to ensure that significant judgements and estimates of future events required when input data to internal valuations are accurate and complete. valuing investment property we consider valuation of investment We have, on sample basis, tested property valuations. In doing so, we property as a key audit matter in our audit. used market data derived from external sources in order to challenge The risk is that fair value of investment property could be overor significant assumptions and estimates used, in particular on yields and underestimated and that any adjustment to fair value would directly imputed rates of interest. affect the periods’ result. We have checked the accuracy of disclosures on investment property given in the notes to the annual report, in particular on significant assumptions and key estimates used. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 Auditor’s Report OTHER INFORMATION THAN THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a AND CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstateThis document also contains other information than the annual ment resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–27 och as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, missidan 98–101. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are representations, or the override of internal control. responsible for this other information. • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts does to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate not cover this other information and we do not express any form of in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinassurance conclusion regarding this other information. ion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified above reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director. annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess Managing Director’s, use of the going concern basis of accounting in whether the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We also If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, condraw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to whether clude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR related disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion about the for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Our conclusions are and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordreport. However, future events or conditions may cause a company ance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts presentation. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the finanthe assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as cial information of the entities or business activities within the group a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going to express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsiconcern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going ble for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board of We remain solely responsible for our opinions. Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficiencies in oversee the company’s financial reporting process. internal control that we identified. We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the pendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an and where applicable, related safeguards. auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered matethe key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report rial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter or when, expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. be communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse conseAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional quences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. public interest benefits of such communication. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor’s Report 91 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements OPINIONS Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guaranIn addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, tee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted we have also audited the administration of the Board of Directors and auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions the Managing Director of Akademiska Hus AB (publ) for the year 2016 that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the with the Companies Act. profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the finanprofessional skepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the cial year. administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional BASIS FOR OPINIONS audit procedures performed are based on our professional judgment We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing with starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are examination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indefor the operations and where deviations and violations would have parpendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with proticular importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test fessional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. circumstances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and from liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proappropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordAND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR ance with the Companies Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this THE AUDITOR’S EX AMINATION OF THE CORPOR ATE includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering GOVERNANCE STATEMENT the requirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s statement on pages 44–51 has been prepared in accordance with the equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Annual Accounts Act. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conand the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audiother things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s tor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is that our examination of the corporate governance statement is differdesigned so that the accounting, management of assets and the compaent and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordny’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing administration auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the managein accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points ment of assets in a reassuring manner. 2–6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY annual accounts and consolidated accounts are in accordance with Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby the Annual Accounts Act. our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any material respect: Gothenburg, 17 March 2017 • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. KPMG AB Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations of Björn Flink the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to Authorized Public Accountant assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92 GRI data About the Sustainability Report Akademiska Hus’ sustainability report is an integral part of the annual report and follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, GRI G4, and the GRI’s Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement. The report is in accordance with the “Core” option. KPMG has reviewed and certified the sustainability report. Since 2013 Akademiska Hus has supported the UN Global Compact The Sustainability Report includes the cross-reference table presented initiative and thus takes a stand and accepts responsibility for ten recon pages 94–95 and the pages to which the table refers. The cross referognised principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environence table presents a summary of the GRI indicators that are reported ment and anti-corruption issues. The principles are based on the UN and page references to the respective indicator and COP. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on FundaA summary of the trade organisations of which the Company is a mental Principles and Rights at Work, the OECD Guidelines for Multimember can be found at akademiskahus.se. national Enterprises, and the Rio Declaration. The Annual Report and the Sustainability Report also serve as Akademiska Hus’ Communication on Progress (COP) for reporting work to the Global Compact. The Sustainability Report of Akademiska Hus covers the financial Contact year and is published annually. The most recent report was published on 31 March 2016. Akademiska Hus presents its sustainability work based on the Company’s main processes, with the focus on those areas that are considered most important. No significant changes have taken Mia Edofsson place in the business during the accounting period. The data presented Sustainability Manager mia.edofsson@akademiskahus.se cover the financial year 2016, from 1 January to 31 December, and applies to Akademiska Hus as a Group. GRI data The following information about the GRI indicators is not presented G4-20-21: ASPECT AND BOUNDARIES WITHIN AND OUTSIDE anywhere else in the Annual Report. THE ORGANISATION G4-10: TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE, Material aspect GRI aspect Boundary EMPLOYMENT CONTR ACT, REGION AND GENDER Own operations As at 31 December 2016 Akademiska Hus employs a total of 442 people, Efficient use of Energy and supply chain all of whom are permanently employed, with the exception of eight resources Emissions and customers people who are on trial contracts. 22 people have part-time jobs. A safe working Occupational Own operations environment Health and safety and supply chain Distribution of men and women, by region: Good supplier Environment Gender management Working conditions Supply chain Men Women Total High transparency and effective anti-­ Own operations Akademiska Hus Head Office 44 51 95 corruption programme Anti-corruption and customers Akademiska Hus Southern Region 37 14 51 Diversity and equal Akademiska Hus Western Region 51 17 68 Diversity opportunity Own operations Akademiska Hus Eastern Region 27 3 30 Akademiska Hus Uppsala Region 48 12 60 In addition to these essential areas we see collaboration regarding Akademiska Hus Stockholm Region 78 23 101 innovation, campus development and student accommodation as important issues for our business. Read more on page 10. Akademiska Hus Northern Region 33 4 37 Total 317 124 442 72% 28% 100% AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI data 93 G4-EC1: DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENER ATED G4-EN16: ENERGY INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND DISTRIBUTED Total CO2 emissions in 2016 amounted to 28,275 tons (32 909 tons).1 Economic stakeholder relations Direct economic value generated G4-EN19: REDUCTION IN EMISSIONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES Total CO2 emissions in 2016 amounted to 4 634 tons (2 227 tons).1, 2 Income 5,666 Economic value distributed 1) A  ll CO2 data in this summary is based on information from suppliers who report in accordance with current accounting standards. 2015 emission Payments to suppliers –1,689 factors for heating were used since emission factors for 2016 were not Employee wages and benefits –264 available at the time this report was prepared. 2) T  he reduction is based on the difference between the total energy reduction Fees and remuneration to the Board and CEO –11 in 2015 and 2016. Social security costs –120 Interest paid to lenders, net –625 G4-CRE3: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION LEVELS Dividends to shareholders –1,290 FROM PROPERTIES Greenhouse gas emissions levels from Akademiska Hus properties was Economic value retained 1,667 7.4 kg of CO2/m2 (8,1 kg of CO2/m2). Other key figures for the EC-1 indicator can be found in: G4-LA6: WORK-RELATED INJURIES AND ILLNESSES Income Statement page 54 Accident statistics are recorded in our internal “AkaÄrende” system, Allocation of unappropriated earnings page 53 which classifies them into the categories: own staff, construction operStaff note Note 10, pages 69–70 ations and management. During the year, six injuries to our own staff were reported to the G4-EN3: ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANISATION Swedish Social Insurance Agency. During the same period, 16 accidents involving our own staff were MWh 2016 2015 reported to the “AkaÄrende” system. The most frequently occurring Total energy consumption types of work-related injury are accidental falls (from low height), and (non-renewable energy 92,416 90,771 vehicle-related accidents. Total energy consumption (renewable energy) 691,582 712,723 G4-LA12: DIVERSITY WITHIN THE ORGANISATION Total electricity 387,329 401,424 As at 31 December 2016, Akademiska Hus employees included 72 per cent charges passed on to tenant 269,863 264,279 men and 28 per cent women. Total heating 306,208 313,043 Age and gender: charges passed on to tenant 106,048 78,129 2016 Total cooling 73,447 75,120 Number of Number of charges passed on to tenant 68,162 64,544 Composition of the company Number women men Total steam 17,014 13,907 Board of Directors charges passed on to tenant 11,253 13,907 Under 30 years 0 0 0 30–50 years 1 1 0 Own electricity generation from Over 50 years 7 2 5 renewables 2016 2015 Executive Management Solar electricity (MWh) 1,165 726 Under 30 years 0 0 0 Degree day method has been used for correction of heat. 30–50 years 5 2 3 G4-EN6: REDUCTION OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION Over 50 years 7 3 4 Employees in managerial position1 2016 2015 Under 30 years 0 0 0 Total reduction (MWh) 19,496 19,393 30–50 years 35 11 24 Over 50 years 26 4 22 Invested (SEK) 130,233,675 125,992,000 Other employees Under 30 years 15 4 11 30–50 years 185 62 123 Over 50 years 169 38 131 1) Executive Management is reported separately. The table shows the composition of the composition of the company by gender and age for different levels within the company. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 GRI och COP index GRI och COP index Global Page or Compact Indicator Description reference Comment principle STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the President 2–4 ORGANISATION PROFILE G4-3 Organisation name Front cover G4-4 Brands, products, and services 1, 19 G4-5 Location of head office 100 G4-6 Number of countries in which the organisation operates 100 G4-7 Ownership structure and legal form 44 G4-8 Markets in which the organisation operates 33 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Inside cover, 54, 69 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment 92 Akademiska Hus reports number of employees by 6 contract, region and gender employment type, gender and region. The Company also has a large number of temporary employees from staffing companies, but they are not reported because no data is available. Akademiska Hus has no significant variations in the number of employees over the year. G4-11 Proportion of the workforce covered by collective All employees are signed to the collective “Almega 3 bargaining agreements Fastigheter Salary Agreement” except for employees in business management positions. G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain 8–10, 24–25 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period No significant changes during the financial year G4-14 Description of whether and how the organisation 8–10 Akademiska Hus works according to environmental follows the Precautionary Principle management system ISO 14001:2004 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and 92 social declarations, principles or other initiatives that the organisation supports or is affiliated with G4-16 Membership of organisations and/or national/international www.akademiskahus.se lobbying organisations (Sustainability/Sustainability partnerships) ESSENTIAL ASPECTS AND LIMITATIONS G4-17 Entities that are included in the organisation’s financial 76, 92 statements G4-18 Description of the process for defining report content 8–10 and aspect boundaries G4-19 Material aspects identified 8–10 G4-20 Aspect and boundaries within the organisation 92 G4-21 Aspect and boundaries outside the organisation 92 G4-22 Changes to the information provided in previous reports No significant changes have been made to information and the reasons for such changes submitted in the 2015 report. G4-23 Significant changes that have been made since the 92 previous reporting period COMMUNICATION AND STAKEHOLDERS G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 8–10 G4-25 Principle for identifying and selecting stakeholders 8–10 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8–10 G4-27 Important areas and issues that have been raised in 8–10 communication with stakeholders INFORMATION ON ACCOUNTING AND CONTROL G4-28 Reporting period 92 G4-29 Publication date for latest report 92 G4-30 Reporting cycle 92 G4-31 Contact for questions regarding the report and its content 92 G4-32 Report GRI Content Index according to the GRI reporting 92, 94–95, level Core and external assurance report 97 G4-33 Statement of the organisation’s policy and procedures 92, 97 for external assurance of reporting G4-34 Statement of the organisation’s corporate governance 44–51 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI och COP index 95 Global Page or Compact Indicator Description reference Comment principle ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles and ethical standards 24, 40 10 such as codes of conduct FINANCES DMA Economic Performance Inside cover, 6–7, 12 EC-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 53–54, 69–70, 93 DMA Indirect economic impacts 1, 6–7, 20–21, 24 EC-7 Investments in infrastructure and services for public benefit 20–26 ENVIRONMENT DMA Energy 12, 25–26 EN-3 Energy Consumption within the organisation 25–26, 93 Akademiska Hus reports on electricity, heating and 7, 8 cooling because these areas account for the dominant share of energy consumption. EN-6 Reduction of energy consumption 25–26, 93 Akademiska Hus reports on electricity, heating and 8, 9 cooling because these areas account for the dominant share of energy consumption. DMA Emissions 25–26 EN-16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) 93 7, 8 EN-19 Reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases 93 8, 9 CRE-3 Greenhouse gas emission levels from properties 93 DMA Supplier Environmental Assessment 24 EN-32 Number of new suppliers that have undergone 24 The information relates to the percentage of active 8 environmental inspection suppliers DMA Occupational Health and safety 13, 24 LA-5 Representation on health and safety committees 50 employees (11%) are involved in Health and Safety Committees LA-6 Work-related injuries and illnesses 13, 93 Akademiska Hus reports total figures for absence through sickness and injuries at work for the company as a whole. Work-related injuries and illnesses for contractors cannot be reported due to unavailability of data. DMA Diversity and equal opportunity 13, 24 LA-12 Diversity within the organisation 93 6 DMA Monitoring of suppliers’ working conditions 24 LA-14 Number of new suppliers that have undergone inspection 24 The information relates to the percentage of active of working conditions suppliers DMA Anti-corruption 24, 40–43, 50–51 SO-5 Corruption incidents and action taken 50 10 DMA Product and Service labelling 8, 12 PR-5 Results from customer satisfaction surveys 12 CRE-8 Type and number of sustainability certificates, ratings 2–4, 24 and scores for new construction Human rights Consistently important issue throughout the value 1, 2 chain. Child labour Given high priority in efforts to establish accident-free 5 workplaces. Forced labour The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this 4 area is not identified as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. The Code of Conduct covers this principle, but this area is not identified as one of the main risk areas for Akademiska Hus. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 Signatures of Board of Directors Signatures of Board of Directors Sustainability Report The Sustainability Report for 2016 has been approved for publication by the Board of Directors and the CEO of Akademiska Hus AB. Gothenburg, 13 March 2017 Anitra Steen Britta Burreau Olof Ehrlén Chairman Board member Board member Kristina Ekengren Thomas Jennlinger Anders Larsson Board member Employee representative Employee representative Christer Nerlich Gunnar Svedberg Ingemar Ziegler Board member Board member Board member Kerstin Lindberg Göransson President AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Auditor’s Report 97 Auditor’s Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Akademiska Hus AB (Publ.) dures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement Sustainability Report vary in nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurThis is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. ance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. The firm To Akademiska Hus AB (Publ.) applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including INTRODUCTION documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Akademiska Hus requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulato undertake a limited assurance engagement of Akademiska Hus AB tory requirements. Consequently, the procedures performed do not (Publ.) Sustainability Report for the year 2016. Akademiska Hus has enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signifidefined the scope of the Sustainability Report on page 92. cant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY Directors and the Executive Management as described above. We conREPORT sider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responsible Report. for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and the applicable criteria, as explained on page 92 in the Sustainability appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Report, that are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) that are applicaCONCLUSION ble to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculaBased on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing tion principles that the Company has developed. This responsibility has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Report that is free from material misstatements, criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. whether due to fraud or error. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Gothenburg, 17 March 2017 Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed. KPMG AB We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Björn Flink Torbjörn Westman Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance proceAuthorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 98 DEFINITIONS Performance measures and definitions ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES In accordance with European Securities and Markets Authority guidelines NET INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE, BREAKDOWN, SEK M (ESMA) on reporting of alternative performance measures, the definition and 01-01-2016– 01-01-2015– reconciliation of alternative performance measures for Akademiska Hus are SEK M 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 presented here. The guidelines entail additional disclosures regarding financial measures that are not defined in IFRS. The performance measures presented Interest cost, net loans and financial assets –233 –309 below are reported in the interim report. They are used for internal governance Net interest derivatives –133 –129 and follow-up and are generally accepted in the property industry. Owner objectives have also been set for return on operating capital and the equity Change in value, independent financial derivratio. Since not all companies calculate financial measures in the same way, atives 30 27 these are not always comparable to measures used by other companies. – unrealised –18 256 Return on equity – realised –217 –132 Earnings after financial items after 22 per cent tax in relation to average Changes in value, fair value hedges –6 41 equity (IB+UB)/2. Other interest costs –17 –17 Return on operating capital Capitalised interest expense, projects 75 108 Earnings before financial items, excluding changes in value in relation to average operating capital (IB+UB)/2. Reported net interest income and expense –549 –182 Return on total assets Earnings before financial items plus financial income in relation to the Fixed income funds – asset average total equity and liabilities (IB+UB)/2. (full-year basis) –28,104 –22,397 Loan-to-value ratio Net investments Interest-bearing net loan debt in relation to the closing value of properties. Closing balance minus the opening balance for non-current assets plus depreciation and impairments minus revaluations. Yield Operating surplus in relation to the average fair value, excluding buildings Net loan liability under construction. Loans, derivatives, portion of current receivables and liabilities as well as This performance measure shows the return from operations in relation cash and cash equivalents. Pension provisions and similar items are not to the value of the properties. included. Net operating income ratio Net operating income in relation to property management income. 01-01-2016– 01-01-2015– The net operating income ratio shows how much the Company gets SEK M 31-12-2016 31-12-2015 to keep from each krona earned from business operations. It is a type Loans –32,757 –28,399 of efficiency measure that is comparable over time. Derivatives – liabilities –690 –819 Financing cost according to IFRS Collateral for derivatives –1,762 –1,380 Net financial income/expense in the form of the financing cost for loans, net interest for financial derivatives and the change in fair value of finanCash and cash equivalents 5,369 4,304 cial derivatives, in relation to average interest-bearing capital. (Please see Other current receivables 492 461 the table on the top right) Derivatives receivables 2,386 1,909 Interest coverage ratio Total net loan liability –26,962 –23,924 Profit before financial items, excluding changes in the value of properties in relation to net financial income/expense, excluding changes in value, financial derivatives, including period allocation of realised profits from Operating capital derivatives and including capitalised interest in projects. (Please see the Equity plus interest-bearing net loan liability. table on the top right) The interest coverage ratio is a financial measure that shows how many Interest-bearing liabilities times the Company is able to pay its interest with adjusted earnings Interest-bearing loans, including pension provisions and similar items. before financial items. Equity ratio Period-allocated financing cost Equity in relation to Total equity and liabilities. Net interest income and expense in the form of the financing cost for loans, net interest for financial derivatives and period allocation of realised profits Total yield on financial derivatives over the remaining term of the underlying instruDirect yield from properties and their change in value, expressed in per ment, in relation to average, interest-bearing capital. (Please see the table cent. on the top right) Internal financing ratio Cash flow from current operations before changes in working capital in relation to net investments. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 DEFINITIONS 99 DEFINITIONS Operating costs Floor space, m² Operating costs are costs incurred to keep a property, installation or similar Rentable floor space in square metres. facility functioning. Operating costs are divided into media provision, monitoring and service. Maintenance costs Costs for measures taken aimed at reinstating the original standard and Property administration function of worn or damaged parts of a building. Costs for tenant adaptaCost of management, day-to-day accounting administration, leasing, contions are also recognised here. tact with tenants, handling of registers, contracts and drawings, technical planning and follow-up and human resource administration. Rental and vacancy levels Leased or vacant floor space in relation to the total floor space. Financial Rental revenue leasing or vacant space levels are rental revenue for space leased and The basic rent, index-linked, and estimated rent for vacant rentable floor estimated rental revenue for vacant space in relation to the total rental space and supplements, with a deduction for vacant space and rent reducrevenue. tions. Floor space, m², GFS Gross floor space of building. Comprises rentable floor space as well as common areas and the areas surrounding the building. AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 INFORMATION AND ADDRESSES INFORMATION SCHEDULE FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: April 28, 2017 Annual General Meeting Kerstin Lindberg Göransson, President April 28, 2017 Interim Report, January–March 2017 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 60 July 15, 2017 Interim report April–June 2017 E-mail: Kerstin.LindbergGoransson@akademiskahus.se October 27, 2017 Interim Report, July–September 2017 February 2018 Year-end report 2017 Catarina Fritz, CFO March 2018 Annual Report 2017 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 81 E-mail: catarina.fritz@akademiskahus.se www.akademiskahus.se ADDRESSES HEAD OFFICE REGIONAL OFFICES Akademiska Hus Akademiska Hus Lund Akademiska Hus Stockholm Akademiska Hus Umeå Box 483 Ole Römers väg 2 Box 1394 Box 7985 SE-401 27 Göteborg SE-223 63 Lund SE-171 27 Solna SE-907 19 Umeå Street address: Stampgatan 14 Telephone: +46 46 31 13 00 Street address: Berzelius väg 8, vån 3-5 Street address: Artedigränd 2 Telephone: +46 31 63 24 00 Telephone: +46 8 685 75 00 Telephone: +46 90 17 62 00 www.akademiskahus.se info@akademiskahus.se Akademiska Hus Linköping Akademiska Hus Uppsala Olaus Magnus väg 34 Villavägen 20 Company registration number SE-583 30 Linköping SE-752 36 Uppsala 556459-9156 Telephone: +46 13 36 45 00 Street address: Artillerigatan 7 Telephone: +46 18 68 32 00 AKADEMISKA HUS | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 The information in this annual report is such that Akademiska Hus AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the Swedish Securities Market Act. The information was submitted for publication on 24 March 2017 at 5:00 p.m. CET. Nordiska Miljömärkningen Svanen Produced by Akademiska Hus in cooperation with Intellecta Corporate NORDIC ECOLABEL 3041 0250 • Färgkod PMS 354, Fyrfärgskod C-91%, M-0,0%, Y-8 • Standardfärger enligt SS 019100 – 019103 Blankt papper: 1080G10Y Matt papper: 354U-1070G NCS: 0879-G07Y NCS: 1368-G04Y C IC E OL A • Miljömärket bör ej understiga 8 mm och ska minst ha D storleken att texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” och underliggan är tydligt läsbara. Photos: Åke E:son Lindman (Cover, pages 15, 19), Ola Kjelbye (fold-out, pages 1, 13, 14, 25, 31), R BE • När märket understiger 2 cm i diameter kan den förk utelämnas på produkten (Trycksak), om den finns m NO L Text på märket: Rasmus Norlander (fold-out), Olof Holdar (pages 3, 47, 49), Robert Lindroth (page 8), Mira Åkerman (page 15). • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” följer märkets rundade form • Texten ”MILJÖMÄRKT” med versaler och teckensnitt halvfet. Teckentäthet och teckengrad anpassas till m Drawings: KUB arkitekter (fold-out), Utopia Arkitekter (page 14), Tengbom (page 16), • Texten under märket ”Trycksak” skrivs horisontellt un Teckensnitt helvetica, rak används med versal som b och anpassas i storlek till märket Christensen & Co Arkitekter (page 21). • För tryckning på Svanen på andra nordiska språk stu nordisk miljömärkning. Print: Göteborgstryckeriet www.akademiskahus.se | info@akademiskahus.se
