United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016/2017 REPORT TAB L E O F C O N T E N T S 3 Joint Statement from the Executive Chairman & CEO 5 Part I: About APCO 6 Mission & Values 7 APCO Offices 8 Awards & Recognition 9 Governance & Responsible Business 9 Global Leadership Team Members 10 Codes of Conduct 10 Employee Development 11 Employee Engagement 11 Memberships 12 Citizenship & Community Engagement 14 Examples of Executive Leadership’s Board Memberships 14 Humanitarian Emergency & Disaster Response 14 Commitment to Leadership Development & Civic Services 14 Challenges & Opportunities 15 Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth 18 Highlights of APCO’s Client Work 20 Part II: UNGC Principles 21 Human Rights Principles 25 Labor Principles 29 Environmental Principles 33 Anti-Corruption Principles 37 Moving Forward 2 J O I N T S TAT E M E N T F R O M T H E E X E C U T I V E C H A I R M A N & C E O APCO Worldwide is pleased to present are active in advancing conversations examples of our efforts to live by the UN Sincerely, our seventh annual report on progress as a and initiatives and are champions of Compact Principles locally and globally. signatory of the UN Global Compact. Since diversity and inclusion — 56 percent of our Our work also enables us to galvanize our last report, the world has dramatically leadership positions are held by women movements that sustain impact. We transformed. A rise in populist and nationalist and 28.8 percent of our U.S. team was saw this unfold when the masses united sentiment, particularly in the United States, classified as minority in 2016, per EEOC at Lampedusa concerts hosted by the has driven sharp divides, creating political designated ethnic categories. Jesuit Refugee Services across America. uncertainty, testing long-standing alliances As a global communications consultancy, we The moment — the shared experience and creating space for new global leaders to help clients define their own unique purpose of music — transcends the politics and champion the global sustainability agenda. and mission. Assuring our clients, employees problems surrounding the issue. From where APCO sits at the intersection of and partners are creating programs and business, politics and society, we see that We amplify our impact by continuing to work policies that have a meaningful impact Margery Kraus uncertainty, and the fortitude to act in the with organizations, like the International on the SDGs. In 2016–17, these efforts Founder and Executive Chairman face of it, is perhaps our greatest obstacle. Crisis Group, World Economic Forum and involved very candid discussions on whether The lack of a proven playbook or consensus Jesuit Relief Services. Our communities to “enlist” or “resist;” how to balance around global priorities, and the means to become fortified forces to be reckoned with competing stakeholder demands on issues achieve them, enhances the importance when we move, believe and inspire together. ranging from immigration to climate change; of the Global Compact as a convening and, most fundamentally, defining and As a majority women-owned firm, we organization and the ambitions it represents communicating organizational value that prioritize empowering other women through in the Sustainable Development Goals transcends political noise. For eight years, our women’s economic inclusion work with (SDGs). APCO provided pro bono communication organizations like the Women’s President As a global company operating in this and strategic counsel support to the Clinton Organization, WEConnect International and uncertain environment, we continue to Global Initiative (CGI). CGI convened Women Advancing Africa. challenge ourselves to learn, grow and global and emerging leaders to create Though we remain faced with uncertainty, we adapt. All employees are required to and implement solutions to the world’s take a stance. We do it for ourselves — and participate in anti-corruption trainings most pressing challenges. As a result, the for our clients. APCO is proud to reaffirm our upon joining APCO. APCO promotes members committed to more than 3,600 commitment to supporting the SDGs and Brad Staples volunteerism through our corporate giving Commitments to Action, which helped its Principles in this report. As always, we Chief Executive Officer and charity matching program, as well improve the lives of over 435 million people welcome your thoughts and feedback. as our APCO Gives Back initiative. We in 180 countries. This is just one of the many 3 C O M M U N I C AT I N G O U R P R O G R E S S APCO Worldwide Inc. joined the UNGC in June 2010. This report is our seventh Communication on Progress (COP). All data contained in this document relates to the calendar year January–December 2016. In addition, some initiatives mentioned refer to the first half of 2017. This Report Contains Two Parts: PAR T I PAR T I I Provides a short overview about APCO, Covers our policies, programs and actions including our 2016–2017 organizational to promote the UNGC’s 10 Principles on human profile and our approach to governance, rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. responsible business and citizenship. This section uses the “Basic COP” template provided by the UNGC. A global cross-functional team was responsible for developing this report, which was reviewed and approved by the Chair of APCO’s Responsible Business Committee and by our Executive Chairman and CEO. 4 PAR T I ABOUT APCO APCO Worldwide is a global communications consultancy. We help the most innovative organizations adapt and thrive in this fast-moving, interconnected and complex world, enabling them to reach their business and societal goals. We bring our clients’ work to life creatively and digitally through diverse thinking and a campaign mentality that is not limited by any particular service or discipline, but embraces a variety of integrated tactics to achieve success. APCO is a majority employeeand women-owned business. Founded in 1984, APCO is the only major consultancy of its kind headquartered in Washington, D.C. We serve clients in more than 80 markets around the world. Our 672 permanent employees (as of December 31, 2016) comprise more than 40 nationalities and come from diverse professional backgrounds, including: former elected leaders, ambassadors, journalists, business and nonprofit executives, government officials, market researchers, as well as communication, corporate affairs and online experts. APCO secured its independence in 2004 after more than a decade as an affiliate of Grey Global Group. Since its inception in 1984, it has grown from a small one-office firm to a diverse global consultancy servicing high-profile clients. APCO’s revenue has more than doubled since obtaining its independence in 2004. APCO’s growth was mostly organic during its 32 years of operation. In 2017, APCO retained its independence through a buyout of previous minority shareholders with the support of Citibank and Monroe Capital. The arrangement also provides the potential for additional capital, which APCO can use for growth, acquisition and continued innovation to meet the changing demands of the marketplace and to better service clients. This renewed commitment to independence is another step in our unique story and an exciting opportunity to continue to build a first-rate firm for the future. We also added two new members to our board of directors, who replace three outgoing members: Marcia Page, executive chair of Värde Partners, and Peter Milton Sommerhauser, founding partner at Wing Capital Group. They join three existing board members: APCO Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus, CEO Brad Staples and Joseph Zimmel, former managing director at Goldman, Sachs and Co. APCO also added four new members to its Global Leadership Team (GLT) who will help direct future growth for the firm. The new GLT members include: Agnieszka Yank, APCO’s chief talent officer; Robert Ardelt, managing director of APCO’s Germany offices; Kelly Williamson, managing director of APCO’s Raleigh, North Carolina office; and Marc Johnson, global practice lead of APCO’s digital practice. Our Global Leadership Team serves as the ideas engine of APCO. 5 M I S S I O N A N D VA L U E S objectives and deep insights into their political, economic and social environments. In the first quarter of 2016, APCO relaunched its revitalized mission and reconfirmed its While we operate as one integrated values across the company. Through a series company with offices around the world, we of discussions, employees gained a new secure our clients’ license to operate and perspective on the importance of APCO’s grow by delivering results that are locally mission and the values that employees relevant but globally impactful. adhere to in order to achieve ACPO’s goals. APCO continuously educates its staff about A P C O ’ S VA L U E S the company’s mission and values. • M  ake client success our measurement of achievement APCO’S MISSION • Empower people to do great work •  nable clients to achieve their objectives E • Nurture an organization where everyone through insightful counsel, authentic is valued advocacy and creative communications. • Rely on one another to achieve personal • Counsel clients on the opportunities potential and challenges of a global marketplace • Build relationships to build business and engaged stakeholders in times of • Tell the truth transformational change. • Push the boundaries with innovative • Partner with clients to add value to their technology and solutions enterprises and benefit society. • Provide global service culture by culture ACCOMPLISHING OUR MISSION We accomplish our mission by fostering a culture of critical and unconventional thinking, which is made possible because of our commitment to hiring, growing and retaining exceptional people from diverse backgrounds. We achieve results through a strategic understanding of our clients’ 6 APCO OFFICES 7 AWA R D S A N D EMEA SABRE Awards 2017 CSR Awards 2017 EMEA PR Consultancies of the RECOGNITION Public Education Agency CSR A-List Year Awards 2016 “BetterThanThat” Polish Cultural Institute PR News French PR Consultancy of the Year Hall of Femme 2017 The Holmes Report The Holmes Report Margery Kraus 50 Most Powerful Public Relations PRWeek European Excellence Award Firms in America 2016 EMEA SABRE Awards 2016: Animal Care “eBay Adopts L’Aquila” The New York Observer “Modernizing the Legal Status of Animals in EMEA SABRE Awards 2017 European Excellence Awards France: A Major Breakthrough in French Law” Best Network to Work For in EMEA Hall of Femme 2016 The Fondation 30 d’ Amis The Holmes Report North America SABRE Awards 2017 Tina-Marie Adams The Holmes Report Public Affairs Agency of the Year PRWeek EMEA SABRE Awards 2017 The Holmes Report CSR Awards 2016: Agency CSR A-List Cause-Related Marketing Global SABRE Awards 2016 PR News “eBay Adopts L’Aquila” Global Power Book 2017 One of the Top 40 Campaigns in the The Holmes Report Margery Kraus, Brad Staples, Jim McGregor, World Nelson Fernandez and Nick Ashooh “Modernizing the Legal Status of Animals in PRWeek France: A Major Breakthrough in French Law” The Fondation 30 d’ Amis The Holmes Report PR News CSR Awards 2017 Holmes North America SABRE Awards 2017 MEPRA 2016 Awards PR News CSR Awards 2017 8 GOVERNANCE & business strategy, incubates ideas and drives how business is done. APCO’s commitment help identify and resolve potential conflicts RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS innovation and contributes to the annual to operating responsibly includes acting of interest with client work or APCO’s budget development. The GLT meets three with strong ethics and integrity; adhering to values. The RBC guides APCO’s Global Governance to four times a year in person, and the standards of good governance and financial Leadership Team on ethical matters and APCO Worldwide is governed by a board membership is reviewed on an annual basis. stewardship; supporting local communities; provides insights and information that helps of directors, which has the legal and This leadership group reflects the diversity and managing its environmental footprint. inform decisions made by leadership around fiduciary duties to oversee the company’s of APCO and reinforces the company’s APCO complies with the local laws of every the firm. The RBC serves as a resource for activities, management practices and commitment to the changing global nature market in which it operates, adheres to employees who have questions, concerns financial performance. The five-member of business and communications and a shift industry codes of conduct to which it is a or personal conflicts with the assignments board has a unitary structure. Two of in corporate interests to new, international signatory and strives to meet stakeholder we accept or how we operate. The RBC also the board members (Margery Kraus markets. It also empowers the next expectations. In 2008, APCO’s Responsible works to help APCO adopt industry best and Brad Staples) are APCO executives; generation of leaders at the company. Business Committee (RBC) was established practices in all areas of ethics, integrity and the other three members (Joseph Zimmel, to provide oversight for management of accountability. Marcia Page and Peter Milton Sommerhauser) Responsible Business APCO’s Code of Conduct and responsible are outside directors. The chair of the board As work is conducted across the globe, business policies and systems, including is Margery Kraus, APCO’s founder and APCO strives to be a responsible company compliance and ethics training. APCO’s RBC executive chairman. The board meets at in everything it does. A commitment to is the steward of APCO’s commitment to least quarterly. conducting business at the highest level ethical and responsible business conduct. In of ethics and integrity is derived from the At the start of 2015, APCO formed a Global addition to regularly reviewing and updating core values that have guided APCO since Leadership Team (GLT) consisting of senior the Code of Conduct, the RBC corroborates its founding. This commitment is embodied leaders who represent geographical, practice that staff members are provided training in its Code of Conduct, which sets forth the and operational areas of the company. The on ethical conduct and compliance with fundamental ethical principles that govern GLT defines and develops the company’s laws and works with senior management to GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM MEMBERS Margery Kraus Robert Ardelt Marc Johnson Kelly Williamson Brad Staples Claire Boussagol Lisa Osborne Ross Agnieszka Yank Evan Kraus Karen Buerkle Mamoon Sbeih James Nelson Fernandez Denise Teeling Acheson-Gray Mara Hedgecoth Martina Tydecks GLT Meeting 2016 9 CODES OF CONDUCT A commitment to conducting business at the highest level APCO Has Endorsed and Adheres to the Following Codes of Conduct of ethics and integrity is derived from the core values that in All of Its Activities: have guided APCO since its founding. •  ssociation Française des Conseils en Lobbying (AFCL) (France) A Code of Ethics EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT • Association of Professional Political Consultants (United Kingdom) Code of Conduct Investing in staff’s learning and development remains a top priority for APCO. Continuous • Confederation of Indian Industry (India) learning and skill development are important components of an employee’s professional Code of Business Ethics development and contribute to the firm’s success. APCO’s training program addresses • Council of Public Relations Firms (United States) business competencies, reflects the needs of the organization, enhances client relationships Code of Ethics and supports professional development. APCO’s goal is for 100 percent participation so that • Council of Public Relations Firms in Hong Kong (Hong Kong) all employees continuously enhance their business competencies and grow as professionals. Code of Ethics To complement training initiatives, APCO uses a state-of-the-art digital learning platform. • Degepol (Germany) This platform serves as a central hub for all things learning and development. Core skill Code of Conduct gaps related to technology, project management or budgeting can be addressed at a much • European Public Affairs Consultancies Association (EPACA) (Europe) quicker pace and reach more offices through online courses. Code of Conduct • Haute Autorité de la Transparence de la Vie Publique (HATPB) (Paris) Our focus in 2016 included: Code of Conduct • Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) (Hong Kong) ARC: APCO’s Digital Learning Platform Prevention of Bribery Ordinance (POBO) ARC hosts our centralized global learning and development • International Association of Business Communicators (International) calendar. Any training happening anywhere in the world is easy Code of Conduct for our employees to find and join. It serves as a hub for all of our • Public Communication and Institutional Relationship Management online courses and modules. ARC is designed to promote best Association (KIYED) (Turkey) practice sharing and knowledge transfer within the company. Ethical Principles Significant Improvement in Global Learning and Development • Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA) (United Kingdom) In Gallup’s 2016 Q12 Engagement Survey, APCO’s score for “learning and growth” was Code of Conduct 26 percent higher than the company’s 2015 score. This placed APCO in the 64th percentile • Public Relations Society of America (United States) of Gallup’s database, which contains survey responses from 850 organizations worldwide. Member Code of Ethics The increase in the learning and development score is the result of key 2016 training • World Economic Forum (International) initiatives that focused on providing employees with a half-day presentation skills boot camp, Partnership Against Corruption Initiative Code of Conduct (PACI) as well as the revamp of our Manager 101 training. 10 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT International Assignments and Global Mobility To provide the best level of client service, employees are regularly offered the opportunity In 2016, APCO’s Employee Engagement Program included: to work in another country or at a client location to become an integrated part of a specific Gallup Q12 Employee Engagement Survey client’s team. This provides the client with an extremely high level of service and the In 2016, APCO assessed employee engagement by administering the Gallup Q12 Employee employee with a unique professional development experience. To ensure that opportunities Engagement Survey. The highly accredited survey queried research-based questions that for global mobility are at the cornerstone of our global offering to existing and potential measure the most important elements of employee engagement. employees, a global mobility specialist is dedicated to managing a database of employee skill sets that complement various international assignments and carefully matches the right Recognizing Employee Milestones and Anniversaries employees with the right opportunities. APCO celebrates our employees by recognizing their anniversary of joining the company. Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus handwrites personalized anniversary cards for all employees across the globe. Additionally, she posts anniversaries and milestones MEMBERSHIPS announcements to Workplace, APCO’s internal communications platform. APCO is Proud to Be a Member Partner of the Following Organizations: Global Exchange Program • Arthur W. Page Society To foster integration, share best practices and enhance cultural understanding, each year a • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship committee at APCO selects 15 employees to spend time working at another APCO office • Business and Society, Belgium around the world. Those selected individuals are expected to contribute to the host office by • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) sharing best practices, reviewing client engagements, experiencing the local culture and then • Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) returning to their home office to share their learnings and experiences with colleagues. • ColorComm Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship • Economic Initiative Frankfurt Rhine Main In an effort to promote creativity, build exposure to new ideas and encourage collaboration • Enterprising Women across APCO’s global network, APCO’s talent management team partnered with its Paris • Institute for Public Relations office to establish the Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship. The fellowship is in honor of Myriam • International Crisis Group Ugeux-Gerault, a former APCO employee in the Paris office who passed away in 2009. The • LAGRANT Foundation fellowship is awarded to one APCO employee who is granted the opportunity to attend a • PR Council conference to build his or her expertise in strategic communications, corporate responsibility, • Public Affairs Council innovation or digital communication. In addition, the employee spends one week in the Paris • WEConnect International office learning and sharing best practices that promote creative communication strategies • World Economic Forum Gender Parity and responsible business behavior/sustainability. • World Economic Forum Global Agenda Council on Anti-Corruption & Transparency • World Economic Forum Partnership Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) 11 CITIZENSHIP & COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT their successes and highlight the wide-ranging achievements of CGI as a whole. APCO’s Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus participated in the annual strategy and The APCO Gives Back program empowers employees to contribute to their communities planning meeting for CGI. In addition to other meetings and sideline events, APCO’s team through volunteerism with support from APCO in the form of time and financial resources. handled press outreach before and during CGI’s Annual Meeting, including manning the APCO Gives Back is a worldwide program providing all APCO employees with the press office of more than 1,000 journalists, as well as offering media and communications following opportunities: training to CGI member organizations. Over the years, APCO significantly increased its pro Group and Individual Volunteerism bono support for CGI and helped generate millions of media impressions and hundreds of All APCO offices are encouraged to nominate an APCO Gives Back coordinator or articles in leading news media. The partnership with CGI resulted in new levels of visibility for committee to arrange and manage group volunteer activities for employee participation in the tremendous work of its members and commitment-makers around the world. The pro bono hands-on projects (e.g., planting trees, serving meals, mentoring youth). In addition to group partnership with CGI was a global effort that included colleagues from many APCO offices volunteering activities, APCO provides each employee with an opportunity to spend up to around the world. The 12th and final CGI Annual Meeting concluded in September 2016. eight working hours each year volunteering with a charity or cause of their choice. Mahila Housing Trust (MHT) APCO’s India offices worked with MHT to support their outreach and media efforts at the Pro Bono Services Clinton Global Initiative meeting in September 2016. APCO used its qualitative research to APCO makes significant contributions to local communities and global causes via pro bono help MHT prepare its strategic communications material to best present its core mission and work, contributing over $1 million in pro bono services across the globe. APCO also supports social impact goals to donors and wider stakeholders. MHT is an autonomous organization a wide range of nonprofit organizations around the world. Below is a small selection of promoted by the Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) with the vision to realize the APCO’s global pro bono activity; other examples are included throughout Part II of this report: right to shelter and dignity for all. Towards this, MHT focuses on enhancing civic engagement The Clinton Global Initiative among citizens, particularly slum residents, women and rural poor, through promotion of From 2008 through 2016, APCO provided pro bono communications and strategic counsel Community-Based Organizations (CBOs) and grassroots women’s leadership. support to the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI). Established in 2005 by President Bill Clinton, Landmark Group CGI convened global and emerging leaders to create and implement solutions to the APCO’s UAE client, Landmark Group, aimed to initiate a campaign addressing diabetes world’s most pressing challenges. CGI catalyzed its members — leaders from multinational because it is estimated that one in five people in the UAE suffers from the disease. Together, corporations, social enterprises, governments and nonprofits — to maximize their efforts APCO and Landmark Group launched the Beat Diabetes Walk. The walk kicked off in Dubai to alleviate poverty, create a cleaner in 2009, and APCO has supported the cause ever since. Leading into 2016, APCO worked environment and increase access to health with the Beat Diabetes team on extending the initiative to seven countries — Bahrain, Oman, care and education. Since its creation, CGI UAE, India, Kuwait, Qatar and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The last Beat Diabetes Walk, in members have made more than 3,600 November 2016, had 18,000 participants in the UAE alone. Throughout the rest of the year, Commitments to Action, which helped APCO engaged Landmark Group in various awareness drives, including community outreach improve the lives of over 435 million people initiatives and media engagement. Landmark Group’s 500+ stores across the UAE have raised in 180 countries. For nearly a decade, APCO AED 4 million, and contributed a further AED 10 million to fund diabetes research. These helped CGI members gain interest in the funds were earmarked to the Al Jalila Foundation to further the cause of diabetic research. causes they were addressing, demonstrate 12 Ecolab launch of its new initiative, Fit and Fed. This APCO helps the Pearl Initiative build its TV. APCO’s advice also helped UNAPEI APCO’s Chicago office, with support program aims to alleviate school holiday profile and enhance its impact through a reinforce its social media strategy and from New York and Washington, D.C., hunger, inactivity and isolation, providing targeted communications program. APCO considerably increase its visibility, notably developed an integrated communications support is also a member of the Pearl Initiative on Twitter and Facebook. platform to position Ecolab as a global for 7,500 children and young people during and regularly participates in its integration Women Advancing Africa expert in water management for business. the summer holidays, including serving meetings. In 2016, APCO partnered with the Graça The program is grounded in Ecolab’s 225,000 meals. APCO has identified The French Union of the Associations of Machel Trust, an organization founded by commitment to help customers in more possible supporters across business and Relatives and Friends of People with Mental the former First Lady and wife of the late than 170 countries reduce, reuse and government, engaging with them to Disabilities (UNAPEI) President Nelson Mandela, to develop and recycle water. As the global leader in support the cause both financially and APCO’s French team is a pro bono partner launch the Women Advancing Africa (WAA) water, hygiene and energy technologies publicly. This outreach has raised awareness of UNAPEI and recently provided strategic initiative. Mrs. Machel, a lifelong advocate and services that protect people and vital regarding the issue of holiday hunger in advice on how best the organization could for women’s rights, approached APCO to resources, Ecolab delivers comprehensive the UK, which, until recently, was a cause raise awareness of its activities during the help “multiply the faces and amplify the solutions and services to promote safe food, very much overlooked. Fit and Fed will French presidential campaign. It resulted voices” of African women through the maintain clean environments, optimize be launched with cross-party support in in a very successful and award-winning creation of a new, flagship initiative. In water and energy use, and improve September 2017 at the House of Lords. campaign organized by UNAPEI, entitled contrast to other women’s events in Africa, operational efficiencies. APCO continues to Pearl Initiative “Mélanie peut le faire,” where a mentally Mrs. Machel wanted Women Advancing support Ecolab’s Nalco Water business and Adding to APCO’s work in the corporate disabled young woman presented the Africa to be a truly pan-African initiative, its ongoing thought leadership activities as governance space, its offices in the UAE famous daily weather forecast on French bringing together women from across it launches its Water University in the fall of signed the Pearl Initiative as a client on an 2017. annual retainer contract in 2016, where up StreetGames to $25,000 worth of services are provided APCO’s London office provides pro bono annually on a pro bono basis. Developed communications support for StreetGames, in cooperation with the United Nations a charity that offers sporting opportunities Office for Partnerships in 2010, the Pearl to disadvantaged youths to change lives Initiative is a leading Gulf-based nonprofit and communities. As part of a successful organization promoting a corporate culture effort to help the charity attract new of accountability and transparency as a corporate sponsors, APCO devised and key driver of competitiveness across the hosted Pinstripe Ping Pong, a corporate Gulf region. The organization to date has ping pong competition, which raised impacted over 160 business leaders and thousands of British pounds. APCO is also over 6,500 students from the Gulf region supporting StreetGames with the upcoming through its thought leadership programs. generations and geographies to strengthen H U M A N I TA R I A N Trust: its corporate policies and practices and the the critical role women play in shaping EMERGENCY & DISASTER Societies around the world have languished industry codes of conduct and ethics to Africa’s future. Throughout 2016, APCO RESPONSE in a decade of eroding levels of public trust which everyone adheres. worked closely with the Trust to develop in all types of organizations — including APCO provides opportunities for employees Women Advancing Africa from the to support people impacted by humanitarian APCO’s own industry. APCO works every day Trust, transparency and ground up. The team provided intensive emergencies and disasters around the world to build trust with its clients, stakeholders, talent are core to APCO’s counsel and in-kind support — shaping colleagues and communities. Strict policies the program, advising on communications by matching employee donations up to and protocols apply to everyone in the ongoing success and and positioning and recruiting a number $10,000. company and aim to preclude potential growth. of corporate partners to support this conflicts among existing clients and also first-of-its-kind initiative. In August COMMITMENT with APCO’s mission and values as a global EXAMPLES OF EXECUTIVE 2016, APCO assisted with a soft launch TO LEADERSHIP company. LEADERSHIP’S BOARD of Women Advancing Africa, bringing DEVELOPMENT & CIVIC MEMBERSHIPS together a select group of women leaders SERVICES Transparency: • American University and corporate partners in advance of the The only way APCO can build trust with In addition to the activities above, • Close Up Foundation inaugural Women Advancing Africa Forum our clients, stakeholders, employees and members of APCO’s senior management • Catherine B. Reynolds Foundation in 2017. APCO continues to work with the the public is to be transparent about who team serve in leadership and advisory • Center for Executive Women at the Trust as a convening partner for Women it is, what it believes and does and how it positions at important civic and educational Kellogg School of Management Advancing Africa, advising on strategy and conducts business. It is an essential part of organizations, including universities, • Center for Responsible Enterprise and assisting with sponsorship outreach and building and growing a successful enterprise. educational foundations, civic organizations, Trade (CREATe) ongoing communications in support of this community foundations, industry oversight • French Lobbying Association growing initiative. Talent: bodies and professional societies. Ethics Committee APCO’s business will only succeed if it has • Gideon’s Promise the right employees in place with the right • Institute for Public Relations CHALLENGES & skills and expertise to meet clients’ needs. • Women Presidents’ Organization O P P O RT U N I T I E S APCO works to attract and retain a diverse, • World Economic Forum’s Partnering creative and knowledgeable group of Each year, APCO assesses the issues that Against Corruption Initiative people who want to work across borders, have a material impact on business. As noted issues and platforms to solve problems and in previous reports, these issues — trust, advance goals while building their careers transparency and talent — do not change at APCO. Working with senior leadership, from year to year as they are core to their APCO seeks to ensure that the issues are ongoing success and growth across all of adequately and clearly addressed through APCO’s markets. 14 CHAMPIONING WOMEN & of its employees — it can help strengthen balance the demands of their growing At APCO, women account for: G I R L S F O R S U S TA I N A B L E business outcomes and create benefits families with the opportunities of growing •  6% of leadership positions in 5 GROWTH for families, communities and countries. their career. APCO is beyond proud to geographic and global operations APCO’s multifaceted commitment to women, support all of its employees and their families • 50% of global practice leads A Certified Majority through work in these areas, underscores that commit their time to the firm. Women-Owned Business Women & Thought Leadership: its commitment to a wide range of UNGC APCO is certified by the Women’s Business Recruiting and Retaining Top Women Principles, including those focused on Enterprise National Council, in partnership CHAMPIONING WOMEN & in STEM by Devyn McDonald and labor and human rights. This March, APCO with the Women Presidents’ Educational G I R L S F O R S U S TA I N A B L E Kaleb Pittman celebrated International Women’s Day across Organization, as a women-owned G R O W T H : C L I E N T, P R O all of its offices. APCO is proud that its senior Behind Every Woman by Rossella Carrara business. As the largest certified majority B O N O A N D C H A R I TA B L E management is composed equally of women women-owned global business in the industry, WORK M  oving from Female Leaders to Leaders and men and that its Global Leadership Team APCO’s passion for women and girls is part of Who Are Female by Julie Kjestrup has a majority of female members. Founder Championing the progress of women and its DNA as a firm. and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus has girls globally is part of APCO’s DNA and has  ender Equity Needs Action, Not a G been a determined and consistent advocate been for 32 years. Pledge by Margery Kraus Investing in Women for women in business, as well as a mentor Investing in women is not only the right thing In the last year, heightened levels of R  edefining Gender in the Workplace and role model to many women in the to do, but it is also critical to the success of activity and engagement has been seen by Through Communications company and beyond. Adding to thought businesses, governments and organizations. businesses, governments and community by Kimberly Gardiner leadership on this topic, a number of APCO’s With the widespread explosion of women’s organizations alike. There is now widespread colleagues wrote blog posts on issues related  nicorns, Superpowers and U empowerment initiatives, gender equality understanding that investing in women and to women’s empowerment. Nontraditional Career Paths is a major part of the public discourse. Yet, girls is a wise use of resources. As a result, by Anna Tunkel profound gender gaps persist, especially we are seeing clients shift their focus beyond Parental Leave for women of color, in the United States simply making the case for investment in From ColorComm: It’s who you bring with As a commitment to independence and its and around the world. APCO believes that this space to trying to better understand you to listen that really matters corporate values, APCO has expanded its inclusion is a business imperative. However, how best to enhance their impact. Actors by Lisa Ross North America paid parental leave policy as the issues women face vary greatly by in this area are digging deeper, tackling from three weeks to three months of fully A  PCO Worldwide’s Margery Kraus named community, the path forward for companies bigger challenges and paving the way for a paid leave. APCO’s founder started the firm to PRWeek’s Hall of Femme Champions looking to advocate in this space is not more prosperous future. Here are just a few as a working mother with three children and of PR always clear. APCO believes that by investing examples: has always believed that the best employees in and advocating for women — whether A  PCO Worldwide’s Tina-Marie Adams can be the most successful when they know Mentorship 360 internally at APCO as part of its extensive named to PRWeek’s Hall of Femme that their employer is a true partner in their As part of APCO’s Mentorship 360 CR project, client and pro bono work in this space Champions of PR growth and development at work. APCO our Istanbul office executed a closed or through the active external leadership aims to empower employees to successfully member roundtable to address opportunities 15 and obstacles for Turkish women’s professional development, as well as the key concerns Womanity regarding the Turkish workplace today and for the next generation. Our Mentorship 360 APCO’s India offices have served as the official media and communications partner to the program’s Women’s Day event featured panelists including: consul-generals of the United Womanity Foundation’s Women Change Makers Program (WCM) in India since 2014. WCM States, United Kingdom and Sweden; President of the Kale Group; and the CEO of Biomarin is a capacity-building program focused on supporting NGOs who work in women’s issues to Turkey. The event was well attended with 50 exclusive participants, including the CFO of enhance their efforts in strategy planning, HR, IT, communications and other select spheres. PepsiCo and HR director of Vodafone among other Turkish business and NGO leaders. APCO Last year, as in other years, APCO’s India team supported the WCM at all partner meetings, was featured in the 1.5–page report as the main supporter of the program and a champion of participated in the selection process of new grantees and supported the capacity-building women’s empowerment in Turkey. The keynote speaker was Tayfun Ugur, who was the former efforts of some of their grantees. It has also mentored the CEOs of grantee organizations. CEO of British Telecom, Hewlett Packard and Cisco. The team provided a summary document APCO’s support to the WCM program and mentoring of the grantee CEOs is on a pro bono with take-away points summarizing the general points made during the roundtable discussion basis, while its support to the grantees’ capacity-building efforts is on a deeply discounted about the opportunities, obstacles and concerns for women at the individual, institutional, rate card. structural/systemic and socio-cultural levels. #emBRAce WEConnect International In March 2017, APCO’s UAE employees made cash and in-kind donations to the charity WEConnect International is a global nonprofit campaign #emBRAce, which seeks to supply undergarments to young girls and women that helps women-owned businesses succeed in rural Uganda who are often subjected to physical abuse because they are not properly in worldwide value chains. It identifies, dressed. educates, registers and certifies businesses A bra is taken for granted everywhere. But not so in Uganda, where young girls, that are owned and managed by women orphans and widows struggle to survive and cover themselves. Based on my and connects them with multinational experience and research around African rural communities, I can say one reason why corporate buyers. In 2017, APCO’s Founder social crimes, such as rape, are on the rise is because impoverished women are forced and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus was to walk around without any underwear, let alone a decent blouse or skirt. officially recognized as one of WEConnect — Juliana Kagugube, founder of the #emBRAce campaign International’s Founding Ambassadors. This ambassador class featured three internationally Educate Girls successful women business owners who are dedicated to acting on WEConnect International’s APCO works closely with Educate Girls, a nonprofit organization in India that aims to tackle commitment to opening doors for women business owners, economic empowerment and issues at the root cause of gender inequality in India’s education system. APCO supports inclusive growth. APCO served as WEConnect International’s official media partner for its its government outreach and communications for the Educate Girls Development Impact first ever Global Supplier Diversity and Inclusion Symposium. The Symposium assembled Bond. On behalf of Educate Girls, APCO has successfully engaged with key government corporate supplier diversity and inclusion professionals, as well as corporate responsibility stakeholders across federal government and state levels, key multilaterals (UNICEF and and sustainability professionals, to share tools and resources to successfully begin or enhance UNESCO), partner organizations and the media. their global supplier diversity and inclusion efforts. APCO promoted the event through media outreach, secured key interviews with WEConnect International’s CEO and ensured the Daughters of Tomorrow attendance of media representatives to cover the Gala. Daughters of Tomorrow is a charitable organization in Singapore that aims to empower single mothers with the skills required to seek employment and become role models in the 16 workplace. Daughters of Tomorrow achieves and consistent Daughters of Tomorrow retention challenge at its highest level. leadership in working with the group on their this goal by providing its beneficiaries with brand, enabling individuals to share their APCO’s Raleigh office is part of an effort to messaging and market presence to establish courses on leadership, communication own unique stories with a powerful yet launch an initiative called Triangle Women in the Triangle Women in STEM as a nationally and confidence building; and partnering consistent message. STEM that focuses on raising awareness of recognized advocacy group. with potential employers for job-matching; the challenge, encouraging females to stay Triangle Women in Science, Technology, and with corporations for skills training. Engineering and Math (STEM) in the field, and creating new networking There is now widespread However, a key challenge Daughters of Attracting and retaining women to careers opportunities. APCO is on the steering understanding that Tomorrow faced was the lack of consistent committee with other companies, such as key messages among the staff and in the STEM field is a national challenge. IBM, Fidelity Investments, Credit Suisse and investing in women and beneficiaries in communicating the value For North Carolina, it is a prominent issue Duke University. APCO also helps lead the girls is a wise use of as the state is home to some of the world’s of the organization to the public and its most innovative companies and research Communications Strategy and Branding resources. stakeholders. APCO’s team in Singapore committee to drive its profile in the market. organizations that are in need of diverse partnered with Daughters of Tomorrow to APCO organized a Triangle Women in STEM top-tier talent. The region has many support its communications efforts. In March event with Lisa Ross, managing director of initiatives that focus on STEM-related 2017, APCO conducted a communications APCO’s headquarters office, who gave an activities, yet it lacked one that brought and media training workshop for the board inspirational speech in front of more than together a cross-section of business and of directors, staff and its beneficiaries. The 200 STEM leaders in the Triangle region. nonprofit organizations to tackle the talent session successfully created a strong, clear APCO continues to provide guidance and Lisa Ross speaking to over 200 STEM leaders in the Triangle region 17 HIGHLIGHTS OF APCO’S CLIENT WORK with other NGOs and UK faith groups; generate national media and social media coverage to highlight the problem and reach the demographic most likely to perpetrate hate crime. Ebay Adopts L’Aquila APCO’s strategic campaign concept — #BetterThanThat — tapped into patriotic feelings In 2009 a devastating earthquake hit L’Aquila, a city in central Italy, crushing an entire across the spectrum, making clear that the UK was “better than” what these instances of community and local economy. Seven years later, the city and local businesses were still hate crime might suggest. Focus group research revealed that this message resonated struggling to fully recover from the damage. APCO’s Rome office helped its client, eBay, strongly with all target audiences. APCO then secured the endorsement of the UK Prime develop a communications campaign which consisted of “adopting” small and mediumMinister Theresa May and other government ministers including the Secretary of State for sized businesses (SMBs) from L’Aquila to help their digital transformation and give their DCLG. At the very successful cross-party launch event in Parliament, the audience heard businesses a new lease of life. APCO leveraged a partnership between eBay and the compelling speeches from leading ministers; conservative, labour and liberal democrat Italian Retailers’ Association, Confcommercio, to recruit the local SMBs and proceeded to MPs; as well as moving stories from our client and other communities in the UK. MPs from give their newly opened eBay stores and personal stories widespread visibility through all main parties shared the #BetterThanThat hashtag and video on their own social channels. multi-channel emotional storytelling. APCO also launched an intensive media relations Building a coalition of more than 20 different NGOs, including diverse faith groups, to effort, which culminated with a national announcement timed for the earthquake’s seventh support the campaign was crucial. These partners attended the launch and amplified the anniversary and a local event with media, institutions and the sellers with their families. “BetterThanThat” message across their social channels and among diverse communities. The campaign helped reach business objectives for the client and led to concrete business APCO developed a good relationship with The Sun on Sunday, one of the most negative results for the SMBs concerned. voices on immigration and Brexit in the UK, marking an important change in tone on this #BetterThanThat sensitive issue. The launch event was also covered in multiple top-tier media, including After the UK’s vote for Brexit, a 41 percent rise in hate crime was reported, along with several The Daily Mirror, The Times, The Guardian, The Independent, Huffington Post UK, the BBC, high-profile attacks on Poles living in the UK. The Polish Cultural Institute engaged APCO LBC Radio, among others. to launch a campaign to engage UK politicians from all parties; create a coalition to partner 18 FNV Fortune+Time Global Forum 2016, Rome Of the nearly $2 billion spent annually on advertising food and beverages to youth Time Inc. hosted the Fortune+Time Global Forum 2016, Rome. The event convened select audiences, only one percent is spent on promoting healthier foods. To combat this deficit, global Fortune 500 CEOs; members of the Time 100; and nonprofit, academic, religious and the Partnership for a Healthier America, a nonprofit organization devoted to working with labor leaders to address the need for a global economic system that both encourages growth the private sector to tackle the U.S. childhood obesity crisis, created FNV, the brand for all and spreads its benefits more broadly. The solution-based conversation held during the two-day fruits and veggies. APCO led an advertising and PR campaign to maximize the visibility of Forum tackled several subjects, including technology and jobs, global health, food and water, FNV by identifying four priority sub audiences of millennials in an effort to drive behavioral commitment to communities, energy and the environment and financial inclusion—each in need change. This national campaign has been so successful, that a recent survey revealed that of urgent attention representing critical elements related to poverty alleviation. The two-day more millennials are prioritizing eating fruits and vegetables than they were in Fall 2016 (66 conference culminated in an address by His Holiness Pope Francis at the Vatican. APCO’s team percent from 61 percent) and more than a third (34 percent) consider eating fruits and veggies in Rome, supported by colleagues in its France, UK, Germany and Brussels offices, provided a very high priority. Even more importantly, it was reported consumption of fruits and veggies media relations support to raise the visibility of the event and discussions surrounding these increased by 4 points (from 72 percent to 76 percent), with those saying they eat fruits and critical societal issues. APCO succeeded in generating significant coverage in the European vegetables at least once a day. media, as well as securing the attendance of many Italian journalists and foreign correspondents on day two of the Forum at the Holy See Press Office. 19 PAR T I I UNGC PRINCIPLES In the pages that follow, we provide a summary of APCO’s internal policies and practices aligned to support the UNGC Principles. We also include examples of how we apply the principles to our work with clients around the world, particularly our work focused on human rights and labor practices. 20 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 21 APCO’S POLICIES, standards of behavior expected of all APCO jobs; and (ii) ensure that all staff actions policies. Such policies protect employees O P E R AT I O N S A N D G O A L S employees in their interactions with each (including, but not limited to, recruitment, from discrimination based on their sex, other, vendors, clients, prospective clients, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, marital status, disability or pregnancy. APCO’s Values Transcend government officials, etc. Underlying the layoffs, company-sponsored trainings, social These policies ensure all individuals Geographic Boundaries and are Code of Conduct is a belief in treating and recreational programs) are administered receive the same opportunities with regard Embraced in Every Office others with respect and acting in good faith in a non-discriminatory way without regard to recruitment, hiring, promotion and Support and respect for human rights is and with transparency in all transactions. to an applicant’s or employee’s race, color, compensation. In addition, many of APCO’s an integral part of APCO’s values. These religion, national origin, sex, age, marital offices around the world have contributed values transcend geographic boundaries APCO’s Anti-Discrimination status, personal appearance, sexual to anti-discrimination causes via pro bono and are embraced in every APCO office. In and Equal Employment orientation, gender identity or expression, support, client work or fundraising. addition, at the core of APCO’s governance Opportunity Policy family responsibility, disability, veteran are two essential policies with which all APCO’s anti-discrimination and equal status, education, political affiliation, genetic employees of APCO and its subsidiaries A P P L I C AT I O N S I N employment opportunity policy prohibits information or any other classification are required to comply — APCO’s Code of EXTERNAL WORK APCO employees from engaging in or protected by applicable law. As a global Conduct and APCO’s Anti-Discrimination supporting discrimination. Specifically, it organization, other APCO regions, such In addition to respecting human rights and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. is APCO’s policy to: (i) recruit, hire and as Greater China, Europe and Southeast in its own operations, APCO contributes APCO’S Code of Conduct details the high promote the most qualified staff for all Asia, have also enforced equal employment to promoting awareness and respect for international human rights through pro bono and client assignments, including: Children’s Investment Fund Foundation (CIFF) APCO works on behalf of CIFF, a leading strategic philanthropic foundation and premier academic institution in India, to engage with key government stakeholders to make the case for stringent law enforcement around the issue of sexual exploitation of children. To strengthen this campaign, APCO worked with CIFF in India to conduct a landscape analysis on policies and programs supporting the health, education, protection and skill development of adolescents in a less developed state in India. 22 globally in 2016, and the average length elsewhere (79 percent vs. 72 percent say it of displacement for a refugee is 17 years. is a high priority). Moreover, a majority of Education is key to helping refugees find Lampedusa market residents believe it is a path forward, in the hopes of returning our responsibility to help refugees. home or finding a new one. JRS is an KidsRights Index organization that provides crucial refugee APCO’s London team provided education programs globally, and enlisted communications support to gain visibility APCO as a pro bono communications for the KidsRights Index in both 2016 and partner to help raise awareness and 2017 across the UK and other key markets, understanding about the refugee crisis. namely France, South Africa and Peru. APCO worked with JRS to create a powerful The annual index is a measurement of how and uplifting concert series, Lampedusa: countries compare against other nation Concerts for Refugees, an 11-stop concert states in the provision, implementation tour featuring Grammy Award-winning and protection of the rights of children. artists Emmylou Harris, Steve Earle, The project was a resounding success, Jerusalem Development Authority (JDA) providing treatment for Alzheimer’s sufferers; Joan Baez, Buddy Miller, Robert Plant, securing top-tier coverage across all key APCO’s Tel Aviv office, through its client the and the Jerusalem Rape Crisis Center, which The Milk Carton Kids and other special target markets. APCO’s London team is JDA, which is responsible for the economic provides support to women who have been guests. The team created a powerful also helping the KidsRights Foundation development of the city, is able to support victims of sexual assault. An example of the narrative that guided the entire campaign organize its annual International Children’s a number of charities who do not have the work done can be found in a CNN story discussing how, through education, Peace Prize in The Hague later in 2017. The wherewithal to raise their visibility and attract featuring Runners Without Borders. refugees would have the opportunity prize is awarded to a young person who much needed funders for their important By engaging both the local and traveling to heal, learn and thrive. As hoped, the has made an extraordinary contribution to work. During the annual JDA-run Jerusalem media covering the Marathon with the Lampedusa concerts significantly impacted promoting the rights of children. This year, Marathon in March 2017, APCO worked to good causes being represented at the attendees’ perceptions, with 81 percent the prize will be presented by one of its raise the visibility of representatives from event, APCO was able to garner some of attendees reporting that the concerts previous winners and Nobel Peace Laureate, charities running in the marathon to the great results, including a feature on CNN, had improved their understanding of the Malala Yousafazi. international media. Organizations included CBN and coverage in community and refugee crisis and 98 percent saying they “Runners without Borders,” a unique running local publications, greatly supporting are now willing to take action to support PerkinElmer team of Jewish and Arab youth from across the awareness-building abilities of these refugees. Residents of Lampedusa markets APCO works closely with PerkinElmer, a Jerusalem; SHEKEL, a leading Israeli NGO, important causes. report that they are more familiar with global leader in newborn screening, across committed to the inclusion of people with the global refugee crisis than national India to support engagements with key Jesuit Refugee Service (JRS) special needs within the wider community; residents (30 percent vs. 26 percent say federal government and state government The number of refugees, asylum-seekers and One Family, a charity that supports the they are very familiar) and place a higher stakeholders. APCO’s work with PerkinElmer other displaced persons exceeded 65 million victims of terror; Melabev, a leading charity priority on the issue than those who live aims to deliver a robust newborn screening 23 ensure that the candidates understand the Typically, most questions or concerns about importance of integration and respecting following a specific business practice or diverse viewpoints as a core value of the firm. the use of a reporting tool are handled by Regular interview skills training is provided members of APCO’s Responsible Business to employees to ensure candidates are Committee. Claims that are more serious program in India to address the significant APCO’s commitment to treated fairly and have a positive interview in nature or have a personnel implication issue of newborn mortality and morbidity experience. are handled by the office of the general across the country. diversity and inclusion counsel and the senior human resources can be seen through many New Employee Orientation executive collaboratively. Significant issues, World Innovation Summit For Education (WISE) different initiatives. In During the first few days of joining APCO, if any, are brought to the attention of the the firm’s values, as well as APCO’s Code Global Leadership Team. Annually, a report WISE is a global platform that promotes celebration of Pride Month, of Conduct and Anti-Discrimination and is prepared for the company’s Global and empowers education innovation. APCO created a global Equal Employment Opportunity Policy, are Leadership Team on usage of the compliance APCO’s China team supports WISE’s strategic communications effort in China, video with employees from reviewed with all employees as part of the line and trends. In 2016, there were no calls managing WISE’s media relations with the around the world sharing standard Global Orientation Program. This received by the global compliance line. underscores the importance of following and aim of expanding public awareness of WISE their thoughts on why abiding by these principles in employees’ global projects and local collaborations. LGBT+ pride matters. MEASUREMENT OF interactions from the very start of their APCO arranged in-depth interviews with EMPLOYEE ETHICS employment. representatives of WISE projects and INTERNAL TRAINING organized media roundtables with leading I M P L E M E N TAT I O N Ethics Compliance Line 2016 Performance Chinese media on WISE’s collaboration In order to keep values at the forefront APCO has a global compliance phone line In 2016, APCO updated its anti-corruption report with Chinese partners. APCO also of what APCO does, the company has that provides employees with an additional training program, which is led by APCO’s supports WISE in identifying and engaging taken several concrete actions to ensure avenue to raise questions or file complaints general counsel and human resources teams. key education-sector stakeholders to employees understand the importance of about unethical or illegal conduct. This line Anti-corruption training is now conducted increase Chinese participation at WISE the company’s values, the spirit it intends by is monitored daily since its implementation online through APCO’s easily accessible events, organizing meeting and gala dinners living its values and that its actions match its in 2009. When concerns are raised, whether internal portal. The anti-corruption training is with national policy-makers, scholars, NGO words. It starts at the very beginning of the through direct line management or via mandatory for all employees and requires the leaders and entrepreneurs. APCO helps employee life cycle. another reporting channel (Human Resources, completion of an exam, which the employees WISE generate consistent and positive media General Counsel, Responsible Business must pass in order to meet APCO’s coverage to expand public recognition of Before Joining the Firm Committee, etc.), the appropriate course compliance training requirements. WISE projects while establishing WISE’s During the hiring process, candidates are of inquiry and party best suited to pursue reputation in China as the global reference interviewed not only by the hiring manager, follow-up action are determined. for innovative education practices. but also by their potential peers. This is to 24 LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation APCO’s new Berlin office 25 APCO’S POLICY competitive distinction when it fully embraces I M P L E M E N TAT I O N AND GOALS and leverages this belief. In 2016, APCO Non-Discrimination, Child continued its focus on education, supporting Labor Principles and Forced Labor educational efforts of women and minorities, APCO adheres to the employment laws in APCO takes a number of actions to ensure educating itself and educating others. APCO each of the countries in which it operates a work environment free of discriminatory is committed to a healthy and safe work to ensure that individuals meet country and practices and does not allow or condone environment for all employees and takes local employment eligibility standards, such the engagement of child or forced labor. pride in creating environments that are both as regulations governing age, among Employees at all APCO offices enter willingly compliant with various country regulatory other things. Furthermore, APCO’s into employment contracts (in jurisdictions standards in this respect and pleasant to equal opportunity policy provides the where it is customary) reflective of the work in. APCO has several policies and framework for non-discriminatory actions laws of the country in which they work and procedures in place to address healthand affecting labor. APCO does not prevent reside, and the company follows market safety-related issues. Whether it is complying employees from joining trade unions. Its standard practices with regard to notice with Belgian standards of ensuring access approach to human resources is to foster period requirements. The global compliance to natural light into employee work spaces and maintain an open and transparent work line (referenced previously) is promoted or confirming that hallways and furniture environment to address any issues raised by throughout APCO’s offices (through posters, are laid out with adequate distance to meet employees in accordance with applicable law brochures, wallet cards and information U.S. fire standards, APCO is diligent in its and with its values and policies. APCO does on APCO’s intranet) as one mechanism practices to create a healthy and safe work not promote, engage or employ child labor in for reporting issues or concerns about environment for APCO employees around any of the countries in which it operates and inappropriate or disrespectful behavior. the world. In fact, new ergonomic work its anti-discrimination policy clearly defines This compliance line is monitored by the stations and standing desks were installed the company’s position on employment senior human resources executive for for all employees in the headquarters’ new practices that may harm communities or follow-up and action, as necessary. office space. Throughout different offices individuals on a broad range of personal APCO encourages its employees to lead a characteristics. APCO implemented a Health And Safety healthy lifestyle. Examples of this include Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Program in 2009 During APCO’s standard orientation some offices organizing fun and healthy and clearly stated its D&I goals to be the program, all new hires are provided with competitions for losing weight, playing on employer of choice in its industry for diverse information on health and safety practices organized sports teams, etc. In addition to talent. As a clear leader in diversity, APCO for their local office, including: fire formal procedures and directed opportunities, firmly believes the very best solutions, evacuation routes, alarm testing procedures, the firm was built on a spirit of mutual respect, products and contributions come from the leave reporting procedures for employees to which is an essential part of how employees diversity of people and their backgrounds follow in the event of national emergencies, collaborate so well together across projects and experiences, and APCO has a inclement weather procedures and policies APCO colleagues collaborating in and continents. the corporate headquarters 26 prohibiting drug use at work. APCO takes steps to abide by health and safety requirements and creating a greater awareness of diversity in the industry. Striking the right balance and on an ongoing basis including, but not limited to, participation in emergency drills, diversification is something APCO is committed to today and in the long term. APCO is confirming the ban of any weapons or dangerous instruments on work grounds, ensuring proud of its accomplishments to date in working towards creating a diverse and inclusive smoke-free work environments in all countries where smoking in buildings is banned, workforce and knows there is always more work to be done. checking that all building dimensions continue to meet the building code standards for E3 Taskforce emergency evacuation and accommodating individuals with mobility impairments. APCO is proud to lead the industry-wide E3 Taskforce, which was established by APCO’s Washington, D.C., managing director, Lisa Ross, to empower people from diverse APCO was built on a spirit of mutual respect. backgrounds to elevate their voices and emerge as indispensable leaders. Achieving this outcome requires a deep understanding of the current barriers diverse candidates and Diversity colleagues are facing in their road to the c-suite. For the past year, Lisa Ross led a group To ensure the spirit of the employment (labor) policies and practices are maintained, of industry leaders from more than 15 agencies in monthly discussions about the state of APCO’s human resources team reviews progress against the stated diversity and inclusion diversity and inclusion, as well as opportunities to make an impact. Since the beginning of (D&I) goals and performs market-based pay survey research in the majority of the countries 2017, APCO helped organize listening sessions with women across seven markets about in which APCO operates. In doing so, sound practices are ensured and APCO can continue diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Anecdotal evidence needed to be backed with to offer competitive wages without any adverse or unintentional pay discrimination quantitative proof points, so APCO created and launched an online survey to engage practices. Given the shortage of diverse talent expressing interest in pursuing careers in colleagues across the industry. The outcome of APCO’s work this past year was presented the industry, APCO has placed a long-term strategic focus on education which is quickly to four global c-suite leaders at the ColorComm Conference in July 2017. becoming one of the cornerstones of the D&I program. Through educational outreach, APCO can make great strides in reaching a key constituency of future potential candidates 27 CYP Season of Hope 2016 opportunities to local community members along the way. APCO works with Food for Good LABOR PRINCIPLES APPLIED TO EXTERNAL WORK to develop a media strategy; implement outreach; coordinate with media outlets; provide Chicago Youth Programs (CYP) support during interviews; seek other opportunities for recognition, such as local awards and CYP is a Chicago nonprofit dedicated to improving the opportunities of at-risk youth, forum-like events; and develop physical materials for promotion of the program. APCO is from birth to age 25, living in underserved communities. APCO reviewed the CYP’s crucial in helping Food for Good raise awareness of the program and gain the recognition communications strategy to help raise the organization’s profile among key audiences, that it deserves. including donors, the media and the local community. APCO conducted a digital analysis of the media landscape and developed a donor questionnaire that CYP can administer to better MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES understand how donation decisions are made. APCO also reviewed CYP’s communications materials and provided positioning counsel related to the organization’s mission Focus Area: Diversity and Non-Discrimination statement, annual program report, fundraising activities and videos, website, social media •  8.8% of APCO’s U.S. team was classified as minority in 2016, per EEOC-designated 2 channels, media relations efforts and more. The report delivered, containing actionable ethnic categories. recommendations related to communications and fundraising, serves as a guidebook for staff. • Health and Safety: in 2016, there were no serious incidences or work-related injuries reported. Food For Good Food for Good is part of PepsiCo’s Performance with Purpose initiative. PepsiCo uses its resources and expertise to fight childhood hunger by delivering food to children in underserved communities after school, on the weekends and during the summer months. The program works with local partners to provide food and physical activity to children in need in 18 cities in the United States, with plans to continue to expand, and provide job 28 E N V I R O N M E N TA L PRINCIPLES Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 29 APCO POLICIES AND GOALS A P P L I C AT I O N S I N E X T E R N A L W O R K Environmental Principles In addition to focusing on operations, APCO contributes to promoting environmental APCO’s environmental footprint arises primarily from office operations and business travel. responsibility and greener technology through pro bono and client assignments, which in 2016 Accordingly, its global policy is based on adhering to all applicable environmental laws and and early 2017 included: regulations, while at the same time, applying the principles of reducing, reusing and recycling Zaluvida — A Disruptor For Carbon Reduction Technologies in the workplace, using a Green Office checklist covering office and IT energy efficiency; office In 2016, governments around the world agreed to reduce anthropogenic carbon emissions by supplies and recycling; travel preferences and large company meetings. A pilot program signing the UN Paris Agreement. There is now a sense of urgency to implement immediate, conducted with several of APCO’s mid-sized offices showed that office energy usage, business rapid and effective actions to achieve these global carbon reduction targets. air travel and paper usage constitute the main elements of APCO’s carbon footprint (scope The livestock agriculture sector is the third largest carbon emitter in the world. Zaluvida, a 2 and 3 emissions). While the capacity for a consistent internal environmental data collection full-circle life science group, hired APCO to help gain visibility for its new approach to system has not yet been developed, individual offices have taken steps to decrease air travel mitigating methane emissions from cows — called Mootral. This approach provides a market and paper use. APCO works with landlords and property owners to address office energy use. mechanism so that governments, consumers and farmers are positively engaged by means For instance: of value creation, as well as a technical solution (a natural feed supplement) that is easy to •  PCO’s global headquarters moved to a new building in the first quarter of 2016. A incorporate into the feed chain and has a proven, immediate methane reduction ability. APCO In an effort to minimize the amount of material disposed in landfills, the company’s chief helped Zaluvida develop a brand identity for its technology, position the technology with key information officer launched a “TRASHED” campaign, in which all recyclables and e-waste media and policy audiences and find strong partners to create a movement around battling were properly discarded. livestock emissions. • Most offices have separate receptacles for paper, glass/plastic/metal, cardboard and trash. Some offices feature motion-detecting lights which saves electricity when rooms are not in use. • APCO’s Paris team provides all employees with recycling-only bins, trains cleaning staff on waste sorting and provides information on recycling to all French employees. Used IT devices are now donated to Emmaus, one of the leading French nonprofit organizations that employs marginalized workers to refurbish IT devices and resell them at low prices — also contributing to the fight against unemployment. The team is now focusing on further reducing waste generation and energy consumption, notably by optimizing electricity usage and reducing the amount of packaging in the food and beverages offered to employees and visitors. The Paris office works with a company called LOXY that recycles all telecommunications and digital equipment and disposable coffee capsules. UAE Research for Rain Enhancement Science The UAE Program for Rain Enhancement Science launched an international research initiative to develop innovations in research and technology for this important scientific field. The program 30 offers a $5 million grant to reinvigorate Sunna Design and Solektra International rain enhancement science. The technology Sunna Design is a French startup, with has been dormant for half a century, but internationally recognized expertise in due to its growing population, booming the field of smart solar lighting, that has economy and a local climate that provides developed a new generation of solar less than 100mm per year of annual rainfall, street lamps resistant to the most extreme the UAE needs to innovate upon the temperatures. This breakthrough design existing technology. APCO understood the has been recognized with numerous stakeholders for this challenge were part of a awards, including the Bloomberg Energy highly specialized scientific niche, so APCO’s Pioneer Prize in 2017. Since 2016, APCO’s thanks to APCO’s active media outreach and Smart Power — The Rockefeller Foundation Rome and Abu Dhabi teams planned and Paris team assisted Sunna Design with digital campaigning. Solektra International, More than 1.2 billion people around the organized a continuous series of local events its corporate communications and media known for launching the Akon Lighting Africa world have little to no access to electricity, and global roadshows in America, Asia and relations outreach across Africa and France. initiative, also announced a major partnership stymying their ability to fulfill their economic Europe to meet with leading institutions, One of the most recent projects included with Sunna Design, starting with the launch potential. APCO works with the Rockefeller scientists and researchers. The success the launch of a crowdlending operation to of the first solar street lamp assembly line Foundation’s Smart Power for Rural of the efforts were clear as the number of pre-finance “Moon,” a new offer combining in Bamako, Mali. With Sunna Design’s Development initiative, which built India’s scientists submitting proposals to participate access to energy and digital content to innovative, connected and low energylargest cluster of renewable energy mini-grids in the program soared to 91 pre-proposals populations in rural areas of Senegal. This consuming plant, Solektra International will and powers more than 100 villages. APCO received from 180 institutions across 45 offer, intended for homes in rural areas, bring renewed manufacturing capacity to the helped the Foundation launch its advocacy countries, including 15 countries new to was officially presented in Paris on May African continent as part of its new strategy efforts for accelerated energy access the program. This represented an increase 23, 2017, by the executives of Sunna moving forward. The assembly line, which is among India’s most vulnerable areas and of 17 percent over the previous cycle. Design and Solylend, the private lending expected to produce no fewer than 30,000 continues to support its efforts in building Furthermore, the number of participating platform-business partner of the project. solar street lamps per year, was inaugurated the partnerships and shaping the mindsets scientists grew by 28 percent (up from Their objective, to raise €100,000 in the first on January 13, 2017, alongside the required to scale the mini-grid sector as 325 to 450). phase to launch the first pilot, was surpassed Africa-France Summit for Partnership, Peace a pathway for achieving UN Sustainable and Emergence. APCO supported Sunna Development Goal (SDG) 7. In 2017, APCO and Solektra through event management is partnering with the Foundation to bring and media relations around the project, as Smart Power to the global stage through well as coordinating on-site interviews in thought leadership and strategic media Bamako with leading local and Pan-African relations, as well as the expansion of Smart media, including notably, Vox Africa and Power’s innovations to parts of Africa and Jeune Afrique. Southeast Asia through government relations and stakeholder engagement. 31 100 Resilient Cities — The Rockefeller Foundation APCO’s global team has been collaborating with the Rockefeller Foundation for more than 10 years on a range of global communications and advocacy projects to support the foundation’s key global initiatives. Specifically, APCO leads communication efforts for the 100 Resilient Cities (100RC) network in Europe, the Middle East and Asia regions to strengthen the growing urban resilience movement from the community to government and finally to the regional level. APCO managed high-level media for 100RC at major global platforms like the World Economic Forum in Davos, securing top tier international coverage and supporting efforts to more effectively reach local, national and global political leaders. In Europe, APCO worked with 100RC’s diverse network of cities in nine EU member states, including Paris, Milan, Athens, Manchester, Dublin, Rotterdam and in Brussels, to ensure resilience stays at the forefront of the political agenda. APCO also supported individual city milestones and broader thought leadership thorough strategic media relations. Today, over half of the world’s population lives in cities. Planning for this dynamic future is critical as estimates have shown that 75 percent of urban infrastructure that will exist in 2050 still does not exist today. Together, APCO supports 100RC’s mission of improving BUSINESS AIR MILES: the capacity of cities to adapt and grow as they face future challenges that may include shocks such as sudden natural disasters or stresses such as inadequate infrastructure and In 2016, APCO’s business air miles totaled 6,700,087; this is an increase from 2015’s business transportation systems. APCO works towards this goal through culturally and contextually air miles, which totaled 6,296,604, but is less than half of the increase from 2014 to 2015. relevant storytelling aimed at increasing awareness of urban resilience across diverse The nature of APCO’s business as a global consulting firm often requires our staff to be countries, as well as fostering partnerships and engagements that support the cities’ mission onsite with clients. APCO would not be able to deliver as impactful or effective work without of bringing their resilience strategies to life. sending employees on business travel. However, APCO has attempted to minimize business air miles for internal meetings by installing advanced video and web conference service, Asian Cities Climate Change Resilience Network (ACCCRN) — The Rockefeller Foundation Zoom, in conference rooms across the company. APCO is committed to utilizing these APCO has supported ACCCRN for the past six years by helping raise awareness of this resources to the fullest extent and reducing the footprint for internal collaboration moving Rockefeller Foundation initiative and its commitment to developing and implementing forward. APCO took other steps to decrease the use of energy globally, including: effective methods of responding to changing climatic conditions. The APCO team provides a full suite of media relations, stakeholder engagement and online communications services • Creating a nearly 100 percent laptop work environment across all offices. in the six countries where ACCCRN operates: Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, • Moving most network infrastructure to the Cloud, resulting in substantially lower power Thailand and Vietnam. consumption. 32 As indicated earlier in this document, APCO focuses on anti-corruption efforts. Society will ANTI-CORRPUTION not be able to address the critical issues facing PRINCIPLES the world today — poverty, global health, universal Principle 10 education and economic opportunity — unless Business should work against we are able to continuously minimize corruption, corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery extortion and bribery in both the public and private sectors around the world. 33 Principles for Countering Bribery; the UK Association of Professional Political Consultants Code of Conduct; the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) Code of Ethics for Professional Communicators; and the Confederation of Indian Industry Code of Business Ethics. APCO has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion. APCO has procedures in place to ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. I M P L E M E N TAT I O N Business ethics and transparency are embedded in APCO’s culture. Its compliance program takes many forms, including: •  ormation in 2008 of the Responsible Business Committee. F • Regular executive memos to all staff on APCO’s commitment to ethics, integrity and corporate responsibility. APCO POLICY AND GOALS • Ethics and compliance training for all APCO employees that includes APCO’s Code of As a professional services company with subsidiaries around the world, APCO’s legal team Conduct, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery Act policies. undertakes ongoing risk assessments. It pays close attention to those countries where APCO • Extra training attention given to those offices in countries where there is a known culture does business, especially where the Transparency International’s Corruption Perception of corruption. Index shows increased risk of corruption. APCO considers the totality of the circumstances • Legal alerts written by APCO’s legal team and sent to all staff reminding staff of in managing bribery risk. Factors taken into consideration in the risk assessment needed anti-corruption requirements. include the sector in which APCO is providing services, the value and duration of the project, • Memos from APCO’s founder and executive chairman on the use of the Compliance the economic structure of engagement and whether third-party consultants, agents and/or Line, along with additional training on reporting alleged misconduct either through the affiliates are participating in the work. Compliance Line or directly with management as part of APCO’s Ethics & Compliance training. APCO has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery • Procedures for evaluating entertainment, hospitality and gift expenses for clients to distinguish between reasonable expenses and lavish expenditure that could be and extortion. considered a bribe. This is clear in APCO’s Code of Conduct and policies dealing with the Foreign Corrupt Responsibility for anti-corruption implementation within APCO rests with the Responsible Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, which clearly state that a breach of their anti-corruption, Business Committee and the office of the General Counsel. However, each individual at bribery and extortion standards is grounds for immediate termination. APCO is also a APCO is responsible for abiding by APCO’s anti-corruption policies, its Code of Conduct and signatory to several industry codes that have provisions relevant to anti-corruption, i.e., the the law, and for reporting any perceived misconduct. World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) supporting the PACI 34 intermediaries, as well as contractors Measurement and suppliers. APCO believes that its extensive compliance training program, which includes training In 2016, Founder and Executive Chairman, on the Compliance Line, has been Margery Kraus joined the Vanguard CEO successful. No incidents of corruption have Board of the World Economic Forum’s been reported and there have not been Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. any legal cases, rulings or fines assessed The PACI Vanguard Board is the ultimate on APCO related to corruption. APCO’s decision-making body that mandates the external auditors conduct audits of the PACI agenda which includes new projects, company each year and have not observed events and other areas of public-private any incidents of corruption. In addition to cooperation. CEOs commit to: gathered together to discuss and share focusing on operations, APCO contributes A P P L I C AT I O N S I N • Participate in the PACI Vanguard meeting ideas that organizations can implement to to promoting anti-corruption through pro EXTERNAL WORK in Davos-Klosters improve anti-corruption across the Gulf. bono and client assignments. Examples of • Serve as an anti-corruption champion APCO requires its business partners to this include: at other Forum meetings in which they adhere to anti-corruption principles and APCO has been a member may participate Elephant Ivory Trafficking Prevention has instituted procedures to implement compliance. APCO’s policy is to conduct due and a signatory to the • Help to shape the Forum’s anti-corruption In 2016 APCO worked for two nonprofit and transparency strategies at the global, organizations — the World Wildlife diligence on third-party consultants, agents, World Economic Forum’s regional and industry levels Fund for Nature (WWF) and The Nature affiliates and strategic partners where it does business in countries with scores below 60 Partnering Against • Serve as a spokesperson on anti-corruption Conservancy — to help them communicate with global and national media, as and amplify their campaigns against on Transparency International’s Corruption Corruption Principles appropriate the ivory trade in Thailand and China Perception Index. APCO also requires its affiliates and strategic partners to sign onto for almost a decade. respectively, by engaging with key policy its Charter for Professional Ethics & Conduct By signing the PACI Principles, APCO has for Strategic Partnerships, which includes committed to having a zero-tolerance anti-corruption requirements, and to policy towards bribery and to developing, contractually represent and warrant that they implementing or maintaining a will not participate in corrupt acts. broad-based, anti-corruption program APCO’s executive chairman participated to guide the behavior of our employees. in the Pearl Initiative Regional Forum on These principles also apply to key Raising Anti-Corruption Standards in the business relationships with controlled Gulf Region. Leaders from across the globe subsidiaries, joint ventures, agents and other imposed on pariah states in light of their facilitation of crime, corruption, tax evasion and money laundering. APCO, jointly with the World Bank Integrity Department, co-hosted the two-day World Economic Forum’s Annual Partnership Against Corruption Initiative Meeting in May 2016. A number of the world’s leading experts and organizations who are engaged activists for anti-corruption and transparency attended the first-day sessions, including Transparency International, Basel Institute, Citibank, Siemens, Deloitte, among many others. The second day of the Summit was held at the World Bank and brought together a broader group of stakeholders, such as Google, Microsoft, MasterCard, Vestas and Thompson Reuters, as well as Columbia University and Georgetown University. Margery Kraus participated in a session entitled “Rebuilding Trust and Integrity in Business Institutions,” and Anna Tunkel, senior director in APCO’s New York office, moderated a session on makers, the media and other stakeholders in both countries. Previously, Thailand was one of “Youth Mobilization on Anti-Corruption.” the main hubs for African ivory, and APCO supported WWF with their successful campaign to have the Thai government legislate to stop the importation and exportation of African ivory. United States Advanced Medical Association (AdvaMed) This culminated in the Ivory Act of 2015. Since that success, APCO’s team in Bangkok has APCO worked with AdvaMed on promoting and implementing the industry association’s been supporting WWF’s campaign to persuade the Thai government to tackle the domestic China Code of Ethics to strengthen industry self-regulation and compliant business ivory market. As part of this project, APCO has undertaken stakeholder mapping and a practices. The Code represents a major change in the business practices for many thorough perception audit, as well as extensive message testing on behalf of WWF. AdvaMed member companies and their Chinese counterparts. To ensure smooth implementation, APCO developed a strategic outreach plan to strengthen crucial World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative partnerships with the domestic industry and a wide range of stakeholders in the health APCO continued its involvement and commitment to upholding global anti-corruption care ecosystem (e.g., key medical associations, central and local government entities, KOLs standards through the Partnership Against Corruption (PACI) and its Vanguard group of and physicians). This engagement aims to raise awareness of AdvaMed’s contributions in global CEOs and WEF’s Global Agenda Council on Anti-Corruption & Transparency. APCO’s supporting core Chinese government goals in the health care sector Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus continued serving as an anti-corruption and potentially setting up a model for other sectors to follow. champion in numerous WEF meetings, including the WEF-PACI Spring meeting in London and the Annual Meeting in Davos. At the Spring London Meeting, Margery Kraus participated in a panel discussion on APCO continues to work with a number of confidential Rebuilding Trust and Integrity with co-panelists, including Unilever’s Paul Polman and clients on transparency and anti-corruption initiatives, Deloitte’s David Cruickshank. At the World Economic Forum’s Annual Meeting in January 2017 in Davos, Margery Kraus participated in a panel discussion on Ending Corruption helping foster an internal and external culture of ethics alongside co-panelists Mark Pieth of the Basel Institute on Governance and Joseph Stiglitz and accountability. of Columbia University. The discussion focused on what kinds of sanctions should be 36 M O V I N G F O R WA R D We hope this summary of our work to date demonstrates both how important the UNGC Principles are to us as a firm and the full range of things we do to support them. We look forward to sharing our continued progress — not only in what we do, but in how we do it. For More Information, Please Contact: Kelly Kolker Julie Jack Alexandra Bigland +971 52 8631718 +1 646 218 8752 +44 207 526 3654 kkolker@apcoworldwide.com jjack@apcoworldwide.com abigland@apcoworldwide.com
