2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index about Hatzopoulos our people introduction investment in people commitment training message from GM voluntary blood donation day company benefits 85 years and counting labor rights & packaging & converting school equal opportunities awards new investment business ethics environment human rights objectives & recycling corporate governance tobacco packaging sponsoring ALU-free social actions solution in flexible packaging run for a cause support the joy of life content index 1 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index introduction At Hatzopoulos A. S.A. we are committed to act and to exemplify our values and visions within the framework of responsible management. Integrity, reliability, innovation and teamwork, as well as a respectful contact with employees and business partners are the basis of our daily activities and essential for sustainable success. In addition to excellent products as well as outstanding employees it is our commitment to values that makes us an extraordinary company. Both our achievements and our values form the basis for our success and for the trust and confidence our customers, partners, investors and the public place in us. 3 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index commitment The adoption of ethical practices constitutes an integral part of our core value system; morality, honesty, fairness and human compassion have been our guides since our humble beginnings and forged a path that we have never diverted from. Our sense of responsibility towards society and especially towards vulnerable social groups is materialized through active support of organizations dedicated to noble humanitarian causes, such as: human rights protection, social welfare and arts/culture promotion. It is our firm belief, that corporate success should be accompanied by a will to give back to the community on a domestic and international level. Since 2010, this commitment became public with our participation to the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. Encouraging our staff Encouraging our Continually improving Continuous improvement in our to be mindful of the business partners to Acting in a socially our performance and Corporate and Social effect of their actions strive for matching responsible way meeting all relevant Responsibility strategy on any natural performance legislation 4 resource CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index message from GM Our company continues to move in a strong, positive direction, and I am excited about the future of Hatzopoulos. As part of the family, we have strong support for pursuing opportunities that continue to create value for our customers, who look to us to provide innovative products and solutions for some of the most demanding performance applications and requirements. We are also well positioned to continue executing our growth agenda, which includes geographic expansion, product innovation and strategic investments. I would be remiss if I did not thank the customers who give us a chance to be an essential ingredient in their success; the communities that allow us to operate and prosper within their boundaries; and most of all our dedicated employees who care and do so much each and every day. Zontanos Thodoros I look forward to continuing this important work in the years ahead. General Manager Thanks for taking a look at our 2016 CSR Report. 5 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index company Hatzopoulos A. S.A. specializes in flexible packaging converting. Founded by Athanasios Hatzopoulos in 1931, today we are one of the fastest growing packaging converters in the European market and a key international player. The company operates in two production sites in Thessaloniki, Greece with numerous sales offices across Europe. Continuously investing in innovative technological equipment and advanced environmental and quality systems, the annual growth of Hatzopoulos S.A. is steadily higher than this of the packaging market based on the company’s exports in more than 25 countries through a well-organized network, offering unparalleled customer support. Exports account for 73% of total sales. We endeavor to establish firm longlasting bonds with our clients, to whom we offer packaging solutions that meet and exceed their specific expectations. Our modus operandi consists of adopting a consultative approach, according to which we strive to provide clients with integrated custom solutions, making use of our technological expertise and unrivaled customer service. In 2016 A. Hatzopoulos S.A. accomplished a turnover over €68 million. The 6 company employs 315 people and raised 51% since 2009. CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index 85 years and counting In 1931, Athanasios Hatzopoulos identified a business opportunity in Thessaloniki open-air farmers’ market. Paper bags made by hand at that time, were necessary for both consumers and retailers. Since then, our Company has evolved from one hand-made product to several packaging solutions and technologies. We have grown from selling a few kilos of bags per day to more than 11,000 tones of advanced packaging materials annually. Since the foundation of our company, love for what we do and our passion for perfection is our compass in this long journey, guided by our principles. Our broad customer base all across the world and our past and present employees are the reason for our sustained success and therefore deserve our gratitude. Our commitment to continuous improvement is empowered by our investments in our plants, with the sole purpose of expanding our capacity, setting the highest standards and implementing the most advanced environmental and quality systems. These 85 years are the results of our passion, carried forward with rigor, perseverance and courage and recognized by those who daily choose our products and services. 7 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index packaging and converting school On 9-1Oth June the first Packaging and Converting School workshops, organized by A. Hatzopoulos S.A., took place in Thessaloniki; the event brought together packaging professionals from all across Europe and specifically aimed at providing a physical forum for know-how and information sharing on Flexible Packaging. The event was engineered to address important topics related to the packaging sector and to meet the expectations of the packaging professionals of different hue (procurement, marketing and sales, technical etc.). Considering the fact this was the first PACS event organized by our company, we are more than satisfied with the participation, as 130 visitors from 10 countries across Europe, including United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria etc., took the time making the long trip to Thessaloniki to take part in the event and contribute to the discourse on the latest packaging trends. We believe the thematic fields introduced during the two days event met their expectations in full. Twelve high-profile speakers from within the packaging sector delivered 8 profound insights into the Flexible Packaging materials market. CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index awards Our company, as part of ongoing research to develop new innovative solutions in the flexible packaging industry, participated in the “Packaging Innovation Awards 2016” organized by the business publications Marketing Week, Plant Management and Self Service in collaboration with the Association of the Greek Manufacturers of Packaging & Materials (AGMPM) and the Association of Hellenic Plastics Industries (AHPI). Our Company participated in this contest for the first time and won 2 awards in the food section and the category of flexible packaging. These awards add to the prestige and credibility of A . Hatzopoulos SA, strengthening our overall image and highlighting our technical 9 expertise and our superior production-quality results. CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index new investment In A. Hatzopoulos S.A. we are proud to introduce our new triplex in line BOBST laminator, model CL 850 TD 1350/600. The installation of the machine is on progress and is expected to be fully operational by the second week of January 2017, anticipating the lamination capacity of our company to increase by more than 50%! As a result the excess capacity generated by this investment is expected to meet and exceed our customers’ requirements and our standards in A. Hatzopoulos S.A. for best in class, more efficient faster and qualitative packaging solutions. 10 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index We aim to support and human rights respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Suppliers are actively Hatzopoulos as an internationally operating corporation is fully committed encouraged to observe international human rights to the basic ethical values respect and appreciation, integrity, norms within their work responsibility and team spirit. Humanity is one of the core values of Hatzopoulos A. S.A. Our company Equality and fully supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Diversity the relevant national and European legislation with reference to the fundamental rights of every individual, such as protection of privacy, freedom of opinion and expression, freedom of association, nonWe aim to eliminate discrimination on any discrimination and the right to be heard. grounds and promote equality of opportunity in the Additionally, Hatzopoulos A. S.A. is since July 2009 an active member of supply chain SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange), a non-profit organization based in We will ensure that our London for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the customers and Suppliers are ethical performance of their supply chains. The platform of SEDEX offers able to work together in confidence and be treated companies the data to measure performance regarding corporate with respect by each party responsibility. Hatzopoulos conducts successfully on-site SMETA audits since 2015 to assess how labor, health and safety, environmental and business Our range of contracts will ethics standards are being met. Sedex members are then allowed to store, take account of the needs of share and report on this information in a secure, online database in an a diverse customer base effort to improve working conditions in the global supply chain. 11 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index corporate governance We endeavour to ensure that stakeholders have confidence We share and declare We are committed to ensuring in the decision-making and information on personal and that our business is conducted management processes of the All the laws that regulate and corporate conflicts of interest in all respects according to Procurement Service, by the apply will be complied with and seek guidance from rigorous ethical, professional conduct and professionalism of higher authority before acting and legal standards all staff. We do this by continually training and developing our staff We will allow our customers All groups and individuals with Competition will be reasonable Feedback on performance will and suppliers to give feedback whom we have a business and based upon the quality, be actively sought, and we will on our performance and relationship will be treated in a value and integrity of the continually review all activities ensure that all customer fair, open and respectful products and services being to ensure best practice is comments are analysed, manner supplied observed at all times responded to and where appropriate, acted upon. We will take steps to understand how we can most Our impact on the local and Dialogue with local effectively support the needs Impact on Society wider community will be communities will be of the local community and understood and nurtured encouraged for mutual benefit implement initiatives accordingly 12 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index s p o n s o r i n g t h e 3 rd experimental primary school Equally successful was the participation of the robotics teams of the 3rd Experimental Primary School of Evosmos. The teams – Little Robots and Evobots – participated in the “First Lego League Greece 2016” contest held at the Noesis Center on 5-6th of March, 2016; 70 teams of children aged 9-16 years from all over Greece took part. Among all teams, Little Robots were ranked 9th and Evobots 12th! Moreover, Little Robots finished 3rd place at the “Team Sprite” rankings in the category of Core Values and Evobots won the 2nd Innovative Solution Award for their research on a method for removing inks from markers so that they can be recycled and thus qualified to represent Greece at the World Innovation Contest “FIRST LEGO League Global Innovation Award”! A. Hatzopoulos S.A. embraced and financially supported the competition, by providing educational materials, protective clothing and instrumentation to the budding innovators. 13 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index social actions Organizations Monetary and In-kind Donations Museum of the Macedonian Struggle The Greek Food Bank 90.000 € Nursing Home Vasiliada 80.000 € 77.370 € Alexander's Athletic Club Echedorou Institute for Balkan Studies 70.000 € +35% Association of Parents and Friends of Autistic People since 2015 60.000 € 57.200 € Costa Foundation 50.000 € Social Solidarity Network & Assistance Primary School of Evosmo 40.000 € The Smile of The Child 30.000 € Orphanage Piraeus Zanneio 20.000 € Greek Rescue Team 10.000 € Foundation for the Global Compact Doctors without Borders 0€ FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Christian Roofing of Kalamata 14 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index run for a cause The Marathon, apart from being the most important sports event for Greek people, it is also the sport which tests the athlete above all. It requires persistence, patience and significant effort, not only during preparation, but at the actual race as well. For all the aforementioned reasons our company rewards its people who participated in the 11th “Alexander the Great” International Marathon, which took place on 2nd April with other shorter races. We would like to congratulate all participants for their significant effort, their excellent spirit and culture. 15 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index support the joy of life Social responsibility constitutes an all-pervading attribute of the Hatzopoulos corporate culture that directly emanates from the core-value duo of Ethos and Compassion. The sense of responsibility towards vulnerable social groups is expressed through active participation in human-rights organizations, support of people from economically disadvantaged backgrounds and the provision of social and cultural assistance. We are convinced that business growth should go hand in hand with social prosperity and welfare on a local and national level. In May 2016, Hatzopoulos SA wholly financed the installation of specialist equipment at a local State Elementary School to create a multi-sensory learning environment ideal for children with autism. The school was founded in 2002 and is attended by 34 children. All students have been diagnosed with autism and attendant problems. The students follow a personalized training program and are supported by psychologists, social workers, physiotherapists, trainers, musicians and other qualified instructors. Our company systematically supports and rewards the efforts of individuals and organizations who strive to improve the quality of life of people in need. 16 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index investment in people 17 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index training external 23% Hatzopoulos A. S.A. ensures that every employee is trained and developed according to their customized needs and ambitions. internal Training is provided according to the Annual Training Plan as a result 77% of Performance Management System or according to emerging business needs. €61.422 €18.319 €€20.000 €40.000 €60.000 €80.000 €100.000 external internal 18 2016 highlights CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index voluntary blood donation day Special thanks go out to the A. Hatzopoulos S.A. employees, who participated in the voluntary blood donation day and exhibited once again high social awareness and responsibility; the event took place on 8th March in the Kalohori Plant A. It is important to highlight that blood can save a life, but it can neither be produced nor replaced; it can only be donated! Voluntary blood donation is a movement of good will, care and love. The response and self-motivation of our people who participated in this initiative is above all an act of life for the ailing. We hope the turnout will be even higher in the future, as we have decided to institute voluntary blood donation day as a bi-annual fixture in the Hatzopoulos calendar. All participants deserve our gratitude. 19 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index benefits life insurance health-care insurance annual health check-up Hatzopoulos A. S.A. offers attractive remuneration packages, commensurate with qualifications and former experience. It is our firm accident cover belief that employee satisfaction is of paramount importance to the private blood bank success of our company. training 1.000.000 € meals at work 900.000 € tickets for cultural or artistic events 800.000 € meal vouchers at Christmas and Easter 700.000 € wedding gift 600.000 € 2013 2014 extra financial support for new parents 500.000 € 2015 annual academic benefit 400.000 € 2016 awards for excellence children of our employees 300.000 € retention bonus 200.000 € pension plan 100.000 € 20 0€ CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index labor rights & equal opportunities Hatzopoulos A. S.A. respects the freedom of association and recognizes the right to collective bargaining. We respect the right of our employees as of any individual to participate in unions in accordance with the national laws, while the members of the Regional Union are welcome to visit our premises, discuss with our employees and distribute material and publications. Meritocracy is the first core value of our company, while our equal opportunities standards and commitments are applied and reflected on all of our internal processes and systems (recruitment, training, development and promotion of employees). We are annually audited by our customers as well as by independent institutions on our labor practices as well as our procedures regarding training, evaluation of our employees. 21 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index objectives & recycling Our objective in Hatzopoulos A. S.A. is to endeavour to reduce our impact on the environment through a commitment to continual improvement. distillation residue in kg / products Energy + gas consumption per in km2 1000m2 of final product recycling 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 plastic wood paper trash 22 Capacity expansion of distillation system of Stadiou plant from 90.000m3/h to 180.000m3/h CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index tobacco packaging Tobacco industry is considered to be one of the most competitive worldwide. Differentiation is a key objective for the industry’s Marketing teams which have been always trying to achieve it through printing perfection on their packaging or by adding special features on it (e.g. tactile finish, matt finish, re-sealable etc.). Recently, EU legislation has forced tobacco companies to add graphic health warnings with photos, text and cessation information which will cover 65% of the front and back of cigarette boxes and roll-your-own tobacco (RYO) packs (tobacco pouches). As a result, printing perfection in cigarette boxes and tobacco pouches has become even more demanding, considering that until now no images/photos appeared on the package. Based on our know-how and specialization on high barrier laminates, in A. Hatzopoulos S.A. we have recently introduced in the market a 3ply laminate for RYO packs/tobacco pouches. The main objective of the laminate is to ensure preservation of the product and its main organoleptic characteristics, such as aroma, taste and moisture. Simultaneously, excellent performance of the laminate on packaging machines has been approved by our high profile customers in the tobacco industry. Last but not least, printing perfection is ensured through our vertical organization which allows us to control every step in the printing process (ink mixing system for color consistency, in house reprographics, fully automated cylinder engraving line and modern presses) and which has led us to win the European Rotogravure Association award for printing perfection 4 times in the last 5 years. 23 CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index ALU-free solution in flexible packaging Aluminum is a commonly used material in flexible packaging for food, pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry due to its great barrier properties (barriers on gases, humidity, odor and UV light). Aluminum can be produced in very low thicknesses (new technologies reach 5my layers) and can be laminated with other plastic films offering its properties to the final package. Nevertheless, the aluminum has some major disadvantages: • Increased density – and weight – compared to other flexible materials • Increased carbon footprint, due to higher energy consuming during aluminum foil production • Non recyclability when aluminum is laminated with other polymers All the above reasons led to the development of special solutions, which would replace the aluminum foil in the packages. These solutions include metallized materials (polyester of polypropylene) or even transparent films with special coatings, which offer barriers very close to the values of aluminum. In the light of the above, a structure of PP/ ALU/ PP for food packaging could be replaced with a new, more sustainable structure of PP/ PPmet/ PP, offering a fully recyclable solution. Except for the above special coatings, coextruded materials could be used in laminates (such as PE/EVOH/PE) instead of the aluminum, especially in packages which do not require humidity barriers (dairy products, meat etc.). Recyclability of the package, better puncture resistance and better flex-cracking of the film are only some of the improved properties of the new structure which does not include the thin aluminum foil. All the above alternatives, and many more, offer a more environmentally friendly and sustainable solution in flexible packaging and can also help the marketing and sales of a product with better 24 environmental profile. CSR Report 2016 Contents About Hatzopoulos Business Ethics Our People Environment Content Index content index The Ten Principles UN Global Compact Self-Assessment Reference Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human ✓ p. 11, 12, 21 rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ✓ p. 11, 12, 21 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ✓ p. 21 to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor ✓ p.11, 12, 21 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor ✓ p. 13, 16, 21 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ✓ p. , 11, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ✓ p. 22, 23, 24 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ✓ p. 22, 23, 24 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ✓ p. 22, 23, 24 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ✓ p. 11, 12, 21 27
