PARTNERING FOR IMPACT. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & INCLUSION REPORT 2016 About this report Contents This is our sixth annual report on matters Our Business at a Glance 3 of Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion. Executive Introduction 4 It provides information and performance data Our Approach 5 across our global operations for the reporting Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion and Our Business 6 period January to December 2016. Diversity & Inclusion 12 Community Investment 18 Sustainability 25 Performance Data, Awards & Recognition 30 United Nations Global Compact 33 We welcome your views on all aspects of the report. Please send your feedback to rachel.moseley@thomsonreuters.com You can view this report online at thomsonreuters.com/cri and read the 2016 Thomson Reuters Annual Report at annual-report.thomsonreuters.com. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 3 Our Business at a Glance Thomson Reuters is the world’s leading source of news and information for professional markets. Our customers rely on us to deliver the intelligence, technology and expertise they need to find trusted answers. The business has operated in more than 100 countries for more than 100 years. We are a Canadian company with shares listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange (symbol: TRI). Our website is thomsonreuters.com We are organized in three business units supported by a corporate center: Financial & Risk Legal Tax & Accounting A leading provider of critical news, information A leading provider of critical online A leading provider of integrated tax and analytics, enabling transactions and and print information, decision tools, compliance and accounting information, connecting communities of trading, investment, software and services that support legal, software and services for professionals in financial and corporate professionals. investigation, business and government accounting firms, corporations, law firms professionals around the world. and government. Financial & Risk also provides leading regulatory and operational risk management solutions. We also operate: • A Global Growth Organization (GGO) that works across our • An Enterprise Technology & Operations (ET&O) group, business units to combine our global capabilities and expand which was created in January 2016, drives the transformation • Reuters, a leading provider of real-time, high-impact, our local presence and development in countries and regions of our company into a more integrated enterprise by unifying multimedia news and information services to newspapers, where we believe the greatest growth opportunities exist. infrastructure across our organization, including technology television and cable networks, radio stations and websites GGO supports our businesses in Latin America, China, India, platforms, data centers, real estate, products and services. around the globe. the Middle East, Africa, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, North Asia, Russia and countries comprising the Commonwealth of Independent States and Turkey. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 4 Executive Introduction Welcome to our annual Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion report, highlighting our progress and We also brought more transparency on these issues to the commitments to sustainability, diversity, inclusion and community investment across our global marketplace with the launch of the Thomson Reuters Diversity & business operations. Together with our customers, community partners and policy leaders we are Inclusion Index which ranks the 100 most diverse and inclusive amplifying our impact like never before. workplaces amongst publicly traded companies around the world. Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions reports highlighted emissions To do business in the future, we know that we do today matters. This past April, I was proud to amongst the world’s 500 largest businesses, complementing include Thomson Reuters as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a number of areas of sustainability thought leadership which we reinforcing the importance of sustainable and responsible business practices. Operating ethically produce with customers and trusted partners. and responsibly has always been core to who we are, and our membership with the UNGC furthers that commitment. Our business does not operate in a vacuum. We rely on an extensive network of customers, partners and suppliers, all of whom impact the communities in which we live and work. Supporting these At a time when nationalism is on the rise globally and the echo chambers of social media are communities is foundational to our culture, and our business. In 2016, Thomson Reuters employees increasingly polarized, the value we place on the diversity and inclusion of people and thought is logged nearly 137,000 volunteer hours, a 16 percent increase over the prior year. Global Volunteer ever more important. Our Business Resource Groups (BRGs) continue to grow in membership and in Networks supported key activities and campaigns, including World Food Day, Earth Day and impact, offering a space for open and inclusive discussion, and the development of new tools, policies Giving Tuesday. and processes to ensure that all employees can bring their very best to work. In consultation with our BRGs, 2016 saw the launch of a leadership development program to support colleagues based on 2016 is a story of success for these and other programs, success which we share with our employees, ethnic diversity, with aims to increase diverse representation at senior levels of the business. customers and partners. And, we expect 2017 to deliver even more progress. Since what gets measured gets managed, transparency is central to our work. In last year’s report, In more than 100 countries for more than 100 years, Thomson Reuters has helped society evolve we were proud to publish for the first time statistics on women in leadership at Thomson Reuters. I’m and become more transparent. The world needs fair and open markets, resilient tax systems and pleased to report the positive trends continued in 2016, with females now representing 30 percent confidence in the rule of law. That is why we believe what we do matters for the future. of our executive leadership. This year, we’ve committed to raising that number to 40 percent by 2020. And, more efficient business practices with the support of our Green Team networks helped us continue to reduce our carbon emissions in 2016, achieving a 30 percent reduction since 2011. These and more metrics outlining our progress can be found throughout this report. Jim Smith President & Chief Executive Officer, Thomson Reuters Jim Smith, President & Chief Executive Officer Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 5 Our Approach Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion (CR&I) is an integral part of the way we do business. Our We know that telling our story as a combined function is as important as our individual areas of combined approach encompasses diversity & inclusion, community investment and sustainability focus. This combined approach enables us to identify opportunities. In 2017, our strategic approach and seeks to empower sustainable growth for our people, our markets and our world. Working with also includes four cross-functional priorities: client & partner engagement, employee engagement, partners to increase our social impact toward the 2030 sustainable development goals, brings many external recognition, and social impact around the Sustainable Development Goals. opportunities for Thomson Reuters as we provide professionals with the intelligence, technology and Our CR&I function reports jointly to the Office of the CEO and our Chief People Officer. We receive human expertise they need to find trusted answers. additional support, expertise and representation from our Executive Committee through regional governance committees. Our strategic approach has been developed in consultation with these business leaders. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY & INCLUSION Diversity & inclusion Community Investment Sustainability Diverse Talent Volunteer Engagement Thought Leadership Establish programs and processes that systematically attract, develop Expand reach to support global community partners, leverage employee Increase sustainability best practices through our thought leadership, and accelerate the careers of all top talent skills, strengthen corporate brand and reputation and provide larger while deepening connections with our clients and partners social impact Inclusive Workplace Charitable Contributions Business Sustainability Create a workplace in which everyone is valued and has Financially support global community partners, expand employee Identify opportunities to reduce our enviromental impacts and increase an opportunity to reach their full potential enagagement, strengthen corporate brand and reputation and provide our business efficiency larger social impact Client & Partner Engagement To bring deep connections and partnerships with clients, future clients, peers and strategic stakeholders. We want to manage and measure these relationships to bring greater value to our business aims and our role as a trusted partner Employee Engagement Work with our employees to increase enagagement across our programs, educate on broader issues in the space and equip with the right tools to be ambassadors internally and externally External Recognition Recognition via benchmarks and awards for our products and programs relating to to CR&I and responsible business behaviours as well as external representation in media coverage, trade press and events Sustainable Development Goals & Social Impact Understanding the social impact our products, services and strategic partnerships have on Enviromental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues, and framing these impacts through the increasingly influential United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 6 Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion and Our Business Driven by our values Our business is built on responsible values. The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles demonstrate our Trust commitment to independent and unbiased news, information and data. Established in 1941 they are We act with integrity and independence by holding ourselves as relevant today as they were then. Their importance is reflected by our Founders Share Company, and each other accountable, ethical and reliable in all we do. an independent board that ensures the Trust Principles are complied with across all areas of our The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles business. Finally, our Code of Business Conduct & Ethics informs the commitment our employees make to ethical behavior and is integral to our overall CR&I approach. These responsibilities extend to all those with whom we enter into business as a supplier. Our Supply Innovation Chain Ethical Code is a component of our supplier contract and is embedded into purchase order We innovate to serve our customers, drive our growth and win processes to mitigate risks. The Code includes detail around labor and employment standards, in dynamic business environments. anti-bribery, anti-corruption, non-discrimination, health and safety and human trafficking. Innovation @ Thomson Reuters Our values shape our culture, and are embedded throughout the business to ensure we deliver the very best for our customers and stakeholders. Trust, Innovation, Partnership and Performance are intrinsic to how we operate, and as a function we support and help to progress these values in our Partnership every day operations. We work together, with each other, our customers and with industry partners to deliver superior results and experiences. Our governance model We have a governance model that ensures the work of the CR&I function is not only aligned with the strategy and purpose of our business, but also seeks support and action from a number of senior managers across the enterprise. Now in its second year, the Taskforce meets two to four times a Performance year providing a platform for discussion on metrics, targets and upcoming activities and initiatives. We deliver results and we excel at work that positively affects In addition to the global Taskforce, there are a number of regional and business unit-specific councils the world. that work on CR&I issues that directly affect them. A transparent governance structure ensures progress is made across our agenda, and we regularly review the approach and responsibilities of these groups. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 7 Partnering with our stakeholders In 2016, partnership with our stakeholders was a focus for our function. Our agenda cannot be achieved alone and by working collaboratively with our partners both internally and externally we have seen outstanding performance and results. This report outlines just some of those stories. “In 2016, partnership with our stakeholders was a focus for our function.” REUTERS/Dani Cardona Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 8 The following stakeholder chart goes into more detail about how we have partnered with these groups in 2016. Stakeholder Group Key issues we engage on How we engage Examples of 2016 activities Customers • Diversity & Inclusion • Research, insights and thought leadership • We were invited by our customers to discuss the • Corporate sustainability • Customer events Diversity & Inclusion index • Impact investing • Business Resource Groups • Through our website • Risk management • Partnerships sustainability.thomsonreuters.com and thought • Sales teams leadership report Leaders of Sustainable Development we shared insights on sustainable risks and opportunities with our customers and profiled some of their initiatives • We took part in numerous events with customers • We responded to customer surveys and questionnaires on the topic of responsible business practices Employees • Volunteering opportunities • Induction sessions for new employees • We held our annual Corporate Responsibility & • Diversity & Inclusion • Training and professional development Inclusion conference to raise awareness of all • Environmental issues such as office energy • “The Hub” intranet and other internal our programs efficiency communications channels • Employees were involved in various initiatives such • Ethical business conduct • Global Volunteer Network as Movember, Pride Month, Giving Tuesday, World • Company values • Green Teams Food Day, Earth Day, Black History Month and • Business Resource Groups International Women’s Day • Employee and manager surveys • Re-launch of our global Green Team network • Community of Practice conference calls • Workshops and events Suppliers • Environmental practices • Research, insights and thought leadership • Through our website • Human rights and labor rights • Procurement and due diligence processes sustainability.thomsonreuters.com we shared • Workplace diversity • Events and conferences insights on supply chain issues with our suppliers • Partnerships • Compliance with our Supply Chain Ethical Code Investors • Responsible investment • Investor Relations • Participation in conferences about responsible • Social impact investing • Events and conferences investing • Thomson Reuters Environmental, Social, • Annual Report • Our ESG data helps investors choose sustainable Governance (ESG) performance companies in which to invest NGOs and charities • Education • Partnerships • Our employees volunteered over 137,000 hours to • Environmental issues such as climate change • Research projects charitable organizations across the globe • Women’s and children’s empowerment • Events and conferences • We supported numerous charities through • Social justice • Sponsorships strategic partnerships and through our Community • Health and wellbeing • Employee volunteering Champion Awards, Dollars for Doers, Matching Gifts • Community investment and Payroll Giving programs • The Thomson Reuters Foundation runs a number of programs and initiatives to promote socioeconomic progress and the rule of law Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 9 Continued from previous page Stakeholder Group Key issues we engage on How we engage Examples of 2016 activities Media and opinion formers • Climate change and energy • Research, insights and thought leadership • Our website sustainability.thomsonreuters.com • Corporate governance • Events and conferences and our special reports are primary channels for • Health • News services engaging opinion formers and the media on • Ethics sustainable development issues • Diversity and equality • Members of our leadership spoke to an audience • Corporate sustainability of influencers and opinion formers at the World Economic Forum in Davos Governments and policy makers • Responsible business operations • Partnership • We have a close partnership with the United • Government or industry consultations Nations Environment Programme where we help to make emerging policy available to our markets • We work closely with governments and judiciaries globally to support the development of the rule of law Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 10 Identifying the Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion issues that are material to our business To better understand the Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) topics and embed them into MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MATRIX our CR&I approach, we have undertaken a review of material issues that reflect changing business HIGH Information integrity priorities, market conditions, global trends and stakeholder concerns. This review prioritized risks Innovation for social impact Freedom of expression ESG risk mangement Ethics and business standards and opportunities. Thought leadership & industry expertise Diversity and inclusion Building partnerships To ensure a robust process, we conducted a three-step assessment of CR&I issues as outlined Information integrity Data security Importance to stakeholders below. 5.00 CR&I governance Data privacy and protection Freedom of expression Ethics and business standards Content creation & dissemination • Convened internal and external stakeholders to collect viewpoints Innovation for social impact ESG risk mangement Thought leadership & industry expertise Intellectual property protection Supplier diversity • Plotted 30 issues by importance to stakeholders and business success Diversity and inclusion Attracting and retaining talent MEDIUM Building partnerships CR&I employee enagagment • Evaluated issues that were deemed high priority 4.50and agreed to clustering of correlated issues Level of importance (Internal stakeholders) Customer experience & satisfaction Employee volunteering DataEmployee securitydevelopment Supplier risk management We also looked at ways to improve related information disclosure. CR&I governance Waste management Data privacy and protection Supplier management Supplier standards Enviromental management Market responsiveness Serving our customer In 2015, we began our second materiality assessment with an internal survey asking key Business travel Content Carbon emissionscreation & dissemination Energy management Being a responsible b Cutting-edge solutions stakeholders across global functions and global reach to rate issues on a scale of low to high. Focusing on talent an Positivity influencing We followed best practice guidance for the sector4.00 based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and Charitable donations Supplier diversity Attracting and retaining talent Intellectual property protection Benefiting our comm Minimising our impa SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board). CR&I employee enagagment In 2016 a number of external interviews with customers and partners utilized the same list of LOWEmployee development Customer experience & satisfaction issues and scoring and allowed for additional discussion. 3.50 Employee volunteering LOW Supplier risk management MEDIUM HIGH Waste management Supplier management Supplier standards Importance to business The combined internal and external feedback resulted in aEnviromental matrix ofmanagement issues ordered from high to Market responsiveness Serving our customers low importance. This matrix was then workshopped with an external partner Business traveland internal and Carbon emissions Energy management Being a responsible business Cutting-edge solutions external stakeholders ,capturing the views, concerns and our business perspective and reflecting: Focusing on talent and diversity Positively influencing our supply chain • Emerging issues and trends 3.00 Charitable donations Benefiting our communities • Best practice sector guidance Minimising our impact on the enviroment • Topics discussed during day-to-day stakeholder engagement during 2016 • CR&I and business strategies 2.50 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 Definitions of all issues were reviewed and clarified and a number of issues were clustered together to better represent the current landscape. Level of importance (Internal stakeholders) This materiality assessment has provided the business with valuable insight in the short and long term and we plan to evolve the CR&I material issue process. In the meantime stakeholder engagement on key issues continues to be part of our day-to-day activity (see page 8 for stakeholder engagement activity in 2016). Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 11 Thomson Reuters Foundation We are incredibly proud of our corporate charity, the Thomson Reuters Foundation that acts to promote socio-economic progress and the rule of law worldwide. The organization runs initiatives that inform, connect, and ultimately empower people around the world: access to free legal assistance through TrustLaw, editorial coverage of the world’s under-reported news, media development and training, and the Trust Conference. You can learn more about the work of the Foundation at trust.org. “We are incredibly proud of our corporate charity” REUTERS/Amir Cohen Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 12 DIVERSITY & INCLUSION. REUTERS Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 13 Building a diverse and inclusive workplace forms a core part of our values at Thomson Reuters and is critical to delivering the solutions our customers expect. As a company, we are committed to growing diversity and building an inclusive workplace, while also providing products and services to meet the diverse needs of our clients. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 14 Measuring progress By working in partnership with our leaders, our business units and our employees we continue to improve how we recruit and retain a talented, diverse workforce. We emphasize management accountability and in 2016 we made diverse candidate slates and diverse interview panels a must for all not just senior roles. Our dedicated focus to diversity and nurturing talent across all areas of our business has seen a growth in women taking on leadership positions. With the support of a Women’s Advisory Taskforce set up in 2013, chaired by our CEO and Chief People Officer, we have seen tremendous progress, increasing our number of women in senior executive roles from 24.5 percent at the end of 2012 to 30 percent at the end of 2016. In 2016, based on the success of our approach to gender and in-depth benchmarking, we launched the Black Talent Taskforce made up of senior executives from across the business dedicated to building a pipeline of black talent. As part of these efforts we launched sessions with internal and external speakers on race, trained our human resources teams on micro-aggressions and offer unconscious bias training for all of our managers. Additionally, we developed a pilot program called “Impact & Influence” for 15 employees from across the US and kicked off a nine month long career sponsorship program for 20 high performing employees identifying as black – again, with the goal of supporting their career progression. Two additional Impact & Influence programs are slated for 2017 and we will be closely monitoring results and working with our Taskforce to ensure continual progress. “With the support of a Women’s Advisory To ensure balance across our entire employee base, we added an optional field in Workday, our internal HR tool,to allow UK and US employees to self identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or Taskforce set up in 2013 and chaired by transgender (LGBT). This stands alongside other self-identification options available in specific regions, such as ethnicity, gender and disability. While confidential, this will provide quantifiable data our CEO and Chief People Officer we have which over time will enable us to form an increasingly accurate picture of the diversity of our workforce. seen tremendous progress, improving our number of women in senior executive roles from 24.5 percent at the end of 2012 to 30 percent at the end of 2016.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 15 Linking diversity and financial performance We are especially proud that in 2016 we launched a new product – our Thomson Reuters Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Index. Powered by Thomson Reuters Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) data, we analyzed the practices, policies and performance of over 5,000 global companies to develop the D&I Index based on 24 metrics across four broad pillars of diversity, inclusion, people development and controversies. Global public companies were compared to create a Top 100 ranking and all 100 are listed in the Index. This new product demonstrates how our own data and information is creating transparency as well as confirming the clear link between positive financial performance and diversity and inclusion. Building an inclusive culture Our internal success is also evident. Our overall employee engagement score is 77 percent with 83 percent of employees stating they are proud to work for Thomson Reuters. We want to build an inclusive environment where all employees can reach their full potential, so we’re happy to report that 83 percent of employees feel that people of diverse backgrounds can succeed at Thomson Reuters. We believe a diverse employee population drives innovative thought and best positions us to drive long-term value for shareholders. We are incredibly proud of the culture at Thomson Reuters and are committed to transforming the way we work – helping to unify our organization, improve collaboration, foster trust, and achieve great results. We strive to be an inclusive culture where people bring their best selves to work and live our values each day. We do this in a variety of ways, including through our network of Culture “Our overall employee engagement Champions across the business. We also support through learning and development and by creating avenues for discussion at every opportunity to raise awareness of the importance of building a unique score is 77 percent with 83 percent of and successful culture for all our employees. employees stating they are proud to work Investing in our employees Our employees are the heart of Thomson Reuters and we want to ensure that they continually for Thomson Reuters.” have the tools and resources to remain at the cutting edge of the work they do. In 2016, we offered our employees an incredible 2,756,924 number of hours of training at an average of 54.2 hours per employee. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 16 Partnering across our global locations Our global Business Resource Groups (BRGs) are a central part of our diversity and inclusion story at Thomson Reuters. Across our business we have eight, employee-led, voluntary networks that benefit both our employees and the company’s business aims. These groups, which often include local chapters, are open to everyone, and foster a culture of inclusion across the company. • Women @ Thomson Reuters • Latino Employee Network • Asian Affinity Network • Pride at Work • Black Employee Network • Veteran’s Network • Disability Employee Network • Early Careers Network In 2016, our Business Resource Groups hosted more than 170 events around the globe. These events were focused on developing an inclusive workplace, attracting diverse talent and partnering with customers to tell some remarkable stories about the value of diversity; for example, both our Black Employee Network and our Asian Affinity Networks hosted sessions on how to talk about race REUTERS/Ahmad Masood in the workplace. In Australia, our Pride Network hosted a forum on “LGBT Inclusion Beyond Tokenism” and established an LGBT Taskforce, composed of leading Law firms and corporates who are now working together to devise inclusion policies and initiatives for its member companies. Additionally, in the “In 2016, our Business Resource Groups Philippines our Pride Network joined our customers and local NGOs in internal and external HIV/ AIDS awareness seminars where we shared our knowledge and best practices of our own volunteer hosted more than 170 events around HIV Awareness champions. Our global Women @ Thomson Reuters Network partnered with the United Nations on a We4She the globe. These events were focused on campaign to raise awareness of women’s rights. It was a success triggering great support and discussion internally as well as awareness via our social media channels. Throughout the year, developing an inclusive workplace, attracting our women’s network in Asia hosted monthly “Impact and Inspiration” WebEx sessions. These were open to all employees and featured inspiring role models from within Thomson Reuters, as well as diverse talent and making meaningful a variety of external speakers. connections with our clients ” Finally, our Early Careers Network took part in One Young World, sharing their passions and insights from the millennial generation. More details about our involvement can be found on page 29. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 17 Case Study: Marching together at Pride in London For the fourth consecutive year the Thomson Reuters Pride at Work Network joined thousands of others in the City of London for the annual Pride parade. In 2016, we worked with our in-house app development team and long-term collaborator and customer, Barclays, to launch the first official Pride in London app. Hosted on Thomson Reuters Convene, the app was downloaded by over 10,000 attendees and was the first time that the festival had a centralized app to plan and personalize the experience for attendees in London. This partnership not only demonstrated our product offering, but also enhanced our role in the community as an employer that celebrates inclusion. “Hosted on Thomson Reuters Convene, the app was downloaded by over 10,000 attendees and was the first time that the festival had a centralized app to plan and personalize the experience for attendees in London.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 18 COMMUNITY INVESTMENT. REUTERS/Marcelo del Pozo Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 19 Investing in our local communities is at the heart of our CR&I function. Through both charitable contributions and volunteer engagement initiatives, we make a measurable impact on the communities in which our employees live and work. We are proud that since 2010 our flagship activities across this area have seen a marked growth – our volunteering hours have increased by an amazing 725 percent thanks to the support of our committed volunteers who are working in partnership with local community partners. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 20 The right tools Our Community Support policy outlines our commitment. By offering a broad range of programs we ensure that our employees are able to support the causes they care most about. Our My Community tool offers a single platform for employees across the globe to connect with the programs we offer. Whether through paid time off to volunteer, matching charitable donations, facilitating payroll giving or rewarding volunteering time with a community grant, our employees are empowered to create positive social impact in their communities. Partnering with our employees With over 50 Global Volunteer Networks (GVNs) across our business, our employees are an integral part of our volunteering story at Thomson Reuters. These employee-led networks collaborate with their business units and office locations to provide volunteering opportunities with local community groups, encouraging our skilled employees to make use of their two volunteering days a year. The Community Champion Awards are a core part of our program. Sponsored by the Office of the CEO, they enable us to identify and fund exceptional employee volunteering efforts. Since 2001 global charities have received funding as well as significant volunteer time to increase their capacity and broaden their impact through this program. In 2017 we will be revamping this successful initiative to run throughout the year, enabling more of our employees to identify and support community projects they are passionate about. Since 2010, our volunteers have committed a total of 515,499 hours to their local communities, “Since 2010 our volunteers have committed a number of which we are very proud. In 2016, we ran an Hour Power campaign which focused on the difference that individuals can make with just an hour of their time. Spearheaded by our CEO a total of 515,499 hours to their local who took part in a volunteering project for a local homeless shelter, other leaders and colleagues have taken to our intranet to share their own stories. communities, a number of which we are very proud.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 21 Creating social impact Throughout 2016 we asked our GVNs across the globe to join together and support key activities and campaigns in addition to their many localized programs. Earth Day, World Food Day, Movember and Giving Tuesday were all supported, with many networks joining with their local Green Teams and Business Resource Groups to increase their impact. During Earth Day in April not only did our Global Volunteer Networks collaborate with Green Teams to raise awareness of environmental causes and take part in some hands-on activities, but for every volunteering hour logged by our employees during the month we planted a tree through the Nature Conservancy. We ran a similar initiative in October to mark World Food Day. Thanks to these campaigns we planted an impressive 1,676 trees on our employees’ behalf in 2016. World Food Day is an annual campaign on October 16 that our global networks support to highlight the issues of food security, food poverty, agriculture and food waste. Activities ranged from food collections for community groups to getting active using the Charity Miles App to log activity miles and raise funds for the United Nations World Food Programme. Additionally, for the second year colleagues tested their word skills on the freerice.com website – every correct answer is rewarded with 10 grains of rice for the World Food Programme. Our wordsmiths at Thomson Reuters have REUTERS/Shailesh Andrade donated 1,413,210 grains since 2015, that’s enough rice to feed 73 people for a day. “Our wordsmiths at Thomson Reuters have donated 1,413,210 grains since 2015, that’s enough rice to feed 73 people for a day.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 22 Partnering with our communities Aligning community investment with the Sustainable We know that as an organization we have resources and skills that can benefit our communities. Development Goals One unique example is our Jumbotron screens in Times Square, New York and Canary Wharf, The United Nations set out ambitious goals in 2015 to help tackle global poverty in all its forms. London. In 2016 we donated over $500,000 of in-kind advertising to our charity partners, enabling We support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and have identified specific areas where their messages to reach new audiences in these high footfall areas. we make a difference. In 2017, our Global Volunteer Networks will focus activities on a specific goal each quarter, and measure their impact: SDG 1, No Poverty; SDG 2, Zero Hunger; SDG 4, Quality Education; SDG 13, Climate Action. “In 2016 we donated over $500,000 of Additionally, we encourage our employees to use their professional skills in different ways. The Social Impact Initiative identifies partnerships with community and flagship organizations to utilize our in-kind advertising to our charity partners, people, our products and our partnerships to create a positive social impact on an ESG issue. enabling their messages to reach new audiences in these high footfall areas.” REUTERS/Dwi Oblo Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 23 Community investment in India Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013, has changed the way businesses in India are operating and investing in their communities. It is mandatory for eligible companies to spend 2 percent of their annual net profits on social causes. Our activities are aligned with Schedule VII of the Companies Act 2013 and focus on Education and Vocational Training, Gender Equality, Livelihood Enhancement, Environmental Sustainability, and Contribution to Technology Incubators. These focus areas have been chosen by an internal committee from the approved list prescribed by the Government of India and all activities have been selected as they align with our global strategic approach of CR&I and responsible business practices at Thomson Reuters. For the reporting year 2015-2016, we collaborated with nine NGOs, contributing $225,000 and supporting 7,783 direct beneficiaries. Our core focus for all projects is to support individuals to create a more inclusive world; each project supports this aim and our partnerships with national NGOs reflect this commitment. REUTERS/Abhishek N. Chinnappa “For the reporting year 2015-2016, we collaborated with nine NGOs, contributing $225,000 and supporting 7,783 direct beneficiaries.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 24 Case Study: Feeding minds on World Food Day Our Global Volunteer Network in Cape Town, South Africa works in partnership with Peninsula School Feeding Program (PSFA), a charity that provides food, education and fun to school pupils in the region. Recognizing that food is an integral part of a successful education, Thomson Reuters volunteers support the program in a number of ways including funding programs, fundraising and volunteering time with local schools. On World Food Day our volunteers hosted 124 children aged five and six at a venue next to our offices where they had a nutritious lunch, played games and enjoyed a magic show, marking this significant day alongside numerous other events taking place across the globe. Colleagues in the Cape Town office also fundraise throughout the year for this program by taking part in the “Blisters for Bread” walk. A 5km-10km walk where the entry fee of ZAR50 ($4) is enough to feed 25 children for the day. The passion and commitment of our volunteers enables Thomson Reuters to make a significant impact for this charity in many ways towards achieving SDG 2, Zero Hunger. “Recognizing that food is an integral part of a successful education, Thomson Reuters volunteers support the program in a number of ways including funding programs, fundraising and volunteering time with local school programs.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 25 SUSTAINABILITY. REUTERS/Babu Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 26 We are committed to managing and measuring our impact on the environment. A global business with a presence in over 100 countries we know that our responsibilities are great, as are the opportunities. Sustainability at Thomson Reuters has evolved over the past five years. Not only have we made progress in managing our own environmental outputs, but we have also made huge strides in how we communicate the global issue of sustainable development to external audiences through our own thought leadership and expert partners on our sustainability.thomsonreuters.com platform. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 27 Our footprint, one step at a time In 2011, we undertook a benchmarking exercise to understand our carbon footprint and to set targets to reduce our impact. With a target reduction of 5 percent over five years, we announced in 2016 that we had achieved an impressive 30 percent reduction from 2011-2016. Thanks to a dedicated efficiency program across our data centers, and a consolidation of our real estate space – where in 2016 we reduced our physical footprint by 1.2 million square feet globally – we have made huge strides in reducing our carbon emissions. We can do more to manage our impact. In 2016 we undertook an environmental assessment with a third party to identify the additional opportunities for Thomson Reuters to reduce our carbon footprint and to identify ways to operate with an environmental focus. Our efforts in this space are supported by our Chief Financial Officer who is a sustainability sponsor on our Executive Committee and who also sits on our Taskforce. In 2017, we will present revised targets and activities. Partnering with our Green Teams REUTERS/Kacper Pempel Our Green Teams are a vital part of our sustainability story at Thomson Reuters. In 2016, we re-launched our network of champions on Earth Day, a call to employees to support our overall carbon reduction and environmental awareness efforts. We now have 26 teams globally. That’s an additional 14 teams that were introduced in 2016 across our business. They’re already making an impact. A recent “Cancel Print” campaign was run globally and saw “With a target reduction of 5 percent over our Bangkok, Thailand office location reduce their printing by 83.7 percent in just three months. Our office in Baar, Switzerland was a close runner up with a printing reduction of 71.6 percent. five years, we announced in 2016 that we Additionally, our Green Teams collaborated with the Global Volunteer Networks for World Food Day, running volunteering events, food drives and awareness sessions on food resource. had achieved an impressive 30 percent reduction from 2011-2015.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 28 Case Study: Carbon reduction through collaboration Preserving the environment and managing our impacts is something that can only happen successfully when we work together. We are proud that through collaborative working across our enterprise we have seen an impressive reduction in our carbon emissions. For the last decade we have tracked our carbon footprint, and we disclose progress annually to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Our success reflects our efforts in energy monitoring, energy conservation, renewable energy, recycling, waste management, compliance, business energy and ESG metrics services, environmental news reporting and real estate space and data center optimization. We also minimize business travel and provide numerous teleconferencing facilities to accomplish this. Our success and progress in this space is a real testament to how we have worked in partnership with our internal stakeholders across Enterprise Technology & Operations (Data Center Operations, Real Estate & Facilities, IT), Business Travel and Sourcing. We understand that our responsibilities as a global organization are great – as are the opportunities and we will continue to identify new ways to build on our progress and work collaboratively to do so. REUTERS/Clodagh Kilcoyne Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 29 Leading the discussion Responsibilities to future generations Sustainability.thomsonreuters.com combines expertise from across Thomson Reuters, and 15 young leaders from the Early Careers Network across Thomson Reuters joined 1,300 delegates from a valued community of external partners. We aim to provide material insight on the global at the One Young World summit in Ottowa, Canada. Attendees are millennial leaders from around field of sustainability from experts in climate, finance, energy, health, law, diversity, and corporate the world with an interest in, and passion for, creating positive change. These global summits are governance. The topic of sustainability has become deeply embedded in the day to day operations the first of their kind and empower young people to debate issues, work collaboratively and seek of companies, communities and governments. Our insights from Reuters and from partners across solutions creatively to some of the world’s most pressing issues. Often regarded as the Davos for the the world help enable Thomson Reuters to bring a balanced view to customers, peers, partners and younger generation, the 2016 summit has been integral in developing new leaders and thinkers in those with an interest in sustainability. this space at Thomson Reuters who are not only CR&I ambassadors in their office locations, but they also continue to meet regularly to look at ongoing opportunities for the One Young World delegates In 2016, the site had an increase in readership of nearly 30 percent – this is thanks in part to throughout the year. insights from over 100 leaders through both our Executive Perspectives, and millennials in our Youth Perspectives. These articles have explored topics from impact investing to the SDGs, and technological evolution in food packaging to the preservation of coastal cities. Transparency in global emissions The Paris Agreement, reached in 2015, is a global climate deal agreed by 200 nations to support a The link between gender equality and sustainability limit to global warming at well below 2 degrees. With interest and discussion ongoing on this topic, we launched our own thought leadership report on Greenhouse Gas Emissions for the fifth year. With We are privileged to have so many partners collaborating on the site and contributing to the a focus on 3,500 companies and their emissions performance between 2010-2015 we used our own combined thought leadership. One key success this year was the launch of our Leaders of ESG data to map trends in climate emissions across global corporations, once again using our own Sustainable Development platform that focuses on the role women can play to progress the information and human expertise to demonstrate trends on a topic of global interest. The findings sustainability agenda. Using SDG 5 on Gender Equality as the catalyst, we featured in-depth were stark, demonstrating that instead of declines, corporate emissions have been increasing. This interviews with individuals from across leading corporates, not-for-profit organizations, think tanks, means that the agreed targets from 2015 have an even greater meaning companies should look to environmental agencies and governmental departments. The insights reflect both the opportunities work harder to reduce their emissions for the long term. You can read the full report here. and the challenges in this important space. You can read the full report here. “In 2016 the site had an increase in readership by nearly 30 percent – this is thanks in part to insights from over 100 leaders through both our Executive Perspectives, and millennials in our Youth Perspectives.” Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 30 Performance Data, Awards & Recognition PERFORMANCE DATA AWARDS & RECOGNITION 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 We were proud to be recognized by leading organizations and publications across the globe for our work and progress in 2016. Here are just some of our awards: Employees Total Employees 45,700 52,000 53,000 57,800 59,400 Gender – Male | Female % 57% | 43% 57% | 43% 58% | 42% 58% | 42% 58% | 42% THE INCLUSIVE TOP 50 DISABILITY EQUALITY INDEX: GLASSDOOR BEST PLACES UK EMPLOYERS 90% TO WORK: NUMBER 11 New Hires (all levels) 55% | 45% 56% | 44% 57% | 43% 59% | 41% 58% | 42% Male | Female % Senior Executives 70% | 30% 71% | 29% 74% | 26% 74% | 26% 75% | 25% Male | Female % HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN TOP COMPANIES FOR WOMEN BEST COMPANIES FOR WOMEN Director/Vice President 68% | 32% 69% | 31% 70% | 30% 72% | 28% 72% | 28% CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX: IN TECHNOLOGY FROM THE ANITA 2016 Male | Female % 100% BORG INSTITUTE Managers – Male | Female % 61% | 39% 62% | 38% 62% | 38% 63% | 37% 63% | 37% Total Training Hours 2,756,924 n/a n/a n/a n/a GLOBAL DIVERSITY LIST WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL BEST ORGANIZATION IN HUMAN Average Training Hours per 54.2 n/a n/a n/a n/a 2016 COMPANIES RESOURCES AND BENEFITS employees Headcount By Region Americas 21,800 25,000 25,400 27,000 27,600 TOP EMPLOYERS 2016 LEADERSHIP STONEWALL WORKPLACE ACCREDITATION EXCELLENT AWARD: LEADERSHIP EQUALITY INDEX Europe, Middle East and Africa 9,900 11,300 11,500 12,400 12,100 PROGRAM FOR WOMEN Asia 14,000 15,700 16,100 18,400 19,700 Community Investment CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT Volunteering Hours 137,626 118,549 95,000 91,326 35,661 Matching Gifts (US $) 1,965,705 1,964,603 1,904,226 1,512,257 1,365,727 Volunteer Grants* 613,843 | 441,682 | 390,500 | 434,500 | 235,500 | (US $ | Employees) 919 719 480 521 280 * Previously named Dollars for Doers Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 31 Environment** 2016 Tonnes** %*** 2015 Tonnes %% 2014 Tonnes %% 2013 Tonnes %% 2012 Tonnes % Total CO2 emissions 399,147 100 458,125 100 507,960 100 530,607 100 546,734 100 Scope 1 5,362 1.3 6,925 1.5 8,094 1.6 7,773 1.5 19,824 3.6 Scope 2 (electric) 277,208 69.2 309,383 67.5 355,034 70.0 372,507 70 380,511 69.6 Scope 2 (leased heat) 65,282 16.4 89,387 19.5 91,135 17.9 102,245 19.3 99,567 18.2 Scope 3 51,296 12.9 52,429 11.5 53,697 10.6 48,082 9.2 46,832 8.6 Emissions per US$ million 35.9 n/a 37.5 n/a 40.3 n/a 42.3 n/a 43.9 n/a Emissions per 1,000 square feet 33.4 n/a 35.0 n/a 38.2 n/a 37.9 n/a 39.2 n/a Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions: Combustion Scope 2: Indirect GHG Emissions: Purchased Electricity | Leased Heat Scope 3: Other Indirect GHG Emissions: Business Travel and Transport ** Estimated, not verified. BUSINESS TRAVEL*** 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total Miles Traveled 166,949,133 167,355,578 164,549,934 179,294,669 172,222,058 Total CO2 emissions (KG) 43,066,787 43,421,898 42,393,694 32,308,292 31,057,854 Air: Miles Flown 164,933,932 165,515,498 162,611,237 177,294,070 170,634,027 CO2 Emissions (Tonnes) 42,867,835 43,240,964 42,054,422 32,090,227 30,884,759 Rail: Miles Traveled 2,015,201 1,840,080 1,938,697 2,000,599 1,588,031 CO2 emissions (KG) 198,952 180,935 339,272 218,065 173,095 *** Travel as booked through business approved agents, estimated, not verified. Some historic calculation methods changed. Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 32 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL, GOVERNANCE (ESG) PERFORMANCE Thomson Reuters ESG scores are calculated based on performance indicators with a range from between A+ and D(where 91.6% to 100% = A+, and 0% to 8.3% = D-). For more information regarding our ESG data please financial.tr.com. 2015**** 2014 2013 2012 2011 Overall Company Score A A A A ACorporate Governance Overall Score AAAB+ A Board of Directors/Board Functions AAAAA Board of Directors/Board Structure AB A A A Board of Directors/Compensation Policy AA B+ C AShareholders /Shareholder Rights CD+ D+ D+ n/a Integration/Vision and Strategy A+ A A A A Environment Overall Score A B+ B BBEmission Reduction A AAB BProduct Innovation B CCCCResource Reduction A AAB B+ Social Overall score A AA A ACustomer/Product Responsibility C+ C BC C Society/Community A+ A A+ A+ A+ Society/Human Rights A AAA C+ Workforce/Diversity and Opportunity A+ A+ A+ A+ AWorkforce/Employment Quality A+ A C+ A BWorkforce/Health & Safety AD+ A A A Workforce/Training and Development A AAB A ****Current score available at time of publication Corporate Responsibility & Inclusion Report 2016 33 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) we are committed to the Ten Principles to achieve a better world as part of our own global business operations. UNGC Principles Inclusion in report Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Page 6, 8-10 internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Pages 6, 8-10 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Page 6 recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Page 6 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Page 6 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pages 6, 13-17 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Pages 5, 26-28 environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 5, 9, 26-28 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Pages 5, 26-28 technologies Anti Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Page 6 extortion and bribery IMAGES Cover REUTERS/Amit Dave Visit tr.com © Thomson Reuters S044132/03-17
