SABIRLAR FINDIK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 WE ARE HAZELNUT EXPORTER We are one of the serious exporter for Turkish Hazelnuts. We are specialized only with this product and we make export of it since 1965. We are able to supply all sizes and types. We make all processing at our own plant in Trabzon-TURKEY. CONTENTS (1) Message from CEO (2-3) Turkish Hazelnuts (4-5) Hazelnut Aplications (6-16) Sabırlar Fındık Products (17-42) Sabırlar Fındık – UN Global Compact 10 Principles (43) Sabırlar Fındık Social Responsibilty (44) Conclusion (45) Contact MESSAGE OF THE CEO To our stakeholders, business partners and organization members. Sabırlar is family owned company in field of processing of Hazelnuts and exports 99% of its production to all business partners around the globe. Company first established in 1965 and we are very proud of being member of UN Global Compact signees. We also work with our sector partners, Government to establish sustainable hazelnut produce in Turkey. We join working groups, be part of ongoing projects and support 3rd party projects for sustainable hazelnuts production too. I confirm that Sabırlar Fındık Ihracat Ltd Sti’s support to Ten Principle of UN Global Compact will continue with increasing effort. We will work on all 10 principle on the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We infuse all these 10 principles into our business strategy, relation with workers and suppliers and daily operations. I believe our company will be achieving both its business and social goals while actively integrating these 10 principles too. We are committed to share this information with our clients using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Hasan Osman SABIR CEO 11.April.2017 1 TURKISH HAZELNUTS It has been mentioned in historical documents that hazelnut was produced 2300 years ago in the Black Sea coast on the north of Turkey and it is known that hazelnut has been exported from Turkey to other countries for the last 6 centuries. Turkey, which is one of the few countries in the world with favourable weather conditions for hazelnut production, accounts for 75% of the global production and 70-75% of the exportation. Hazelnut fields, widely spread in the Black Sea coasts of Turkey, have been located within 30 km from the coast towards inland. In the western Black Sea, it starts from Zonguldak (east of Istanbul) and extends to the east over the entire Black Sea like a green strip lying between the sea and the mountains almost until the Georgian boundary. 4.000.000 people are directly or indirectly related to hazelnut which has been produced on an area of 550-600 thousand hectares in Turkey, which is a fact that boosts the socio-economic importance of hazelnut. Turkey has a distinguished place among the other hazelnut producers in the world, thanks to its high quality, and maintains its leading position in production and exportation. 2 3 HAZELNUT APLICATIONS • Besides being consumed as snack both in • In the United States, hazelnut butter is being Turkey and in the world, about 90% of promoted as a more nutritious spread than hazelnuts are used in roasted, blanched, its peanut butter counterpart, though it has a chopped, sliced, meal and paste form as a higher fat content. side-ingredient in chocolate, biscuit, confectionary industry, in making sweets, • In Austria and especially in Vienna, hazelnut pastries and ice-cream and in meals and paste is an ingredient in the making of salads. Tortes (such as Viennese hazelnut torte) which are famous there. In the Kiev cake, • With a background of about five thousand hazelnut flour is used to flavor its meringue years, hazelnut has great benefits for body, and crushed hazelnuts are sprinkled humankind through many ways such as its over its sides. fruit and wood. Hazelnut shell is used as a very valuable and high calorie fuel • Dacquoise, a French dessert cake, often particularly in hazelnut growing areas in our contains a layer of hazelnut meringue, and country. hazelnut is a primary ingredient of the vodka-based liqueur, Frangelico. • Hazelnuts are used in confectionery to make some pralines, in chocolate for some • Hazelnuts are abundantly used in Georgian chocolate truffles , and in some hazelnut cuisine, traditional Georgian snack paste products (such as Hazelnut Spreads). Churchkhela or sauce Satsivi are often cooked with hazelnuts (along with walnuts). • Hazelnut-flavoured coffee seems (to many users) to be slightly sweetened and less acidic, though the nut is low in natural saccharides. The reason for such perception is not yet understood. 4 SABIRLAR FINDIK PRODUCTS Produce The Best… We use resources to the full, and do only what we can do best. • Sabırlar Fındık has natural and processed ranges of hazelnuts in various qualities and bores. • The production is made by the costumer specifications and by the standarts TS3074 for inshell hazelnuts, TS3075 for natural hazelnuts and TS1917 for every type of processed hazelnuts. • You can see standarts;(http://www.turkishhazelnut.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/06/TSE-Hazelnut-Standards.pdf) 6 Hazelnut In-Shell • Size:15mm/up,17mm/up,18mm/up • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • Over Size : Max. 5 % • Under Size : Max. 5 % • FOREIGN MATTER : Max. 0.25% shell pieces per tone • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • ROTTEN : Max. 2 % • SHRIVELLED : Max. 4 % • TOUCHED : Max. 7 % • BROKEN : Max. 1 % • MOISTURE : Max. 6 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Snack as roasted and natural,longer shelf life 7 Raw Kernels • Size :9/11mm,11/13mm,12/13mm,12/14mm,13/15mm • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • Over Size : Max. 5 % • Under Size : Max. 5 % • FOREIGN MATTER : Max. 0.25% shell pieces per tone • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • ROTTEN : Max. 2 % • SHRIVELLED : Max. 4 % • TOUCHED : Max. 7 % • BROKEN : Max. 1 % • MOISTURE : Max. 6 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Utilizied as a snack and in baking 8 Roasted Blanched Whole • Size :10/12mm,11/13mm,12/13mm • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • Over Size : Max. 5 % • Under Size : Max. 5 % • ROTTEN : Max. 1 % • SHRIVELLED : Max. 2 % • TOUCHED : Max. 8 % • BROKEN : Max. 2 % • FOREIGN MATTER : Max. 5 shell pieces per tone Target : Zero • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • SKIN CONTENT : 5 % to 20 % (According to buyers need) • MOISTURE : Max. 2.8 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :suitable or snacking,baking,cooking. Try same as a snack,in salads,cassenoles,stir fies Taginesbiyanis,desserts… 9 Roasted Chopped/Diced • Size:1-2mm,2-3mm,3-5mm,4-6mm,2-7mm,5-7mm,6-9mm,7-11mm and special sizes • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • Over Size : Max. 5 % • Under Size : Max. 5 % • FOREIGN MATTER : 20 shell pieces per tone Target : Zero • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • SKIN CONTENT : 5 % to 20 % (According to buyers need) • MOISTURE : • Roasted : Max. 2.8 • Blanched : Min. 3.2 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Bakery for beakfast,ice-cream,biscuit and chocolateDue to the crunchy nature,mostly services to enhance the taste and consistency. 10 Natural Chopped • Size :2-4mm,1.5-3mm and special sizes • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • Over Size : Max. 5 % • Under Size : Max. 5 % • FOREIGN MATTER : 20 shell pieces per tone • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • MOISTURE : 6 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Utilized in baking,ice-cream,cookies and chocolate products. 11 Roasted Sliced • Size :1.50/3.50mm and special sizes • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • SIZE • 5.6 mm Over : Min. 35 % • 2 mm. Under : Max. 5 % • FOREIGN MATTER : 10 shell pieces per tone Target : Zero • Free of stone, wood, glass etc. • FLAKE THICKNESS : 1,5/3 mm • MOISTURE : Max 4% • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 20 kg. net = 20,50 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,50 kg. per 20 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Used as hazelnut essence and decorative purposes, Its crunchy form also provides variety. Sliced hazelnuts look fantastic toppe on cakes,pastries,desserts. 12 Hazelnut Paste 100% • Size :30 Micron to 120 Micron,Dark,Medium,Light Color • PHYSICAL SPECIFICATION • Colour : Light, Medium, Dark • Thickness : 30 100 micron (According to buyers need) • MOISTURE : Max 2.8% Min. 0,8 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:I.E. 200 kg. net drums = 218 kg. gross , food Grade Metalic Drums on pallets Tare : 18 kg. per 200 kg. Drums. I.E. 60 kg. net drums = 63 kg. gross , food Grade Plastic Drums on pallets Tare : 3 kg. per 60 kg. Drums. • Area of Utility :Enjoy as a spread on ıts own or with honey,cocoa on toast or in sandwiches.Blend into yoghurt or ice-cream.Add to a biscuit mix.Great withCrackers and your favorite cheese. • Stir through pasta,add to base of fruit desserts and tarts. 13 Roasted Blanched Meal • Size :0-2mm. • MOISTURE : • Roasted : Max. 2.8 • Blanched : Min. 3.2 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Used instead of flour,ıt’s wonderful for macarons,friands,cakes,biscuits,coffee. • Add blanched hazelnut meal to your dessert crumble toppings,add some to bread crumbs when you coat meat or fish. 14 Raw Meal • Size :0-3mm • MOISTURE : Max. 6 % • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 25 kg. net = 25,75 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,75 kg. per 25 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility :Use to thicken pasta,soups and gravy to add that extra nutty flavour. It is ideal for adding to muesli yoghurt,icecream,bread,chocolates or biscuits. as a coating for fish,schnitzel or chicken,desserts… 15 Natural Sliced • Size :0.8mm/1.0mm,1/1,2mm and special sizes • MOISTURE : Max 6% • CHEMICAL SPECIFICATION • FREE FATTY ACID : Max. 1 % • PROXIDE VALUE : Max. 5 Meg/Kg • AFLATOXIN : B1 : Max.5 ppb Total: Max. 10 ppb • PACKAGING:Polyethelene or aluminized polyethelene vacuum bags, with multilayer protection against air pressure. And outer cartons can be used. • WEIGHT OF PACKING:I.E. 10 kg. net = 10,60 kg. gross vacuum bags in cartons Tare : 0,60 kg. per 10 kg. cartons. • Area of Utility : It’s still a fantasic product for salads,baking , cooking recips from wold cuisines. 16 SABIRLAR FINDIK AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES 17 HUMAN RIGHTS Businesses should: Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 18 SABIRLAR FINDIK ;  We fulfiil our responsibillity to respect human rights by putting into practice the relevant sections of UN’s Business and Human Right Guiding Principles and including these policies and process that govern all our activities.  We work to inculde human rights in enviromental and social impact assessments as needed. When assessing the impact of our work and relationship, we consult with people who may be affected by it, especially the indigenous people in appropriate situations, and are subject to legal requirments in force.  As Sabırlar Fındık, we will coorperate to improve the negative effects through legitimate processes in cases where we have found that we have caused or are directly contributing to the negative effects of human rights on others.  We will continue to assume a constructive and progressive role in multishakeholder initiatives involving human rights, including the Voluntary Principles for Security and Human Rights. We believe that multishakeholder work is an effective means of advancing reasonable standards to achieve a positive change in human rights practices.  We ensure that our communications with goverments, regulatory agencies and public authorities are consistent with our human rights commitments in this policy.  Where there is a conflict between a legal reqirment and this Policy Statement, we aim to always apply the strictest standards, as required by the Sabırlar Fındık’s Business and Human Right Guiidelines, without violating local laws. 19 LABOR STANDARTS Businesses should uphold: Principle 3: The freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation 20 SABIRLAR FINDIK; Freedom of Association ;  Sabırlar Fındık undertakes an open and constructive dialogue with it employees and their representatives.  Employees have the freedom to represent themselves and participate in organizations they choose.  Where there are no representatives or the right to choose employee’s representative of employees is restricted by law , Sabırlar Fındık provides an appropriate dialogue between employees and management. Forced Labour;  Regardless of local regulations and legislations, employee rights to be represented in freely chosen Sabırlar Fındık carefully follows employee, will be respected. Selected employee “zero tolerance for forced labour’’ policy representatives will be provided necessary information, location et..and will be allowed to contact İn business life. with employeess easily they respresent.  Each of our employees resigns and is free to terminate the employment contract.  Employee representative will not be exposure any discrimination.  As Sabırlar Fındık, we don’t have a criminal  As Sabırlar Fındık, we have two employee policy in our internal office regulations. representatives freely chosen among them for ourbluecollar employees. These representatives are in  We never show any tolerance that any private dicussion without auditors in the workplace supervision regi employess in business does not distrub 21 another employee. THE POLICIES ON PROHIBITATION OF CHILD LABOUR AND REHABILITATION The policy applies to employess in all departments covers all individulas entering employment premises Of Sabırlar Fındık. This regulation aims to remove exsistence of child labour in industry and brings some restrictions indivuals for under the age of 18 still work at any workplace. . 1-It should be placed to an enterance door on a plate ‘’not allowed to work under the age of 18 years old’’. 1. (A) In case of detection of child labour in a factory , following teps shouldbe followed: I. Child labour should immediately stop working . II. The factory should terminate the employment of child labour.In no sense, child’s future safety or welfare should not be risked. III. The factory should get contact with the child’s parents or legal to be sent the child’s main residence in a safety way.The factory is responsible transportation, accomodation and including all sorts of related expenses to be sent of the child’s main residence.It should maintain records of all expenses for the child to be sent These records will be examined to confirm whether the facory acted to the rehabilitaion plan . IV. .If the child constitutes the main source of income fort he family, the factory should safeguard a salary until the child reaches to 16 years old or to minimum legal work age. The aim is to avoid any hassle for the loss of income resulting from child’s unemployment.. As option, the factory should recruit someone else in the child’s family.The family member should be at least 16 years old or the minimumlegal worker age. (Whichever is late ) it should be recruited at his own request. V. The factory should remainin contact withthe child’s parents or legal guardians to be provided the child’s welfare and confirmed the child’s attention to school. The factory should maintain evidence of communication with the child’s parents to be confirmed in complience with the terms of the Rehabilitation Plan . VI. The facory should contact with the child’s school to confirm that the child is attending classes regularly. The factory should kep all documents concerning the child being sent to school. VII. The Factory should consider the issue of rerecuirment of the child when he reaches the age of 16 or the legal working age (Whichever is late ) . VIII. The factory should organize a policy that prevent to be employed of the child labor in a factory in the future. The factory should present that employment policy is practiced. 22 1. The age of all employees will be confirmed and determined through appropriate records by the local goverment agencies. 2. If there is no records of age of verification,employee will receive a certificate from a certified dentist. 3. Without proper age records,are not allowed to work of the candidate in the permises. 4. Age verification will be carried out to prove the accuracy provied by the HR in the factory. 5. Age record should be preserved in the personal file of the reletaed employee for the later confirmation. The policy amended and entered into force on 2016. Sabırlar Fındık has never worked in child labor since it was established Will be used for the the prohobitation of child labor. 23 SABIRLAR FINDIK ; Recruiment and Employment  Our goal in recruiment and employment (placement) is to able to provide equal opportunities to those who will adopt the values of the comnpany with the knowledge, skills and attitudes necessary for job, without discrimination.  Positions are occupied through career site practices, promotions or rotation among current employees, identify information, references. The applications in resuming pool are the first example to be assessed according to business requirments in case of any vacany for any position.  Human Resources Deparment watches carefuuly over selecting the right person for the right position, taking into account the specific technical competencies of the position, by contacting the relevant candidates to initiate employment procedures.  As Sabırlar Fındık, we use kariyer. net and yenibiriş.com sites which are job posting sites. We purpose to find the most suitable person for necessary position , by giving job advetisments without discrimination.  When placing a job, we always place the person who is suitable for the job without making any distinction. Every employee is assigned according to their qualifications.  My bluecollar workers , who are heavy duty inoperable reports, are tasked with light and easy work. . 24 Work Force of Sabırlar Fındık with Facts in 2015-2016 Sabırlar Fındık Table of Number of The Employees Based on the Year : 2015-2016 Employee Number % INCREASE 2015 Employee Number 117 10 2016 Employee Number 128 2015 Woman Employee Number 99 12 2016 Woman Employee Number 110 2015 Man Employee Number 18 0 2016 Man Employee Number 18 25 The Table of Sabırlar Fındık 2016 Year of Education Level: 77 80 44 60 40 7 20 1 2 0 1 Master Degree (White Color) Bachelor's Degree (White Color ) Associate Degree (White Color ) High School Secondary Education White / Blue Color White / Blue Color 26 Work Force of Sabırlar Fındık with Facts in 2016 We respect our employees’ personal TOTAL OF EMPLOYESS BY AGE ; dierences and do not discriminate according to their personal dierences. Between 18-25 Between 26-35 Between 35-45 Above 45 During hiring process we do not question our candidates’ sex language, religion, race, political view or dierence of opinion. 18 42 40 28 Any practices in violation of universal human rights are considered unacceptable for Sabırlar Fındık. EMPLOYESS BY CATEGORY; WHITE COLLOR BLUE COLLOR WOMEN 7 103 MEN 18 0 27 SABIRLAR FINDIK WOMEN WORKERS As Sabırlar Fındık,in the recruiment and placement process, ladies are always in our piority. We know that there is endless beauty in every thing that a woman’s han touched. In all deparments,we have female employees from the lowest unit to SABIRLAR FINDIK WHITECOLLAR the top. FEMALE WORKERS ASSIGMENTS 85% of our employees are women and 15% are men.This will ESRİN KUL Accounter Liable continue as well. DERYA SEVİNÇ Accounter Liable All of our bluecollar workers are women Our whitecollar are also 7. NUR SABIR ImportExport Liable BlueColllar employees in choice of female employees,the purpose SEVİM is to bring women with low level s of education into business life and GENÇTÜRK Data Processing Teh. Liable to open a revenue door to them from the financial side.At the same time,we are in food sector , so the work of the ladies in İLKNUR ÇOLAK Food Labratory Liable manufacturing department is much healtier and more suitable for us SENA KORAL Quality Liable in the hygiene direction. HİLAL Our female workers are working in appropriate jobs according to YEŞİLYURT Food Engineer their age and health conditions and not given heavy duty responsibilities to them. As Sabırlar Fındık , we have been supporting women’s employment since 1965 and we will continue to support . We are proud to continue our business life with female employees 28 SABIRLAR FINDIK WORKING CONDITIONS OF WOMEN WORKERS DURING AND AFTER PREGNANCY  The company employees pregnant female workers in accordance with Article 74 of Labor Law No. 4857.  According to labor law, free maternity leave is given for pregnant women workers for 8 weeks before and after birth.  In case of multiple pregnancy, pre-natal free leave is available for 10 weeks.  If the physician does not find it inconvenient and if the female insurer requests that the prenatal period is extended for up to 3 weeks and the prenatal leave period is added to the postnatal leave.  In case of need for health conditions, the physician's report and leave leave periods before and after birth are extended.  Pregnant workers are employed in lighter jobs suitable for their health.  After completion of the sixteen-week leave period, (eighteen weeks in multiple pregnancies), if female workers request, they can have free leave for up to six months.  Until the child reaches the age of one, female workers are entitled to a total of one and a half hours of milk for breastfeeding.  The female worker himself or herself determines in what hours and in what time he will use a total of one and a half hours of milk per day.  A total of one and a half hours milk allowance per day is mandatory for women workers to breastfeed their young children from one year of age to the day of work.  The Company does not make any deductions from the wages of women workers who use milk leave.  The pregnant or lactating worker is not working more than seven and a half hours a day.  Paid leave is granted for periodic checks of female labor during pregnancy. This leave is not counted from paid annual leave.  Female employees do not stay in the office for as long as they are pregnant until their birth by the health report.  Mother employees who have been just have a baby do not stay in the office for more than one year following birth. 29 ENVIRONMENT Businesses should: Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 30 SABIRLAR FINDIK ENVIROMENT MANAGEMENT • Utilizing the most advanced processing technologies currently avaliable in the food sector,Sabırlar Fındık produces food by fulfilling the food standards and food safety requirments in order to reach the most natural taste ,the healtiest conditions, to the customers worldwide. • In system design; it is aimed to provide customer satisfaction, employee healt, safety, and participation, enviromental awarness, supplier relations, sustaniability of competitiveness, productivity. Environment Policy ; • The designated Policy for Sabırlar Fındık; ‘’ Sustainable Development and Enviromental Protection ‘’out of the way Sabırlar Fındık’s in all processes;  We are committed to complying with national and international legal regulations and other obligations which are involved in the enviroment in the geographies in which we operate,  To raise enviromental awarness in our employees,to create awarness of responsibilities towards the enviroment and to organize trainings to increase their sensitivity.  Reducing waste at its source, recovering to the extent possible,eliminating non-recycled wastes without harming the enviroment,  The result of our activities is to reduce air, water , soil pollution in big part , to prevent enviromental pollution.  To ensure that emissions resulting from our activities are released to the enviroment in accordance with the standards laid down in the enviromental legislation,  It is committed to using appropriate technology to control and minimize the potential impacts on the enviroment. 31 Environmental Activities • We want to prevent enviromental pollution by collecting sperately in recyclable waste sources.Wastage packaging wastes occur during the product packaging. The packaging wastes are given to the licensed firm .When appering contaminat wastages, oil generated from machine maintance, labratory wastages and etc.. Are provided to the licensed companies. In the company at a certain periods are done the inspection of the vehicles and changing of the tires at the vehicle maintance stations. Furthermore, thanks to the agreement made with the enviromental consultancy company, employeeses are provided to take enviromental education every month, and the information notes included in the inplant panel training are hug on on the purpose of being a reminder of the grades taken. Energy Efficiency Activities :  The use of luminaries and bulbs with highillumination effiiciency.  The use of heat insulation jackets on the machines.  Analyzing machine postures,improving energy efficiency with the improvments based on analysis result..  Increase productivity through scheduled/periodic maintance activities.  Shutting down the radiators in unneeded areas,as a result of controlling the ambient temperatures.  Providing the lighting system with motion sensor in the areas that are not always avaliable.  A water treatment plant has been carried out. There are effectively three areas in the scope of our environmental sustainability activities: 1Water stewardship: This involves efficient water consumption. While contributing to solutions to global water concerns, we are also developing and applying wastewater treatment processes. 2Sustainable packaging: We enhance the efficiency of our packaging by reducing raw material usage and encouraging greater and more efficient recycling. 3Energy Efficiency : When renewing production instruments or establishing refrigeration technologies we always consider the least energy consuming and most effective energy management solutions. We additionally plan waste management for the longterm and work to minimize waste generation. 32 Waste Water Soil Protection Air Protection Solid Hazardous Wastages Packaging Wastages Manage Management Process Process Wastages There is a The open and Regular Industriyal Hazardous wastages Our packaging waste is generated in our facility water closed areas emulsion grade solid collected in sperate stores are accumulated in the treatment in production measurments waste is not temporary storage, according to types and is plant which area are not are made formed. sperating according to regularly delivered to is subject to in contact under the their compositions. licensed company named Hazardous wastes are enviromental with the enviromental delivered to the licensed ÇAKIROĞLU recycling. engineering ground. lpermit .Legal company called ARDAM supervision of regulations are hazardous waste by the licensed observed. national waste transportation form. firm. Periodical inspection is carried out by the environmental engineer CERTIFICATES AND AWARDS RECEIVED BY PLANTS IN TURKEY To produce products conforming to both quality and food safety principles and to ensure that places used are hygienic and clean , compy with ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 standards. To manufacture and serve legal requirments to meet ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 food safety requirments. To provide healthy, hygienic and quality service within the framework of ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 food Safety Principiles. •We commit as Sabırlar Hazelnut in the frame of quality policy that we will comply with legal conditions,legislation and laws and continuously improve the effectiveness of our quality management system. 33 Picture 1 : DANGEROUS CHEMICALS / FUEL WASTE COLLECTION STORE Picture 2 : WATER TREATMENT PLANT Picture 3 :PACKAGING WASTE COLLECTION STORE ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 34 SABIRLAR FINDIK PRINCIPLES OF INCENTIVES OF BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Respect for Laws and Regulations Every employee should know that he or she will receive disciplinary action against a violation of law and practice, and that he or she may be involved in public and criminal proceedings. It is strictly prohibited for the company or its employees to engage in illegal activities.  Sabırlar Fındık expects to comply with ethical standards that go beyond local laws and practices to achieve high ethical goals. In addition to these, Sabırlar Fındık carry a torch to human rights and workers' laws, health and safety standards, protection of the environment, prevention of corruption, fair competition, taxation practices and accounting standards. Moreover it is important to harmonized with The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC). 35 MAJOR RISK AREAS FOR CORRUPTION ACTIONS To Be Contrast with Monopoly Business Partners, Suppliers and Subcontractors The following rules are expected to comply with the  Sabırlar Fındık is aware of rough justice as a result of employees of Sabırlar Fındık; breaking a law and incurring to the trade, civilian, public penal sanctions of employee or even imprisonment for some situations. In addition, third parties are at a higher risk of Introducing the principles in this document to partners, claiming damages from the Company as a result of violations subcontractors and suppliers who work with Sabırlar Fındık, of these rules. For this reason every Sabırlar Fındık To avoid To avoid any kind of gift, entertainment, or any Company’s employees have to understand this law and work other favoritism that would disrupt justice for selection of in harmony with these laws. suppliers,  Therefore Sabırlar Fındık Company’s employees should be Only work with suppliers, partners and subcontractors who very careful and should not be involved in agreements that are committed to comply with the principles here and to be have the intention of sharing with the market or customer, or sure that this commitment has been documented in writing, boycotting a customer or supplier.  To make merit evaluation periodicly to the mediators who  Sabırlar Fındık Employees should be aware of what have agreement currently and are acting behalf of the information is commercially sensitive, should not share this Sabırlar Fındık to the suppliers, subcontractors and partners. information with any competitors within the competition laws and should show attention to such information about business. Following relations are prohibited for parties who have business agreement ora re employees of The Sabırlar Commercial Restrictions and Export Boycotts Fındık Company or acting on behalf of The Sabırlar Fındık Company;  Due to business objectives and interests, Sabırlar Fındık operates in many countries. From time to time service, goods,  Accepting gifts or entertainment from the parties involved software or technology embargo or any other trade prohibition in the procurement procedures of Sabırlar Fındık, except in may be applied to the regions due to certain local or international laws. Sabırlar Fındık, As long as it does not conflict with the cases where prior approval has been obtained from the laws of the Republic of Turkey, operates its trade according to this Compliance Officer or permitted under the principles outlined boycott and embargo which are decided by relevant authoritiesand in this document, organizations. If one of the employee of Sabırlar Fındık tCompany The sharing of confidential business information (bid prices meets to any legal problem or dilemma, should consult Company's or other commercial information) of any subcontractor, Compliance Officer or Legal Department supplier or business partner with subcontractors, suppliers or partners involved in the same process. 36 Working with Mediator Political Activities  In case of working with mediator, Sabırlar Fındık  Sabırlar Hazelnut does not support politicians or Company’s manager to be sure that reputation, history, capacity and sufficient of the mediator by political parties and does not pay political parties, organizations and their representatives. performing Sabırlar Fındık Company Validity Evaluation. The agreement which is signed between  Employees are free to participate in democratic Sabırlar Fındık Company and Mediators have to political activities but must inform the Compliance reflect the relationship between the parties in a true, Officer in advance and these activities should be complete and complete manner. conducted without reference to Sabirlar Fındık and without Sabirlar Fındık resources. Working with Mediator Approach to Public Servants  In case of working with mediator, Sabırlar Fındık  Sabırlar Fındık does not let to direct or indirect Company’s manager to be sure that reputation, payments, cash or any other kind, gift, promise or other history, capacity and sufficient of the mediator by advantage, and direct or an intermediary thereof, through performing Sabırlar Fındık Company Validity a close family member or agency of a vehicle, any public Evaluation. The agreement which is signed between official, political party Or to the third party to cause the Sabırlar Fındık Company and Mediators have to violation of the law, gift, interest or promise. reflect the relationship between the parties in a true,  When establishing a relationship with public officials, the complete and complete manner. necessary due diligence must be demonstrated.  Sabırlar Fındık Company does not allow any gifts, payments or valuables that are not in this Code to be offered to the Public Officers.  If the catering expenses made by the Public Officials create a suspicious condition regarding the rules here, the Compliance Officer or the management of the Company should be consulted.  The cost of the Public Officer will not be approved if the costs incurred by the Public Officer violate anti-corruption laws that bind the employer or if the public will be 37 perceived as bribe or improper payment by the public. Prevention of Money Laundering  Sabırlar Fındık does not allow using of resources by individuals and institutions for money laundering and the legal representation of these illegal sources in any way. Sabırlar Fındık never helps to make money, do not abandon or obscure, that is;  Sabırlar Fındık always obeys to the laws which includes anti money laundering politics,  Sabırlar Fındık questioned its merit of the parties to take all the precautions,  Sabırlar Fındık Company always works with reliable and reputable subcontractors, suppliers and business partners to ensure that the source of the money is reasonably followed. Sabırlar Fındık is responsible for branches or subsidiaries, lobbyists, senior managers, board members, employees, contract employees, mediator and payments which are made by anyone who are acting on behalf of Sabırlar Fındık and particularyl payments which are made to subcontractors, suppliers or business partners in suspicious activities. Sabırlar Fındık employeers never act about the issues without the approval of top managers and the Compliance Officer,  Employees should not pay people who are not entitled to take the money legally or who are not involved as a party to the transaction,  Employess do not receive payments from persons who are not entitled to legally receive the money or who are not involved in the transaction,  Employees should not expect cash money receive in person, despite having a secure banking system,  Employees should not make incompatible shipments with standard procedures of Sabırlar Fındık Company,  Do not exchange transactions with unauthorized institutions  Sabırlar Fındık It is strictly forbidden to make a promise or condition that a hazelnut employee, his / her officer or his / her director will be able to monetize or gain any advantage or improperly obtain a job, reward a decision or use a source.  Sabırlar Fındık A hazelnut employee can not respond to a request made for the same purpose. This improper advantage applies directly or indirectly, in the form of assistance from third parties, or in the case of a request from the intermediary, supplier, subcontractor, joint venture or affiliate.  Bribery or any benefit is strictly prohibited due to a decision to provide a third party with money or any advantage of ona of the Sabırlar Fındık Company.  Facilitated payments are payments made by legal channels to accelerate compulsory administrative procedures and formalities. To avoid any dilemma, Sabırlar Fındık forbid such payments in principle. Such payments will be recorded in the accounts and reported to the Compliance Officer. 38 Gifts,Meals and Accomodations Approach to Public Servants  There is no way to give a gift or any entertainment  Sabırlar Hazelnut does not let to direct or indirect in order to influence a business decision or to get payments, cash or any other kind, gift, promise or an advantage. Same situation is valid for gifts. other advantage, and direct or an intermediary  It should not allow to any gifts, money, debts, thereof, through a close family member or agency invitations or similar special treatment proposals, of a vehicle, any public official, political party Or to family members or relatives accept it, and family the third party to cause the violation of the law, gift, members and relatives are offered similar offers to interest or promise. affect decisions about the business with Sabırlar  When establishing a relationship with public Fındık. Fort his reason, employees and persons officials, the necessary due diligence must be who are acting on behalf of the Sabırlar Fındık demonstrated. Company, must not accept any gifts, directly or  Sabırlar Hazelnut Company does not allow any indirectly, except for promotional items with a gifts, payments or valuables that are not in this corporate logo on it and a minimal or negligible Code to be offered to the Public Officers. value. In case of misunderstandings, the gifts received will be handed over to Sabırlar Fındık  If the catering expenses made by the Public quickly and the gift received will be treated as a Officials create a suspicious condition regarding the fixture of Sabırlar Fındık. rules here, the Compliance Officer or the management of the Company should be consulted.  Offers for entertainment such as social events or meals may accept if there is a clear and fair  The cost of the Public Officer will not be approved if business relationship. The cost of hosting should be the costs incurred by the Public Officer violate antikept as low as possible and the information about corruption laws that bind the employer or if the the persons accommodated should be documented. public will be perceived as bribe or improper Employees who are woeking for Sabırlar Fındık payment by the public. should receive travel, accommodation and similar expenses. In order to provide or benefit from gifts, hospitality and similar benefits, it is necessary to obtain top management approval beforehand; But he / she can act on his / her own initiative when he / she is absolutely sure of the situation without violating the rule. Even if there is no prerequisite during admission, consultation with the top manager 39 of the person is recommended for transparency and compliance. Social Investments, Charities and Political Aids Cash Deposit Movement  Although contributions for social and aid  Sabırlar Fındık must create and operate a purposes are accepted by legal and mechanism to control, record and report international business circles, they should be cash cash transactions. In principle, every carefully examined against the risk of transaction must be controlled and recorded corruption. Under no circumstances may and reported. contributions for social or charitable purposes  To reduce this risk Sabırlar Hazelnut should be made on behalf of the company to influence, create a reliable control mechanism over the decide or withdraw an entity, and in particular a use of cash registers and related accounting public official. records.  Cash register movements are only used  Employees, officers, branches and subsidiaries, when electronic payments or bank transfers at the same time subcontractors, suppliers and are not possible. All cash cash movements business partners, mediators, lobbyists and must be recorded in the accounting account, employees who are acting on behalf of Sabırlar regardless of their coincidental value, and Hazelnut should not provide any political compared to the original invoices clearly assistance or support a political person or party. showing the purpose of the expenditure.  All advance cash movements must be based on a claim form that explains in writing the amount of the claimant's demand reason and the estimated payment. The written request form must also be signed by the manager of the requestor at the same time.  All cash deposit expenditure costs must be recorded along with the original receipt or invoices of the expenditures. Sabırlar Fındık should have a cash register to record all cash cash movements. Reconciliation work should be done on the cash book by Sabırlar Fındık, monthly or at least once every 3 months. 40 ANTI-CORRUPTION RISK AUDIT Head of Anti-Corruption  The Assistant General Manager of Compliance and Internal Control, appointed by the Board of Directors,  President of Anti-Corruption’s responsibilities described as follows  Develop, define, publish and supervise an effective anti-corruption program.  Develop and publish compliance rules that set anti-corruption standards.  Provides advice on anti-corruption issues.  Investigation of reported major corruption actions and the anti-corruption program  Coordination and supervision. Responsible of Fighting Against Corruption  The Ethics Code and the Personnel Expert appointed by the Board of Directors is responsible for the anti-corruption as follows:  To develop, define, implement and supervise an effective anti-corruption program.  Adoption of the Group rules, the addition of the necessary actions in accordance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements, and the correct implementation of group rules Coordination.  Providing advice on the anti-corruption program.  Employees should be assessed on the status of anti-corruption issues It helps.  Investigate any reported corruption activity.  To this end, the responsibility for combating corruption, in cases of suspicious or actual corruption, to investigate the subject, to request and examine all kinds of documents and to transfer them to the Board of Directors when necessary.  The corruption control officer reports to the Financial Crimes Prevention Division any current money laundering suspicion in violation of current data protection, privacy rules and law, or in case of actual or attempted corruption. 41 INTERNAL ASSESMENT OF POSSIBLE VIOLATIONS  All employees of Sabırlar Fındık Company must report the possible violation of these rules immediately. Suspicious violations may be reported to any member of the employee's manager, manager's manager, Compliance Officer, Compliance Committee or Board of Directors, as well as other reporting mechanisms established by the Company.  Sabırlar Fındık Company prohibits the sanction against the person making the notification in good faith. All notices and notices must be followed up by the Compliance Officer and taken seriously. Notifications should be made anonymously, and if not done anonymously, the Compliance Officer and the Compliance Committee should keep the notice source confidential.  A manager who receives a report containing a violation of anti-corruption laws and regulations must forward the report in writing to the Compliance Officer in a timely manner.  The Compliance Officer must ensure that the necessary action is taken and that any issues or questions that arise as a result of the reports should be considered within the scope of the training and meetings.  Employees are trained in the anti-corruption program on legal Awareness-raising programs. Secure and accessible communication channels are provided to communicate employees' notifications.  Training on legal requirements through the anti-corruption program; and awareness programs are arranged for employees of the Company. 42 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY As We Sabırlar Fındık ; Sabırlar Fındık, by supporting the studies ‘’UNİCEF Turkey National Commite in Turkey and children in a disadvantaged situation in the world to be able to reach their basic goal and providing contribution to those studies for those children to reach healty life and education services and reach to equal rights with their peers , are awarded to ‘’UNICEF SILVER WING!! As Sabırlar Fındık, by monthly regular support, As being UNICEF Turkey National Commitee’s ‘’silver Wing’’ owner, we are contributing to the realization of longterm work that makes permanent changes in childeren as well as basic needs of these children. Happiness to make children happy by donating to UNICEF we continue to work with social responsibility awarness. By the membership of UNICEF Silver Wing, We are proud to support UNICEF working and struggling for children that have the right life and development, selfexpression, nondiscriminationand to reach the highest benefits. You can see our membership; “http://www.unicefturk.org/yazi/duzenli_kurumsal” 43 CONCLUSION We as Sabırlar Fındık, we oppose the discrimination of women in business life,give more importance to women’s employment .This is not only number, but also working enviroment provided for women ,career opportunities and discirimination in recognized rights.In this context, we develop the ‘’Equality Platform at Work ‘’ by making our knowledge permanent. We commit ourselves to support the work we have done for women’s employment for years and continue with the Global Compact 10 principles consiciousness that we will never compromise our ethical values in business life. 44 CONTACT SABIRLAR FINDIK IHRACAT LTD STI. Address:Pazarkapı District Kalkanoglu Ave.No:34 61040 TRABZON/TURKEY Tel.:+90 462 272 57 25-272 53 53 Telefax:+90 462 272 55 00 Web Site:www.sabirhazelnut.com.tr E-Mail : hsabir@sabirhazelnut.com.tr 45
