Annual and Sustainability Annual and SustainabilReport 2016 ity Report 2016 PostNord in brief PostNord’s financial and ­non-­financial target areas PostNord is undergoing major adjustments in all parts of the organization. Nevertheless, the outcomes for the Group’s Employee Index (MIX) and Leadership Index (LIX) in 2016 were marginally lower than in 2015. The outcome for 2016 was impacted by the rapid digitization above all in Denmark, leading to major impairment losses. For that reason, the long-term financial target for rate of return was not achieved. The net debt ratio was marginally outside the ­ target range. Through initiatives to cut emissions from transportation and reduce energy consumption, the Group’s carbon dioxide emissions continue to decline. Since 2009, emissions have fallen by around 25%. During the year, PostNord intensified its focus on both delivery quality and perceived quality. The program of improvement centered on the customers' customers, the recipients. The PostNord listens program was rolled out, with good results. Sustainability in the supply chain is a priority area, and a new target area as of 2016. The target is that, by 2020 no less than 80% of PostNord’s total spend shall be made from suppliers who sign up to and comply with PostNord’s Code of C ­ onduct for Suppliers. Cover picture Sustainability Report according to GRI G4 At just 20 years, Kani Mousa was appointed team leader for Team 4 at the PostNord reports on its sustainability work for 2016 according to the Global Langhus Terminal, Norway. He has now been team leader for two years, Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines, Core. The GRI Index on page and has created a committed and motivated team that actively participates 85–86 contains an overview of the aspects and indicators that are included in the dialogue on the role of the unit, and how the team can make a differwithin PostNord’s sustainability reporting according to GRI. Information on ence in achieving the targets for the unit, the terminal, PostNord Norway the scope and delimitations of the report is provided on page 78. The Susand – ultimately – PostNord. tainability Report according to GRI comprises pages 2–15, 24–31 and 79–86. We deliver! Contents PostNord in brief 1 CEO comments 2 PostNord is the leading supplier of communicaMarket 4 tion and logistics solutions to, from and within Strategy 6 the Nordic region. We ensure postal service Customers & recipients 10 Employees 12 to households and businesses in Sweden and Environment 13 Denmark. With our expertise and strong distriSupply chain 14 bution network, we develop new solutions for Society 15 the communication, e-commerce, distribution Finance – Group 16 PostNord Sweden 18 and logistics of tomorrow in the Nordic region. PostNord Denmark 19 P  ostNord Norway PostNord integrates sustainability aspects and PostNord Finland 20 throughout the organization in order to be able PostNord Strålfors and Direct Link 21 to conduct a sustainable operation that beneMulti-year review 22 fits customers, employees, owners and society. Risk 24 PostNord's business is operated within a frameCorporate Governance Report 25 Board of Directors 34 work of delivering on the non-financial and Group Executive Team 36 financial goals adopted by the Group. Financial statements Consolidated financial statements 38 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 43 around 142 million parcels an increase of 8% from 2015. Parent Company financial statements Notes to the Parent Company financial statements 68 70 Board of Directors’ and President & Group CEO’s certification 74 just over 6,100 distribution points in the Nordic countries, Auditor’s Report Sustainability information 75 offering reliable service and convenient Supplementary sustainability opening hours. information 79 GRI Index 85 5.0 billion letters and other mail items Assurance Report 87 were delivered by PostNord in 2016. Auditing of the report The Board of Directors and the President & Group CEO of PostNord AB (publ.), corEvery care has been taken in the translation of this porate identity number 556771-2640, hereby present their Annual and Sustainability report. In the event of discrepancies, the Swedish Report for the 2016 financial year. The Board of Directors’ report comprises pages 4–9, original will supersede the English translation. pages 16–37 and the section on environmentally licensed operations on page 83. It has been audited as described in the Auditor’s Report on pages 75–78. The Sustainability Report according to GRI has been reviewed as described in the Assurance Report on page 87. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 1 CEO comments A challenging year driven by rapid digitization of mail has compelled the introduction of a new and financially sustainable production model in Denmark. Closer focus on customer-perceived quality is delivering results. Throughout 2016, quality was at the top of the agenda, every day. At the same time, we kept up a high tempo in working on our most important strategic priorities. In parallel, the expansion of digitization has created deficits and impairment losses in the Danish business, which means that we are now further raising the pace of transformation. The common challenge facing national postal corporaresults, and the level of quality for our main products tions is the need to realign operations to the growing improved over the year to one that we regard as marscale of digitization, while operating in what in many ket-leading, although not yet in line with the targets we cases is an antiquated post-regulatory environment. This have set. We have also taken further initiatives to focus means that existing business models must be reviewed more closely on the quality perceived by recipients. Our from the bottom to meet the challenge of this trend. The new “PostNord listens” program, which has already digitization agenda of the Danish government has proved its value, is based on measuring, analyzing and – turned Denmark into probably the most highly digitized very quickly – making the necessary improvements. In country in the world, and the volume losses in the Danan initial phase, it was rolled out in Sweden in late 2016. ish mail business are continuing to grow. Denmark’s new Postal Services Act, passed in 2016, has now put regulatory conditions in place that will enable our business in “ Volumes of B2C parcels Denmark to adapt more effectively to the volumes to be handled. Over the next few years, we will be implementincreased by around 16%.” ing a new production model in Denmark. As a result, PostNord will become the first in the world to create a The result has been a more in-depth understanding of financially sustainable production system that is fully how our customer’s customer, the recipient, experibased on coordinating utilization of infrastructure and ences his contacts with PostNord, and a number of qualtransportation networks for the rapidly expanding logisity-enhancing measures have been taken. Our survey tics business with the shrinking mail business. Building results indicate a positive trend. “PostNord listens” is also on the logistics network will create the conditions for effibeing introduced in Denmark and Norway in the first cient and scalable distribution of letters and at the same quarter 2017 and in Finland in the third quarter. time ensure a competitive logistics offering for the future. In an effort to simplify matters for our business cusUsing the logistics business as a base, we will now fashtomers, we are working intensively on harmonizing our product portfolio. The focus has been on our Nordic logistics offering and omnichannel communication. Evi“ The level of quality for our dence of progress in this work is that our product portfomain products improved over lio in logistics has been slimmed down from, in all, 35 products to 9, without losing any in-demand service. The the year.” harmonization offers not only clear benefit to the customer but also provides efficiency gains to PostNord. We are continuing to develop our offering to meet the ion a group able to deliver an efficient, nationwide postal changing needs that constantly arise, especially in the service for the shrinking mail volumes. However, this will sharply growing e-commerce sector. For example, the depend on Sweden’s system of postal regulation being Group’s omnichannel communication services have modified and adapted to the drastic changes in demand developed into a central and popular part of our offering. and the increasing volume losses. Inland postage rates in We offer our customers communication services that Sweden are very low compared to those of the other combine digital and physical services to optimize both Nordic countries, especially Norway and Finland, where marketing communication (advertising, PR etc.) and postage is roughly double Sweden’s. Also, we are administrative communication (invoices, information required to provide overnight delivery throughout Sweetc.). Other examples include logistics collaborations that den. This is no longer realistic, given the trend of digitizaenable deliveries direct to the refrigerator or to the trunk tion that we see and the increases in payroll costs that of a car, and those for convenient handling of returns. we are having to deal with. PostNord’s like-for-like net sales decreased by 3%, In our growing logistics business, PostNord already mainly through a continued major decline in the Group’s holds a strong position for being the natural partner for mail volumes of 9% overall, 6% in Sweden and 19% in Dene-commerce companies and the first choice for our cusmark. To a certain degree, this is being offset by continutomers’ customers, the recipients. To further strengthen ingly buoyant growth in e-commerce. Volumes of B2C our position, we have concentrated our focus on deliverparcels increased by around 16%, driven mainly by the ing market-leading quality. Our initiatives have produced growth in e-commerce. Adjusted operating income 2 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 CEO comments Net sales: SEK 38,478m (39,351). Operating income: SEK –1,083m (564). Adjusted operating income: SEK 500m (927). Net income for the period: SEK –1,583m (278). Cash flow from operating activities: SEK 1,321m (1,585). Return on capital employed (ROCE): –12.1% (5.4)%, excluding items affecting ­comparability 5.5% (7.8). totaled SEK 500m (927). The decline arose mostly nize the opportunities that digitization will bring to both through the impact of the sharply falling mail volumes in our logistics business and our digital communication Denmark that we were unable to offset through sufficient offerings. These are markets where we have excellent adjustment on the cost side. Business area eCommerce & opportunities to continue to expand, both via the Logistics accounted for approximately 75% of net income. growth already anticipated and by gaining further Items affecting comparability, SEK –1,583m (–363) net, for ­market shares. This will serve as the hub for our trans­ the full year consisted primarily of impairment losses formation from a traditional postal corporation to the applied to goodwill related to the Danish business and cermost attractive partner in the Nordic logistics and comtain assets associated with the mail business in Denmark. munications market. We will take this journey together. Working and serving in an organization where conIncluding sustainability in all parts of the business will stant changes in customer requirements and other marbe critical to our success. PostNord subscribes to the prinket forces mean that a constant need for transformation ciples of the UN Global Compact. We govern and f­ ollow is a reality to many today – especially employees at up operations via financial and non-financial targets. We ­PostNord who over two decades of digital revolution base our actions on common values and our Code of have witnessed declining mail volumes on an increasing Conduct. A welcome acknowledgement from the outside scale from one year to another. In our case, this transforcame in 2016 when Science Based Targets confirmed mation has meant that many have left the company and that our lower carbon dioxide emissions target is well that the nature of work tasks has changed. Staffing cutin line with what is required to slow global warming. backs have been made largely through natural attrition, We have a few challenging years ahead of us before but compulsory redundancies have also been used. we have our organization totally adapted to a highly ­digitized world. But what we are creating together is the Nordic region’s leading logistics and communication “ Building on the logistics business, and once our transformation is complete we will be an extremely attractive company with ­network we create a scalable high-quality services and a scalable and financially and financially sustainable ­sustainable production model. The position we hold in the Nordic market will make us a highly attractive production model.” organization, both as supplier and employer. I would like to express my sincere thanks for 2016 to our employees, partners, customers and recipients. The huge transformation that we are going through is unfortunately creating uncertainty among employees Solna, February 2017 as to how they will be affected by the actions needed to address continued volume losses in the mail business. One important element of feedback from the dialogue we maintain with employees is that we managers need to get better at inspiring confidence in the future. However, what I have found is that we are good at adapting Håkan Ericsson to new conditions and that we have been early to recogPresident and Group CEO PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 3 Market Different driving forces in PostNord’s domestic market – Nordic region The driving forces in PostNord’s markets may be summarized in brief as e-commerce driven growth in logistics, the digitization-driven shift from ­physical to digital communication and combinations of the two. Nordic logistics Potential for growth in e-commerce remains strong Commerce between the Nordic countries represents E-commerce is expected to continue to expand by a significant portion of total commerce in the Nordic more than 10% annually over the next few years. The region. At the same time, Europe is the Nordic region’s basic driving forces of e-commerce are simplicity and most important trading partner. The demand for Nordic availability for consumers and recipients. The major end-to-end solutions and cross-border solutions to, share of e-commerce purchases are still made from from and within the Nordic region is rising. However, domestic companies. However, it is increasingly the overall logistics market in the Nordic region has ­common for consumers to look for products beyond been relatively stable in recent years. The Nordic logistheir country’s borders. Sites in the United Kingdom, tics market that is relevant to PostNord equates to Germany, the United States and China, above all, about SEK 160–190 billion. This includes everything from attract ­Nordic consumers. home deliveries of parcels and road freight, to advanced One of e-commerce’s most important competitive logistics services such as TPL. The Swedish logistics factors is an effective and seamless system of logistics. market is characterized by consolidation, intense The method, location, time and cost of goods delivery ­competition and cost focus. The biggest players are have become increasingly important to consumers at Schenker, DHL, DSV, PostNord, Bring, GLS, and Posti. the time of purchase. One strong trend is “omnichannel concepts”, which offer the same customer experience, Position: Through its own network and international irrespective of channel. partnerships with DPD, among others, PostNord has a leading position in the Nordic distribution and logistics Position: Today, PostNord has a unique reach and a market, where the e-commerce-related logistics sector ­leading position as expert and partner to the majority is expanding rapidly. The Group’s logistics offering is to of e-­retailers in the Nordic countries. All-in-all, this a large extent harmonized within the Nordic region. ­represents further attractive opportunities for growth. About a third of the new agreements signed by ­PostNord are in the fast growing e-commerce segment. E-commerce – % of total retail sales E-commerce in the Nor E-commerce in the Nordics, 7% SEK 218.6 Total value of online purchases by Nordic billion Given that e-commerce currently only accounts for roughly 7% of total trade in the Nordics, the potential is huge. e-commerce consumers1) 1) According to a survey conducted by TNS Sifo on behalf of PostNord for the period Feb. 2016–Jan. 2017. Market Patterns of communication changing Growth in combinations of With the shift to digital channels mail volumes are digital and physical advertising decreasing. In the Danish market, digitization has been, The total advertising market saw a slight rise in Sweden and still is, proceeding at a very high pace. This results and Denmark, almost exclusively within digital channels. from several factors coming together at the same time, However, in the traditional advertising sector, the decline not least legislation on digital communication from and continues, above all in printed media. to public sector agencies. PostNord offers an expanded range of wholly and partly digital communication serPosition: In order to develop the digital-physical combivices. In Sweden, digitization is still moving at a slower nation, PostNord launched ShopGun in Sweden in pace, and one clear trend is towards combinations of autumn 2016. The product combines the week’s adverphysical and digital communication. Given the trend tising sheets and offers in an app. A strong area of focus towards digitization, the decline in mail volumes will going forward will be to help customers improve their ­continue. This changing market is a challenge to all market communication outcomes by combining analypostal corporations. Some countries have modernized sis, segmentation and impact measurement with physithe regulatory conditions to enable postal corporations cal and digital advertising solutions in the Nordic region. to run competitive and financially sustainable operations while meeting the changes in needs of consumers and businesses for postal services. Denmark passed new postal legislation in 2016. In Sweden, a review of the way in which the postal market is regulated is in progress. Position: PostNord provides the universal postal service in Denmark and Sweden. PostNord is therefore the only player that reaches all households and businesses in both countries. PostNord holds a strong position in the combination of digital and physical communication via our omnichannel solution. PostNord has also started offering mail services in Norway. Development, mail volumes Sweden Change, overall, during 2016 –6% Change, overall, since 2000 –42% Change, priority mail, since 2000 –57% Denmark Change, overall, during 2016 –19% Change, overall, since 2000 –74% Change, priority mail/Quickbrev, since 2000 –91% Strategy Anticipates, listens and acts on expectations PostNord makes it possible for businesses and private individuals to do business and communicate with each other every day. PostNord fills an important role in the business community and society in the Nordic countries by making communication and the transportation of goods possible to everyone, every day. By understanding and acting on the issues that are most Dialogue and follow-up: Annual General Meeting (AGM), important to PostNord’s various stakeholders the right annual and sustainability report, interim reports, ongoing ­priorities for developing the Group can be established. ­dialogue via discussions and meetings. The categories that are most impacted by, or are most Issues in focus: Structure for and performance of universal ­dependent on, PostNord's operations are described below. service obligation, delivery quality, value creation and financial stability, responsible and attractive employer, sustainable Customers and recipients products and services, sustainability in the supply chain. PostNord is a leading operator in the Nordic region in communication and logistics, and Capital market strives to be the first choice for customers and PostNord finances its business partly through bonds. recipients throughout the Nordic region. Business and private The ­confidence of the capital market is therefore important customers must be able to reach their recipients at the right to the Group. time, reliably and efficiently – whether the task involves a Dialogue and follow-up: Interim reports, annual and global logistics solution, an advertising campaign or a birthsustainability report, meetings and discussions with analysts day greeting. Recipients must be able to rely on all deliveries – and lenders. irrespective of whether they are letters or parcels – being Issues in focus: Value creation and financial stability, net debt made in the way they wish, whether to the home, to a service ratio, cash flow, business model, ownership structure. partner or to the trunk of the car. Dialogue and follow-up: Customer contacts, customer Business partner ­service, drivers and mail carriers, PostNord’s service partners, “Business partner” summarizes PostNord’s relacustomer ombudsmen, customer and corporate image tionship with partners outside the Group, such ­surveys and the Group prioritization program PostNord listens. as suppliers and distribution points. PostNord Issues in focus: Technical and perceived delivery quality, procures goods and services for considerable amounts every ­availability, high expertise and good customer care, security, year and has more than 6,100 distribution points. eco-friendly solutions, sustainability in the supply chain. Dialogue and follow-up: Meetings with suppliers, procurement and purchase documentation, dialogue with service Employees partners. With around 33,000 employees (FTE), PostNord Issues in focus: Collaboration, reliability and delivery quality, is one of the largest employers in the Nordic information from PostNord as support in customer contacts. region and bears a considerable measure Sustainability in the supply chain and transparency in procureof social responsibility. PostNord is to offer an attractive, ment processes. ­stimulating workplace. Dialogue and follow-up: Performance appraisals, workSociety place meetings, employee dialogues, employee surveys, PostNord plays a key role in the business commucommunication via various internal channels, dialogue nity and society. Operating a stable and profitable with trade unions. business in the long term, with a focus on the Issues in focus: Customers and quality, Group’s goals and environment and social responsibility, strengthens competi­priorities, leadership and responsible restructuring, working tiveness and satisfies expectations regarding accountability. conditions, health and safety, opportunities for development, Dialogue and follow-up: Dialogue with public authorities, workplace equality. ­politicians, decision-makers and opinion-formers. Dialogue and collaboration with trade associations, advocacy organizations Owners (for example, on rural issues), organizations for sustainable PostNord is owned 40% by the Danish State development and social accountability, and with students. and 60% by the Swedish State. The overall Issues in focus: Delivery quality, the environment, safety, mission set by the owners is to ensure the ­reliability, availability, consideration for customer needs, ­­ u ­ niversal service obligation while creating value. value-­­­­­­­for-money in products and services. 6 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy Value is created with customers and their recipients at the center With customers and their recipients at the center, PostNord develops, adapts and manages its structural capital and resources to create value for its customers. Through its unique infrastructure, PostNord offers communiCost distribution Revenue distribution cation and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. As customer needs are changing, the Group is developing its offering and adapting its utilization of resources. The distribution of mail items to all households and businesses is a laborand transport-intensive operation. The costs involved represent approximately 70% of the Group’s total costs. PostNord is in the process of a major restructuring program that aims to realign the Group’s offering towards the Personnel expenses, 43% Communication Services, 54% growing e-commerce and logistics market at the same time Transportation expenses, 26% eCommerce & Logistics, 46% as mail volumes are declining. The relative sizes of the differOther expenses, 31% ent business areas are also becoming increasingly balanced. With customers and their recipients at the center, we develop, adapt and manage our resources PostNord benefits from a unique capital PostNord operates a clearly defined goverA coherent communication and logistics offer­structure enabling it to offer communication nance system and goal-focused follow-up on ing across the whole Nordic region generates and logistics solutions to, from and within non-financial and financial targets in order to customer value and revenue for investment, the ­Nordic region. ensure sustainable development. service development and return on capital. IT Y B IL SO N SI C PO IA ES • Profitability • MIX LR • Approximately 11,000 mail carriers and LR • Capital structure • LIX ES 1. Improve customers’ offering drivers reach every household and PO CI A • Dividend • Female managers every business NSI 2. Improve customers’ goods flows FINAN BILIT Y • Efficient, modern terminal structure CUSTOMERS 3. Improve customers’ business • Approximately 19,400 vehicles, & RECIPIENTS communication 28% electric-powered • Quality 4. Simplify recipients’ day-to-day life • Reputation • More than 6,100 distribution centers 5. Envoronmentally compatible options • CVI • A single brand • Code of Conduct and certified • Sustainable • Reduce >> Read more on page 10 business management system supply chain carbon dioxide emissions EN VIR IT Y ONM BIL ENTAL RESPONSI Strategy Higher tempo in PostNord’s strategic transformation PostNord's strategy aims to consolidate the Company's position as the leading Nordic logistics and communications business. The process of change is based on the Group's key priorities. Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S merged in 2009, in Highlights during the year order to secure a position as the leading player in the • Further cost-cutting actions taken in all countries, Nordic communications and logistics market. Postleading to a more cost-effective administration and Nord’s current transformation aims to adapt the organimore cost-efficient production. zation to considerably lower volumes, with the focus • The position of Business area eCommerce & Logistics on providing efficient postal services in Sweden and in the market was further consolidated via integration Denmark. At the same time, a competitive logistics of operations acquired and new acquisitions. ­operation is being built up, with a major e-commerce • Work on harmonizing the product portfolio focus on the Nordic domestic market. ­progressed according to plan. The strategy now in place is based on ten priori• New digital interfaces for recipients and businesses ties aimed at building, repositioning and developing added value to PostNord’s e-commerce offering. PostNord into the leading Nordic logistics and • Working closely with PostNord Strålfors, Business area ­communications company. Communication Services developed an omnichannel offering for the Nordic market and initial preparations Develop were made for an entry into the Norwegian market • Establish a harmonized and customer-oriented for mail distribution. ­Nordic product portfolio • Development of the Group’s service logistics offering • Create a goal-oriented performance culture continued in the line organization. • Integrate sustainability into everything we do • The PostNord listens program was launched as a new Group priority, with the main focus on improving the Repositioning recipient’s experience of the PostNord service. • Consolidate the position as the leading • The process of rolling out the integrated production Nordic e-commerce player model is going ahead on schedule. • Secure profitable growth within prioritized • Further upgrading of the IT infrastructure, in part by logistics segments transitioning to new suppliers, is improving IT • Attain the position of first-choice Nordic stability and will lead to lower costs. partner in omnichannel communication • Following the reprofiling of PostNord in Denmark, the • PostNord listens to its customers and their recipients Group now offers its services under the common brand in all markets. Build • Reduce and adapt the cost base • Secure stable and efficient IT operations • Implement an integrated production model 8 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Strategy A more harmonized Nordic offering To be able to respond more quickly to customer needs for easily accessible and more cost-effective deliveries, PostNord is harmonizing its product portfolio. PostNord’s offering to corporate customers is based on Service development is focused on fewer products, detailed customer knowledge, broadly-based logistics enabling customers to get access to updated serexpertise and omnichannel concepts that span the vices more quickly. Overall, harmonization improves entire commercial chain – from business generation PostNord’s competitiveness and profitability. through logistics, warehousing, processing, distribution The basic prerequisites for achieving a fully harmoand delivery, to following up campaigns. Our customer nized portfolio with uniform product conditions in all promise is clear: PostNord takes responsibility for ensurcountries are that the integrated production model ing that customers reach their recipients on time, relimust be implemented and the underlying production ably and efficiently. system harmonized in all countries. Much is now in place, but work will continue in 2017. Because letter Logistics buyers with Nordic movements products are subject to differing country-specific regulademand seamless offerings tions, the focus thus far has been on the logistics offerMany of PostNord’s customers seek a partner for delivering, where a more harmonized product array in logistics ies to, from and within the whole Nordic region. They want and e-commerce can now be presented to all Nordic simple, cost-efficient and secure solutions. PostNord’s businesses under a common brand and harmonized product portfolio has for obvious reasons embraced an product names. In addition, a Nordic omnichannel offerextensive flora of services. End-to-end offerings of Danish ing is being developed, in which physical and digital and Swedish services were an outcome of the merger. communication are combined in line with the customSubsequently, they have undergone further development er’s requirements. in both countries. In addition, more products have been added through acquisitions. PostNord's focus and area of Highlights during the year expertise are logistics and communication. With a more • Simplification and geographical expansion of parcel harmonized offering, PostNord will be better able than services were prioritized in work on harmonization in before to make everyday life easier for customers, so that early 2016. In the case of the track-and-trace products, they can focus 100% on their core business. the focus was on creating three categories with simSince 2015, one of the Group’s most important priorple, clear names. One service for parcels sent to the ities has been to harmonize its product portfolio. The consumer’s home (MyPack Home), one for parcels benefit to customers is that they will be presented with to businesses (PostNord Parcel) and one for parcels a standardized offering, whether they use PostNord in to a service point or parcel locker (MyPack. Collect). Denmark, Norway, Finland or Sweden. They also gain a • In road, freight and pallet products, a targeted program better overview of which services and service combinais in progress to standardize and adapt the offering to tions best suit their needs. Another plus is that they can meet new customer needs, such as home delivery, monitor and manage their business relationship with and at the same time to simplify choices for customPostNord via a contact person and a customer portal. ers/recipients by eliminating country-specific services. To PostNord, harmonization means that the • The Group’s product offering in logistics has been cut resources needed for control and administration of its from 35 products to 9 main products with the same products will be lower while cost-efficiency will improve. overall functionality but clear, standardized names. The Group’s product offering in logistics has been cut from 35 products to 9 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 9 Customers & recipients Closer focus on customer benefit and recipient experience PostNord's vision is to deliver world-class communications and logistics solutions to satisfied customers. Our driving force is to always be accessible, to give both business customers and individual customers, and their recipients, the best service possible, and to ensure that they feel that the quality that we deliver lives up to their expectations. One partner all the way 3. Improve customer's business communication With PostNord, customers can send everything from Business communication on the recipient's terms builds ­single letters, large consignments, advertising mailshots, on a successful transaction, reassures the customer and small parcels and container loads – to their neighbor or helps ensure that end-customers stay loyal. PostNord to recipients on the other side of the world. PostNord can produce and distribute all forms of business commushall reach recipients at the right time, in the right nication, both in physical and digital format or in a combi­channel, in the right place and at the right price. nation of the two modes of delivery. 1. Improve customer’s offering 4. Simplify the recipient’s day-to-day life Based on customer insight, PostNord helps businesses Every day, PostNord delivers letters and parcels to houseimprove the effectiveness of their customers’ communiholds and businesses. Recipients of items are increasingly cation and increase the impact of both digital and physiwanting to choose where their delivery is to be made – to the cal channels. Helping customers identify the right target home, to work or even perhaps to the trunk of their car or to group, whether it is a case of finding new end-customers their refrigerator. PostNord is developing its services to meet or retaining and developing business with existing custhese wishes. Traceability, notification by SMS message and tomers, is a crucial element of the offering. Customers track-and-trace via apps are other examples of popular sercan also monitor the effects and fine-tune their offerings, vices. PostNord's now more than 6,100 much-appreciated and may also opt to include their end-customers in distribution points offer the most in-demand services, such a ­loyalty program. as collection and dispatch of large items. PostNord makes high demands of its service partner network, for example in 2. Improve customer's goods flows terms of opening hours and distance. PostNord offers complete logistics solutions for all the customer’s delivery requirements within the Nordic 5. Environmentally compatible options region and internationally. The customer therefore needs Environmental certification remains the most usual cusjust one supplier for inbound deliveries and deliveries to tomer demand, but PostNord’s clear policy of cutting its the end-customer. PostNord’s offering includes functions ­carbon dioxide emissions gives it an increasingly important for tracking the status of the items in the distribution competitive edge in its offering to customers. It is becoming chain, warehouse management (TPL) and efficient more and more common for PostNord to work with cusreturns handling. Mail is delivered directly to the recipient. tomers in adapting transportation arrangements by, for Parcels are delivered directly to the recipient, or via one example, increasing the use of rail or consolidating shipof PostNord’s more than 6,100 distribution points in the ments to optimize capacity utilization. PostNord also offers Nordic region or one of DPD’s 20,000 distribution points a number of services under the collective eco-label “Klimat­ in Europe. ekonomiskt”, in which PostNord and the customer work together to reduce the overall environment impact of the items transported. In addition, the items are climate-offset. Letters, PostNord Sweden Brevet, PostNord Denmark Parcels, PostNord Group Target, priority mail: 94.0% Target, Brevet: 95% Target: 98.0% Outcome: 91.5% (90.3) Outcome: Quickbrev Jan–Jun 89.9% Outcome: 96.2% (96.8) (92.8) and 93.0% for Brevet Jul–Dec % % % 100 100 100 75 75 75 50 50 50 25 25 25 0 0 0 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 16 14 15 16 (Jan– (Jul– Jun) Dec) 10 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Customers & recipients Closer focus on perceived quality Many of PostNord's employees – mail carriers, drivers Mail service quality improved in Sweden in 2016 comand customer service staff – have day-to-day contact pared with 2015, to a level clearly above the minimum with private and corporate customers. If a customer is required by the Postal Services Act, which is no less than not completely satisfied with a meeting or decision, they 85% overnight. The outcome for 2016 was 91.5% (90.3). have the option of contacting a customer ombudsman Through the new postal regulation in Denmark, in Sweden and an appeal body in Denmark. Views that PostNord Denmark’s delivery duty for priority mail and are communicated to the Group are used within the “Brevet” ceased, and since July 1 standard Brevet letters ongoing process of improvement. are subject to a service requirement of delivery within In autumn 2016, the Group launched its PostNord five days. In the July–December 2016 period, quality in listens program, which further focuses on the experithe standard Brevet service was measured at 93.0%. ence of our customer’s customer, the recipient. The aim The outcome for parcel quality was 96.2% (96.8). is to improve the end-customer’s experience, by actively Quality in home delivery of parcels in Sweden was very listening, acting and delivering. Fully implemented, the much in focus during the year. In general, technical qualprogram will measure all primary interfaces with recipiity was slightly higher than customer-perceived quality. ents, such as deliveries via service partners, home delivIn order to create an actual and perceived quality eries of parcels, mail deliveries, contacts with Customer improvement, certain procedures including notification Service and complaints handling. PostNord listens is routines were modified. based on measuring, analyzing and – very quickly – A Customer Value Index (CVI) is used to measure making the necessary improvements. In the initial how satisfied business and private customers are with stage, it has been implemented in Sweden. Denmark PostNord’s products and services. Since the CVI (cusand ­Norway are to have PostNord listens fully impletomer satisfaction) and TRIM (corporate image) indexes mented in the first quarter of 2017, with Finland are influenced considerably by the extensive and nega­commencing in the third quarter. tive media coverage, results for 2016 are difficult to analyze. The CVI for the Group declined from 67 to 59 as a result of a major downturn in Sweden and Denmark in the wake of the extensive and negative media coverage. The TRIM Index shows a decline from 40 to 24, for the same reason. However, the TRIM trend was positive for PostNord Strålfors and in Norway. PostNord listens is based on measuring, analyzing and – very quickly – making improvements. PostNord listens LISTEN ACT DELIVER PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 11 Employees Employees in focus – an important resource for PostNord PostNord is in the process of dynamically restructuring its organization. This is affecting all employees and placing great demand on the management. Continuous dialogue with employees has a vital role in maintaining and d ­ eveloping commitment. The dialogue with employees is conducted for example via the annual employee survey FOCUS and the annual employee dialogue. The response rate in FOCUS in 2016 was 77% (81). The decline is partly explained by the fact index 82 “ men and women have equal opportunity at my workplace” that for the first time, the survey was carried out entirely via digital means. The outcome for the MIX Employee Index was 62 (63). The outcome for the LIX Leadership Index declined index 76 “ at my workplace, we have a culture that promotes diversity” by one point to 67 (68). The result was dominated by the 86 continued intensive restructuring process to address of the team work to the constant decline in letter volumes, above all in % team-based goals ­Denmark where mail volumes are falling there more quickly than anywhere else in Europe. This has led to consequences for the employees and is creating a ­ iversity is incorporated into PostNord’s recruitment prod demand for changes in working practices. cesses and talent programs. Sick leave was calculated at However, the restructuring of the Group to adapt the 6.0% and is now leveling out, having risen for a few years. organization to lower mail volumes has progressed and Restructuring is bringing new demands to bear on our is a continuously ongoing program. In 2016, the average employees, which may partly explain why sick leave fignumber of employees (FTE) fell by 1,978 to 33,278. ures are not falling. PostNord operates an active work ­PostNord's ambition is to act responsibly during staff environment policy and is OHSAS certified in Sweden reductions, working closely with the unions. The outcome and Denmark. Great importance is attached to creating for LIX indicates that employees trust strongly in their a safe working environment through a proactive focus immediate superior, who they see as straightforward and to minimize the risk of accidents in the workplace. honest. On the other hand, there is a call for management to be clearer in its communication about what the outlook Highlights during the year for the Company is, going forward. In order to create bet• As part of an effort to increase the involvement ter opportunity for both involvement and participation, of employees through better understanding of PostNord has introduced a team-based approach to work. ­PostNord’s journey of change, we are implementing PostNord takes the view that people’s differences our “Leading Change” program. make for an attractive and dynamic workplace and • A Nordic mentorship program was launched within improve our ability to meet, and derive maximum benefit the scope of Move – Change for Diversity. from, the various needs of customers. The Move – Change • A Nordic team-based competition to promote and for Diversity program has been and still is an initiative that share our experiences was held. adds momentum to PostNord’s work in diversity. • The focus was on Employer Branding to develop In 2016, progress was made towards the goal of ­PostNord’s attractiveness as an employer. ­having no less than 40% female managers by 2020, with • To secure future competence provision, talent the current levels being 37% (management levels 1–3) ­programs for managers and specialists are being and 30% (management levels 4–6). Our policy on ­conducted. Target: Improve the Employee Index Target: 40% female managers by 2020 Target: Reduce sick leave levels (MIX) and Leadership Index (LIX) Outcome: 31% (28) Outcome: 6.0% (5.8) Outcome: MIX 62 (63), LIX 67 (68) % % 80 30 6 60 20 4 40 10 2 20 0 0 0 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 MIX LIX 12 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Environment Targeted environmental activities delivering greater benefit to the customer and society To deliver greater benefit to the customer and society, PostNord is focusing on reducing energy consumption in both transportation and properties and moving to fossil-free energy. Emissions of carbon dioxide from PostNord's own ­vehicles and outsourced transportation services repreCapacity utilization: sent the Group’s largest environmental impact. Reducing High capacity utilization and optimal routes. the Group's carbon dioxide emissions is a Group-wide Fuel-efficient driving: objective. Since 2009, the Group’s carbon dioxide emisPostNord Denmark has trained approximately 1,400 out of a sions have fallen by around 25%. In 2016, the reduction total of 2,100 drivers in fuel-efficient driving. The International was nearly 3%. This was achieved through continued Postal Corporation (IPC) organizes competitions in fuel-effiactions in the six areas identified as critical in achieving cient driving techniques. The winning driver in PostNord’s the ambitious target, including raising the biofuel concompetition to drive the furthest on one litre of fuel will get tent of diesel, procuring green electricity in more parts of to epresent PostNord in the IPC competition. the organization, energy efficiency measures in buildings and merging operations. In Sweden, where several fuel Biofuel: suppliers offer a high admixture in their d ­ iesel, the bioHigher percentage of biogenic fuel. Approximately 17% of genic component amounts to around 25%. The intro­ the fuel used in the Group's road transportation was from duction of the integrated production model, in which biogenic sources. mail and logistics operations are merged and vehicle Electric vehicles: management is coordinated, helped to reduce carbon Of PostNord's vehicle fleet, electric vehicles account for dioxide emissions during the year. roughly 28%. Highlights during the year More rail transport, less air: • During 2016, PostNord arranged for the Science Transportation by air accounts for 4% of the Group's total Based Targets initiative to assess the Group’s environcarbon dioxide emissions. Around 65% of mail volumes in mental target. The conclusion was that the target was Sweden are transported by rail between the sorting centers. well in line with what research states is needed for the In Norway, the majority of parcel and pallet volumes are Earth to stay below a global warming threshold of two transported by rail. degrees. Buildings: • PostNord has been earmarking funds for environmenMore efficient energy use in business premises via energy tal improvements since 2009. In 2016, funds were analysis and management by goals. Lighting is movement-­ approved for energy optimization measures in buildcontrolled and is being switched to LEDs. Ventilation and ings and for installation of LED lighting. external doors being upgraded. • In Denmark, the new postal legislation allowed for more flexibility at PostNord Denmark, which will reduce our transportation requirement. • The proposal by Sweden’s postal regulation inquiry to abolish the overnight delivery requirement should considerable reduce PostNord Sweden’s need for air transport. Target: To reduce carbon dioxide Total carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide emissions per e ­ missions by 40% by 2020 from emissions item, 2016 the 2009 level. by category Outcome 2009–2016: –25% Thousand of metric tonnes Transportation by road, 89% 500 Air, 4% 400 399g Sea, 1% YYYg CO2 CO 300 2 37g CO2 200 Train, 0% 100 Business travel, 1% 0 Electricity, 2% Emissions per letter were practically unchanged 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 in 2016, while emissions per parcel declined. Heating, 3% PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 13 Supply chain Increased focus on sustainable supply chain As a major actor in the market and as a State-owned enterprise, it is important that PostNord conducts a structured supply chain sustainability management, that ­contributes to social development, limits negative impact on the environment, ­combats bribery and corruption and creates value for PostNord and our stakeholders. PostNord annually purchase goods and services valued Sustainability requirements for suppliers at approximately SEK 13 billion from several thousand of road transportation suppliers. Out of these, around 500 suppliers constitute PostNord has, as a result of a supply chain sustainability 80% of Group total spend. Most are based in the Nordic risk assessment, identified suppliers of road transportaregion, but many form one link in a long and complex tion as an important focus category. The free movement supply chain. In 2016, PostNord added Sustainable of goods and services in Europe offers both b ­ usiness ­supply chain as one of its sustainability targets included opportunities and jobs in the transport sector. PostNord in the Group priority “sustainability in everything we do”. is aware of the social and environment risks that this may create. To help improve conditions on the road for drivers Supply chain sustainability activities at PostNord’s suppliers and to take its work in sustainable The focus in 2016 was to increase the percentage of transportation forward, PostNord has developed – in addisuppliers undertaking to comply with the PostNord tion to the basic requirements of its Code of C ­ onduct for Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. At year-end 2016 Suppliers for a safe working environment, reasonable pay approximately 60% of Group total spend was with suplevels and working conditions, a structured environmenpliers who had undertaken to comply with PostNord tal program and efforts to ensure the absence of bribery Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. To increase interand corruption – s­ pecific sustainability requirements for nal awareness and capacity in supply chain sustainabilroad transport that are to be incorporated into agreeity more than 40 employees from relevant functions ments with road transport suppliers. Such requirements within the Group participated in a two day supply chain include, for example, that road transport suppliers must sustainability training course during 2016. In addition, be able to show that taxes and social security contribua Group-wide process has been developed to enable tions are paid, that cabotage rules are observed where PostNord to assess and approve suppliers from a susappropriate, that pay-setting is not structured such that it tainability perspective. The process is based on self-­ creates a risk that driving and rest times and road safety assessment, risk assessment and on-site audits for are jeopardized, and that an alcohol and drug policy is ­identified high-risk suppliers. In 2017, the focus will be communicated to drivers and regular random tests are on implementing the process, including roll-out of performed. The requirements also include environmental self-assessments and on-site audits, in order to measure requirements, for example, no lower than Euro 5 class supplier compliance with the PostNord Group’s Code for engines and priority to be given to renewable fuels. of Conduct for Suppliers. For more information, go to: www.postnord.com/en/about-us/purchasing/. Sustainability in the supply chain Target: By 2020, based on a risk assessment, at least 80% of Group total spend is with suppliers who accept and comply with PostNord Group’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Outcome: New target area from 2016. Will be ­followed up from 2017. At year-end 2016, the proportion of suppliers who had undertaken to comply with the Code was 60%, based on the proportion of total ­purchasing by the Group. 14 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Society PostNord in society PostNord plays a key role in the Nordic business community and society. Every day, PostNord makes it possible for businesses, public authorities and private individuals to do business and communicate with each securely and safely. PostNord Finland Net sales SEK 984m (787) PostNord Norway Distribution points Net sales approximately 1,200 SEK 3,789m (4,112) Employees, FTE Distribution points 173 (185) approximately 1,500 PostNord Sweden Employees, FTE Net sales 1,330 (1,398) SEK 23,025m (23,080) Number of letters PostNord Strålfors 1,759 million Information logistics, Distribution points omnichannel communication approximately 1,900 Net sales: SEK 2,240m (2,335) Employees, FTE Employees, FTE: 883 (1,078) 19,534 (20,402) Operations in Sweden, Denmark, PostNord Denmark Finland and Norway. Net sales SEK 9,571m (9,987) Direct Link Global distribution of marketing Number of letters communications and lightweight 373 million goods, with the focus on transportaDistribution points tion to and from the Nordic region, approximately 1,600 mainly for e-retailers. Net sales: SEK 989m (1,055) SEKm Employees, FTE Employees, FTE: 192 (188) 10,282 (11,044) Operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia. PostNord delivered 5.0 billion letters and other mail items in 2016, Value generated and distributed in 2016 together with 142 million parcels to households and businesses in The value generated by PostNord’s operations is distributed to the Nordic region. As a leading supplier of communication and logisemployees in the form of wages, salaries and other remuneration, to tics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region, PostNord fulfills suppliers in the form of purchasing, to lenders in the form of interest an important role in the Nordic business community and society. payments, to citizens in the countries in which PostNord operates Every day, PostNord makes it possible for companies, public authorivia tax payments and to its owners in the form of dividends. Total ties and private individuals to do business and communicate with value distributed in 2016 was SEK 35,970m. each other. The Group's broadly-based presence enables trade between companies and consumers, regardless of geographical ­distance. It also helps e-retailers and their customers in rural areas. Suppliers, 49.8% PostNord offers a good postal service via its service partners/distriEmployees, 48.7% bution points in Denmark and Sweden and generous opening hours Creditors, 0.2% for collection, for example, of online purchases are offered via the Group’s more than 6,100 service partners in the Nordic region. Society, 1.3% PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 15 Finance – Group Group PostNord’s income is under severe pressure from falling mail volumes caused by the rapid advance of digitization. At the same time, the steady growth in e-commerce continues. PostNord is working intensively on restructuring the organization to meet the changing needs of the market. PostNord reports positive adjusted operating income but is in the process of radical transformation. As a result, net income for the year is negative. Net sales and income of SEK 909m (0) from Postens Pensionsstiftelse; negaPostNord’s net sales decreased by 3%, excluding acquisitive impact arose primarily through lower income and tions, disposals and exchange rate effects. As a result of conthe use of provisions set aside in earlier periods. tinued digitization, mail volumes declined by 9% overall, 19% Cash flow from investing activities totaled SEK in Denmark and 6% in Sweden. The Group’s parcel volumes –1,550m (–646). The change arose mainly through a increased by 8%. Growth in e-commerce continues, with property sale in Copenhagen in 2015, when PostNord e-commerce related B2C parcel volumes rising 16%. received a payment of SEK 495m, and an investment Group operating income totaled SEK –1,083m (564). of cash and cash equivalents totaling SEK 350m by Income was charged with an impairment loss of SEK the Group in commercial paper during 2016. 796m on goodwill related to the Danish organization, Cash flow from financing activities totaled SEK impairment losses of SEK 389m on property, plant and –98m (–882). equipment associated with the Danish mail business and SEK 275m on items related to the sale of Strålfors’ Important events non-Nordic operations. In all, operating income takes January–March into account items affecting comparability of SEK • Business area reorganization effective January 1 The –1,583m (–363) net, of which SEK –1,441m (–357) has no Communication Services business area was established, effect on cash flow. In the previous year, items affecting based on Business area Mail & Communication and comparability pertained mainly to provisions for restrucStrålfors' service development business. Business area turing costs, and a capital gain on the sale of a property. eCommerce & Logistics is a merger of Business area The Group’s adjusted operating income was SEK Logistics and the former Group function eCommerce. 500m (927). The negative change was primarily the The new organization creates the conditions for raising result of the continued strong growth in digitization in the pace of development in the Group’s service offerings. Denmark. • On March 1, 2016, Björn Ekstedt took up the position Net financial items totaled SEK –25m (–113). Profit/ of Group CIO, joining the Group Executive Team at the loss for the year amounted to SEK –1,583m (278) SEKm same time. and tax SEK –475m (–173) SEKM. • Via acquisition of the assets and liabilities of Danish forwarder G.P. Spedition, PostNord strengthened its Financial position and results position in the Nordic logistics market. Since December 31, 2015, equity has decreased by SEK 1,499m. The loss for the year accounted for the April–June major share of the decrease. • New Swedish legislation providing exemption from The Group’s net debt rose by SEK 525m, to SEK VAT for stamped and certain other postal services 354m. The interest-bearing liability consists of a longentered into force on April 1, 2016. term portion of SEK 1,716m (1,730) and a current portion • In April, the Swedish government’s special inquiry of SEK 2,029m (2,133). On September 20, 2017, SEK into postal legislation presented its interim report 2,000m of the Group’s bond loans falls due for payment on overnight delivery and the price ceiling. and to secure its financial preparedness, the Group has • PostNord started the process of launching MyPack a bridging facility of SEK 1,000m that matures in 2018. in Europe. The debt ratio (net debt/equity) was 5% (–2), which • PostNord entered into agreements on a credit facility was somewhat below the Group’s target of 10–50%. of SEK 2 billion and a bridging finance facility of SEK Return on capital employed (ROCE) was –12.1% (5.4), 1 billion. The new credit facility replaced an existing as a result of the negative income for the year. Excluding overdraft facility. items affecting comparability, the return on capital • PostNord's Annual General Meeting voted to approve employed was 5.5% (7.8). the re-election of Jens Moberg, Mats Abrahamsson, The Group’s financial preparedness totaled SEK ­Gunnel Duveblad, Christian Ellegaard, Torben Janholt, 4,927m (3,894) on December 31, 2016, comprising cash Magnus Skåninger and Anitra Steen to the Board of and cash equivalents of SEK 1,577m (1,894), short-term Director and the election of Mette Grunnet as new investments of SEK 350m (–) and an unutilized credit ­member of the Borad. facility of SEK 3,000m (2,000), of which SEK 1,000m • In May, the Danish Parliament, Folketinget, passed a matures in 2018 and SEK 2,000m in 2019. new postal services act, introducing a series of adjustCash flow from operating activities totaled SEK ments to the requirements applying to PostNord in 1,321m (1,585), with a positive contribution from a credit Denmark. 16 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Finance – Group RESULTS, SEKm1) 2016 2015 % Net sales 38,478 39,351 –33) Of which, BA Communication Services2) 20,881 22,194 –53) • Peter Kjaer Jensen succeeded Henning Christensen of which BA eCommerce & Logistics2) 17,597 17,157 13) as CEO of PostNord Denmark Operating income (EBIT) –1,083 564 • PostNord was one of the first companies worldwide Operating margin (EBIT) –2.8% 1.4% to have its environmental target approved by Science Items affecting comparability, net –1,583 –363 Based Targets. Adjusted operating income (EBIT) 500 927 Adjusted operating margin (EBIT) 1.3% 2.4% July–September • Tim Jørnsen took up the position of Acting Head of Pre-tax income –1,108 451 Business area eCommerce & Logistics. Net income for the year –1,583 278 • New mail services were launched in Denmark as of Earnings per share, SEK –0.79 0.14 July 1. With the priority mail service being scrapped, Cash flow from operating activities 1,321 1,585 economy mail is now the standard letter service. 1) För definitions, see Note 32, page 67. • As part of the strategy of profiling PostNord as a 2) Figures presented for comparison are restated to reflect the impact of adjustments to the organization. ­Nordic-wide group, work started on a more public 3) Changes excluding acquisitions/divestments and exchange rates. reprofiling of PostNord in Denmark. • Denmark’s tax authority SKAT announced that the For further information on developments in PostNord's country organization/ special rule on postage costs, providing a simplified operating segments, see pages 18–21 and Note 4. procedure for e-commerce companies that allows Dec. 31 them exemption from VAT on postage costs within Net debt, SEKm 2016 2015 the scope of the national delivery obligation, would be Interest-bearing liabilities 3,745 ​3,840 abolished as of January 1, 2017. As a result of the scrapPensions and disability pension plans –1,201 –1,867 ping of the rule, parcel distribution by PostNord will Longand short-term investments –613 –250 become in practice subject to VAT, to be paid by the Cash and cash equivalents –1,577 –1,894 end-user, which poses the risk of lower volumes and Net debt ​354 –171 loss of sales. PostNord is working on identifying alternative arrangements to enable e-retailers to continue to benefit from mail items within the scope of the Parent Company national delivery obligation remaining VAT-exempt. The Parent Company has conducted very limited operations in the form of • On September 1, PostNord Strålfors divested its subintra-Group service, and at December 31 had three employees. No net sales sidiaries in the United Kingdom, Poland and France. were recognized during the year. Operating expenses totaled SEK 35m (39). Financial items totaled SEK –107m (–28). Of financial items, dividend from October–December subsidiaries accounted for SEK 0m (0). Net income for the year totaled • Tim Jørnsen was appointed Head of Business area SEK 3m (–7). eCommerce & Logistics and member of the Group Executive Team. Tim Jørnsen took up his role on Proposed appropriation of the Company’s net income ­January 1, 2017. The Board of Directors proposes that unappropriated earnings • It was announced that Andreas Falkenmark will be be ­distributed as follows: leaving his role as Head of Business area CommunicaSEK tion Services no later than in August 2017. To be carried forward 3,627,095,479 Total 3,627,095,479 Important events after the reporting period • It was announced that Charlotte Svensson will succeed Andreas Falkenmark as Head of Business area CommuDividend nication Services and member of PostNord’s Group Target: 40–60% of net income for the year Management, the Group Executive Team. Charlotte Outcome: SEK 0m (proposed) (0) Svensson will join PostNord from the Bonnier Group. She will take up her position no later than in August 2017. In view of the Company’s results and continued restructuring requirements, • A new production model in Denmark will be implethe Board of Directors proposes that no dividend be paid in respect of the mented over the next few years. As a result, PostNord 2016 financial year. will be first in the world to create a financially sustainable mode of production that is fully based on coordinating utilization of infrastructure and transportation Profitability Capital structure networks for the rapidly expanding logistics business Target: Return on capital employed 10.5% Target: Net debt ratio 10–50% with the shrinking mail business. The new production Outcome: –12.1% (5.4) Outcome: 5 (–2)% model will require a substantial reduction in the num% % ber of employees over a period of several years, and 15 50 will enable large parts of the mail infrastructure for 10 40 5 30 the mail business to be closed. 20 0 • On February 14, it was announced that Mette Grunnet –5 10 would with immediate effect leave the Board of Direc–10 0 tors of PostNord AB for health reasons. Mette Grunnet –15 –10 13 14 15 16 13 14 15 16 was elected to the Board of Directors at PostNord's 2016 Annual General Meeting, as proposed by the Danish government. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 17 PostNord Sweden PostNord Sweden PostNord Sweden offers a comprehensive range of distribution solutions in communication, e-commerce and logistics. PostNord Sweden is responsible for providing the universal postal service and delivers a good postal service to private individuals and business customers throughout Sweden. PostNord Sweden’s omnichannel strat• Implementation of PostNord’s integrated production egy and end-to-end offering in business model, by which the mail and logistics operations are communication enable our customers being integrated, continues on schedule. During the to reach their customers – the recipiyear, it was installed at the following locations: Alingsås, ents – cost-efficiently and in the way Alvesta, Enköping, Eskilstuna, Färgelanda, Helsingborg, that best suits the recipient. The offerJönköping, Kristianstad, Lilla Edet, Linköping, Mariestad, ing in direct marketing consists of Norrköping, Oskarshamn, Vaggeryd and Östersund. ­market and customer analyses, direct mail and digital advertising services via Delivery quality partnerships. To meet rising demand Delivery quality in PostNord Sweden improved during for other and more complex cost-effi2016 and was measured at 91.5% (90.3)% for priority cient end-to-end solutions in logistics, ­letters. Delivery quality for parcels was 95.7% (96.8). The ­PostNord Sweden has in recent years Swedish government’s requirement is that at least 85% of broadened its focus within consignment goods, mixed priority letters should be delivered on the following workcargo groupage and third-party logistics solutions (TPL). ing day and 97% within three days. In 2016, 99.7% were PostNord also provides climate efficient services. delivered within three days. The mail business in Sweden is being realigned to falling volumes caused by digitizaEvents during the year tion. To achieve greater flexibility and improved cost effi• New Swedish legislation providing exemption from ciency, letters are increasingly being sorted by machine VAT for stamped and certain other postal services into delivery order, which involves changes to mail carrientered into force on April 1. Stamps and postal serers’ delivery rounds. This has affected both technical and vices that fall within the universal postal service and customer-perceived quality. During the year, close focus are not individually negotiated are VAT-exempt. In was trained on actions in processes to raise delivery qual2016, the change in the law had negative impact of ity for letters and increase customer-perceived quality. around SEK 40m for PostNord Sweden. As a result, technical quality improved by 1.2 percentage • In 2016, the Swedish government’s special inquiry into points, compared with the preceding year. postal legislation presented a recommendation that the current requirements for 85% of priority letters to Finance arrive by overnight delivery and 97% of letters to be Net sales totaled SEK 23,025m. Communication Services delivered within three working days should be reported a 3% decrease in sales mainly as a result of a replaced by single requirement that 95% of individual 6% decline in mail volumes. Sales for eCommerce & priority letters weighing up to 250 grams are to be Logistics increased by 3% mainly through continued delivered within two working days. It is proposed that growth in e-commerce, which led to higher B2C volumes. the price ceiling should remain in modified form and Despite negative impact of higher social insurance costs apply to two-day delivery. The government has for young people in Sweden, reported operating income announced that a new postal services bill will be improved to SEK 824m (750). Adjusted operating ­presented in May 2017. income was unchanged at SEK 847m (847). Mail volumes, Sweden SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 Millions of mail items Net sales 23,025 23,080 1,500 of which, Communication Services (external) 12,076 12,448 of which, eCommerce & Logistics 1,000 (external) 9,869 9,559 Operating income (EBIT) 824 750 Operating margin, % 3.5 3.2 500 Items affecting comparability, net –23 –97 Adjusted operating income (EBIT) 847 847 0 Adjusted operating margin, % 3.7 3.7 12 13 14 15 16 Priority mail, millions 757 811 Mail volumes, priority mail Non-priority mail, millions 1,002 1,061 Mail volumes, non-priority mail Average number of employees 19,534 20,402 Employees at end of period 20,272 20,678 18 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 PostNord Denmark PostNord Denmark PostNord Denmark provides an end-to-end offering in communication and logistics. The business is in the process of a major transformation, driven by the fastest shift to digitization in the world, leading to a very sharp decline in physical letters. PostNord Denmark’s omnichannel strategy and end-to-end from VAT exemption on postage costs within the offering in business communication enable our customers scope of the national delivery obligation, would be to reach their customers – the recipients – cost-efficiently abolished as of January 1, 2017. and in the way that best suits the recipient. The offering in • A new, more efficient organizational structure was direct marketing consists of market and customer analyses, implemented from November. direct mail and digital advertising services via partnerships. To meet rising demand for other and more complex Delivery quality cost-efficient end-to-end solutions in logistics, PostNord Through the change in Denmark’s postal legislation, Denmark has in recent years broadened its focus on ­PostNord Denmark had two targets for letters during the ­consignment goods, mixed cargo groupage, third-party year. Delivery quality at PostNord Denmark was 89.9% logistics solutions (TPL) and service logistics. PostNord (92.8) for priority mail in January–June and 93.0% for also provides environmentally compatible products. ­“Brevet” in July–December, compared to PostNord’s own target of 95.0% for these services. Delivery quality for parEvents during the year cels was 96.7% (97.1). The Danish government’s require• Already heavy volume losses in mail further increased ment is 93% for both mail and parcels. The focus during the in 2016 to 19%. As a result, the program of restructuryear was on improving the delivery quality for “Brevet” and ing is being intensified. parcels, while changes were made to adapt the organiza• Via acquisition of the assets and liabilities of G.P. Spedition to the new postal services legislation. The period of tion, the Group strengthened its position in goods and fine-tuning for the two new parcel sorting facilities led to a pallet services in Denmark. certain overhang in parcel sorting. In the last two months • In May, Denmark’s Parliament, Folketinget, passed a of the year, the trend turned upward for both letters and new Postal Service Act. The national delivery obligaparcels, which were again at a higher level at year-end. tion for priority mail was abolished, the service requirement for non-priority mail was amended and the numFinance ber of delivery days was reduced from six to five. PostNord Denmark’s net sales decreased by 4%. • Denmark’s priority mail service was scrapped on July ­Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate effects, sales 1. Where needed, overnight delivery is offered the new were 6% lower. In Communication Services, income Quickbrev service. A new two-day service for business decreased by 13%, with mail volumes falling 19%. Net customers was also introduced. Saturday deliveries sales for eCommerce & Logistics increased by 6% as a ceased in January 2017. result of higher B2C parcel volumes and positive growth • A more public reprofiling of Post Danmark to in heavy logistics. Adjusted operating income totaled ­PostNord was launched. SEK –625m (–371). Income was hard hit by lower mail • The new terminals at Taastrup and Aalborg entered revenue that we could not offset through sufficient into service at the beginning of July. The changeover adjustments to costs related to the mail business. went well. Reported operating income was negative, at SEK • Denmark’s tax authority SKAT announced that the –1,910m (–287). A new and financially sustainable special rule, providing a simplified procedure for ­production model will be implemented in Denmark e-commerce companies that enabled them to benefit over the next few years. Mail volumes, Denmark SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 Millions of mail items Net sales 9,571 9,987 400 of which, Communication Services (external) 5,410 6,109 300 of which, eCommerce & Logistics (external) 3,733 3,400 Operating income (EBIT) –1,910 –287 200 Operating margin, % –20.0 –2.9 100 Items affecting comparability, net –1,284 84 Adjusted operating income (EBIT) –625 –371 0 Adjusted operating margin, % –6.5 –3.7 12 13 14 15 16 Priority mail/Quickbrev, millions 101 201 Mail volumes, priority mail/Quickbrev Non-priority mail, millions 272 259 Mail volumes, non-priority mail Average number of employees 10,282 11,044 Employees at end of period 9,313 10,285 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 19 PostNord Norway and PostNord Finland PostNord Norway PostNord Finland In Norway, PostNord is among the country’s In Finland, PostNord mainly offers logistics ser­largest logistics companies, with a strong vices to business customers and e-commerce ­position in parcels, e-commerce logistics, logistics for distribution of parcels to individual ­mixed-cargo groupage and consignment goods. customers. PostNord Norway remains focused on developing the cost-efficiency PostNord Finland is striving to strengthen its position and expand in and flexibility of its operations to further consolidate its position in the the Finnish logistics market. The economic situation in Finland remains Norwegian logistics market, which is still dominated by tough compechallenging and competition is intense. Against this background, tition and price pressure. At the same time, the offering is being ­PostNord is developing its business and its offering of competitive endexpanded to exploit the new opportunities created via deregulation to-end solutions, to meet changes in demand and, in that way, create of Norway’s postal market and the continued growth in e-commerce. growth. Via its comprehensive network of distribution points, PostNord has a In addition to offering parcels, pallets and mixed-cargo groupage in strong position in the B2C market, which is an important strength in the relatively fragmented logistics market, PostNord Finland is among the offering to the steadily growing e-commerce segment. To meet the leading players in healthcare logistics in Finland. Via its comprethe demand from the segment, efficient and more consumer-led hensive network of distribution points, PostNord has a strong position logistics services are being developed on an ongoing basis. in the B2C market, which is an important strength in the offering to the steadily growing e-commerce segment. To meet the demand from the Events during the year segment, PostNord Finland is also focusing on developing efficient and • New postal legislation entered into force on January 1, 2016. more consumer-led logistics services. The new law has abolished the letter monopoly. • In September, the 5,800 square meter terminal in Trondheim Events during the year opened for business. This modern sorting facility has a capacity • Results were affected by integration costs. The formal merger of of 3,300 parcels per hour. PostNord Oy and Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK) was performed • The MyPack Go service was launched on October 1. The service on February 29, and the process of operational integration has now enables private individuals to send parcels via PostNord been completed. ­Norway’s service partners. • In June, the first part of the new system of postal regulation came • During the past year, PostNord Norway made robust efficiency into effect, enabling competitors to Posti to deliver mail throughout improvements and is now considered to be well equipped for 2017. Finland. Finland’s Ministry of Transport and Communications is ­currently preparing the next phase of reform of the country’s postal Delivery quality services law regarding universal postal services. This is expected Delivery quality for parcels overall was 97.3% (96.2) and for B2C to enter into force in 2017. 98.1% (97.2). In 2016, delivery quality was affected by a train strike. In addition, as a result of track maintenance and upgrading, some Delivery quality shipments that would normally have gone by rail were sent by Delivery quality for parcels was 92.8% (95.7). Early 2016 was affected other means, such as road transport. Despite these challenges, by certain challenges in connection with the integration of UPK. Sub­ quality improved by more than one percentage point compared sequently, certain technical problems arose. Against that background, with the preceding year. many initiatives have been taken to improve quality. For example, ­operations were reorganized to focus more closely on follow-up and Finance day-to-day operations. Excluding exchange rate effects, net sales decreased by 6%, largely through weak growth in the Norwegian economy, price pressure in Finance the market and termination of unprofitable agreements in the thermo Net sales grew by 25%. Excluding acquisitions and exchange rate market. As a result of substantial cost cutbacks, income was maineffects, net sales increased 5% as a result of higher parcel volumes. tained despite the decline in revenue and operating income totaled Operating income totaled SEK –15m (–1). The costs of integrating SEK –36m (–34). Adjusted operating income totaled SEK –31m (–25). Uudenmaan Pikakuljetus Oy (UPK), the company acquired in 2015, had an adverse impact on income. SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 Net sales 3,789 4,112 Net sales 984 787 of which, Communication Services (external) 36 ​47 of which, Communication Services (external) 16 15 of which, eCommerce & Logistics (external) 3,298 3,660 of which, eCommerce & Logistics (external) 698 538 Operating income (EBIT) –36 –34 Operating income (EBIT) –15 –1 Operating margin, % –0.9 –0.8 Operating margin, % –1.5 –0.1 Items affecting comparability, net –5 –9 Items affecting comparability, net – – Adjusted operating income (EBIT) –31 –25 Adjusted operating income (EBIT) –15 –1 Adjusted operating margin, % –0.8 –0.6 Adjusted operating margin, % –1.5 –0.1 Average number of employees 1,330 1,398 Average number of employees 173 185 Employees at end of period 1,164 1,346 Employees at end of period 135 235 20 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 PostNord Strålfors and Direct Link PostNord Strålfors Direct Link PostNord Strålfors offers a combination of With the Nordic region as its main focus, ­physical and digital communication solutions Direct Link offers global distribution that give businesses with a large customer ­solutions to 192 countries. base unique opportunities to build stronger and more personal customer relationships. It is becoming increasingly important for businesses to meet the Outside the Nordic region, PostNord has an established presrecipient’s needs in all forms of communication, both physical ence via Direct Link, which mainly offers global delivery of and digital. PostNord Strålfors enables any sender in the cusgoods via its local companies in Australia, China, Germany, Hong tomer organization to send uniform messages tailored to the Kong, Singapore, the United Kingdom and the United States. language and needs of the recipient/end-customer. Smarter Direct Link helps e-commerce businesses worldwide establish communication produces strong customer loyalty, increased themselves in new markets, not least in the rapidly expanding sales and greater efficiency. Nordic market. The main focus of Direct Link’s offering is global deliveries of goods, chiefly via postal services, but the offering Important events also includes market analysis, direct marketing, fulfilment, • In April, Strålfors relocated its head office from Malmö to Solna. ­customs clearance and returns management. At the same time, it was renamed PostNord Strålfors. • To concentrate its operations within the Nordic domestic Finance ­market, PostNord Strålfors divested its subsidiaries in the Sales decreased by 4%, above all due to lower volumes in United Kingdom, Poland and France on September 1. APAC (Asia-Pacific). The primary factor was a delivery incident • PostNord Strålfors’ We Mail service, which has had major in connection with volumes via Denmark. Operating income ­successes with customers in Finland and Norway, was also totaled SEK 27m (78). The decline was attributable in the main launched in Sweden in the autumn. to lower sales and changes in the product mix. Finance Net sales fell by 4%. Excluding disposals and exchange rate effects, sales increased 4%. The increase relates mainly to new customer agreements in Finland and digital communication offerings, which are compensating for a general decline in demand for physical communication and graphical products. Adjusted operating income totaled SEK 124m (86). The improvement is above all attributable to implemented cost-­ cutting programs. Operating income totaled SEK –151m (–36). Reported income includes items affecting comparability totaling SEK –275m ( –122). These related to impairment losses etc. arising from the sales of Strålfors’ non-Nordic operations. SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 SEKm, unless otherwise indicated 2016 2015 Net sales 2,240 2,335 Net sales 989 1,055 of which, Communication Services (external) 2,124 2,251 of which, Communication Services (external) 989 1,055 Operating income (EBIT) –151 –36 Operating income (EBIT) ​27 78 Operating margin, % –6.7 –1.5 Operating margin, % 2.7 7.3 Items affecting comparability, net –275 –122 Items affecting comparability, net – – Adjusted operating income (EBIT) 124 86 Adjusted operating income (EBIT) ​27 78 Adjusted operating margin, % 5.5 3.7 Adjusted operating margin, % 2.7 7.3 Average number of employees 883 1,078 Average number of employees 192 188 Employees at end of period 691 1,095 Employees at end of period 197 191 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 21 Multi-year review Multi-year review SEKm, unless otherwise specified1) 20093) 20103) 20113) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 PostNord Group2) Net sales 44,633 41,669 39,466 38,920 39,533 39,950 39,351 38,478 Other operating income 249 289 274 253 233 632 765 263 Operating expenses –44,605 –40,589 –38,167 –38,669 –39,114 –40,247 –39,552 –39,824 Operating income (EBIT) 284 1,375 1,571 511 662 351 564 –1,083 Operating margin (EBIT), % 0.6 3.3 4.0 1.3 1.7 0.9 1.4 –2.8 Total operating income (EBITDAI) 2,298 3,292 3,237 2,410 2,310 2,198 2,436 1,737 Operating margin (EBITDAI), % 5.1 7.8 8.1 6.2 5.8 5.5 6.2 4.5 Net income for the period 2,4144) 1,031 1,225 247 306 176 278 –1,583 Cash flow from operating activities n. a. 1,824 1,634 1,825 1,657 670 1,585 1,321 Net debt –1,384 –728 578 4,299 1,624 3,672 –171 ​354 Net debt ratio (net debt/equity), % –10 –6 5 37 18 ​46 –2 5 Return on capital employed, % 2.1 5.1 13.5 4.4 6.0 3.1 5.4 –12.1 Investments – 1,277 1,957 2,331 2,241 1,690 1,109 1,194 Dividend, total *proposed 1,440 1,000 368 103 129 0 0 0* Average number of employees (FTE) 47,625 44,060 41,714 39,713 39,305 37,407 35,256 33,278 Number of employees at end of period 51,981 51,405 48,568 49,297 47,667 44,859 42,111 39,929 of whom, temporary employees 11,312 9,906 9,871 10,473 10,180 8,793 7,292 7,272 Volumes, millions Group total, parcels 97 100 98 105 111 120 132 142 Denmark, priority mail/Quickbrev 680 602 411 320 278 237 201 101 Denmark, non-priority and business mail 305 283 366 365 337 308 259 272 Sweden, priority mail 1,088 1,045 980 925 912 880 811 757 Sweden, non-priority mail 1,245 1,266 1,251 1,198 1,144 1,103 1,061 1,002 1) See definitions, Note 32, page 67. 2) Figures prior to 2012 have not been restated to reflect the requirements of IAS 19 Revised, Employee Benefits. 3) Figures for 2009 are based on a compilation of the results for Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. 4) Includes a capital gain of SEK 2,002m on the sale of Post Danmark A/S’s share in Belgium’s bpost (formerly De Post-La Poste) in July 2009. Group net sales Group operating expenses and operating expenses SEKm SEKm 50,000 50,000 40,000 40,000 30,000 30,000 20,000 20,000 10,000 10,000 0 0 091) 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 091) 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Net sales Personnel expenses2) Expenses excl. restructuring costs Transportation expenses Other expenses, depreciation and impairments2) 1) Figures for 2009 are based on a compilation of the results for Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. Restructuring costs 1) Figures for 2009 are based on a compilation of the results for Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. 22 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 2) Excluding restructuring costs. Multi-year review Comments on the multi-year review Since 2009, the merged Group has met challenges in the guise of growing digitization, increased competition and new customer demands, through robustly restructuring the organization and exploiting synergies in above all administration, IT and purchasing, but also through investments in modern infrastructure and product development. It is now approximately ten years since the first discusexpansion of e-commerce. PostNord has gained a sions took place testing the idea of a merger between strong position as expert and partner serving this the then Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. On April 1, ­growing segment – not least thanks to its more than 2009, the owners’ decision was announced. A decision 6,100 distribution points in the Nordic region and access that in the main was accepted as a logical step. Between to 20,000 distribution points elsewhere in Europe via its the time when the initial discussions began and when expanded collaboration with the DPD Group. One effect the merger was announced, the full force of the global of the merger has been to enable major savings in financial crisis hit in 2008. To the new Group, the result shared costs and the development of a broader was that the merger would take place at the same time ­product portfolio. as demand for distribution services was collapsing through the effects of the economic downturn, but also Profits until 2016 as a result of the rapid pace of digitization. In the light of Financially, the Group has been able to respond with the new market situation, the rationale for the merger ­vigorous actions to the difficult market situation, characwas regarded as even more logical. The establishment terized by low growth, increased pace of digitization, of a prominent player with an attractive and competitive competition and price pressure. In 2016, the rapid pace Nordic communication and logistics offering would lay of digitization in Denmark led to substantial impairment the foundations for long-term value creation and secure losses and a reported loss for the Group. Accumulated provision of the universal service in both Denmark and profits from 2009 total around SEK 4 billion. Of this Sweden. amount, just over SEK 3 billion has been distributed to the Group’s owners. Total investments in modern infraTwo postal operators become structure and product development amount to just one Nordic-wide full-service supplier over SEK 10 billion. Over the years, PostNord has met a steady decline in mail volumes through continuous adaptation and transRapid transformation formation of the business. In Sweden, volume losses As a result of the necessary restructuring, one in three have long remained around 4–6%, while in Denmark – in all approximately 14,300 – employees have left the they have risen to 20% as a result of the very far-reaching Group. The Group’s operating costs have been reduced and coordinated transition of physical communication by around SEK 5 billion, while income has fallen by from government organizations to digital communicaapproximately SEK 6 billion. The transformation from tion, with both citizens and businesses. Our strategy has what in 2009 largely consisted of two postal operators, been clear and consistent in terms of our ambition to into the leading logistics and communication business grow in logistics. A market with lower margins but in the Nordic region has entered the next phase. one that is increasingly benefiting from the powerful • Total profits 2009–2016 • Number of employees (FTE) from approximately SEK 4 billion. around 47,000 to around 33,000. • Total dividends just over • Since 2009, the total volume of priority SEK 3 billion. mail has fallen by 53%, 85% in Denmark and 30% in Sweden. • Total investments more than SEK 10 billion. • The total volume of parcels has risen by 46% since 2009. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 23 Risk Risk management PostNord operates in an international market characterized by changes in several different areas. Structured preparedness is necessary to best adapt and optimize the business and to take advantage of various opportunities, while at the same time minimizing risks and losses. The overarching objective of risk management is to ensure that the risks affecting the Group’s strategy and targets are ­identified and managed in an effective, systematic and value-creating way. Organization of and responsibility for risk management Production quality PostNord’s Board of Directors and Group Executive Team bear overThe rapid adjustments needed to deal with the declining volumes all responsibility for the Group’s risk management. The responsibility in the mail business and the simultaneous expansion in the logistics within the country organizations, business areas, Group functions business may have short-term impact on production quality. and subsidiaries lies with the manager concerned. The Group’s risk ­PostNord listens to its customers and carefully measures production management function is responsible for developing and establishquality to enable it to quickly take measures to improve quality and ing Group-wide procedures and methods for effective risk manageto minimize disruptions and quality problems arising from essential ment. It is also responsible for consolidating risk information as adjustments. material for reporting on risks and risk-control measures to Group Management, Audit Committee and Board of Directors. Refinancing risk PostNord needs a stable cash flow and access to external financing The risk management process for investments in restructuring programs and for refinancing of Risk management is delegated and integrated into the operational loans. The focus is on capital efficiency, business planning, follow-up organization and the risk management process forms a central of cash flow from operating activities and prioritization of invest­constituent of the Group’s business planning. As part of the ongoing ments that improve PostNord’s cash flow. organizational follow-up, the country organizations, business areas, Group functions and subsidiaries report on risks identified and Risk financing risk-control measures to Group Management. PostNord takes a holistic approach to management of strategic, financial and operational risks in order to maintain good financial Material risks capability and flexibility for managing risks possibly affecting cash Changing market conditions flow. PostNord must respond to changes in customer behavior, changes Standard insurance policies are used to manage low-frequency in market demand and the constant growth in digitization, which are operational risks with major potential impact on the Group’s cash causing shrinking mail volumes. Coordinated public initiatives to flow, income and asset values. PostNord uses Group-wide insurance increase the level of digitization have already greatly impacted the plans to cover material risks associated with the Group’s operations, Danish business, and a similar trend is also apparent in the Swedish combined with insurance policies for specific business risks and market. PostNord is dealing with the changing market conditions via local insurance policies required under legislation and collective harmonization, efficiency measures, development of new services ­bargaining agreements. and coordination to streamline production. Interest rate risks, the Group’s limited currency risks and other financial risks are managed via financial instruments that are used Regulatory risks in accordance with the Group’s financial policy. See also Note 27. PostNord is tasked with providing the universal postal service The Group aims at any one time to maintain sufficient financial throughout Sweden and Denmark, and the system of postal regulapreparedness to create scope for restoring and returning to normal tion affects both the Group’s competitive situation and its ability internal or external financing for the Group in the event of outcomes to perform the universal service obligation on reasonable terms. from uninsurable strategic, financial and operational risks. Financial PostNord manages regulatory risks via close monitoring of the preparedness is made up of cash and cash equivalents, short-term external situation and by continuously adapting the business. financial investments and unutilized committed credit lines. ­PostNord complies with and adapts to changes in requirements and expectations regarding information security and data storage. Further information on PostNord’s management of other risks: Stability and delivery quality in IT • For more on material assessments and estimates regarding, Efficient production via large-scale and complex distribution for example, intangible assets, see Note 2, page 48. ­channels, management of high volumes of information, increasing • For more on management of pensions, transportation volumes, rising demand for flexible customer solusee Note 22 on page 57 et seq. tions and new, cyber-related risks place huge demands on stable, • For more on environmental risks, see page 31. secure and cost-efficient IT systems. Against that background, • For more on risks in the supply chain, see page 14. improvements and investments in IT represent one of PostNord’s • For more on work on anti-corruption, see page 30. most important Group priorities. 24 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Corporate governance for long-term value creation Properly functioning corporate governance is one of the requirements for creating long-term value for owners and other stakeholders. This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. Shareholder structure PostNord’s President and Group CEO is responsible PostNord AB (publ), corporate identity number for and oversees the day-to-day management of the 556771-2640 (“PostNord”) is a Swedish public limited Group based on the Board’s guidelines and instructions. company that is owned 40% by the Danish State and The President and Group CEO is assisted by the 60% by the Swedish State. Voting rights are shared Group Executive Team. 50/50 between the two governments. The Company The Company’s external auditor is elected by the is the Parent Company of the PostNord Group. AGM and examines the Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements, the administration by the Control and organizational structure Board and President and Group CEO, and produces an The main decision-making bodies at PostNord are auditor’s report. PostNord’s internal audit function evaluthe Annual General Meeting (AGM), the Board of the ates the Company’s internal governance and control. Directors and the President and Group CEO, assisted The Group’s operational structure differs from its by the Group Executive Team. legal structure. As a main principle, organization and govThe shareholders nominate the Chair of the Board ernance are based on the operational structure, in which and other Board members, propose directors’ fees and the country organizations are responsible for optimizing nominate the AGM chair and an external auditor. The marketing and sales activities, production structure and AGM is PostNord’s highest decision-making body. organization across all business areas. The second level The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility is made up of the business areas. The business areas are for the organization and administration of the Company responsible for marketing and service development in through continuous monitoring and control of operatheir particular field throughout the Nordic region, across tions. The Chair of the Board oversees the work of the the boundaries of the country organizations. Postal Board. The Audit and Remuneration Committees assist licenses, however, are tied to the legal structure; this the Board in its work. means that formal responsibility for compliance with the conditions of the licenses follows the legal structure. Governance structure Owners The Danish and the Swedish States Auditor Annual General Meeting Board of Directors Internal auditing Audit Committee Remuneration Committee President and Group CEO Group Executive Team Group functions Country units Business areas Group Finance & Sourcing PostNord Sweden Communication Services HR PostNord Denmark eCommerce & Logistics Legal Affairs PostNord Norway Strategy & Commercial PostNord Finland Excellence PostNord Strålfors Communication IT Technology & Infrastructure PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 25 Corporate Governance Report cont. from page 25 Internal and external regulations Annual General Meeting PostNord is affected by a number of internal and Under the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act, the ­external regulations, including: AGM is the Company’s ultimate decision-making body. The Swedish Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation and External regulations the Danish Ministry of Transport vote on behalf of the • The Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Swedish and Danish States, respectively, at PostNord’s Accounts Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Annual General Meeting. Each State nominates four Governance. Board members in the Company. The AGM appoints • The Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines Board and auditor, and resolves on how to distribute the for State-owned companies and the Danish State’s Company’s earnings, discharging the Board and CEO ownership principles (the State as shareholder). from liability, and making decisions on other matters as • NASDAQ Stockholm’s regulations for issuers. set out in legislation and the Company’s Articles Of • International Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS. Association. The AGM must be held no later than April • The UN Global Compact. 30 in accordance with the ownership policy of the Swedish State. Notice of the Annual General Meeting Postal regulations is sent by mail to shareholders and is advertised in the • The UPU Convention, the EU’s Postal Directive and daily press, through information in the Annual Report national legislation and directives in Sweden (e.g. the and on the Group website. Members of the Swedish Postal Services Act and the Postal Ordinance) and and Danish Parliaments and the general public are Denmark (e.g. Order on conveyance by post and invited to attend and ask questions at the AGM. postal services). Annual General Meeting 2016 Internal rules and regulations The 2016 AGM was held on April 28, 2016. The AGM • The Articles of Association, the Board’s rules of adopted the Group’s and Parent Company’s income ­procedure (including Instruction to the President statement and balance sheet and voted to discharge the and Group CEO) and the Audit and Remuneration Board of Directors and President and Group CEO from Committees’ rules of procedure liability for the 2016 financial year. The AGM also adopted • Delegated authorities for PostNord AB. guidelines for remuneration to senior executives and • Code of Conduct and Group policies. remuneration to Board members and the a­ uditor. Jens • Operational governance. Moberg was re-elected Chairman of the Board. The AGM • Framework for internal governance and control re-elected Mats Abrahamsson, Gunnel Duveblad, of financial reporting. ­Christian Ellegaard, Torben Janholt, Magnus Skåninger • Guidelines for determining terms of employment and Anitra Steen. As Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen had for senior executives. declined re-election, Mette Grunnet was elected to the Board for the first time. Accounting firm KPMG AB was Deviations from the Swedish re-elected as auditor through the close of next year’s Code of Corporate Governance AGM, with authorized public accountant Helene Willberg PostNord applies the Swedish Code of Corporate as senior auditor. The complete m ­ inutes of the Annual ­Governance, with the exception of the following General Meeting are posted on www.postnord.com. Code provisions: • Chapter 2 regarding requirement for a nominating Annual General Meeting 2017 committee. PostNord does not have a nominating PostNord’s 2017 AGM will take place on April 27, 2017 at committee, as the nomination and appointment of PostNord’s Group headquarters at Terminalvägen 24, Board members is performed in accordance with the Solna, Sweden. principles agreed upon by the owners. Nominations are made through consultation between the owners. Proposed guidelines for remuneration • Section 4.5, requirement for Board members’ indepento senior ­executives dence from owners. The purpose of the rule is to proThe Board proposes that the AGM adopt guidelines for tect minority owners. However, protection for minority remuneration to senior executives. The main amendowners is not relevant to the governance of PostNord. ment in the proposals compared to the guidelines that PostNord only has two owners and an account of the the AGM voted on in 2016 is contained in the following independence of the Board members is thus of no paragraph: ­relevance. • The guidelines shall be based on the Swedish government’s “Riktlinjer för anställningsvillkor för ledande befattningshavare i företag med statligt ägande” (guidelines for employment terms for executives in State-owned companies) from December 22, 2016. • Severance compensation shall be paid until no later than the agreed pensionable age and never longer than to the age of 65 years. The guidelines adopted at the 2016 AGM are summarized in Note 5. 26 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors Board meetings and issues in 2016 The Board of Directors exercises overall responsibility In 2016, the Board met on 11 occasions, including the for the organization and management of the Company statutory first meeting and one per capsulam meeting. via regularly monitoring the business and ensuring The CEO described the state of the business and the appropriate organization, management, guidelines market situation at each meeting. The CFO reported and internal controls. The Board adopts strategies on the Group’s economic and financial position and and targets and takes decisions on major investments, ­performance. acquisitions and divestments of operations. The Board also discussed the Group’s strategy, ­acquisitions, employment issues and business plan, and Composition of the Board on an ongoing basis addressed reports from the Audit According to PostNord’s Articles of association, the and Remuneration Committees, as well as reports on Board shall consist of no less than three and no more internal control and financial activities. The Board further than eight members. The Board of Directors is focused on quality issues and the challenging situation appointed by the AGM, which has determined that the in the Danish business caused by digitization. The Board shall be composed of eight AGM-elected Board ­Company’s auditor delivered an account of the year’s members and no deputies. The Board also includes auditing activities and these issues were discussed. three members elected by employee organizations and their three deputies. The Swedish State’s ownership The Audit Committee policy prescribes that the representation of each gender The Audit Committee is tasked with preparing the Board on the Board shall be at least 40%. The female/male disfor performing its duties of supervising and assuring the tribution of PostNord’s Board of Directors was 38%/62% quality of the Group’s financial reporting. The Committee in 2016 (ordinary members). supervises the effectiveness of the Company’s internal governance and control, as well as risk management The work of the Board ­systems and processes with regard to financial reporting. Work procedures The Committee’s rules of procedure are established by The Board of Directors adopts rules of procedure annuthe Board. The Audit Committee has no decision-making ally. These govern matters such as the Chair’s duties, power. The Committee also assists the owners in information to the Board of Directors and the roles and ­selecting an auditor. responsibilities of the President and Group CEO and The Audit Committee shall, in addition to reporting Board members. There is no division of the work of the to the Board on its work, regularly review the auditor’s Board between Board members, other than that perreports and determine whether the auditors are performed by the Audit and Remuneration Committees, forming their task independently, objectively and cost-­ both of which are appointed by the Board of Directors efficiently. The Audit Committee, in consultation with the in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act and Group Executive Team, is the instructing body for the the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. internal audit and its monitoring of internal governance The Chair of the Board is elected by the AGM, overand control, and remains apprised of i­nternal audit sees the Board’s work and is responsible for ensuring reports. that such work is well-organized and carried out effecThe Committee is made up of at least three Board tively. This includes regular monitoring of the Compamembers and meets at least four times per year. The ny’s operations in dialogue with the CEO and ensuring Company’s external auditor participates in meetings at that other Board members receive the information and which the annual accounts, annual report and auditor’s documentation necessary to ensure high quality discusreport are presented, as well as when needed for assesssions and Board decisions. The Chair oversees evaluament of the Group’s financial position. The Chair of the tion of the Board’s and the CEO’s work. The Chair also Committee is responsible for regularly apprising the represents the Company in issues of ownership. Board of the Committee’s activities. Board of Directors attendance, 2016 Director Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Jens Moberg 11/11 – 2/2 Mats Abrahamsson 11/11 – 2/2 Gunnel Duveblad 11/11 7/7 – Christian Ellegaard 11/11 7/7 – Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen1) 2/3 1/3 – Mette Grunnet 2) 5/8 3/4 – Torben Janholt 10/11 – 2/2 Magnus Skåninger 11/11 7/7 – Anitra Steen 8/11 – 2/2 Kristofer Björklund2) 7/8 – – Lars Chemnitz 11/11 – – Ann-Christin Fällén1) 3/3 – – Johan Lindholm 10/11 – – 1) Resigned at AGM in April 2016. 2) Elected at AGM in April 2016. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 27 Corporate Governance Report During 2016, the Committee’s members were Gunnel During 2016, the members of the Committee were Jens Duveblad (Chair), Christian Ellegard, Sisse Fjelsted Moberg (Chair), Mats Abrahamsson, Torben Janholt and ­Rasmussen, Mette Grunnet and Magnus Skåninger. Anitra Steen. The Committee met in total on two occaSisse Fjelsted Rasmussen resigned as a member of sions. The topics discussed include the following: the Committee at the 2016 AGM, whereupon she was • Remuneration and other provisions for senior replaced by Mette Grunnet. The Committee met a total of ­executives. seven times. The topics discussed include the following: • Pension provisions for senior executives. • The Group auditor’s report on the year-end report and • Remuneration to members of the Group Executive interim report and on audits of the end-of-period Team. accounts. • Evaluation of goal attainment and potential, together • The Committee’s new rules of procedures and the with succession planning for senior managers. EU’s Audit Regulation. • Monitoring of the Company’s financial reporting and President and Group CEO and process, as well as recommendations and proposals Group Executive Team as regards ensuring the reliability of the financial The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing reporting. and dismissing the President and Group CEO. The CEO • Monitoring of the financial control system, with appoints, and is assisted by, the Group Executive Team. respect to the efficacy of the Company’s internal The President is responsible for day-to-day adminis­controls, internal auditing and risk management. tration of the Company according to the Board’s guide• Assessment of external auditors. lines and directions. The relationship between the Board • Auditing and monitoring of the impartiality and of Directors and the CEO is governed by the Board’s ­independence of the external auditors. rules of procedure and the instructions to the CEO. • Proposals and recommendations for the AGM’s The CEO is accountable to the Board for the day-to­resolution on election of auditors. day running of the business and is responsible for implementing the strategic direction set by the Board. AlongThe Remuneration Committee side the Board, the Group Executive Team is the Group’s The Remuneration Committee is tasked with preparing decision-making body and is jointly responsible for and presenting proposals to the Board regarding remuensuring that the Group’s business develops in line neration and other terms of employment for the Comwith the strategic direction established by the pany’s management, as well as determining principles Board of Directors. The CEO oversees the work of for remuneration to external directors serving on the the Group Executive Team. Boards of Group subsidiaries. The Remuneration ­Committee has no power of decision-making. Remuneration at PostNord The Remuneration Committee is made up of at Decisions on terms of employment and remuneration least three members. The Chair of the Board of Direcfor the President and Group CEO are taken by the Board tors chairs the Committee. The Committee shall meet of Directors. The Board addresses remuneration issues when warranted. The Chair of the Committee is responvia the Remuneration Committee. Salaries and wages sible for regularly apprising the Board of the Commitfor PostNord employees shall be in line with the market. tee’s activities. For further details on remuneration for senior executives, see Note 5, Employees, personnel expenses and PostNord – organization from 2016 President & Group CEO Group Finance & Sourcing Communication Legal affairs HR IT Strategy & Commercial Excellence Technology & Infrastructure PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Business Area Communication Services Business Area eCommerce & Logistics 28 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report remuneration to senior executives, in the consolidated financial statements. Guidelines on remuneration to senior executives adopted by the 2016 AGM are availOur values able in their entirety at www.postnord.com under Reliable ­Corporate Governance. PostNord keeps its promises and delivers everywhere, Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors securely, at the right time and to the right place. and the President and Group CEO The Board of Directors is required to ensure, in accorBusiness partner dance with the Board’s Rules of Procedure, that the work of the Board is reviewed once a year via a systematic and PostNord is a professional business partner structured process in order to develop the work proceto its customers and helps them solve their dures and efficiency of the Board and its members. communication and logistics challenges. Areas to be further evaluated include, for example, whether the right issues are addressed by the Board, the integrity of supporting documentation and how Accessible accurately decisions and discussions are recorded in PostNord is always close to its customers, listens to the Board minutes. In 2016, external consultants were them and takes an active interest in the c­ hallenges engaged in connection with the Board’s review. The review took place in the form of surveys addressed they meet. to the Board and the President and Group CEO. The ­findings of the review were presented by the external Sustainable consultant at the Board meeting in December and were discussed by the Board. PostNord creates value for its customers and owners, In addition, the Chair of the Board communicated is a socially responsible company and works actively the findings to the Company’s owners at a meeting. to reduce the environmental impact of its activities. The Board continuously evaluates the CEO’s work by monitoring the business’s progress toward set targets. A formal evaluation is performed once per year and is Our mission discussed with the CEO. Remuneration to the members of the Board of Directors Remuneration for Board members was determined by PostNord connects people and businesses the 2016 AGM. Remuneration for each elected Board reliably, efficiently and on time. member for the period through the next AGM is SEK 275,000, while the Chair’s remuneration is SEK 650,000. The fee for the work of the Audit Committee is SEK 50,000 for members and SEK 62,500 for the Chair. The fee for the work of the Remuneration Committee is Our vision SEK 25,000 for members and SEK 37,500 for the Chair. Board and Committee member remuneration is not PostNord delivers world-class communication and paid to members employed by the Government Offices ­logistics solutions to satisfied customers. of Sweden. Auditors PostNord’s 2016 AGM appointed KPMG AB as the PostNord adheres to several external regulations, including the OECD’s Guide­Company’s auditor, with authorized public accountant lines for Multinational Enterprises (oecd.org), the UN’s Guiding Principles on Helene Willberg as senior auditor. The auditors meet Business and Human Rights (ohchr.org) and the UN Global Compact (unglobalwith the Board at least once per year and also particicompact.org). PostNord signed up to the Global Compact in 2010. The Global pate in a number of Audit Committee meetings. In 2016, Compact is based on ten principles, which in turn are based on the UN Univerthe Board met with the auditor at one Board meeting. sal Declaration of Human Rights (un.org), the ILO Declaration on Fundamental No member of Group Management attended the meetPrinciples and Rights at Work (ilo.org), the Rio Declaration on Environment and ing. The Board members have thus had the opportunity Development (unep.org), and the UN Convention against Corruption (unodc. to ask the auditor questions. See also Note 7, Fees and org). These regulations are reflected in PostNord’s Code of Conduct. reimbursement of expenses to auditors. The Code of Conduct incorporates the Group’s shared principles and policies in for example quality and security, human rights, diversity and equal opportunity and sustainability in the supply chain, social commitment and sponsorship, environmental conservation and business ethics, including conflicts of interest and competition. The Code is discussed at annual employee performance meetings and at recruitment. PostNord also observes a Code of Conduct for Suppliers based on the principles in the Code of Conduct and applicable to all purchasing categories throughout the Group. Both codes are available on the Group’s intranet and postnord.com. WE SUPPORT PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 29 Corporate Governance Report Quality Governance for accountability and Anti-corruption certified? sustainability throughout the business PostNord shall be a good player in the community, and YES One of the Group’s strategic priorities is to integrate susso it is especially important that the business should be tainability aspects into everything that is done, in order characterized by good business ethics. PostNord has a to position the Group as one that is engaged in a sustainzero tolerance policy on corruption. The Code of ConEnvironmentally certified? able business, i.e. it is a responsible business that benefits duct includes rules, for example, on handling of conflicts YES all its stakeholders. Operations are controlled and folof interest, sponsorship and partners, and suppliers. All lowed up using non-financial and financial targets set by forms of market activity and business entertainment the Board of Directors and the owners. This means that must comply with generally accepted principles and Working ­environment social, economic and environmental parameters must be applicable industry practice, provided that these involve certified? taken into account in strategic and operational activities. more stringent requirements than those set out in law. YES As well as complying with the law, directives and A Group-wide instruction supplementing the Code of general regulations in the sector, PostNord must observe Conduct specifies the circumstances in which third-party the Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines for business entertainment may be offered and accepted by State-owned businesses. This includes a requirement to PostNord. The rules apply to all employees and are based have a carefully considered and well-established policy on parts of the Swedish Code of Business Conduct, adminand strategy, together with s­ trategic targets for sustainistered by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute (IMM). able enterprise. Like other State-owned companies, Implementation is supported by material for a training ­PostNord’s performance is measured against both program. Typically, purchasers and salesmen are more ­financial and non-financial targets. susceptible to becoming involved in corruption. PostNord Control of PostNord’s work on sustainability offers special training in topics such as anti-corruption leg­emanates from the Group Executive Team, in which islation, aimed at employees in these categories. During the Chief Group Human Resources and Sustainability has the year, the Group Executive Team, large sections of our overall responsibility for sustainability issues. Outcomes sales force and many middle-managers underwent trainfor the strategic sustainability targets (lower c­ arbon ing in the new instruction and associated legislation. ­dioxide emissions, women in management positions and sustainability in the supply chain) are followed up Competition on equal terms quarterly through reporting to the Group Executive Team The Code of Conduct emphasizes how important it is to and the Board. Work on strategic environmental issues respect PostNord’s special compliance program regardfalls within the responsibilities of the Chief Group Human ing competition law. During the past year, large numResources and Sustainability. The Group’s environment bers of PostNord sales personnel, along with employees working group consists of representatives of the sustainwith special duties within the compliance program relatability section and the Group’s country organizations. The ing to competition law, received training in competition function of the working group is to ensure that work on law. This training is given on a regular basis. strategic environmental issues is carried out and to share experiences and best practice in the Group. General compliance work The responsibility for driving forward Group-wide PostNord is in the process of drafting a new instruction, efforts in sustainability in the supply chain falls to Group which is to form part of the implementation of PostSourcing. The function is responsible for the strategic Nord’s general compliance program. The instruction control and follow-up on the Group’s work in sustainabilaims to establish a more standard structure for, and ity in the supply chain. During the year, a Supply Chain enable systematic follow-up of, internal rules intended to Sustainability Manager was appointed to head the work bring about not only compliance with legislation and of developing, updating and following up the Group-wide other external rules but also effective risk management plan for managing sustainability in the supply chain. in sensitive areas. It supplements an earlier adopted in-house document hierarchy. Code of Conduct PostNord’s Code of Conduct, which was adopted by Follow-up of compliance the Board in 2014 and updated in spring 2016, specifies One of the ways in which compliance at PostNord is­ requirements for the ways that the Group must act in ­followed up is via PostNord’s special reporting (whistle­ the areas that are most important to PostNord in ensurblower) procedure, which allows anonymous reporting ing sustainable enterprise. The Code supplements appliin the event of suspicions of certain types of violation. cable law and external regulations and is the starting The system is accessed via the intranet and postnord. point for all relevant intra-Group rules. The Code applies com. During the year, no case arose in which a subseto all Group employees and relevant parts of the Code quent investigation indicated any serious breach of are also to be incorporated into agreements with busi­PostNord’s Code of Conduct. PostNord also checks sysness partners. Ultimate responsibility for compliance tematically on compliance with legislation in the working lies with PostNord management, but all employees are environment and environmental sectors. In addition, responsible for following applicable rules, including both PostNord was not in 2016 subject to any judgments with legislation and other mandatory external and internal binding effect in cases where PostNord has been found rules. PostNord’s managers have a specific responsibility to have committed serious breaches of the law. Furtherfor acting as role models and ensuring that their more, PostNord was not subject to any fines in connecemployees are aware of and understand the rules that tion with violations of environmental legislation or other apply to the business. The Code has been suppleexternal environmental regulations. The same applies mented by discussion material for workplace meetings. to anti-corruption and competition law. 30 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Certified management system Suppliers PostNord’s business management system incorporates PostNord’s sustainability requirements for suppliers are governing documentation and process descriptions. The detailed in PostNord’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, business management system is linked to the abovewhich is also based on the requirements in the Group’s mentioned document hierarchy. The system is certified Code of Conduct. Also, where necessary, PostNord under the standards on Occupational Health and Safety makes productor service-specific demands in addition (OHSAS 18001), Quality (ISO 9001) and Environment to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers. In November 2016, (ISO 14001) for Group functions, business areas and the the Code was updated with the addition of PostNord’s Swedish and Danish parts of our business. PostNord Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Overland Transport. ­Norway and PostNord Strålfors operate their own busiThe aim is to simplify and clarify PostNord’s requireness management systems for quality and environmenments for all suppliers, including the specific requiretal issues. Certification is a competitive advantage that ments that PostNord makes of suppliers of overland many customers request. This involves regular internal transport services. The Code of Conduct for Suppliers evaluations and external audits, which form an importis available at www.postnord.com. ant element of the work on internal improvement. Cooperation on security Diversity and workplace equality To ensure that letters and parcels are delivered on time PostNord bases its diversity and equality policy on the to the right recipient, PostNord works systematically view that differences among people make a workplace on both preventing and countering crime, and ensuring more dynamic and attractive. PostNord’s managers resilience to disruptions and breakdowns. In 2016, shall serve as role models in this work and actively pro­further resources were invested in raising security mote equality and diversity. PostNord’s owners also set awareness and strengthening security provision in requirements in terms of driving change towards a balour production facilities and fleet. The total number anced gender distribution in senior executive positions. of criminal acts against the Group, including theft and PostNord operates Group-wide guidelines for equality fraud, was reduced in 2016. Cybercrime, in the form of and equal opportunity in the Nordic region. The objecransomware mail with PostNord’s logotype, continues tive is to underpin a common strategic direction, level of to target individual citizens. This has led to the establishambition and long-term structured program to promote ment of regular information sharing with public authoriequality and diversity The manager concerned is ties in an effort to prevent, detect, prosecute and comresponsible for the equality issue in the recruitment promunicate. PostNord’s business continuity management cess and for equality and diversity activities in general, program adheres to the ISO 22301 standard and continwith support from the HR function. uous efforts are made to review and adapt our capacity To live up to high demands and to bring diversity to maintain deliveries in the event of disruptions and issues into focus at PostNord, the “Move – Change for breakdowns of various types. In 2016, crisis manageDiversity” program is currently in progress. The objecment exercises were carried out at all levels of the tive of an active diversity and equality program is to help Group and with good results. ensure that both organization and management groups better reflect the world outside and the customers of Information security and privacy protection the business. As a major player in communication services, the Group also has a responsibility regarding information security, Competence provision for example in the form of handling personal data, card PostNord has an overarching competence provision information and other sensitive private information, as plan for the 2015–2020 period. The plan is reviewed well as in terms of standing firm against threats and risks annually. An assessment of competence requirements to information security. Handling of personal data is a based on the Group’s strategy and business plan is major element of PostNord’s services, and PostNord in progress as part of the annual business planning bears a major responsibility as a processor of personal ­process. Where necessary, the findings will lead to an data. For example, personal data is used for sorting and action plan. delivering mail items, and when sending out invoices on behalf of customers. PostNord also manages the perEnvironment sonal data of its employees as personal data controller. The Group’s environmental aspects are regularly During the year, work on the information security framereviewed and assessed. Instructions on practical manwork went ahead according to plan, with a continued agement of PostNord’s environmental impact are part focus on long-term work on security-enhancing meaof the business management system, for example sures. This work includes a number of parameters in actions to be taken in incidents that may affect the enviwhich we need to intensify our focus going forward and ronment, chemicals handling and waste management. further strengthen collaboration with our strategic supThe instructions are based on the precautionary principliers. In 2016, no complaints were received from public ple. When businesses are established or relocated, or authorities or other bodies regarding how personal data when new products and services are developed, enviwas handled, and no known cases of identified leaks, ronmental impact assessments are performed, for thefts or losses of personal data occurred. example with a view to minimizing environmental risks. The Group’s environmental work is evaluated internally through internal controls and evaluations for example. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 31 Corporate Governance Report Board’s report on internal governance and control The PostNord Group runs its business in the form of of financial reporting a matrix organization. The matrix organization comprises country organizations (CO), Sweden, Denmark/­ Organization Germany and Norway/Finland, together with two The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ­business areas (BA), BA Communication Services ensuring the Company has an effective system of interand BA eCommerce & Logistics. The organization nal governance and control. The Board’s rules of procealso includes Strategy & Commercial Excellence dure define internal governance and control of financial and Group functions. reporting as a process through which the Board, the President and Group CEO and employees ensure Governing documents beyond reasonable doubt that the financial reporting is PostNord’s delegated authority procedure and other reliable. The Audit Committee is tasked with preparing ­governing documents, guidelines etc. are intended to the Board to perform its duty of assuring the quality of ­facilitate and ensure compliance. The delegated authority the Company’s financial reporting. The Committee overprocedure, which applies to all companies in the Group, sees the effectiveness of the Company’s internal goveris mandatory and governs the right of decision within the nance and control, as well as risk management systems Group. The delegated authority procedure is based on the and processes concerning financial reporting. The work division of responsibilities, adopted by the Group Board of is performed through measures such as regular meetDirectors in its rules of procedure, between the Board of ings with PostNord’s management and external auditors Directors and President/Group CEO. Its aim is, through and examination of accounting principles applied and ­delegation of authority, to ensure effective internal govercertain particular accounting issues that are brought to nance and control. The Group Board of Directors’ rules of the Committee’s attention. The duties and powers of the procedure define the matters that require decision by the President and Group CEO are governed by instructions Board of Directors. The President’s areas of authority adopted by the Board of Directors. extend to everything that is not subject to decision by PostNord’s operational governance is based on the the Board, under the law or the Board’s rules of procedure Group’s set financial and non-financial goals. Details are (or specific Board decisions). See also page 25. available in a summary document, Operational Governance for the PostNord Group. The document describes Risk assessment the organization and deals with issues such as general Management and managers in the country structure, internal division of roles and responsibilities. The governthe business areas and Group functions are responsible ing principles consist most importantly of management for identifying and managing risks in their respective by goals and decentralized profit center responsibility. areas of responsibility, within the framework of the The document is linked to the Group’s delegated authorGroup’s organization-wide risk management process ity procedure. PostNord’s principles of internal goverand via regular follow-up and business review in the nance and control are based on the framework develGroup’s units. Risks associated with financial reporting oped by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations are identified and evaluated along with other types of (COSO) of the Treadway Commission. risks. Financial reporting risks are also addressed by the The Group’s operational structure differs from its Audit Committee and the Board, which evaluate and legal structure. As a main principle, organization and monitor the management of these risks on a regular governance are based on the operational structure. basis. See also Risks and Risk Management, page 24. 32 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Corporate Governance Report Control activities Follow-up Governing documents and processes concerning • PostNord’s business activities are reported and evaluaccounting and financial reporting are updated by the ated monthly, based on business objectives for the Group’s Finance function in the event of amendments units with profit center responsibility. PostNord’s finanto legislation, accounting rules, reporting requirements, cial situation is discussed at each Board meeting. etc. The year-end accounting and reporting process • Self-monitoring enables early detection and manageincludes controls for accounting principles, valuation ment of any risks and errors. The Board’s independent and disclosure requirements. The control activities also audit and control function is conducted by the Group include checks for compliance with decision-making Internal Audit function, which is tasked with evaluating and authorization rules, verification, reconciliation, manPostNord’s processes for governance, risk identificaual and programmed checks and the division of duties tion and risk control. and responsibilities in processes and routines. To a large • The Audit Committee receives regular reports from extent, finance and payroll administration services are the Group’s external and internal auditors and follows outsourced. Quality is ensured through the monitoring up to ensure that measures are taken on the basis of of internal control activities and reporting on complithe auditors’ observations and recommendations. ance with agreed service levels and quality criteria. The • The Group’s companies and Group functions conduct Group’s Finance function is responsible for consolidated an annual self-assessment of the internal governance reporting and consolidated year-end accounts. This and control of financial reporting. Results are comresponsibility includes analyses of the financial results piled by the Group’s Finance function and presented of country organizations, the business areas and Group to the Audit Committee and to the Group’s country functions. organizations and Group functions. • In 2016, certain sections of the reports that the Group’s Information companies and units presented in the self-assessment The Swedish State’s ownership policy specifies guidewere subject verification via a limited review by the lines for external reporting applicable to State-owned Group’s external auditors. companies. As PostNord has issued listed bonds, the regulations governing listed companies are applied. The Group’s governing financial reporting documents are updated continuously and are published via the Group’s intranet, among other channels. The Board and Audit Committee receive and review all quarterly reports and the Group’s annual report and sustainability report before publication. Information to the Group’s external stakeholders is communicated through press releases and PostNord’s website. Financial reporting is also addressed directly to the Danish and Swedish owners. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 33 Board of Directors Board of Directors Jens Moberg Mats Abrahamsson Gunnel Duveblad Born 1962. Born 1960. Born 1955. Graduate Diploma in Business Administration. PhD (Tech). Systems Engineer. Chair of the Board since April 2013. Board member since August 2009. Board member since August 2009. Chair of the Remuneration Committee since Member of Remuneration Committee Chair of Audit Committee since 2009. April 2013. since 2009. Previous positions include CEO of EDS N ­ orthern Previous experience includes positions at IBM Professor at Linköping University. Europe and managerial posts at IBM. Denmark and subsequently at Microsoft Board member of Dixma Consultant AB. Chair of the board of HIQ International AB, ­Corporation, most recently as Corporate Vice Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Team Olivia Group AB, Global Scanning A/S and President. of PostNord bonds: 0. Stiftelsen Ruter Dam. Chair of the boards of Grundfos Holding, LE34, Board member of Dustin Group AB and Herlufsholm Skole og Gods and VisioLink. Sweco AB. Board member of Axcel and Poul Due Jensens Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Fond. of PostNord bonds: 0. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Christian Ellegaard Mette Grunnet Torben Janholt Born 1969. Born 1967. Born 1946. MBA. BSc Economics and Executive MBA. Bachelor of Commerce. Board member since April 2013. CEO, Primo Holding A/S. Board member since August 2009. Member of Audit Committee since April 2013. Board member since April 2016. Left the Board Member of Remuneration Committee Former Member of corporate management at on February 14, for health reasons. since 2009. Berendsen Plc, CEO of Facility and various posiChairman of the Board of Genua A/S. Previous positions include CEO of J Lauritzen A/S. tions within the Berendsen Group, including Member of the Boards of SPEKVA A/S, Chair of the board of Otto Suenson A/S. D­ irector CEO in Denmark. ­Frederiksen Scientific A/S, Spillehallen.dk A/S, of A/S United Shipping & Trading Company, Member of the board of Det Danske Madhus Jysk-Fynsk Kapital A/S, Fasterholt A/S and ­Bunker Holding A/S, Uni Tankers A/S and A/S since November 2016. Inter Primo A/S. Torm A/S. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Previous CEO of Ureflex A/S and Chairman of Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. the Boards of Troldglas A/S, Spekva A/S, Kabooki of PostNord bonds: 0. A/S, Copy Stop Systems Aps, RFID-sec Aps, OTV A/S and Compass A/S, member of the boards of Global Industries A/S and T ­ ops-pin Aps. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. 34 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Board of Directors Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Born 1971. Born 1949. Masters degree in Political Science and B ­ usiness Bachelor of Arts. Economics. Certified European F ­ inancial Board member since April 2013. ­Analyst (CEFA). Member of Remuneration Committee since Board member since April 2014. April 2013. Member of Audit Committee since April 2014. Previous positions include CEO of Systembolaget, Director and head of the Division for Director-General of the National Tax Board, ­State-Owned Enterprises at the Ministry State Secretary at the Swedish Ministries of of Enterprise and Innovation, Sweden ­Education and Finance. Previous posts include Executive Director EY, Chair of the boards of Akademiska Hus AB and Director PwC and budget department AFA Försäkring. Board member of Oral Care at the Ministry of Finance. Holding SWE AB and Attendo AB. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Ordinary member of the Swedish Press Council. of PostNord bonds: 0. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Employee representatives Kristofer Björklund Lars Chemnitz Johan Lindholm Born 1973 Born 1957. Born 1979. Union representative appointed Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by by the Union of Civil Servants (ST). the Union of Service and Communication the Union of Service and Communication Board member since April 2016. Employees (SEKO). Employees (Seko). Employed by Posten since 2003. Chair of the Danish postal workers union, Board member since April 2015. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings 3F Post. Deputy employee representative of PostNord bonds: 0. Member of the Board since January 2010. since April 2012. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Employed by Posten since 1999. of PostNord bonds: 0. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Employee representatives, deputies Peter Madsen Ulf Sjödin Sandra Svensk Born 1953. Born 1956. Born 1977. Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by Union representative appointed by the Union of the Union of Service and Communication the Union of Civil Servants (ST). Service and Communication Employees (SEKO). Employees (SEKO). As a union representative, he represents Saco. Deputy employee representative As a union representative, he represents 3F. Deputy employee representative since April 2015. Deputy employee representative since April 2015. Employed by PostNord since 1995. since January 2010. Employed by PostNord since 1997. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Employed by Post Denmark since 1990. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. of PostNord bonds: 0. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 35 Group Executive Team Group Executive Team Håkan Ericsson Johanna Allert Gunilla Berg Born 1962. Born 1975. Born 1960. BSc Economics. Master of Science Industrial Engineering. BSc Economics. President and Group CEO since October 1, 2013. Chief Technical Officer since 2014. Chief Financial Officer (CFO). Member of Group Executive Team since 2013. Member of Group Executive Team since 2011. Member of Group Executive Team since Previous positions: President of Carlson Previous positions: Head of Group Operations ­September 29, 2014. ­Wagonlit Travels, CEO of Loomis Cash Handling, Development function, including Group Previous positions: Vice President and CFO Executive Vice President at SAS, Managing ­Support & Shared Services. of the Teracom, SAS and KF Groups. Director of DHL European freight operation, Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Board member at Alfa Laval AB and and senior positions in the Danzas, ASG and of PostNord bonds: 0. Atlas Copco AB. Fraktarna logistics groups. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. of PostNord bonds: 0. Björn Ekstedt Andreas Falkenmark Annemarie Gardshol Born 1965. Born 1955. Born 1967. MBA, MSc in Industrial Management and Master of Laws. Master of Engineering. ­Engineering. Head of Business area Communication Services CEO of PostNord Strålfors Group since 2015. Chief Information Officer (CIO) since March 2016. since 2016. Member of Group Executive Team since 2012. Member of Group Executive Team since 2016. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Previous positions: Head of e-Commerce & Previous positions: CIO at Sandvik AB, a number Previous positions: Head of Business area ­Corporate Clients, Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) of executive IT-positions at Sandvik AB and ­PostNord Mail & Communication, Head of and executive positions at Gambro and as a ­Vattenfall AB, Chief Controller and Colonel ­Business area Meddelande Sverige; CEO of ­management consultant at McKinsey & Company. at the Swedish Armed Forces and a number NK Förvaltnings AB; CEO of Duka AB; CEO Board member of SCA AB. of senior military positions in the Air Force. of Coop Sverige AB; and CEO of Observer Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Own and closely-related parties’ holdings ­Northern Europe. of PostNord bonds: 0. of PostNord bonds: 0. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Finn Hansen Anders Holm Peter Kjaer Jensen Born 1956. Born 1957. Born 1969. Master of Science. Market economist. MBA. Chief Group Human Resource and Sustainability Head of PostNord Sweden since 2014. Head of PostNord Denmark since June 1, 2016. since 2013. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Previous positions: Head of Posten Logistik Previous positions: Head of business area Previous positions: Head of Business area Breve AB in Sweden, Sales and Marketing Director ­PostNord Logistics and Various managerial Danmark, Deputy Director of Distribution, at P ­ osten Logistik AB in Sweden, and various positions at Maersk Line, Maersk Logistics ­D eputy Director of Mail Production and ­positions at UPS, most recently as Nordic CEO. and Damco International A/S. ­Transport and various management positions Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Own and closely-related parties’ holdings at Post ­Danmark A/S. Own and closely-related of PostNord bonds: 0. of PostNord bonds: 0. parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. 36 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Group Executive Team Tim Jørnsen Kristina Lilja Per Mossberg Born 1966. Born 1967. Born 1953. Economist. Master of Laws. B.Sc. Economics. Head of e-Commerce & Logistics since January General Counsel and Board Secretary. Chief Communications Officer since 2009. 1, 2017. Member of Group Executive Team since Member of Group Executive Team since 2009. Member of Group Executive Team since 2016. ­January 1, 2015. Previous positions: Head of Corporate CommuniPrevious: Executive VP Posten Norway/ Bring Formerly VP and legal counsel at Husqvarna cations at Posten AB; partner at JKL AB; Executive Nordic logistics operations outside Norway and and positions as corporate lawyer or general VP (Communications) at Telia AB; Senior VP­ also MD Palletways Europe and UPS Nordic and counsel at companies including Hi3G Access (3), ­(Communications) at Trygg-Hansa SPP AB, other leading positions within UPS UK, Brussels IFS and Cybercom. Nobel Industrier and AB Bofors; and CEO of and Europe. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings Näringslivets EU-fakta and Näringslivets Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. ­Ekonomifakta. Chair of the Board, Sveriges of PostNord bonds: 0. ­Kommunikatörer. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. Robin Olsen Jan Starrsjö Born 1970. Born 1960. Master of Engineering; Master of Management. BSc of Economics. Head of PostNord Norway & Finland since 2014. Head of Strategy & Commercial Excellence Member of Group Executive Team since 2014. since 2016. Previous positions: Head of PostNord Logistics Member of Group Executive Team since 2016. in Norway and CEO of Tollpost Globe AS. Previous positions; VP Sales PostNord Mail Own and closely-related parties’ holdings ­Sweden and other executive positions within of PostNord bonds: 0. Posten AB. Previously also: CEO for a venture capital firm and a IT services firm and management consultant at McKinsey & Co. Own and closely-related parties’ holdings of PostNord bonds: 0. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 37 Financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Income statement 68 Income statement 39 Statement of comprehensive income 68 Statement of comprehensive income 40 Statement of financial position 68 Balance sheet 41 Statement of cash flows 69 Statement of cash flows 42 Statement of changes in equity 69 Statement of changes in equity Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to Parent Company financial statements 43 Note 1 – Accounting principles 70 Note 1 – Accounting principles 48 Note 2 – Significant judgements and estimates 70 Note 2 – Significant assessments and 48 Note 3 – Analysis of revenue sources estimates 48 Note 4 – Segment reporting 70 Note 3 – Employees and personnel expenses 50 Note 5 – Employees, personnel expenses 70 Note 4 – Fees and reimbursement of expenses and remuneration to senior executives to auditors 52 Note 6 – Other expenses 70 Note 5 – Interest income, income expenses and 52 Note 7 – Fees and reimbursement of expenses similar expenses to auditors 71 Note 6 – Holdings of shares and participations 52 Note 8 – Net financial items in Group companies, joint ventures and 52 Not 9 – Tax associated companies 53 Note 10 – Non-current intangible assets 72 Note 7 – Earnings per share and distribution 54 Note 11 – Property, plant and equipment of unappropriated profits 55 Note 12 – Leased machinery and equipment; 73 Note 8 – Pledged assets and property leases contingent liabilities 55 Note 13 – Participations in associated companies 73 Note 9 – Financial instruments and joint ventures 55 Note 14 – Financial investments 55 Note 15 – Non-current receivables 56 Note 16 – Deferred tax 56 Note 17 – Inventories 56 Note 18 –  Prepaid expenses and accrued income 56 Note 19 – Cash and cash equivalents 57 Not 20 – Earnings per share distribution of unappropriated profits 57 Note 21 – Interest-bearing liabilities 57 Note 22 – Pensions 60 Note 23 – Other provisions 61 Note 24 – Accrued expenses and deferred income 61 Note 25 – Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 61 Note 26 – Investment obligations 62 Note 27 – Financial risk management and financial instruments 65 Not 28 – Related party transactions 65 Not 29 – supplementary disclosures to Statement of cash flows 65 Note 30 – Acquisitions and divestments 66 Note 31 – Events after the reporting period 67 Note 32 – Definitions and alternative key ratios Consolidated financial statements Group Income statement SEKm Note 2016 20151) 1, 2, 4 Net sales 38,478 39,351 Other operating income 3 263 765 Operating income 38,741 40,116 Personnel expenses 5 –17,261 –18,222 Transportation expenses –10,150 –10,051 Other expenses 6, 7, 24 –9,593 –9,407 Depreciation and impairments 10, 11 –2,820 –1,872 Operating expenses –39,824 –39,552 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME –1,083 564 Financial income 8 49 21 Financial expenses 8 –74 –134 Net financial items –25 –113 Pre-tax income –1,108 451 Tax 9 –475 –173 NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD –1,583 278 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders –1,585 276 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Earnings per share, SEK –0.79 0.14 1) Costs of provisions have been reallocated between personnel expenses and other operating expenses. Statement of comprehensive income SEKm 2016 2015 NET INCOME –1,583 278 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items that cannot be transferred to net income Revaluation of pension liabilities –399 1,388 Change in deferred tax 88 –166 Total –311 1,222 Items that have been or may be transferred to net income Cash flow hedging after tax 6 4 Translation differences 343 –342 Translation differences – Realized and reclassified to income statement ​48 – Total 397 –338 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 86 884 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –1,497 1,162 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders –1,499 1,160 Non-controlling interests 2 2 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 39 Consolidated financial statements Statement of financial position SEKm Note Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 1, 2 ASSETS Goodwill 10 2,600 3,236 Other non-current intangible assets 10 854 955 Property, plant and equipment 11, 12 7,994 8,664 Participations in associated companies and joint ventures 13 69 71 Financial investments 14, 27 262 250 Non-current receivables 15, 22 1,301 1,945 Deferred tax assets 16 122 484 Total non-current assets 13,202 15,605 Inventory 17 101 150 Tax assets 712 527 Trade receivables ​27 4,627 4,524 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 18 1,128 1,251 Other receivables 561 ​563 Short-term investments 14, 27 351 – Cash and cash equivalents 19, 27 ​1,577 1,894 Assets held for sale 176 209 Total current assets ​9,233 ​9,118 TOTAL ASSETS ​22,435 ​24,723 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 20 Capital stock 2,000 2,000 Other contributed equity 9,954 9,954 Reserves –1,633 –2,030 Retained earnings –2,673 –777 Total equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 7,648 9,147 Non-controlling interests 3 3 TOTAL EQUITY ​7,651 ​9,150 LIABILITIES Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 21, 27 1,716 ​3,705 Other non-current liabilities 49 40 Other provisions ​23 1,389 1,712 Deferred tax liabilities 16 831 861 Total non-current liabilities 3,985 6,318 Current interest-bearing liabilities 21, 27 2,029 134 Trade payables 2,434 2,294 Tax liabilities 82 ​47 Other current liabilities 1,630 1,727 Accrued expenses and deferred income ​24 4,027 4,404 Other provisions ​23 597 649 Total current liabilities 10,799 9,255 TOTAL LIABILITIES 14,784 15,573 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES ​22,435 ​24,723 40 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Statement of cash flows SEKm Note 2016 2015 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Pre-tax income –1,108 451 Adjustments for non-cash items ​29 2,920 469 Taxes –37 –79 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,775 841 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) inventories 21 28 Increase (–)/decrease (+) other current receivables –228 76 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in other current liabilities –236 629 Other changes in working capital –11 11 Changes in working capital –454 ​744 Cash flow from operating activities 1,321 1,585 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase of property, plant and equipment –1,001 –1,027 Sale of property, plant and equipment 51 525 Acquisitions of non-current intangible assets –181 –82 Acquisitions of operations, effect on cash and cash equivalents 30 –14 –81 Disposals of operations, effect on cash and cash equivalents 30 –45 – Acquisitions of financial non-current assets –362 – Disposals of financial non-current assets 2 19 Cash flows from investing activities –1,550 –646 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Amortized loans –100 –843 Dividend paid –2 –3 Increase(+)/decrease(–) in other interest-bearing liabilities 4 –36 Cash flows from financing activities –98 –882 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD –327 57 Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of period 1,894 1,843 Translation difference in cash and cash equivalents 10 –6 Cash and cash equivalents, closing balance 19 ​1,577 1,894 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 41 Consolidated financial statements Statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Other NonShare contributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2015, SEKm capital equity reserve reserve earnings ­interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –1,680 –12 –2,275 4 7,991 Comprehensive income for the period Net income for the period – – 276 2 278 Other comprehensive income for the period –342 4 1,222 – 884 Total comprehensive income for the period –342 4 1,498 2 1,162 Dividend –3 –3 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –2,022 –8 –777 3 ​9,150 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders Other NonShare contributed Translation Hedging Retained controlling Total 2016, SEKm capital equity reserve reserve earnings ­interests equity Equity, opening balance 2,000 9,954 –2,022 –8 –777 3 ​9,150 Comprehensive income for the period Net income for the period – – –1,585 2 –1,583 Other comprehensive income for the period 391 6 –311 – 86 Total comprehensive income for the period 391 6 –1,896 2 –1,497 Dividend –2 –2 Equity, closing balance 2,000 9,954 –1,631 –2 –2,673 3 ​7,651 42 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 Accounting principles Contents s­ tandard no later than in the financial year that commences on January 1. Introduction 1, 2018 IFRS 9 is not expected to have any material impact on the consoli2. Basis of preparation of the annual accounts dated financial statements. 3. Changes in accounting principles arising IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is a new standard on from new or amended IFRS revenue recognition that replaces existing revenue standards. The standard 4. Classification describes an integrated model for revenue recognition irrespective of industry 5. Principles of consolidation and business combinations and type of transaction. PostNord is not planning for early adoption of IFRS 15. 6. Associated companies and joint ventures IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognized when control over 7. Foreign currency a good or service is transferred to the customer. Under the current standard, 8. Revenue revenue must be recognized when risks and benefits are transferred. 9. Operating expenses and financial income and expenses The potential impact of implementation of IFRS 15 on PostNord’s 10. Financial instruments accounts is currently being assessed. The judgements regarding effects 11. Property, plant and equipment that are described in the following are based on the information known 12. Leased assets today. During the transition from IAS 18 to IFRS 15, PostNord intends to use 13. Non-current intangible assets a fully retrospective method, meaning that all periods shown for compari14. Inventories son will be recalculated in accordance with IFRS 15. The standard requires 15. Dividend paid further disclosures to be added to the note on revenue, including for exam16. Employee benefits ple classification into significant revenue categories. In the cases where 17. Postage stamp liability the revenue is received over time, contract assets and liabilities are to be 18. Provisions specified with any change in the opening and closing balances. 19. Taxes PostNord operates mainly on the basis of multi-year agreements, 20. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities although these do not represent any obligation on the part of the cus21. Related party transactions tomer to use the agreement. For that reason, every order is recognized as 22 Statement of cash flows income when the physical delivery is performed. To a minor extent, services are completed in stages and such will be recognized as income when 1. Introduction control is transferred, that is, over time. PostNord’s provisional view is that a The consolidated accounts comprise PostNord AB and its subsidiaries, very small proportion of the Group’s revenue will be recognized as income together with holdings in joint ventures and associated companies. The at a later point in time, as compared to the current regime. Parent Company is a Swedish public limited company with its registered IFRS 16 Leases is a new standard on recognition of leases. For lessees, office in Solna, Sweden. the classification into operating and financial leases under IAS 17 is abolished and replaced by a model in which assets and liabilities relating to lease 2. Basis of preparation of the annual accounts agreements are to be recognized. In the income statement, the cost is to be The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with allocated to amortization and interest expense. PostNord is a lessee and as EU-approved International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), issued by per December 31, 2016, had outstanding lease fees of approximately SEK 5 the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as applying to finanbillion. Under the new standard, these fees are to be recognized as assets cial years beginning on January 1, 2016. In addition, the Swedish Financial and liabilities in the statement of financial position, which creates a relatively Reporting Board’s RFR 1, Supplemental Financial Statements for Groups, major impact, for example, on PostNord’s net debt. IFRS 16 is to be implewas also applied. mented from January 1, 2019. Earlier adoption is permitted provided that The accounting principles described below have been applied consisIFRS 15 is also applied from the same point in time. The Company has not tently to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. yet decided whether IFRS 16 will be adopted early from the start of 2018. Assets and liabilities are recognized at historical cost, except for derivatives and certain financial assets, which are measured at fair value on an 4. Classification ­ongoing basis. Non-current assets and liabilities consist in essence of amounts that are The Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after the end of Group, except in the cases indicated in the section Notes to Parent Compathe reporting period. Current assets and liabilities consist in essence of ny's financial statements, Note 1 Accounting principles. The differences amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within 12 months of between the Parent Company’s and the Group’s accounting principles the end of the reporting period. result from limits on the Parent Company’s implementation of IFRS Assets are classified as being held for sale when their carrying amount under the Annual Accounts Act and the Act on Safeguarding of Pension will be recovered from sale rather than through continued use. This condiCommitments, and to some extent with regard to tax considerations. tion is regarded as being met when the management and board of direcThe reporting currency of the Parent Company and the Group is tors have approved a decision to dispose of the asset, an active selling pro­Swedish kronor, SEK. The financial statements are therefore presented cess has been started, the assets are available for immediate sale in their in SEK. Unless otherwise stated, all amounts are rounded off to the nearest current condition, and that it is highly probable that the sale will take place million Swedish kronor. within a year. Non-current assets and related long-term liabilities classified as being held for sale are transferred to current assets or current liabilities, 3. Changes in accounting principles arising as appropriate. Assets held for sale are measured at carrying amount or from new or amended IFRS fair value, whichever is the lower. Amendments to IFRS applicable as of January 1, 2016 have not had any material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 5. Principles of consolidation and business combinations A number of new or amended IFRS will not come into force until future The consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company and financial years and have not been adopted early in the preparation of the subsidiaries over which the Parent Company, directly or indirectly, exerfinancial statements. Amended IFRS, other than those described below, cises a controlling interest. A controlling interest is defined as exercising applicable in 2017 or later are not deemed likely to have any material effect control over the entity, having rights to variable returns from the entity on the Group’s performance and financial position. and having the ability to affect those returns through power over the entity. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Acquisitions of subsidiaries are reported using the purchase method. Recognition and Measurement. The standard deals with classification, In this method, the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary's assets and measurement, impairment and recognition of financial instruments. The assumes its liabilities. The acquisition method establishes the fair value on categories in IAS 39 are replaced by three in which the value of the instruthe acquisition date of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, ments is measured at amortized cost, fair value via other comprehenand any holding without a controlling interest. In the case of a business sive income or fair value via income. The standard also deals with simplicombination where the consideration transferred exceeds the fair value fied rules on hedge accounting. The Group’s intention is to apply the new of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the difference is recognized as PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 43 Consolidated financial statements goodwill. Transaction costs attributable to the acquisition are recognized In Strålfors, income is generated from communication services for as an expense. ­businesses, in the form of digital business and market communications, Income from subsidiaries acquired during the year is included in the printing and enveloping. Income from services including an electronic Group’s income as of the day on which the subsidiary came under the component (hybrid services) is recognized once the object has been Group’s control. Income from subsidiaries disposed of during the financial ­converted into a physical format and correspondingly has been received year is included in the Group’s income up until the point when the Group for physical transportation in the form of a mail item. no longer exercises a controlling influence over the subsidiary Income at Direct Link is generated by global distribution of market All intra-Group transactions, items in the statement of financial position, ­communications and lightweight goods, mainly on behalf of e-retailers. income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Payment is made in three ways, credit, cash or prepayment (stamps, Any conditional purchase consideration is calculated as the fair value on freight including packaging or preloaded amounts in franking machines). the day of acquisition. Any adjustment to the related liability for the condiCredit and cash are recognized in the period in which the service is pertional purchase consideration made in the period until the date of settleformed (item posted/handed in). Prepayments are recognized as income ment is recognized at fair value in income. at sale and a prepaid income item (liability) is recognized for as yet unused When acquisition of a subsidiary involves acquisition of net assets that stamps. The opening balance of the liability for prepaid income is then do not constitute a business (asset deal), the historical cost is apportioned ­c ancelled as income and the closing balance recognized as a reduction over the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their fair in income. The calculations are based on annual surveys of the number value on the day of acquisition. of stamps sold but not used in Sweden and Denmark, respectively. In ­Sweden, franking is accounted for in the same way, where the calculations 6. Associated companies and joint ventures are based on information on use from customers. In Denmark, franking Holdings in both associated companies and joint ventures are recognized is invoiced in arrears. Discounts are provided at invoicing. in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method. In this, the carrying amount for shares in the associated company or joint venture 9. Operating expenses and financial income corresponds to the Group’s participation in the company’s equity, goodwill and expenses and any other remaining fair value adjustments. The Group’s ownership Operating expenses share in the earnings from the holding, after tax and after adjustment for Operating expenses are recognized in the period in which the good or any depreciation, impairment losses and reversals of goodwill or negative ­service is delivered or used (for example, in the case of leasing costs). goodwill, is recognized in income. Costs of operating leases 7. Foreign currency Costs arising from operating leases are recognized in the income stateTransactions in foreign currency in the Group’s Swedish companies are ment on a straight-line basis over the lease period. Benefits received in translated into SEK at the exchange rate on the transaction date. Monetary connection with the signing of a lease are recognized as part of the total assets and liabilities in foreign currency are translated to SEK using the leasing cost, on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease, in the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. Exchange rate differincome statement. Variable charges are recognized in the periods when ences arising in translation are recognized in income for the year. they arise. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate at the time of the transaction. Costs of financial leases Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and other The minimum lease payments are divided between interest expenses and fair value adjustments, are translated to SEK using the exchange rate at the repayment of the outstanding liability. Interest expenses are distributed end of the reporting period. over the period of the lease so that each accounting period includes an Revenue and expenses of foreign operations are translated to SEK amount corresponding to a fixed interest rate for the liability recognized in using an average rate approximating to the rates on each transaction date. that particular period. Variable charges are recognized in the periods when Translation differences arising when the financial statements of foreign they arise. operations are translated are recognized in other comprehensive income and aggregated as a separate item in the translation reserve in equity, Financial income and expenses termed the translation reserve. Financial income and expenses consist of interest income on bank deposits, receivables, and fixed-income securities, interest expenses on loans, 8. Income dividend income, exchange rate differences, unrealized and realized gains Income is recognized in the income statement when the amount can be on financial investments and derivative instruments used within the reliably calculated and when material risks and benefits associated with Group’s financing activities. Interest on pension liabilities and return on the goods have passed to the purchaser. Income from services is recogassets under management for pensions, calculated in accordance with IAS nized in the income statement as a proportion of completion at the end 19, are recognized under the heading Net financial items. Interest income of the reporting period, mainly via reporting of the service performed, on receivables and interest expense on liabilities are calculated using the and recognized as income as the work progresses. The remuneration is effective interest method. The effective interest rate method is the rate at measured at fair value, excluding value added tax and price and volume which the present value of all future incoming and outgoing payments in discounts. the fixed-interest period equals the carrying amount for the receivable or PostNord’s net sales consist principally of the provision of services. liability. The interest component of financial lease payments is recognized On average, the process of delivering physical mail items takes two days, in the income statement via the effective interest method. Interest income meaning that there is little difference in time between posting/handing and interest expense includes accrued amounts for transaction costs and in and delivery, which is considered insignificant. Registration of goods any discounts, premiums and other differences between the original carryreceived is acknowledgement of receipt and also serves as the basis of ing amount for the receivable or liability, and the amount settled when due. the right to invoice the customer as per agreement. Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is Income in Business area Communication Services is generated from confirmed. services in business and market communications, newspaper distribution, postal service for individual customers, and terminal fees. Income from the 10. Financial instruments mail and communication businesses is recognized when the physical item Financial instruments recognized in the statement of financial position on is received for physical transportation. Terminal fees are payment for prothe assets side consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivduction services performed in the receiving country, for mail posted in ables, loan receivables and derivatives. Liabilities consist primarily of trade another country, under international agreements between countries. payables, debt instruments issued, loan liabilities and derivatives. Income in Business area eCommerce & Logistics is generated from logistics services for deliveries to, from and inside the Nordic region, with Recognition in and derecognition from statement of financial position the focus on distribution of parcels, consignment goods, pallet goods and A financial asset or financial liability is recognized in the statement of finanbulk logistics (mixed-cargo groupage), as well as third-party logistics. cial position when the company becomes party to the contractual proviIncome in the logistics business is recognized when the physical item sions of the instrument. A receivable is recognized when the company has is received for physical transportation. performed and there is a contractual liability for the counterparty to pay, 44 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements even if the invoice has not yet been sent. Trade receivables are recognized taining payments in the financial markets, as indicated by experience. in the statement of financial position when the invoice has been sent. Trade receivables are recognized at the amounts expected to be received A financial asset is derecognized from the statement of financial position after deductions for doubtful receivables, which are determined on a casewhen the rights in the agreement are realized or expire or the company by-case basis. An impairment loss is applied to a trade receivable if it may loses control over them. be regarded as doubtful, that is, it is older than 90 days after falling due or it Liabilities are recognized when the counterparty has performed relates to a customer with historical problems with payment. Trade receivand there is a contractual liability to pay, even if the invoice has not been ables that relate to customers with an acknowledged good capacity for received. Trade payables are recognized when the invoice is received. payment and a good payment history are not regarded as doubtful, even if A financial liability is derecognized from the statement of financial position older than 90 days and adequate interest compensation is expected to be when the obligation in the agreement is discharged or otherwise expires. paid. The anticipated term of the trade receivable is short and the value is Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognized at the trade therefore recognized undiscounted at its nominal amount. Impairment of date, that is, the date on which the transaction is completed. Receivables trade receivables is recognized under the heading Operating expenses. or liabilities are recognized gross under the heading Other liabilities or Other receivables, between the trade date and the settlement date. Held-to-maturity investments Held-to-maturity investments are financial assets, with fixed or determinCash and cash equivalents able payments and a fixed maturity, that the company has an expressed Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and deposits immediately availintention and ability to hold to maturity. Assets in this category are meaable at banks and similar institutions, together with current investments sured at amortized cost. that have terms of less than three months at the acquisition date and that Fixed-income securities acquired with the intention of being held until are exposed to an insignificant risk for changes in value. Funds held on maturity are classified as financial assets held until maturity and measured behalf of others within treasury operations are not treated as cash and at amortized cost. cash equivalents. Such funds consist of escrow funds held on behalf of external customers for the sole purpose of onward transmission and as Available-for-sale financial assets such are not available for payments relating to PostNord’s own operations. Available-for-sale financial assets include financial assets not included in any other category and financial assets that the Company initially chooses Classification and measurement to put in this category. Assets in this category are measured on an ongoing Financial instruments are classified into categories at first recognition basis at fair value, with changes in value being recognized in other com­ on the basis of the purpose for which the instrument was acquired. prehensive income, except for changes in value relating to impairments, The classification determines how the financial instrument is measured dividend on shares, interest income and exchange rate differences. after the first occasion of recognition. At the time the investments are derecognized from the statement of Financial instruments are initially recognized at historical cost, correfinancial position, any accumulated gain or loss previously recognized sponding to the instrument’s fair value, including direct transaction costs in equity is transferred to the income statement. for all financial instruments, except those falling within the category of financial assets recognized at fair value via the income statement, which Financial liabilities measured at fair value via income are recognized exclusive of transaction costs. The note Financial risk manThis category consists of two sub-categories: financial liabilities held for agement and financial instruments describes which financial instruments trading and other financial liabilities that the company initially chooses to are measured at fair value and indicates the level in the measurement hierput in this category; see “Financial assets reported at fair value via income”. archy from which the input data used to calculate the fair value is taken. The first category includes derivatives measured at negative fair value, If the term or anticipated period of holding for the investment is longer except for derivatives used for hedge accounting. Changes in value are than a year, the asset is regarded as a non-current financial asset; if it is recognized via the income statement shorter than a year but longer than three months, the asset is a short-term investment. Non-current liabilities have an anticipated term of more than Other financial liabilities one year, while current liabilities have a term of less than one year. Financial liabilities includes loans and trade payables. These liabilities are measured at amortized cost. The amortized cost is determined on The categories are as follows: the basis of the effective rate of interest calculated when the liability was Financial assets measured at fair value via income booked. As a result, fair value adjustments and direct issue costs are This category consists of two sub-categories: financial assets held for trad­recognized on an accruals basis over the term of the liability. ing and other financial assets that the Company initially chooses to put in Trade payables have a short anticipated maturity and so are measured this category. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired undiscounted at their nominal amount. with the aim of being sold in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading other than when they are used for hedge accounting. Derivatives and hedge accounting Assets in this category are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value, In the Group, derivatives consist of currency forward contracts and interest with changes in value being recognized as net financial items in the rate swaps used to cover risks of changes in exchange rates and market income statement Fixed-income securities not intended to be held until interest rates. Changes in the value of derivatives are recognized in the maturity are classified either as financial assets measured at fair value via income statement or in other comprehensive income, depending on the income statement or as available-for-sale financial assets. whether the derivative is part of an effective cash flow hedge or not. Loan receivables and trade receivables Cash flow hedging Loan receivables and trade receivables are non-derivative financial assets Forward contracts are used to hedge assets and liabilities against foreign that have fixed or determinable payments, and that are not listed on an exchange risk. In order to secure interest flows related to certain borrowing active market. at variable interest, interest rate swaps, in which the Company receives Assets in this category are measured at amortized cost. The amortized variable interest and pays fixed interest, are used. The swaps are measured cost is determined on the basis of the effective rate of interest calculated at fair value. The interest coupon component is recognized as part of interat the time of acquisition. Non-current receivables, trade receivables and est expense on an ongoing basis in income for the year. other current receivables are classified into the category Loan receivables Unrealized changes in fair value of the interest swaps are recognized in and trade receivables. other comprehensive income and form part of the hedging reserve until the hedged item affects the income for the year and as long as the criteria Doubtful accounts receivable for hedge accounting and efficiency are fulfilled. Any changes in value are At the end of each accounting period, the Company assesses whether recognized via the income statement. To achieve matching, hedge there are any objective indications that a financial asset or group of assets accounting is not necessary since the hedged item is translated at the is in need of impairment. The criteria for determining whether there is any exchange rate at the end of the period and the hedging instrument is need for impairment consist primarily of the counterparty’s officially noti­measured at fair value, with any changes in value being recognized via fied incapacity to fulfil his obligations, or that party’s incapacity for mainthe income statement. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 45 Consolidated financial statements 11. Property, plant and equipment 13. Non-current intangible assets Owned assets Non-current intangible assets at PostNord consist of goodwill, capitalized Property, plant and equipment at PostNord consists of properties, machinery, development expenditures and other intangible non-current assets. equipment, construction in progress and advance payments. The PostNord The Group recognizes these at accumulated cost less deductions for Group recognizes these assets at accumulated cost less deductions for accuany accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. mulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Accumulated cost includes the purchase price and costs directly attributable to the asset in order to Intangible assets are recognized in the statement of financial position bring the asset into place in the right condition to be used as intended. when: The result from sale or disposal of property, plant and equipment is • An identifiable non-monetary asset exists ­c alculated as the difference between the value at sale and the carrying • It is probable that the future economic benefits that may be attributed amount. Any profit or loss arising is recognized via income. Subsequent to the asset will flow to the Group costs are added to the historical cost of an asset only if it is probable that • The historical cost of the asset may be measured reliably. the future economic benefits associated with the asset will accrue to the company and the historical cost can be measured reliably. Goodwill All other subsequent costs are recognized as an expense in the period Goodwill represents the difference between the historical cost of the when they occur. ­business combination and the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, ­liabilities assumed and contingent liabilities. Depreciation policies Goodwill is measured at accumulated cost less any accumulated impairAssets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life ment. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, which are tested of the asset. Land is not depreciated. annually for impairment. Goodwill arising upon the acquisition of associThe Group applies component depreciation, which means that the estiated companies is included in the carrying amount for participations in mated useful life for the separate component is the basis for depreciation. associated companies. The following rates of amortization are applied: Capitalized development expenditures Internally generated non-current intangible assets are recognized as Buildings, land and improvements to leased properties 10–50 years ­C apitalized development expenditures and consist in the main of system Interiors and installations in leased premises 5–10 years development. The carrying amount includes directly attributable expenditure in conSorting equipment 5–10 years nection with, for example, services and equipment. Other development Fleet 3–8 years costs are expensed in the income statement as they arise. Capitalized Computer equipment 3–7 years development expenditure is recognized in the statement of financial posiOther machinery and equipment 5 years tion at accumulated cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments Owner-occupied properties comprise a number of components with Other intangible assets ­differing useful lives. The main classification is into buildings and land. Other intangible assets comprise acquired brands, customer relationships, The buildings comprise several components whose useful lives vary. licences and similar assets Other intangible assets are recognized at accumulated cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments. The following main categories of components have been identified and serve as a basis for depreciation of buildings: Amortization policies Amortization is recognized in the income statement on a straight-line basis Structure/roof 50 years through the estimated useful life of an intangible asset, unless this period is External cladding 30–40 years indeterminable. Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminInternal cladding 10 years able useful life, as well as capitalized development processes that have not been completed, are tested for impairment annually or as soon as Electrical installations 40 years there is an indication that the value of the asset has decreased. Ventilation/cooling 15–20 years An intangible asset is amortized from the date when it becomes Sewerage/water 40 years ­available for use. Depreciation periods, residual values and useful lives are reviewed at every year-end. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Capitalized expenditures for Impairments development processes completed 3–8 years The carrying amounts for the Group’s property, plant and equipment are Brands, customer relationships, tested at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is licenses and other rights 3–10 years any need for impairment is indicated. Any impairment is recognized as an expense in income for the year. Impairment of assets is reversed if there is both an indication that Impairments impairment no longer exists and if there has been a change in the The Group’s recognized assets are assessed at the end of each reporting ­assumptions on which the calculation of impairment was based. period to determine whether there is any indication of need for impairment. If any such indication is found, the recoverable amount for the asset 12. Leased assets is calculated. PostNord has entered into financial and operational lease agreements on For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indeterminable useful machinery, equipment and business premises. life and intangible assets not yet ready for use, the recoverable amount is Lease agreements under which risks and benefits associated with ownassessed annually and otherwise when indicated. An impairment loss is ership are in all essential respects transferred to the Group are classified as recognized when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit financial leases. Assets leased under financial leases are recognized as exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are charged to the non-current assets in the statement of financial position. When the leased income statement. An impairment loss on an asset attributable to a asset is recognized for the first time, it is measured at fair value or the prescash-generating unit is charged first to goodwill. ent value, whichever is the lower, of the minimum lease charges when the The recoverable amount is calculated as either fair value less selling agreement is entered into. The obligation to pay future lease charges is costs or value in use, whichever is the higher. Calculation of the value in ­recognized under Non-current and current liabilities. The leased assets use is based on PostNord’s estimates of future cash flows. When calculatare depreciated over the useful life of the particular asset, while the lease ing the value in use, future cash flows are discounted using a discount facpayments are recognized as interest and amortization of the liabilities. tor that takes into account, for example, risk-free interest and the risk assoAll other lease agreements are classified as operating leases. Charges ciated with the specific asset. Such estimates are based on the Group's to be paid under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line business plan, supplemented by other relevant information. basis over the period covered by the lease agreement concerned. 46 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Impairment of other 18. Provisions assets is reversed if there is both an indication that impairment no longer A provision differs from other liabilities in that it is subject to uncertainty as exists and there has been a change in the assumptions on which the to the time of payment or the size of the amount required to effect the pro­c alculation of recoverable value was based. vision. A provision is recognized in the statement of financial position when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of an event 14. Inventory that has occurred and it is likely that an outflow of funds will be required Goods in inventory are stated at either cost or net realizable value, to settle the commitment and the amount can be reliably calculated. ­whichever is the lower. The historical cost is calculated using the first-in, A provision for restructuring is recognized when there is an agreed first-out (FIFO) principle. detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either already begin or has been officially announced. No provision is made for 15. Dividend paid future operating costs. Dividends are recognized as a liability after they have been approved A provision for onerous contracts is recognized when the anticipated by the AGM. economic benefits that the Group is expected to receive from a contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfilling the obligations under the 16. Employee benefits contract. Short-term benefits Personnel expenses are recognized in the period in which the work is 19. Taxes ­performed. Changes in holiday and salary liabilities are recognized on an Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are ongoing basis in pace with the employee’s earning of right to remuneration. ­recognized in the income statement except when the underlying transacDuring periods of high holiday-taking, personnel expenses will at such tion is recognized in Other comprehensive income or directly in equity, times generally be lower than the average cost per period. whereupon the associated tax effect is also recognized in Other comprehensive income or in equity. Current tax is tax that is calculated on the Post-termination benefits basis of the current year's taxable income and that is to be paid or received The Group's pension commitments consist partly of defined-benefit plans for the current year, on the basis of the tax rates enacted or in practice with an agreed promise of a future pension level based primarily on the enacted at the end of the reporting period. This also includes adjustments person's final salary, and partly of defined-contribution plans in which to current tax for previous periods. insurance premiums are paid and the employee bears the risk regarding Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method on the basis the future pension level. The Group’s commitments as to defined-contribuof temporary differences between the recognized and taxable values of tion pension plans are recognized as a personnel expense in the income assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated on the basis of how the statement as and when earned through the employee performing his or temporary differences are expected to be evened out using the tax rates her duties on behalf of the Company. The defined contribution plans conand regulations enacted or announced at the end of the reporting period. sist for the most part of an ITP (occupational pension) plan adapted for Temporary differences are not included in goodwill on consolidation. In the PostNord in Sweden, and a smaller plan in Norway. Calculations are perconsolidated accounts, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liabilformed for all defined-benefit plans using the projected unit credit method, ity and equity. Deferred tax assets relating to deductible temporary differin order to establish the present value of commitments regarding benefits ences and loss carry-forwards are recognized only to the extent it is probafor present and previous employees. Actuarial calculations are conducted ble that these will result in lower tax payments in the future. annually on the basis of actuarial assumptions, which are determined Such probability is judged on the basis of PostNord’s business plan annually at the closing of the year-end accounts. Assumptions are made and operational plans. for inflation, changes in income base amounts, personnel turnover, discount rate, return on investments and life expectancy. 20. Pledged assets and contingent liabilities The Group’s net commitment consists of the present value of the estiA contingent liability is recognized whenever there is a possible obligation mated pension commitments, less the fair value of the assets under manarising from past events and its existence is confirmed only by one or agement. Changes in the present value of the net commitments arising more uncertain future events. from changes in actuarial assumptions are treated as revaluation effects Contingent liabilities are also recognized whenever there is an obligaand recognized in other comprehensive income. The carrying amount of tion not reported as a liability or provision because it is not probable that pensions and similar commitments represents the present value of the resources will have to be used to settle the obligation. commitments at the end of the period, less the fair value of assets under Pledged assets are recognized for guarantees provided and assets management, including special payroll tax. pledged. If the value of the commitment exceeds the value of the assets under management, a liability is recognized. If the assets under management 21. Related party transactions exceed the commitments, an asset is recognized on the Group’s statement Information from the Company on transactions with Swedish State and the of financial position. Danish State has been restricted to relationships that are not of a commerThe pension expense and pension provision established for Swedish cial nature, as a result of which related party transactions consist of special plans deviate from amounts calculated in accordance with IFRS, compared assignments from the State and licenses from public authorities. to what is recognized within the legal entity concerned. As regard pensions and similar benefits financed via defined-contribution plans, expenses equal 22. Statement of cash flows to PostNord’s annual contributions in respect of the plans are recognized. The statement of cash flows is prepared in accordance with the indirect method and allocated to operating activities, investing activities and financTermination benefits ing activities. Acquisitions and sales of subsidiaries are included, net of cash A cost for compensation in connection with termination of employment is and cash equivalents, under the heading of investing activities. Cash flows recognized at the earliest point in time when the company can no longer arising in transactions in foreign currency are recognized in the Group’s withdraw its offer to the employees or when the company recognizes functional currency by translation of the amount in the foreign currency costs of restructuring. In cases where PostNord gives notice of termination into SEK using the exchange rate prevailing at the time of the cash flow. of employment, a detailed plan is drawn up specifying at least workplace, Cash and cash equivalents are made up of cash, bank deposits and positions and estimated number of employees affected, as well as type of short-term investments. See also Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents. benefits and amounts for each personnel category or position, and the time at which the plan is intended to be carried out. 17. Postage stamp liability PostNord’s postage stamp liability is calculated for stamps sold but not used. The extent of the postage stamp liability is determined on the basis of a number of assumptions. Assumptions are based on the number of stamps sold but not used in Sweden and Denmark. To ensure that the assumptions are reasonable, surveys are carried out in both Denmark and Sweden. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 47 Consolidated financial statements Note 2 Significant judgements Note 3 Analysis of revenue sources and estimates When preparing the financial statements, management has made judgeNet sales ments and estimates that affect the Group’s reporting. These judgements Net sales consist for the most part of services provided. and estimates are based on what was known at the time the accounts were presented, and on historic experience and the assumptions that manageOther operating income ment considers reasonable in the given circumstances. The conclusions SEKm 2016 2015 that management has drawn are the basis of the amounts stated. Actual outcomes, judgements and estimates in future financial statements over Rental income 20 18 the year ahead may deviate from those contained in this report as a result Insurance claim payments 0 2 of changes in external circumstances and new experience. The judgeCommission income 8 9 ments and estimates that are most significant to PostNord were made in Capital gains, buildings 31 521 the following areas Capital gains, machinery and equipment 8 13 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Exchange rate gains 113 105 Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to calculate future Other 83 97 cash flows that will determine the recoverable value of goodwill, other Total 263 765 intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Deferred tax assets Tax assets consisting of tax loss carry-forwards have been measured on the basis of business plans and estimates of future taxable income for Note 4 Segment reporting which tax loss carry-forwards may be used. The Group’s organization into segments is principally based on the compaPension obligations nies’ registered geographical domicile. The PostNord Strålfors and Direct In making the actuarial calculation for PostNord’s pension obligations, a Link segments are coordinated on the basis of the nature of their operanumber of assessments are made in order to arrive at reasonable assumptions. Market pricing applies to internal dealings between PostNord’s tions. The most significant of these are assumptions about discount rate, ­segments. There is no latitude for purchasing externally where the service expected rate of return on assets under management, future pay trends is available internally. In PostNord’s operational structure, though not in its and inflation. Changes in assumptions due to altered external factors affect legal structure, cost distribution for corporate shared service functions is PostNord's income, net financial items and other comprehensive operatat ost price. ing income, as well as financial receivables and pension liability recognized As of 2016, markets are divided into the following segments: PostNord in the statement of financial position. Changes in assumptions also affect Sweden, PostNord Denmark (incl. Germany), PostNord Norway, PostNord the forecast cost for the year ahead. Finland, PostNord Strålfors, Direct Link and Other. Figures for comparison have been restated. The segments market and sell the total offerings of Provisions for transition regulations the business areas in the Nordic region. As a consequence of the Company's corporatization in Sweden in 1994, PostNord assumed an obligation (under special transition regulations) PostNord Sweden operates in letters, logistics and e-commerce in the such that certain categories of the workforce may choose to retire early Swedish market and is responsible for all aspects of PostNord’s fulfilment at the age of 60 or 63 years. Provision in the statement of financial position operations. is calculated on the basis of previous experience of the proportion of ­persons who have elected to exercise their right to early retirement PostNord Denmark operates in letters, logistics and e-commerce in the under these provisions. A change of 5 percentage points in the take-up Danish market and is responsible for the e-commerce and logistics part of rate impacts operating income by +/–SEK 3m. PostNord’s operations in Germany. PostNord Norway and PostNord Finland operate in letters, logistics and e-commerce in the Norwegian and Finnish markets, respectively. PostNord Strålfors operates in information logistics. The company ­develops and offers communications solutions for companies with large customer bases. Direct Link operates in global distribution of market communications and lightweight goods, mainly on behalf of e-retailers. The business is conducted in the USA, the United kingdom, Germany, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia. Other includes business operations outside the scope of the above segments, together with shared services and corporate functions including the Parent Company, Group adjustments and items affecting comparability. Group adjustments consist of IFRS adjustments for pensions under IAS 19 Employee Benefits and finance leasing under IAS 17 Lease Agreements. Service costs for shared services and corporate functions are allocated from Other to the segments. Cost allocations are taken up as income in Other under Other operating income, internal. Within the Countries, cost allocations are recognized in Other expenses. Eliminations consists of the elimination of internal transactions. 48 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 4 (cont.) Items Adjusted affecting 2016 PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord Direct Eliminatotal, comparaJan–Dec, SEKm Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Link1) Other1 tions Group bility Group Net sales, external 21,945 9,141 3,334 714 2,124 989 231 – 38,478 – 38,478 Net sales, internal 1,081 430 455 270 115 0 2 –2,353 – – – Total net sales 23,025 9,571 3,789 984 2,240 989 233 –2,353 38,478 – 38,478 Other operating income, ­external 153 ​25 3 1 10 0 71 – 263 – 263 Other operating income, internal 232 18 0 0 ​23 1 3,532 –3,806 – – – Total operating income 23,410 9,614 3,792 985 2,273 990 3,836 –6,159 38,741 – 38,741 Personnel expenses –9,497 –5,372 –897 –106 –542 –70 –705 –10 –17,199 –62 –17,261 Transportation expenses –5,147 –1,478 –2,455 –616 –521 –228 0 295 –10,150 – –10,150 Other expenses –7,210 –3,082 –350 –270 –1,001 –662 –2,628 5,873 –9,330 –263 –9,593 Depreciation and impairments –709 –307 –121 –8 –85 –3 –330 – –1,562 –1,258 –2,820 Total operating expenses –22,563 –10,239 –3,823 –1,000 –2,149 –963 –3,661 6,159 –38,241 –1,583 –39,824 Adjusted operating income 847 –625 –31 –15 124 ​27 174 – 500 – – Items affecting comparability –23 –1,284 –5 – –275 – 4 – –1,583 – – TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 824 –1,910 –36 –15 –151 ​27 178 – – – –1,083 Net financial items –25 Pre-tax income –1,108 Tax –475 Net income for the period –1,583 Items Adjusted affecting 2015 PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord PostNord Direct Eliminatotal, comparaJan–Dec, SEKm Sweden Denmark Norway Finland Strålfors Link1) Other1) tions Group bility Group Net sales, external 22,008 9,509 3,707 553 2,251 1,055 268 – 39,351 – 39,351 Net sales, internal 1,072 478 405 234 84 – 4 –2,277 – – – Total net sales 23,080 9,987 4,112 787 2,335 1,055 272 –2,277 39,351 – 39,351 Other operating income, ­external 151 ​25 7 1 14 – 67 – 265 500 765 Other operating income, internal 281 ​24 0 0 ​27 – 3,414 –3,746 – – – Total operating income 23,513 10,035 4,119 788 2,377 1,055 3,753 –6,022 39,616 500 40,116 Personnel expenses –9,813 –5,524 –951 –101 –625 –71 –556 8 –17,633 –589 –18,222 Transportation expenses –5,086 –1,383 –2,704 –475 –458 –240 –18 313 –10,051 – –10,051 Other expenses –7,077 –3,112 –347 –206 –1,095 –666 –2,477 5,701 –9,279 –128 –9,407 Depreciation and impairments –690 –387 –142 –7 –113 –2 –384 – –1,726 –146 –1,872 Total operating expenses –22,666 –10,406 –4,144 –789 –2,291 –979 –3,440 6,022 –38,689 –863 –39,552 Adjusted operating income 847 –371 –25 –1 86 78 313 – 927 – – Items affecting comparability –97 84 –9 – –122 – –219 – –363 – – TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 750 –287 –34 –1 –36 78 94 – – – 564 Net financial items –113 Pre-tax income 451 Tax –173 Net income for the period 278 1) As of the first quarter of 2016, the business of Direct Link is accounted for as a separate segment. Direct Link was formerly reported under “Other”. Figures for comparison have been restated. 2016 2015 Investments, Investments, Non­property, plant and Nonproperty, plant and Organization into geographical areas Total current equipment and Total current equipment and based on domicile of companies, SEKm Income assets assets1) intangible assets Income assets assets1) intangible assets Sweden 23,085 12,195 7,301 714 23,457 13,515 6,593 708 Denmark 8,670 5,399 1,902 397 9,665 6,488 3,854 189 Norway 3,926 3,707 2,403 67 4,211 3,368 2,449 179 Finland 1,096 477 239 8 830 477 219 22 Other countries 1,964 657 34 8 1,953 875 138 11 Total 38,741 ​22,435 11,879 1,194 40,116 ​24,723 13,253 1,109 1) Non-current assets are assets comprising amounts that are expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the end of the reporting period. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 49 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 Employees, personnel expenses and executive remuneration 2016 2015 Average number of employees per country Women Men Total % Men Women Men Total % Men Sweden 6,789 13,750 20,539 67 7,272 14,190 21,462 66 Denmark 3,429 7,054 10,483 67 3,703 7,661 11,364 67 Norway 249 1,191 1,440 83 251 1,262 1,513 83 Finland 103 145 248 58 88 178 266 67 Other countries 280 288 568 51 268 383 651 59 Total 10,850 22,428 33,278 67 11,582 23,674 35,256 67 Personnel expenses, SEKm 2016 2015 Salaries and other remuneration 13,208 14,2191) Statutory social insurance costs 2,581 2,577 Pension expenses2) 1,385 1,351 Other personnel expenses 87 75 Total 17,261 18,222 1) Reporting of salaries and other remuneration differs from that in the 2015 Annual Report. Provisions are now classified into salaries and other remuneration, and other expense. ­Previously, provisions were recognized in their entirety as other expense. 2) Of the Group’s pension expenses, SEK 8m (5) pertains to current and earlier Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. Obligations outstanding on behalf of these persons total SEK 177m (158). 2016 2015 Of which, Other Of which, Other Salaries and other remuneration PresiOf which severance employPresiOf which severance employper country, SEKm dents1) bonus2) payment ees Total dents1) bonus2) payment ees Total Sweden 16 – – 7,121 7,137 20 1 – 7,348 7,368 Denmark 10 – 4 4,978 4,988 9 – – 5,098 5,107 Finland 3 – – 796 799 5 – – 840 845 Norway 2 – – 122 124 4 – – 109 113 Other countries 5 – – 155 160 3 – – 184 187 Total 36 – 4 13,172 13,208 41 1 – 13,579 13,620 1) Current and former Presidents and Executive Vice Presidents. 2) Acquisitions of subsidiaries included bonuses to be paid to CEOs on the condition that targets for EBIT were achieved or surpassed, which occurred at two subsidiaries. These agreements were subject to time limits expiring at the end of the 2014 financial year, and the final payment took place during 2015. 2016 2015 Salaries and other remuneration to Pension Other Pension Other Group Executive Team, SEKm Salary expenses benefits Total Salary expenses benefits Total Håkan Ericsson, President and Group CEO 9.4 2.8 0.1 12.3 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 Total, President 9.4 2.8 0.1 12.3 9.1 2.7 0.1 11.9 Johanna Allert 2.4 0.7 0.1 3.2 2.2 0.6 0.1 2.9 Gunilla Berg 4.4 1.3 0.1 5.8 4.3 1.3 0.0 5.6 Henning Christiansen (to June 30, 2016)1) 8.2 0.0 0.1 8.3 3.6 0.0 0.1 3.7 Joss Delissen (to Dec. 31, 2015) 3.0 0.9 0.0 3.9 3.1 0.9 0.0 4.0 Björn Ekstedt (from Feb. 1, 2016) 2.5 0.8 0.1 3.4 – – – – Andreas Falkenmark 3.8 1.1 0.1 5.0 4.0 1.2 0.1 5.3 Annemarie Gardshol 3.6 1.1 0.0 4.7 3.5 1.1 0.0 4.6 Finn Hansen 3.9 0.0 0.0 3.9 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 Anders Holm 3.3 1.0 0.1 4.4 3.3 0.9 0.1 4.3 Tim Jörnsen (acting, from July 1, 2016) 1.8 0.5 0.0 2.3 – – – – Peter Kjaer Jensen 3.5 0.4 0.1 4.0 2.9 0.9 0.1 3.9 Kristina Lilja 2.1 0.6 0.0 2.7 2.0 0.6 0.0 2.6 Per Mossberg 3.1 0.9 0.1 4.1 3.1 0.9 0.1 4.1 Robin Olsen 3.2 0.2 0.3 3.7 3.6 0.2 0.2 4.0 Jan Starrsjö 2.1 0.6 0.0 2.7 – – – – Total, other Group Executive Team 50.9 10.1 1.1 62.1 39.4 8.6 0.8 48.8 Total, Group Executive Team 60.3 12.9 1.2 74.4 48.5 11.3 0.9 60.7 1) Includes provision for severance payments settled. 50 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 5 (cont.) Benefits to senior executives sound ethics and a healthy corporate culture. The remuneration shall not On behalf of all senior executives in Sweden, pension provisions of no be pay-setting relative to comparable enterprises, but shall be charactermore than 30% of the executive’s monthly salary are made. Under the ized by restraint. ­relevant contracts, the pensionable age is 65 or 62 years. Individual premium-based pension plans are contracted for the PresiIn the case of senior executives employed in Denmark, the pension cost dent & Group CEO and other senior executives of the Group who are is included in the salary and the pensionable age complies with legislation employed in Sweden, with contributions not to exceed 30 percent of the in Denmark. In Norway, senior executives are subject to Norwegian labor fixed monthly salary. The required insurance policies are contracted within law and the same pension conditions as for other employees. The pensionthe scope of this charge. The pensionable age is currently 62 or 65 years. able age is 65 years. In future recruitment, this will be 65 years. For executives employed in The pension provision for the CEO is set at 30% of the CEO’s monthly ­D enmark and Norway, premium-based pensions are provided to their full salary and the notice period for both CEO and employer is six months. extent, and the pensionable age shall be in line with the guidelines and The period of notice of termination for other members of the Group practice in the respective country Executive Team is 6–12 months by the Company and 6 months by the indiIn new employment contracts, the period of notice where the employvidual. If the employment is terminated at the employer’s initiative, severment is terminated by the employer shall not exceed six months. Employance compensation corresponding to the value of the person’s monthly ment contracts signed earlier, with a period of notice of 12 months where salary will be paid for a maximum of 12 months. Whenever a new employemployment is terminated by the employer, shall continue to apply. Where ment contract is signed, the value of company car benefit is not nowadays the contract is terminated by the executive, the period of notice shall be six included in the calculation of the severance compensation. Older employmonths. Where the employment is terminated by the employer, severance ment contracts still exist, in which the value of company car benefit is compensation may be paid in an amount corresponding to no more than included in the basis of calculation for severance compensation. 12 months’ salary. If the employee takes up new employment or receives For senior executives, the rule applied is that income from new employincome from other business activities, the salary paid during the notice ment or own business is deducted from termination salary and severance period and the severance pay will be reduced by an amount correspondcompensation. ing to the new income. Variable salary will not be paid to the senior executives. In the light of Summary of guidelines on compensation to senior executives, other principles in the government's guidelines on terms of employment adopted at the Annual General Meeting held on April 28, 2016 for senior executives in State-owned companies, variable salary may be The total remuneration for executives shall be well-balanced, competitive, paid to other employees. capped, reasonable and fit-for-purpose, and should be in keeping with Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Gender representation among senior executives, % % Women % Men % Women % Men Group Board of Directors 38 62 38 62 Group Management ​29 71 31 69 Board members and presidents of subsidiaries 36 64 39 61 Benefits till Board of Directors of Group Audit Remuneration and PostNord AB, SEKt1) 2) Committee Committee 2016 2015 Jens Moberg Chair of the Board 678 638 Gunnel Duveblad Chair of the Board 332 313 Mette Grunnet (from April 1, 2016) Member 244 – Sisse Fjelsted Rasmussen (to March 31, 2016) Member 75 300 Christian Ellegaard Member 319 300 Magnus Skåninger Member – – Anitra Steen Member 294 275 Mats Abrahamsson Member 294 275 Torben Janholt Member 294 275 Total 2,526 2,376 1) Board members are entitled to invoice via a company or sole proprietorship, including associated social insurance costs. However this is done, it is cost-neutral to PostNord. 2) Amounts recognized consist of fees for Board and committee work approved at the 2015 and 2016 AGMs in respect of work performed in the 2016 financial year. Board of Audit Remuneration Remuneration approved by Annual General Meeting, held on April 28, 2016, SEKt Directors ­Committee Committee Chair of the Board 650 63 38 Member 275 50 ​25 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 51 Consolidated financial statements Note 6 Other expenses Note 8 Net financial items SEKm 2016 2015 SEKm 2016 2015 Costs of premises 2,108 2,104 Financial income Provisions1) 97 73 Interest income 7 12 Terminal fees 1,220 1,198 Interest income, pensions ​25 – Cost of goods and materials 786 889 Other financial income 17 9 Procured IT resources 1,601 1,499 Total 49 21 Capitalized production costs on own account, IT –173 –58 Financial expenses Other 3,954 3,702 Interest expenses –64 –83 Total 9,593 9,407 Interest expenses, pensions 0 –25 Provisions and reversals regarding Interest expenses, restructuring initiatives finance leases 0 0 PostNord Sweden ​27 4 Other financial expenses –10 –11 PostNord Denmark 40 31 Net change in exchange rates 0 –14 PostNord Norway – – Total –74 –134 PostNord Strålfors 30 7 Net financial items –25 –113 Other countries and eliminations – 31 See also Note 27 Financial risk management and financial instruments; for Total 97 73 more information on interest expense relating to pensions, see also Note 1) See also Note 23 Other provisions. Figures for the preceding year have been restated 22 Pensions. as a result of reallocation of costs of provisions between personnel expenses and other operating expenses. Note 9 Tax Note 7 Fees and reimbursement SEKm 2016 2015 of expenses to auditors Current tax –57 –55 SEKm 2016 2015 Deferred tax Change in deferred tax in KPMG property, plant and equipment –39 224 Auditing assignments 10 12 Other temporary differences in balance sheet items –187 –336 Other auditing services 2 2 Change in deferred tax in tax loss carry-forwards –192 –6 Tax consultancy 1 1 Total –418 –118 Other services 1 1 Total tax –475 –173 Total 14 16 Audit services consist of statutory review of the annual and consolidated 2016 2015 accounts and accounting records and the administration by the Board and Reconciliation of effective tax rate % SEKm % SEKm the President, as well as review and other auditing procedures performed as per agreement or contract. Pre-tax income 22 –1,108 22 451 This also includes other duties that fall to the Company’s auditor, and Tax at current tax rate for advice or other support occasioned by observations made during audits Parent Company 244 –99 or the performance of such other duties. Non-deductible expenses –2081) –351 Tax-exempt income 6 3 Unused tax losses on companies sold –57 – Effect of unused tax losses –271 –20 Revaluation of deferred tax –133 – Tax attributable to previous year –24 – Effect of changes in tax rates 1 –8 Effect of other tax rates in foreign subsidiaries –9 –5 Other –24 –9 Total –475 –173 1) Of which SEK –176m (–22) consists of impairment losses on goodwill and participations in associated companies. Unused tax loss carry-forwards relate to operations outside Sweden, see Note 16. 52 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 10 Non-current intangible assets Goodwill Other non-current intangible assets Capitalized Total Licenses and development other non-current Goodwill similar assets expenditures intangible assets SEKm 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Accumulated cost, opening balance 3,300 3,380 1,778 2,432 2,553 2,064 4,331 4,496 Acquisition of subsidiaries/business 14 58 – 15 – – – 15 Sale of subsidiaries –59 – –4 – –16 – –20 – Investments during the year – – 6 ​27 175 55 181 82 Disposals/scrapping – – –32 –156 –365 –12 –397 –168 Reclassifications – – 41 –477 58 477 991) – Translation differences 149 –138 62 –63 4 ​8 –31 110 –94 Accumulated historical costs at year-end 3,404 3,300 1,851 1,778 2,453 2,553 4,304 4,331 Depreciation, opening balance – – –1,212 –1,440 –1,399 –1,047 –2,611 –2,487 Depreciation for the year – – –144 –221 –200 –156 –344 –377 Acquisition of subsidiaries/business – – – –2 – – – –2 Sale of subsidiaries – – 2 – 13 – 15 – Disposals/scrapping – – 28 155 296 22 324 177 Reclassifications – – – 250 –30 –250 –301) – Translation differences – – –48 ​46 –37 32 –85 78 Accumulated depreciation at year-end – – –1,374 –1,212 –1,357 –1,399 –2,731 –2,611 Impairments, opening balance –64 –8 –19 –86 –746 –604 –765 –690 Impairment losses for the year –796 –58 –2 –9 –4 –73 –6 –82 Sale of subsidiaries 59 – 2 – 3 – 5 – Disposals/scrapping – – – – 51 – 51 – Reclassifications – – – 76 – –76 – – Translation differences –3 2 6 – –10 7 –4 7 Accumulated impairments at year-end –804 –64 –​13 –19 –706 –746 –719 –765 Closing balance 2,600 3,236 464 547 390 408 854 955 1) Reclassification from property, plant and equipment. Other non-current intangible assets Goodwill Internally generated intangible assets are recognized as “Capitalized develGoodwill is recognized as a non-current intangible asset with an opment expenditures” and consist for the most part of system support. ­indeterminable useful life at historical cost less accumulated impairment Capitalized development expenditures on December 31, 2016 added up losses. Goodwill on December 31, 2016 was valued at a carrying amount to a carrying amount of SEK 390m (408). of SEK 2,600m (3,236). Other non-current intangible assets consisted primarily of licenses and similar assets. Impairment testing Licenses and similar assets on December 31, 2016, totaled a carrying In order to allow for testing of impairment, goodwill in the Group has been amount of SEK 464m (547). allocated to cash-generating units in accordance with PostNord’s operaInvestments during the year were made above all in system developtional organization. In view of the fact that the production and sales of ment in line with PostNord’s strategy for shared Nordic-wide IT solutions. acquired businesses have been integrated with other PostNord operaNo changes to amortization periods were made in 2016. For more on tions, it is no longer possible to separate out the cash flow and assets of amortization/depreciation periods used, see Note 1 Accounting principles. the units as originally acquired. Goodwill values have in certain cases had For more on acquisitions of intangible assets through acquisition of subsidto be tested at a higher level of groups of cash-generating units, although iaries, see Note 30 Acquisitions and disposals. no higher than per business segment. The allocation to cash-generating Other non-current intangible assets have been impairment-tested. As a units/groups is shown in the table below. result impairments of SEK 6m (82) have been applied, attributable mainly to capitalized development expenditures for system support. Goodwill Rate of growth after Discount rate Dec. 31, SEKm forecast period (%) before tax (%) Cash-generating units 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 PostNord Sweden 1,056 1,054 0.5 1 10.3 12.8 PostNord Denmark – 739 – 1 – 12.3 PostNord Norway 950 861 1.6 2.6 8.9 12.1 PostNord Strålfors 436 430 1 2 12.9 11.9 PostNord Finland 149 143 2 3 10.7 14.5 Other cash-generating units 9 9 –2–2 –1–2.5 10–12.2 11.9–12.6 Total goodwill 2,600 3,236 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 53 Consolidated financial statements Note 10 (cont.) The recoverable amount for a particular cash-generating unit/group of The fair value of the assets has been calculated on the basis of the discash-generating units is made up of the value in use or fair value, whichcounted cash flows. The most important assumptions are sales, changes ever is higher, less the selling costs. An impairment for a cash-generating in costs and working capital requirements. The forecast period is five years unit is recognized if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying and is based on management’s business plan for PostNord Denmark for amount. Impairment losses are allocated first to goodwill and second to the 2017–2019 period and a forecast for the following period, 2020–2021, other assets of the cash-generating unit that are subject to impairment together with the present value of an estimated terminal value. The distesting in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, that is, tangible count rate used is a WACC of 12%, which is equivalent to an interest rate of and intangible non-current assets. 15.4% before tax. During impairment testing in connection with the year-end accounts, an Value in use impairment loss emerged in the PostNord Denmark cash-generating unit. The recoverable amounts for the cash-generating units other than PostNord As a result, goodwill was amortized in the amount of SEK 796m to zero. Denmark have been calculated from the value in use, by discounting anticiThe remaining negative value also indicates an impairment loss in proppated future cash flows based on the management’s three-year business erty, plant and equipment. At this stage, the difference between fair values plan, with extrapolation of net cash flows after the said three-year period. and carrying amounts has, in accordance with IAS 36-105, been assessed Management's assumptions and assessments reflect historical experience, at asset level. The assessment resulted in impairment losses of SEK 389m, analysis of external trends and other available external information. The attributable to buildings, tenancy adjustments and sorting equipment in most important assumptions used in determining future cash flows are connection with the mail business, to SEK 1,638m, representing the recov­estimated volume growth in net sales, changes in costs and working capital erable amount of the tangible non-current assets in the cash-generating requirements. All assumptions are applied per cash-generating unit or group unit PostNord Denmark (see also Note 11). of cash-generating units. The rate of growth in the terminal period, that is, after the three-year forecast period, is assumed to be –2% to 2% (–1% to 3%) Sensitivity analysis for remaining goodwill and the discount rate before tax to be 8.9–12.9% (11.9–14.5%). In determining The sensitivity in the calculations by the cash-generating units other than the discount rate, factors taken into account include type of business and PostNord Denmark, whose goodwill has been amortized in entirety to risk and size premium. zero, indicates that the goodwill value could be sustained in the event of reasonable changes to important assumptions other than for PostNord Fair value less selling costs Norway. The recovery value for PostNord Denmark has been calculated at fair The sensitivity in the calculations by the cash-generating unit PostNord value less selling costs, as this was considered to be higher than the value Norway indicates that the goodwill value could not be sustained if the longin use. PostNord Denmark faces a major gradual transformation of its busiterm operating margin declined by 0.5%, the discount rate rose by 0.5 perness, but the rules laid down in IAS 36 do not allow a value in use to take cent, or if the long-term rate of growth declined by 0.5 percent, compared account the effects of future restructuring measures, which on the other to the discount rate of 7.4% after tax and the 1.6% rate of growth used for hand is possible in the calculation of fair value less selling costs. ­calculation of the value in use. Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Construction in progress Buildings Machinery and and advance and land equipment ­payments Total SEKm 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Accumulated costs, opening balance 5,850 7,272 15,769 15,922 536 448 22,155 23,642 Acquisition of subsidiaries – 39 – 5 – 17 – 61 Other acquisitions 103 ​45 826 604 72 378 1,001 1,027 Disposals/scrapping –114 –33 –1,883 –790 –12 – –2,009 –823 Reclassifications 131) –1,2081) –101) 335 –191 –294 –188 –1,167 Translation differences 229 –265 338 –307 15 –​13 582 –585 Accumulated costs at year-end 6,081 5,850 15,040 15,769 420 536 21,541 22,155 Depreciation, opening balance –1,637 –2,075 –11,795 –11,597 – – –13,432 –13,672 Depreciation for the year –132 –143 –1,075 –1,172 – – –1,207 –1,315 Acquisition of subsidiaries – – – –5 – – – –5 Disposals/scrapping ​29 22 1,790 ​744 – – 1,819 766 Reclassifications 221 4651) 321) 8 – – 54 473 Translation differences –81 94 –256 227 – – –337 321 Accumulated depreciation at year-end –1,799 –1,637 –11,304 –11,795 – – –13,103 –13,432 Impairments, opening balance –16 –6 –43 –41 – – –59 –47 Impairment losses for the year2) –178 –10 –286 –2 – – –464 –12 Disposals/scrapping ​29 – ​48 – – – 77 – Reclassification 1 – 2 – – – 3 – Translation differences – – –1 – – – –1 – Accumulated impairments at year-end –164 –16 –280 –43 – – –444 –59 Closing balance 4,118 4,197 3,456 3,931 420 536 7,994 8,664 1) Reclassification to other intangible non-current assets SEK 69m (–) and assets held for sale SEK 62m (639). 2) Of impairment losses for the year, SEK 389m was attributable to impairment in Denmark – SEK 157m in buildings and SEK 232m in machinery and equipment. 54 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 12 Leased machinery, Note 13 Participations in associated ­equipment and companies and property leases joint ­ventures Operating leases Participations in associated companies During the year, the Group paid lease charges of SEK 1,384m (1,308). OutAt the financial year-end, Post Danmark A/S owned shares in equity in the standing lease charges at the end of the period, at the exchange and interassociated company e-Boks A/S valued at SEK 68m (68). The company est rates prevailing for the Group, totaled SEK 4,945m (4,907). The minie-Boks A/S has its registered office in Copenhagen, Denmark, and is mum lease charges for operating leases fall due for payment as follows: owned 50%. During the year, Post Danmark A/S acquired a 25% share in the Machinery and ­associated company eHUBnordic ApS. The company's book value at equipment Premises year end was SEK 1m. The company eHUBnordic ApS has its registered office in Copenhagen, Denmark. SEKm 2016 2015 2016 2015 Within 1 year 72 74 1,172 1,173 Participations in joint ventures PostNord Strålfors AB owns 50% of the company Tand 2:103 Fastigshets Between one and five years 81 92 2,438 2,449 AB, in Östersund, Sweden. The value of the participation on consolidation More than five years – – 1,181 1,119 at year end was SEK 0m (0). Total 153 166 4,791 4,741 Finance leases The lease charges for financial leases contracted fall due for payment Note 14 Financial investments as follows: SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Minimum Financial investments treated as lease payments Interest Present value non-current assets SEKm 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Endowment insurance 170 152 Other non-current investments 92 98 Within 1 year 6 9 0 1 6 8 Closing balance 262 250 Between one and five years 6 11 0 1 6 10 Total 12 20 0 2 12 18 Short-term investments treated as ­current assets Financial lease assets Other short-term investments 351 – Financial lease assets reported as property, plant, and equipment Closing balance 351 – consist of: SEKm 2016 2015 Accumulated costs Note 15 Non-current receivables Machinery and equipment 100 91 SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Closing balance 100 91 Funded defined-benefit disability pension Accumulated depreciation plans measured in accordance with IAS 19 790 867 Machinery and equipment –84 –76 Defined-benefit pension plans measured Closing balance –84 –76 in accordance with IAS 19 410 1,000 Carrying amount 16 15 Deposits, property leases 35 41 Other 66 37 Lease charges under financial leases amounted to SEK 6m (10). Total 1,301 1,945 Note 27, Financial risk management and financial instruments, specifies the maturities of the non-current liabilities relating to financial leases. See also Note 25, Pledged assets and contingent liabilities. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 55 Consolidated financial statements Note 16 Deferred tax 2016 2015 Acquisition/ Acquisition/ divestment of divestment of business, recogbusiness, recogRecognized nized in Other Recognized nized in Other Opening via the income comprehensive Closing Opening via the income comprehensive Closing SEKm balance statement income balance balance statement income balance Deferred tax assets Other provisions 376 –271 –4 101 441 –65 – 376 Loss carry-forwards 206 –192 –21) 12 212 –6 – 206 Finance leases – – – – 1 –1 – – Current assets 2 3 – 5 – 2 – 2 Offset against liabilities –99 – 104 4 –88 – –11 –99 Total 484 –460 98 122 566 –70 –11 484 Of which, outside Sweden 234 – – 41 194 – – 234 Deferred tax liability Non-current intangible assets –16 –4 – –20 –21 5 – –16 Property, plant and equipment –274 –39 11) –312 –498 224 – –274 Current assets – – – – –14 14 – – Provision for pensions –669 85 88 –496 –205 –291 –173 –669 Offset against receivables 99 – –104 –4 88 – 11 99 Total –861 42 –15 –832 –650 –48 –162 –861 Of which, outside Sweden –76 – – –145 –229 – – –76 1) Divested business. Receivables and liabilities in Sweden have been recognized at SEK 255m (300) net, while other receivables and liabilities have been recognized gross. Receivables outside Sweden have been recognized at SEK 41m (234) and liabilities at SEK 145m (76). Dates payment due, tax amounts Loss carry-forwards Note 18 Prepaid expenses Capitalized loss carry-forwards where deferred tax assets not recognized and accrued income SEKm 2016 2015 2016 2015 SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Not due 12 206 266 108 Accrued postal charges 93 95 Loss carry-forwards where deferred tax assets were not recognized totaled Accrued commission income 0 2 SEK 266m (–) in Denmark, and SEK –m (102) in France. Prepaid rent 220 275 These deferred tax assets have not been recognized since it was judged Prepaid insurance premiums ​25 ​25 that the deductions could not be used in the foreseeable future. In addition to unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards, deductible tempoPrepaid salaries 127 133 rary differences amounting to SEK 255m (–) have not been recognized. Terminal fees 423 461 Derivatives 13 1 Note 17 Inventories Other items Closing balance 227 1,128 259 1,251 SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Goods for resale etc. Raw materials 52 ​48 67 83 Note 19 Cash and cash equivalents Closing balance 101 150 SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 The major share of the goods for resale are held at PostNord Group AB. Cash and bank balances 1,036 1,894 Raw materials are held at Strålfors. Short-term investments Impairment losses on inventories totaled SEK 4m (1). treated as cash and cash equivalents 541 – Closing balance ​1,577 1,894 Short-term investments have been classified under Cash and cash ­equivalents if they are readily convertible into cash, have a maturity of no more than 3 months from the date of acquisition and present a negligible risk of value fluctuations. 56 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements . Not 20 Earnings per share Note 21 Interest-bearing liabilities SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 SEK 2016 2015 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 1,537 3,520 Earnings per share –0.79 0.14 Finance leases 9 19 Earnings per share are calculated by dividing the part of the Group’s net Other non-current liabilities 170 166 profit or loss for the period that is attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders by the average number of shares in issue. No dilutive Closing balance 1,716 ​3,705 ­instruments have been issued. Current interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 2,008 100 Bank overdraft facilities utilized 13 ​23 Finance leases 8 11 Closing balance 2,029 134 See also Note 27 Financial risk management and financial instruments. Note 22 Pensions Note 1 Accounting principles includes a description of PostNord’s pension Provisions for pensions plans. The Group operates both defined-benefit and defined-contribution and similar obligations, SEKm (cont.) 2016 2015 pension plans. There are also a small number of personnel categories that are entitled to a retirement pension under special arrangements made at corpoAssets under management, fair value OB 20,407 19,649 ratization. Postens Pensionsstiftelse (the Posten Pension Fund) secures penTransfer from obligation – 8 sion obligations for PostNord Group AB and PostNord Sverige AB. For more Interest income 595 501 information on internal dealings between the Group and Postens PensionsContributions from employer 90 85 stiftelse, see the section Assets under management and Note 28 Related Credit –909 – party transactions. Postens Pensionsstiftelse is regulated under Tryggandelagen (1967:531) (the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act). Postens PenPayments of benefits –76 –76 sionsstiftelse is supervised by the Stockholm County Administrative Board Actual return above (+) and Finansinspektionen (the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority). In and below (–) interest income 814 240 2016, following agreement with the principal parties, PostNord changed to Assets under management, fair value CB 20,921 20,407 PRI’s ­calculation principles from those of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority regarding ITP-P defined-benefit pensions under Tryggandelagen. Change in net assets or net debt PostNords Försäkringsförening is regulated under Swedish Friendly Societies Present value of defined-benefit obligations 20,829 19,843 Act (1972:262) and is under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. As a result, Assets under management, fair value –20,920 –20,407 PostNords Försäkringsförening must maintain a capital base that exceeds Net (asset –, liability +) at year-end the required solvency margin. The pension plan in Norway is regulated under –91 –564 excluding special payroll tax4) the Norwegian Company Pension Scheme Act, while in France the pension plan is governed by collective agreement in the graphical sector. The Group’s Work-related injuries 35 39 pension obligation is 99.99% (99.98) attributable to pension benefits earned Special payroll tax –278 –417 in its Swedish companies. The remaining amount is accounted for by the Net (asset –, liability +) in Statement of changes in Group’s French business (divested in 2016) and its Norwegian business. financial position including work-related injuries and effect of special payroll tax –334 –942 Provisions for pensions 1) Costs of earned entitlement consist of SEK 290m (278) for funded plans and similar obligations, SEKm 2016 2015 and the remainder for unfunded plans 2) Of the interest expense, SEK 509m (465) is attributable to funded plans Pension obligations, OB 19,843 20,916 and the ­remainder to unfunded plans Transfer to assets under management – –8 3) Of actuarial gains and losses, SEK 998m (–765) is attributable to funded plans Costs relating to service during current year1) 315 307 and the remainder to unfunded plans 4) The Group has no assets under management that consist of the Company’s own Interest expense2) 572 526 ­transferable financial instruments or properties that are used by the Company. Occupational pensions 39 65 Payments of benefits –1,097 –1,071 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – change in financial assumptions3) 1,072 –1,115 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – change in demographic assumptions3) 0 0 Actuarial gains (–) and losses (+) – experience-based3) 86 223 Pension obligations, CB 20,829 19,843 2016 2015 Net commitment Special Net commitment Special Specification, net, commitment and asset, SEKm and asset payroll tax Total and asset payroll tax Total Funded defined-benefit disability pension plans1) 790 – 790 867 – 867 Unfunded non-vested pensions2) –669 –162 –831 –712 –173 –885 Work-related injuries2) – – –35 – – –39 Funded pensions1) 1,519 368 1,887 1,912 464 2,376 Unfunded vested pensions1) –1,549 72 –1,477 –1,503 126 –1,377 91 278 334 564 417 942 1) See Note 15 Non-current receivables. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 57 2) See Note 23 Other provisions. Consolidated financial statements Note 22 (cont.) In the course of 2017, the Group anticipates paying benefits totaling SEK Actuarial 951m (996) under defined-benefit plans. The weighted duration of the assumptions, % Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Dec. 31, 2014 ­pension commitment is 14 (14) years. Discount rate 2.60 3.00 2.60 When the value of the assets under management exceeds the present value of the pension calculation, this results in an asset for the Group (see Non-current receivables). The Group judges that the value of asset Future annual pay rises 2.40 2.40 2.40 exceeds the present value of future repayments from the plan and has Change in income base ­lowered future payments into the plan. amount 3.00 3.00 3.00 Inflation 1.50 1.50 1.50 Provision for non-vested pensions Employee turnover 4.50 4.50 4.50 PostNord is liable for its Swedish subsidiaries’ non-vested pension commitments under “interim provisions”. These provisions apply to certain personLifetime obligation FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 FFFS 2007:31 nel who, under the terms of their employment, are entitled to retire at 60 or 63 years of age. A condition is that the employee had to have reached The expenses for 2016 are based on the actuarial assumptions established the age of 28 years by no later than January 1, 1992 and remained in the at the beginning of the year. At the end of 2016, PostNord established same function thereafter. The total obligation, calculated in accordance assumptions that were applied to the calculation of the outcome as per with the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, for pensions under the interim December 31, 2016. These actuarial assumptions are also used in the foreprovisions was SEK 2,378m (2,495) on December 31, 2016. Experience indicast for expenses in 2017. In the process, it was also taken into account that cates that on average 25% of those eligible exercise their right under the all assumptions used in the valuation should in the long term be mutually interim provisions, and so the provision is set at this proportion of the total compatible. obligation. The amount recognized as a liability totals SEK 693m (764), The discount rate is determined in accordance with IAS 19, that is, on the including special payroll tax. The obligation is included in the balance of basis of high-quality corporate bonds traded on an active market as defined Unfunded pension plans, non-vested pensions. by IFRS, by reference to the Swedish housing bond market. Against this PostNord bears liability for an obligation, known as the ultimate liability, background, management takes the view that the discount rate applied that PostNord Group AB assumed at its corporatization. This obligation reflects the time value of money and offers a reasonable present value for was previously recognized as a contingent liability. At the time of transition the Group’s pension obligations. Future annual salary increases reflect to IAS 19, a provision was made for this obligation. On the basis of available anticipated percentage pay rises, as a composite product of inflation, period information, this obligation was calculated at SEK 138m (121) on December of service and rank. The income base amount is determined annually by 31, 2016. The obligation is included in the balance of Unfunded pension the government and is used, for example, to establish the ceiling for penplans, non-vested pensions. sionable pay in the national pension system. The Group has elected for an assumed inflation rate of 1.5%. This reflects the view of the actors in the Liability for maintaining value financial markets regarding inflation in the pricing of securities, that is, In 2000, pension commitments previously guaranteed via Postens Penimplicit inflation. A rate of 1.5% is assumed to reflect expectations of future sionsstiftelse were redeemed through the purchase of insurance policies. inflation and is more mutually compatible with the reference interest rate The capital value of these commitments on December 31, 2016 was SEK from the housing bond market. The personnel turnover is the composite 35m (44). PostNord retains a liability for maintaining the value and coordiexpectation for future business growth, real pay rises and the productivity nating the gross value of these pension commitments. growth required to maintain profitability. It also takes into account the personnel turnover experienced over recent years. The factor of average remaining service life is determined on the basis of the current age breakExpenses and income for defined-benefit and down for the Group’s employees. The life expectancy assumption is based defined-contribution pension plans, SEKm 2016 2015 on Finansinspektionen’s directions, published as FFFS 2007:31. A new analyCosts relating to service during current year 315 307 sis of mortality rates was conducted via the DUS 14 study. PostNord is not a service enterprise in that sense, but the demographics accord very closely Interest expense (plus) and interest income (minus)1) –22 ​25 with FFFS 2007:31. Against that background, no change is being made to Occupational pensions 39 65 mortality assumptions and PostNord will continue to apply FFFS 2007:31. Defined-benefit pension plans 332 396 Alecta Defined-contribution pension plans 943 951 Obligations for retirement and family pensions for salaried employees Other pension expenses 88 28 in Sweden may be secured through an insurance policy with Alecta. In Recognized within net financial items 22 –25 the Group, only a few companies use insurance as a means of securing pension benefits, and the sums are not substantial. Total pension expenses 1,385 1,351 1) Interest expenses and interest income are recognized within net financial items. Assets under management Total assets under management amounted to SEK 20,921m (20,407). The Actuarial calculation assumptions major share of the Group’s assets under management are administered The actuarial valuation of PostNord’s defined-benefit pension commitby Postens Pensionsstiftelse, SEK 19,174m (18,623). Other assets under ments and pension expenses are based on the assumptions described management consist of assets in PostNords Försäkringsförening, SEK below. These assumptions are calculated as weighted mean values for the 1,712m (1,729), pension insurance with Skandia SEK 35m (55) and assets particular pension plan. Changes in any of these fundamental assumptions under management relating to Norwegian pension plans. Real return on may have considerable impact on estimated pension commitments, assets under management totalled SEK 1,409m (741), including interest financing requirements and annual pension expenses. income of SEK 595m (501). The activities of Pensionsstiftelsen are governed by an investment policy subject to the approval by its Board of Directors. The assets transferred by PostNord to Pensionsstiftelsen are to generate a reasonable return. To achieve this, a degree of risk-taking is necessary. In order to prevent the level of risk becoming excessive, Pensionsstiftelsen diversifies its investments over various asset categories. Pensionsstiftelsen’s allocation strategy is based on an asset liability management (ALM) analysis. The forecast pension liability is measured against the anticipated return on the assets, together with risk and historical correlations, in order to determine an appropriate asset allocation and level of risk. 58 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 22 (cont.) The asset allocation and Pensionsstiftelsen’s management shall ensure Sensitivity analysis that the long-term target for return on investment is achieved, at a level At year-end 2016, PostNord had funded pension commitments of SEK of risk that is justifiable and reasonable. The return achieved on asset 18,611m (17,628) and assets under management of SEK 20,921m (20,407). ­management varies from year to year, depending on a range of separate In addition to funded commitments, a pension liability is provided for on external factors. This means that the return on investment target is to be the statement of financial position, divided into vested pension commitregarded as a target for return achieved over a longer term. ments of SEK 1,549m (1,503) and non-vested pension commitments of SEK Pensionsstiftelsen strives for a well-balanced diversification between 669m (712). The Group’s pension commitments are measured on the basis and within categories of asset, based on historic risk-adjusted return and of the above-mentioned actuarial assumptions and the assets under mancorrelations, as well as anticipated risk-adjusted return. Diversification agement are measured at fair value. With regard to the “interim provisions”, reduces the risk represented by the assets. The allocation over various an allocation of 25% of the total obligation is made under these provisions, classes of asset is determined across ranges of flexibility. since this is what experience has shown is the take-up rate. Special payroll 39% of Pensionsstiftelsen’s assets are traded in an active market. The tax is also taken into account. Any change in the obligation as required by asset allocation at Pensionsstiftelsen on December 31 was as follows: the interim provisions as a result of any change in the take-up rate is recogfixed-income and high-yield SEK 2,934m (2,500), cash and cash equivanized as income or expense. For more information on the impact on lents including forward contracts SEK 1,420m (2,114), unlisted assets income from changes in take-up rate in interim provisions, see table. SEK 10,356m (9,658m) and shares SEK 4,458m (4,401). The overall objective of Pensionsstiftelsen is to manage its assets with regard to the Group’s pension obligations for which Pensionsstiftelsen has received funds. The composition of and return on the assets shall ­adequately ensure that the Group can meet the pension payments that Pensionsstiftelsen assures. Impact on statement of financial position items Impact on income and other comprehensive income Impact after Net Impact on ­ Impact on tax on other Forecast cost ­financial pension ­market value comprehenSensitivity analysis, SEKm Change (service cost) items liability of assets sive income Actuarial assumptions Change in discount rate +0.1% point 4 8 –273 – –213 and anticipated return on assets –0.1% point –5 –8 280 – 218 under management Change in actual return +0.1% point 0 1 – –21 –16 on assets under management –0.1% point 0 –1 – 21 16 +0.5% point –14 –8 321 – 250 Change in pay –0.5% point 13 8 –296 – –231 +0.5% point 3 2 –85 – –67 Change in income base amount –0.5% point –5 –3 99 – 77 +0.5% point –18 –32 1,250 – 975 Change in inflation –0.5% point 16 30 –1,147 – –895 +1 year –9 –19 746 – 582 Life expectancy, years –1 year 8 19 –740 – –577 Take-up rate, rights under interim provisions Change in take-up rate, +5.0% point –3 –3 112 – 87 rights under interim provisions –5.0% point 3 3 –111 – –87 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 59 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 Other provisions Opening Impact of Closing 2016 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance Restructuring measures Provision for personnel and other cutbacks 1,310 274 –31 –556 51 1,048 Non-vested pension commitments Special payroll tax 173 9 – –44 ​24 162 Non-vested pension commitments in accordance with IAS 19 712 39 – –180 98 669 Other Work-related injuries 39 1 – –5 – 35 Provision for anniversary bonus 127 – – –61 6 72 Total 2,361 323 –31 –846 179 1,986 of which current 649 597 of which non-current 1,712 1,389 Anticipated payments, SEKm 1 year 2 years 3 years > 3 years Provision for restructuring measures 587 261 105 95 Provisions for non-vested pensions in accordance with IAS 191), 2) 250 76 78 ​242 Work-related injuries2) 5 5 4 ​29 Provision for anniversary bonus 10 5 8 49 Total 852 347 195 415 1) Anticipated payments for non-vested pensions (excl. special payroll tax) have been calculated in accordance with IAS 19. 2) Anticipated payments deviate from recognized provisions because the provisions are calculated at the present value. Opening Impact of Closing 2015 Jan–Dec, SEKm balance Provisions Reversals Utilizations translation balance Restructuring measures Provision for personnel and other cutbacks 1,247 905 –234 –573 –35 1,310 Non-vested pension commitments Special payroll tax 191 10 – –42 14 173 Non-vested pension commitments in accordance with IAS 19 785 40 – –172 59 712 Other Work-related injuries 42 1 – –4 – 39 Pension settlement with Danish State3) –1 11 –10 – – 0 Provision for anniversary bonus 147 11 –7 –14 –10 127 Total 2,411 978 –251 –805 28 2,361 of which current 681 649 of which non-current 1,730 1,712 3) Pension settlement with Danish State at the end of the reporting period was a net positive balance. 60 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 23 (cont.) Provisions for restructuring measures Provisions for restructuring consist primarily of the expenses incurred as Note 24 Accrued expenses a result of the Group’s efficiency programs in administration and support functions. The amounts are calculated on the basis of management’s best and deferred income estimates. The provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. If it is no longer likely that an Provision for stamps sold but not used 337 411 outflow of funds will be required to settle the commitment, the provision is reversed. Accrued payroll expenses 503 577 New provisions and reversals are recognized within the business Holiday pay liability 1,429 1,424 ­activity that decides upon closure. Special payroll tax pension expenses 257 526 During 2016, provisions and reversals for restructuring with an impact Social insurance costs 344 344 on personnel expenses amounted to SEK 146m (598). Provisions and reversals for restructuring with an impact on other expenses amounted Terminal fees 381 335 to SEK 97m (73). The impact of provisions for non-vested pension commitDerivatives 7 17 ments, pension settlement with the Danish State and provision for anniverOther items 769 770 sary bonus is recognized in personnel expenses. Closing balance 4,027 4,404 The utilization for restructuring costs amounted to SEK 556m (573). The effect of discounting is recognized among financial items in the income statement. Translation differences arising from foreign exchange effects are recognized in other comprehensive income. Note 25 Pledged assets and Provision for estimated future non-vested pensions PostNord is liable for non-vested pension commitments under “interim ­contingent liabilities provisions”. These provisions apply to certain personnel who, under the terms of their employment, are entitled to retire at 60 or 63 years of age. SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 Special payroll tax has also been taken into account. For further information, see Provision for estimated non-vested Pledged assets for own liabilities ­pensions and Provision for ultimate liability in Note 22 Pensions. Real estate mortgages1) 500 476 Pledged assets2) 220 202 Other provisions Total 720 678 Provision for work-related injuries consists of payments in the form of accident annuities, as defined in the law on occupational injury insurance, and Contingent liabilities of occupational injury annuities. Guarantees, PRI 99 98 Pension settlement with Danish State refers to commitments regarding a specific category of salaried employees at Post Danmark A/S. Guarantees, other 33 ​46 Provisions for anniversary bonus consist of anticipated future anniverTotal 132 144 sary bonuses in the form of extra pay and holidays awarded when the 1) Collateral for part of Non-current interest-bearing liabilities. employee has completed 25 or 40 years of service at Post Danmark A/S. 2) Endowment insurance policies and collateral for portion of rent payments. Present value Provisions for which the payment period extends over several years are Disputes normally discounted to present value. Effects of discounting included in PostNord conducts national and international operations on a major scale the changes for the year are presented separately when they reach suband so becomes involved in disputes and legal proceedings that from time stantial amounts. Provisions for non-vested pensions have payment perito time arise in the business. Such disputes and legal proceedings are not ods extending over several years. In the case of this provision, a present expected to adversely affect PostNord’s earnings, profitability or financial value calculation is not presented separately, since it is covered by IAS 19. position, either individually or in combination, to any material degree. See also Note 22 Pensions. Anticipated payments for provisions The amounts stated correspond to the anticipated outcome that forms the Note 26 Investment obligations basis for calculating the amount for the provisions, but cannot be considOn December 31, 2016, the Group had contracted to purchase property, ered entirely as real payment flows since certain costs are not matched by plant and equipment. The investments totaled SEK 274m (180) in value and payments. Such costs include, for example, certain expenses relating to consisted primarily of transportation and sorting equipment and vehicles. personnel cutbacks. It is expected that most obligations will be settled in late 2017 and early 2018. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 61 Consolidated financial statements Note 27 Financial risk management and financial instruments The Group's management of financial risks is governed by the financial Credit risk in financial activities ­policy adopted by PostNord's Board of Directors. The policy consists of Credit risk in financial activities is managed by the central financial guidelines on cash management, financing and financial risk manage­management function, with a credit limit based on ratings from Moody’s, ment. The Group’s management of financial risk is intended to help the ­Standard & Poor’s or the equivalent. Trading is governed via decisions on Group achieve its goals and realize its strategies by sustainably securing maximum credit risk per borrower. Every counterparty undergoes a credit financing, liquidity and a balanced financial position that takes all financial check before being approved as a receiver of credit. Within the scope of risks into account at all times. Financial risks are divided into the categories the Group’s management of financial risks, derivative contracts have been of refinancing risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, currency risk and market entered into with three banks. PostNord uses derivatives only as hedging risk in asset management. The Head of Finance reports to the CFO on a instruments. Derivative contracts represent a credit risk to the Group if the monthly basis regarding financial risks, financing plan and any deviations counterparty fails to meet his obligations. In order to limit this exposure, from the Financial Policy. ISDA agreements have been entered into with all three banks. Under the ISDA agreements, receivables and liabilities may be offset in the event Liquidity management and financing of suspension of payments by or insolvency of the counterparty. The Group’s policy is to centralize and coordinate management of the Group’s cash and cash equivalents for effective deployment within preAge breakdown for trade receivables defined risk limits. The Group’s policy is to coordinate financing in the SEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 main via the Group’s Parent Company. Trade receivables not due 4,029 4,021 Risk definitions and policy Refinancing risk Due but not impaired: Refinancing risk is defined as the risk that cash and cash equivalents are 1–30 days 448 428 not available and/or that financing either cannot be obtained or can only 31–90 days 112 64 be obtained at considerably higher cost. The Group's policy on refinancing risk policy consists of maintaining, at any one time, payment readiness of a >90 days 88 57 scope that is designed to handle internal and external risks, and to cope Total 4,677 4,570 with seasonal variations. The Group’s financial preparedness shall amount to no less than SEK 1,000m (1,000). During the year, no new loan financing Provision for bad debts –51 –46 was raised. In 2015, an MTN loan of SEK 540m was repaid and a property Total 4,627 4,524 loan of around SEK 665m was transferred in connection with a property sale. Part of the Group’s financial preparedness is an unutilized overdraft Trade receivables are recognized after taking account of confirmed facility of SEK 2,000m which runs until 2017, with an option to extend the ­impairment losses totaling SEK 24m (24). facility until 2018. Currency risk The Group operates businesses in several geographical markets and conLiquidity preparedness ducts transactions in several foreign currencies, meaning that it is vulnerSEKm Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 able to exchange rate fluctuations. This affects both transaction exposure Cash and cash equivalents ​1,577 1,894 and translation exposure. Short-term liquid investments 351 Transaction exposure Unutilized confirmed credit facilities 3,000 2,000 Transaction exposure represents a risk that profitability will be adversely Short-term unconfirmed interest-bearing affected by changes in exchange rates. The major share of invoicing, liabilities –2,021 –123 ­purchasing and wages/salaries are in the currency of the Group company Net liquidity preparedness 2,907 3,771 concerned. Currency hedging is used primarily in the case of cross-border communication and logistics services. The Group limits its transaction exposure by matching inward and outward payment flows in the particular Credit risk currency and enters into forward currency contracts. Credit risk refers to the risk that a borrower may be unable to meet his obligations. Credit risk also includes the risk that, where an inability to meet a Contracted transaction exposure payment obligation exists, collateral or guarantee furnished may not cover The table summarizes transaction exposure in the statement of financial the claim. A credit risk arises (i) in sales to customers, in granting advance position and hedged investment flows. No hedging is used for forecast payments to suppliers and in the acceptance of guarantees, and (ii) within ­currency flows. the Group’s cash management and the use of derivative contracts. The Group’s policy is that the granting of credit shall be based on comTransaction exposure mercial considerations and risk assessment in order to ensure that the 2016 2015 credit risk is balanced. When cash and cash equivalents are invested, credit risk is managed by investing in low credit risk assets and by spreading risk. Currency Net Net The Group’s credit risk is to be limited via regular credit checks on major in SEKm Position Hedged position Position Hedged position credit lines and by monitoring credit and payment information. DKK 809 –675 134 3 – 3 EUR –158 39 –119 –112 102 –9 Credit risk in trade receivables Credit risk relating to credit sales is managed within the individual business NOK –40 42 2 –31 ​24 –8 areas and all customers are subject to a credit check before the credit is Other granted for the first time on the basis of information provided by credit ­currencies 86 –51 35 –52 60 9 ­rating companies. However, major lines of credit require central approval. Total 697 –645 52 –192 187 –5 62 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 27 (cont.) Translation exposure Interest rate risk Translation exposure is defined as the value of equity in foreign Group Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of the Group’s earnings being companies and arises within the Group in relation to the functional affected by changes in market interest rates. Interest rate risk is calcu­currency of the Parent Company. The Group's policy is that translation lated on the basis of the Group's outstanding interest-bearing debt, includexposure is a strategic risk. Consequently, translation exposure is limited ing derivative instruments. Shorter fixed-interest periods mean higher only through annual adjustment to the Group companies’ capital struc­earnings sensitivity. Longer fixed-interest periods mean higher earnings ture and when the Parent Company is financed in currencies other than stability but may also be a disadvantage when market interest rates fall. its functional currency in order to obtain a natural hedge. The Group's policy is to limit earnings sensitivity to changes in market ­interest rates and to strive for an attractive cost of cost of capital. Interest Group translation exposure rate sensitivity is controlled via a fixed-interest target for the Group’s outstanding interest-bearing loan debt. 2016 2015 Currency SEKm % +/–1% SEKm % +/–1% Sensitivity analysis interest rate risk DKK –20 –1 0 1,746 35 17 2016 2015 Impact on Impact on EUR 426 12 4 301 +6 3 Change in income, income, NOK 2,994 85 30 2,735 55 ​27 market interest rates SEKm SEKm Other currencies 132 4 1 ​203 +4 2 Interest rate risk Cash and cash equivalents Total 3,531 100 35 4,985 100 50 +/– 1 %-point 17 19 Loans, +/– 1%-point 30 18 Nominal within within within within within Contractual maturities of financial liabilities, Dec. 31, 2016, SEKm amount 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Later Bond loans 2,950 2,000 – 950 – – – Liabilities to credit institutions 608 21 100 – – – 487 Finance lease liabilities 17 8 5 2 1 1 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,575 2,029 105 952 1 1 487 Interest payments ​46 9 7 4 4 22 Interest/currency swaps – Liabilities 4 2 – – – – – Receivables 1 – – – – – Total forecast interest payments 51 11 7 4 4 22 Total, net 2,080 116 959 5 5 509 Nominal within within within within within Contractual maturities of financial liabilities, Dec. 31, 2015, SEKm amount 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years Later Bond loans 2,950 – 2,000 – 950 – – Liabilities to credit institutions 694 123 – 100 – – 471 Finance lease liabilities 31 11 9 5 3 2 1 Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,675 134 2,009 105 953 2 473 Interest payments 54 51 11 7 3 26 Interest/currency swaps – Liabilities 8 4 2 – – – – Receivables 2 1 0 – – – Total forecast interest payments 64 56 13 7 3 26 Total, net 199 2,065 118 960 5 499 Market risk in assets under management Assets are managed by the Group’s related entities Postens Pensions­ stiftelse and PostNords Försäkringsförening. The Group shall strive to ensure that pension assets are managed prudently. The allocation shall be based on regular ALM analysis to maintain a well-balanced level of risk at any one time. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 63 Consolidated financial statements Note 27 (cont.) December 31, 2016 Financial Loan and trade Financial Financial assets at receivables liabilities at liabilities Carrying amount and fair value of fair value ­measured at fair value measured at Carrying financial assets and liabilities, SEKm via income1) amortized cost via income1) ­ mortized cost a amount Fair value Financial investments 262 – – – 262 262 Derivatives 13 – – – 13 13 Trade receivables – 4,627 – – 4,627 4,627 Terminal fees2) – 423 – – 423 423 Short-term investments – 351 – – 351 351 Cash and cash equivalents – ​1,577 – – ​1,577 ​1,577 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, credit institutions – – – –1,537 –1,537 –1,552 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, other – – –170 – –170 –170 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, leasing – – – –9 –9 –9 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – –2,029 –2,029 –2,059 Trade payables – – – –2,434 –2,434 –2,434 Other current liabilities – – – –1,631 –1,631 –1,631 Derivatives – – –7 – –7 –7 Terminal fees – – – –381 –381 –381 Total financial assets and liabilities by category 275 6,978 –177 –8,021 –945 –990 December 31, 2015 Financial Loan and trade Financial Financial assets at receivables liabilities at liabilities Carrying amount and fair value of fair value ­measured at fair value measured at Carrying financial assets and liabilities, SEKm via income1) amortized cost via income1 a ­ mortized cost amount Fair value Financial investments 250 – – – 250 250 Derivatives 1 – – – 1 1 Trade receivables – 4,524 – – 4,524 4,524 Terminal fees2) – 461 – – 461 461 Cash and cash equivalents – 1,894 – – 1,894 1,894 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, credit institutions – – – –3,520 –3,520 –3,581 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, other – – –166 – –166 –166 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, leasing – – – –19 –19 –19 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – –134 –134 –134 Trade payables – – – –2,294 –2,294 –2,294 Other current liabilities – – – –1,727 –1,727 –1,727 Derivatives – – –17 – –17 –17 Terminal fees – – – –335 –335 –335 Total financial assets and liabilities by category 251 6,879 –183 –8,029 –1,082 –1,143 1) Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value via income using the Fair value option. Derivatives are classified as held for trading and recognized at fair value via income, other than when they are used for hedge accounting. 2) The periods for settlement of terminal fees have been considerably shortened in recent years and have therefore been transferred from Financial assets at fair value via the income statement to Loan and trade receivables at amortized cost. Recognition and fair value measurement Financial assets and Level 2, Level 2, of financial instruments liabilities by level, SEKm1) Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2015 The fair value of loan liabilities is calculated as the discounted value of future cash flows relating to repayment of capital amounts and interest. Financial assets The value is discounted to the current loan interest rate. In view of the Endowment insurance 170 152 short terms for trade receivables and trade payables, it is assumed that Currency derivatives 13 1 the carrying amount is the best approximation of the fair value. Certain of the Group’s financial instruments are recognized at fair value, Commercial paper 351 – with measurement being determined in accordance with the three levels Total financial assets 534 153 defined in IFRS 7. In the PostNord Group only level 2 is used. Financial liabilities Level 2 Currency derivatives 0 2 The fair value of financial instruments is determined using valuation ­models based on other observable market data. Examples of observable Interest rate derivatives 7 15 data at level 2 are market interest rates and yield curves. In cases where Total financial liabilities 7 17 a listed price is not available, straight interpolation is used. 1) Figures for comparison have been restated in view of the fact that terminal fees have been transferred from Financial assets at fair value via the income statement to Loan and trade receivables at amortized cost. 64 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 28 Related party transactions Note 29 Supplementary Group companies ­dis­closures, Statement For deliveries of services and products between Group companies, the principle used is cost price plus a margin, except for services within of cash flows the PostNord service offering, where market prices apply. For a detailed list of Parent Company and Group participations in Group companies, SEKm 2016 2015 associated companies and joint ventures, see Note 6 to the Parent Interest payments ­Company’s financial statements. Interest received ​23 21 The Swedish State Interest paid 118 135 Under Sweden’s Postal Services Act, PostNord is mandated by the Swedish State to provide a universal postal service. Like other postal operators in Adjustments for non-cash items Sweden, PostNord must obtain a license to operate postal services. For this Amortization of non-current assets 1,551 1,690 license, PostNord paid SEK 17m (15) to the Swedish Post and Telecom Authority (PTS) during the period. In addition, PostNord paid PTS SEK 8m Impairment losses, (9) for handling of undeliverable mail. property, plant and equipment 464 12 PostNord received SEK 21m (24) from PTS in remuneration under Impairment losses, ­agreements on the procurement of postal services for the disabled. non-current intangible assets 805 140 PostNord Group AB paid an advance of SEK 95m to the Swedish Impairment losses, other assets 190 30 ­Transport Administration (STA) to bring forward the construction of rail Capital gain/loss on assets 16 –482 facilities for the Rosersberg Mail Terminal. The project forms part of the Swedish national transport system for the 2010–2021 period. The amount Change in pension liability 384 –798 is to be repaid when funds are available within the STA’s budget. No interest – of which credit from Postens Pensionsstiftelse 909 – or compensation for increased costs for the period between lending and – of which pensions paid –1,021 –995 repayment will be paid by STA. In connection with this transaction, an – of which, premium paid to agreement on acquisition of land (share-based) was entered into with a PostNords Försäkringsförening 1) –​90 –85 real estate company, in which interest rate compensation for the advance payment was paid. This interest rate compensation is recognized as a Other provisions –490 –117 ­liability on an accruals basis of over the period of the loan. The receivable Other items not affecting cash flow – –6 and interest rate compensation is recognized net. Total 2,920 469 The Danish State 1) Premium paid to PostNords Försäkringsförening was previously recognized within PostNord is required, via Post Danmark A/S, to provide a universal postal financing activities. service under Danish postal legislation. According to the agreement between Post Danmark A/S and the Danish Ministry of Transport, ­Building and Housing, fees totaling SEK 6m (3) were recognized in 2016. During the period, Post Danmark A/S paid pension premiums to the Note 30 Acquisitions and Danish State in the amount of SEK 166m (157) on behalf of the group of ­salaried employees who were employed before corporatization. divestments Other organizations in Sweden 2016 2015 PostNords Försäkringsförening (the PostNord Insurance Association) is Effect of acquisitions a friendly society that operates autonomously from the PostNord Group and divestments on assets AcquisiAcquisiand under the supervision of Finansinspektionen. The Association insures and liabilities, SEKm tions Divested tions Divested PostNord’s obligations in employee sickness and family pension under the Goodwill 14 – 58 – ITP-P scheme. During the period, the Group’s Swedish companies received benefits totaling SEK 15m (11) and paid premiums totaling SEK 114m (0). Non-current intangible Postens Pensionsstiftelse (the Posten Pension Fund) secures pension assets 2 – 13 – obligations for PostNord Group AB and PostNord Sverige AB. These Property, ­companies capitalize new pension obligations at Pensionsstifelse and plant and equipment – –54 62 – are credited with pensions paid out. During 2016, a total of SEK 0m (0) Other non-current assets – – 3 – was capitalized and SEK 909m (0) was credited. Total non-current assets 16 –54 136 – Senior executives Current assets – –185 71 – For more information on salaries and other remuneration to senior executives and Board members, see Note 5 Employees, personnel expenses and TOTAL ASSETS 16 –239 207 – executive remuneration. All members of the Group Board of Directors and the Group Executive TOTAL LIABILITIES – 85 –118 – Team at PostNord have been requested to notify in writing any business NET ASSETS 16 –154 89 – relationships they have with PostNord and whether such were established on a commercial basis. No such relations were reported in 2016 and 2015. Purchase consideration paid/received –16 56 –89 – Less: Seller’s bond 2 – – – Cash and cash equivalents acquired/disposed of – –101 8 – Net effect on cash and cash equivalents –14 –45 –81 – PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 65 Consolidated financial statements Note 30 (cont.) Acquisition of assets and liabilities During the second quarter 2016, PostNord Logistics A/S acquired the assets and liabilities of G.P Spedition Aps. Of the purchase price of SEK 16m, SEK14m has been paid and the remainder will be settled on completion of all conditions in the agreement. Divestment of subsidiaries On September 1, 2016, Strålfors Group AB sold its subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Poland and France. The companies had a total of around 400 employees and total net sales of approximately SEK 470m. The purchasing consideration was SEK 0m. On November 7, 2016, PostNord Group AB sold all its shares in ­Fastighets AB Skogskojan 1. Property, Other Intangible plant and non-current Current Net 2016 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities assets Acquired G.P Spedition Aps (assets and liabilities) 14 2 – – – – 16 Total acquired 14 2 – – – – 16 Divested Fastighets AB Skogskojan 1 – – –54 – –1 1 –54 Stralfors SAS, Stralfors plc, Stralfors Sp.zO.o – – – – –184 84 –100 Total divested – – –54 – –185 85 –154 Property, Other Intangible plant and non-current Current Net 2015 Jan–Dec, SEKm Goodwill assets equipment assets assets Liabilities assets Acquired PostNord Terminal Langhus AS – – 2 – – – 2 Jetpak Borg AS 28 5 – 1 ​27 –33 28 PostNord Terminal Trondheim AS – – 59 – 5 –45 19 Uudenman Pikakuljetus OY 30 8 1 2 39 –40 40 Total acquired 58 13 62 3 71 –118 89 Note 31 Events after the reporting date Decision on new production model in Denmark A new production model in Denmark will be implemented over the next few years. As a result, PostNord will be first in the world to create a financially sustainable mode of production that is fully based on coordinating utilization of infrastructure and transportation networks for the r­ apidly expanding logistics business with the shrinking mail business. Building on the logistics network will lay the foundations for efficient and scalable distribution of letters and ensure a competitive logistics offering for the future. The new production model will require a substantial reduction in the number of employees over a period of several years, and will enable large parts of the mail infrastructure for the mail business to be closed. 66 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Consolidated financial statements Note 32 Definitions and alternative key ratios ALTERNATIVE KEY RATIOS Net debt/EBITDAI The alternative key ratios that PostNord uses are important in terms of Net debt in relation to EBITDAI. managing the organization and ensuring that a focus is maintained on ­value-creating activities. The key ratios return on operating capital (ROCE) Net debt ratio and net debt ratio are objectives that have been set for PostNord by its Net liabilities in relation to equity. owners. These key ratios are clearly correlated to capital efficiency. ROCE is a measure for comparing profitability between companies, based on the Operating capital capital that is used in the business and the profit that is generated. EBITDAI Non-interest-bearing assets, less non-interest-bearing liabilities. is used to analyze operational activities without focusing on investments and any impairment losses. Operating margin Operating income in relation to net sales. Adjusted operating income Operating income excluding items affecting comparability. Return on operating capital (ROCE) Operating income for a rolling 12-month period, in relation to average Adjusted operating margin ­operating capital. Adjusted operating income in relation to net sales. OTHER KEY RATIOS EBITDAI Average number of employees (FTE) Operating income excluding depreciation and impairments. The total number of paid employee hours divided by the standard number of hours for a full-time employee during the cumulative period from the Financial preparedness beginning of the year. Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and unutilized ­committed credit line. Basic staff Refers to all fulland part-time regular employees. Items affecting comparability Items that are not recurring, or that do not relate directly to operational Earnings per share activities, together with provisions for restructuring that are to be paid Share of net earnings attributable to Parent Company shareholders in years ahead. The items must be of a significant nature. For example, in relation to the average number of shares outstanding. ­c apital gains on sales of assets, impairment of assets, provisions relating to years ahead. Ongoing restructuring costs are not regarded as items affecting ­comparability. Net debt Interest-bearing liabilities, provision for pensions, minus cash and cash equivalents, financial investments, financial receivables as described in IAS 19 that are recognized as other non-current receivables and short-term investments. Reconciliation with financial statements, December 31, SEKm 2016 2015 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 2,029 134 Interest-bearing liabilities, long-term 1,716 ​3,705 Financial investments –262 –250 Non-current receivables1) –1,201 –1,867 Short-term investments –351 – Cash and cash equivalents –1,577 –1,894 Net debt ​354 –171 1) This amount is the portion of non-current receivables that is attributable to funded defined-benefit disability pension plans and defined-benefit pension plans measured in accordance with IAS 19. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 67 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company Income statement Balance sheet Dec. 31, Dec. 31, SEKm Note 2016 2015 SEKm Note 2016 2015 1, 2, 7 1, 2 Other operating income 16 26 ASSETS Operating income 16 26 Participations in Group companies 6 11,676 11,676 Interest-bearing receivables 9 19 13 Personnel expenses 3 –29 –33 Total non-current assets 11,695 11,689 Other expenses 4 –6 –6 Interest-bearing receivables Operating expenses –35 –39 from Group companies 9 8,059 8,207 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME –19 –​13 Other receivables from Group companies 172 38 Interest income and similar items 5 2 49 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 5 2 Interest expenses and similar items 5 –109 –77 Total current assets 8,236 8,247 Financial items –107 –28 TOTAL ASSETS 19,931 19,936 Income after financial items –126 –41 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Group contributions paid –41 – Restricted equity Group contributions received 170 34 Capital stock 7 2,000 2,000 Appropriations 129 34 Share premium reserve 10,141 10,141 Pre-tax income 3 –7 Non-restricted equity Tax – – Retained earnings 3,624 3,630 NET INCOME 3 –7 Net income for the period 3 –7 TOTAL EQUITY 15,768 15,764 LIABILITIES Interest-bearing debt 9 1,069 3,063 Interest-bearing liabilities to Group companies 9 1,030 979 Other non-current liabilities 4 4 Total non-current liabilities 2,103 4,046 Statement of comprehensive income Current interest-bearing liabilities 9 1,999 100 SEKm 2016 2015 Other current liabilities 9 44 1 Net income for the period 3 –7 Accrued expenses Other comprehensive income for the period – – and deferred income 9 17 ​25 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 3 –7 Total current liabilities 2,060 126 TOTAL LIABILITIES 4,163 4,172 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 19,931 19,936 68 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Parent Company financial statements Parent Company statement of cash flows SEKm 2016 2015 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Pre-tax income 3 –7 Appropriations –129 –34 Adjustments for non-cash items 57 –37 Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital –69 –78 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –1 –1 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities –6 –8 Changes in working capital –7 –9 Cash flow from operating activities –76 –87 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Changes in Group receivables 142 645 Cash flows from investing activities 142 645 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Amortization of loans –100 –740 Group contributions received 34 182 Cash flows from financing activities –66 –558 CASH FLOWS FOR THE PERIOD 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at start of year 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at year-end 0 0 Parent Company changes in equity Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Retained earnings Share premium incl. net income for SEKm Capital stock reserve year Total Shareholders’ equity, opening balance Jan. 1, 2015 2,000 10,141 3,630 15,771 Comprehensive income for the period –7 –7 Shareholders’ equity, closing balance Dec. 31, 2015 2,000 10,141 3,623 15,764 Shareholders’ equity, opening balance Jan. 1, 2016 2,000 10,141 3,623 15,764 Comprehensive income for the period 3 3 Shareholders’ equity, closing balance Dec. 31, 2016 2,000 10,141 3,627 15,768 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 69 Parent Company financial statements Notes to Parent Company financial statements Note 1 Accounting principles Actual outcomes, assessments and estimates in future financial statements over the year ahead may deviate from those contained in this report as a result of changes in external circumstances and newly gained experience. The Parent Company applies in the main the same accounting princi­­ples as the Group, and thus RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. The differences Shares in subsidiaries between the Parent Company’s and the Group’s accounting principles result Assumptions are made about future conditions in order to calculate future from limits on the Parent Company in application of IFRS under the Annual cash flows that determine the recoverable value. The recoverable amount Accounts Act, the Act on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments (Tryggande­ is compared with the carrying amount for these assets and represents lagen) and, to some extent, from tax considerations. The accounting principles the basis for possible impairment or reversals. The assumptions that most are unchanged from the 2015 Annual Report, other than that assets pledged affect the recoverable amount are future changes in income, discount and contingent liabilities are no longer reported in the context of the balance rate and useful life of the asset. If future environmental factors and circumsheet but are presented only as a note to the financial statements (according stances change, these assumptions may be affected so that the carrying to changes in the Annual Accounts Act). amounts of the Parent Company’s assets change. Changes in accounting principles arising from new or amended IFRS A number of new or amended IFRS will not come into force until future financial years and have not been adopted early in the preparation of Note 3 Employees and financial statements; for more information see Note 1 to the Consolidated financial statements. personnel expenses Participations in subsidiaries, Personnel expenses, SEKm 2016 2015 associated companies and joint ventures Participations in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are Salaries and other remuneration 18 20 recognized in the Parent Company in accordance with the cost method. Statutory social insurance costs 7 7 Pension expenses 4 6 Dividends Total ​29 33 Dividends from subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are recognized as income when the right to distribution has been determined. The Parent Company has three employees, the President/CEO, the Group Anticipated dividends from subsidiaries are recognized if the Parent ComCFO and the Group Head of Strategy. The President/Group CEO Håkan pany has the sole right to determine the size of the dividend and has deterEricsson is paid a salary SEK 745,000 per month. On his behalf, the P ­ arent mined the size of the dividend before publishing its financial statements. Company pays for a retirement pension insurance policy in the amount If the carrying amount for the Parent Company’s holding in the subsidof SEK 37,000 per month, and an endowment insurance policy in the iary, associated company or joint venture company exceeds the carrying amount of SEK 185,667 to secure the pension obligation. amount in the financial statements, this is taken as an indication that an impairment loss has arisen and an impairment test is to be performed. Group contributions are recognized as appropriations. Note 4 Fees and reimbursement Employee benefits Pension obligations on behalf of salaried employees, which obligations of expenses to auditors are secured via pension insurance policies, are recognized in the Parent Company under the heading Defined-contribution plan. Pension expenses SEKm 2016 2015 are charged to operating income. Auditing assignments Financial guarantees KPMG 1 1 The Parent Company’s financial guarantees consist of guarantees on behalf Total 1 1 of subsidiaries and joint ventures. Under financial guarantees, the Company has an obligation to compensate holders of debt instruments in respect Audit assignments refers to the audit of the annual report and accounting of losses that the latter may incur by reason of a specified debtor failing records, as well as the Board of Directors’ and President/Group CEO’s to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of the contract. administration of the Company, other tasks incumbent on the Company's In reporting financial guarantee agreements, the Parent Company applies auditor and advice or other assistance resulting from observations made RFR 2, a lighter regime than IAS 39 regarding financial guarantee agreeduring such audits or the performance of such other tasks. The expense ments issued on behalf of subsidiaries, associated companies and joint venis recognized under the heading Other expenses. tures. The Parent Company recognizes financial guarantee agreements as an appropriation in the balance sheet in cases where PostNord is under an obligation for which payment is likely to be required to settle the obligation. Note 5 Interest income, income Taxes In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognized including expenses and similar deferred tax liabilities. income items Segment reporting The Parent Company’s business consists solely of one activity, the SEKm 2016 2015 ­management of Group functions. Interest income from Group companies 2 1 Currency earnings – ​48 Total 2 49 Note 2 Significant assessments Interest expense from Group companies –10 –6 and estimates Interest expenses –49 –64 Currency earnings –42 – When preparing the financial statements, management has made assessments and estimates that affect the Group’s reporting. These assessments Other financial expenses –8 –7 and estimates are based on what was known at the time the accounts Total –109 –77 were presented, and on historic experience and the assumptions that management considers reasonable in the given circumstances. The concluSee also Note 27 to the Consolidated financial statements, Financial risk sions that management has drawn are the basis of the carrying amounts. management and financial instruments. 70 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Parent Company financial statements Note 6 Holdings of shares and participations in Group companies SEKm 2016 2015 Accumulated costs Opening balance 11,676 11,676 Closing balance 11,676 11,676 Shares held directly and indirectly Share of equity, % Carrying amount by Parent Company PostNord AB, Corporate regisNo. of in Parent Company SEKm tration number Registered office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2016 PostNord Group AB 556128-6559 Solna Sweden 100 600,000 11,676 PostNord Sverige AB 556711-5695 Solna Sweden 100 1,000 Nils Hansson Logistics AB 556147-4254 Ljungbyhed Sweden 100 2,500 Tidningstjänst AB 556039-7480 Stockholm Sweden 100 7,500 Posten Leasing AB 556341-0009 Stockholm Sweden 100 5,000 Fastighets AB Penelope 556517-0544 Stockholm Sweden 100 100 N  ässjöterminalen Kommanditbolag 916629-7458 Solna Sweden 100 Rosersberg Brevterminal AB 556819-9862 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 Hallsberg Brevterminal AB 556848-8133 Stockholm Sweden 100 500 KB Sveterm 916631-9492 Stockholm Sweden 100 Kardinalmärket 1 AB 556875-8899 Stockholm Sweden 100 50,000 Fast AB Rosersberg 11:126 556743-9574 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Strålfors Group AB 556062-0618 Malmö Sweden 100 21,381,288 PostNord Strålfors AB 556102-9843 Ljungby Sweden 100 50,000 Tand 2:103 Fastighets AB 556594-3650 Östersund Sweden 50 2,000 PostNord Strålfors A/S 10068657 Brøndby Denmark 100 200,000 PostNord Strålfors Oy 0115061-7 Vantaa Finland 100 2,100 PostNord Strålfors AS 944997431 Oslo Norway 100 870 PostNordbolagen AB 556158-7006 Ljungby Sweden 100 1,000 Svensk Adressändring AB 556476-3562 Stockholm Sweden 85 850 AddressPoint AB 556587-5597 Stockholm Sweden 85 1,700 Direct Link Worldwide Ltd. 2911080 Middlesex Great Britain 100 110,000 D  irect Link Worldwide Distribution Pte Ltd 199700772 Singapore Singapore 100 700,000 Direct Link Worldwide Pty Ltd 95493459 Sydney Australia 100 1 Direct Link Worldwide Company Ltd 199700772 Hong Kong China 100 1 Direct Link Worldwide Inc. 112-797-736/000 New Jersey USA 100 100 Direct Link Worldwide GmbH 217864281 Mörfelden-Walldorf Germany 100 150 PostNord Logistics GmbH HRB8888HL Lübeck Germany 100 1 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 71 Parent Company financial statements Note 6 (cont.) Share of equity, % Carrying amount Shares held directly and indirectly by Corporate regisNo. of in Parent Company Parent Company PostNord AB, SEKm tration number Registered office Country Direct Indirect shares Dec. 31, 2016 PostNord AS 984054564 Oslo Norway 100 117,570 PostNord Terminal Trondheim AS 992,079,797 Oslo Norway 100 406,220 PostNord Terminal Langhus AS 990427321 Oslo Norway 100 200,000 PostNord Oy 1056251-7 Vanda Finland 100 5,817 PostNord OY Eesti filiaal 11472268 Harju Estonia 100 PostNord Logistics A/S 20148586 Copenhagen Denmark 100 500,001 PostNord Scanning AB 556824-2852 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Scanning Oy 2552507-3 Helsinki Finland 100 1,000 PostNord Logistics TPL AB 556161-7191 Haninge Sweden 100 50,000 PostNord Logistics TPL A/S 26115396 Brøndby Denmark 100 100 PostNord Fulfilment AB 556234-1353 Stockholm Sweden 100 1,000 PostNord Fulfilment AS 811873632 Oslo Norway 100 1,000 PostNord Fulfilment Sp.zO.o 5272719788 Warsaw Poland 100 100 PostNord Logistics Thermo AB 556454-1737 Östersund Sweden 100 8,000 Transbothnia AB 556278-8876 Umeå Sweden 100 3,000 Post Danmark A/S 26663903 Copenhagen Denmark 100 25,000,000 PostNord Scanning A/S 19803376 Copenhagen Denmark 100 10 Post Fleet Management A/S 79203114 Copenhagen Denmark 100 400 e-Boks A/S 25674154 Copenhagen Denmark 50 6,000,000 Distribution Services A/S 56448810 Copenhagen Denmark 100 30 eHUBnordic ApS 36959517 Copenhagen Denmark ​25 Total holdings in Group companies 11,676 Note 7 Capital stock and appropriation of Company’s net income Classes of share, number 2016 2015 Ordinary shares 1,524,905,971 1,524,905,971 Class B shares 475,094,030 475 094 030 Total 2,000,000,001 2,000,000,001 Quotient value per share is SEK 1. Every ordinary share entitles the holder to 1 vote and Class B shares to 1/10th of a vote. Proposed appropriation of the Company’s net income The Board of Directors proposes that the unappropriated net income be distributed as follows: 2016 2015 To be carried forward, SEK 3,627,095,479 3,623,727,627 Total 3,627,095,479 3,623,727,627 72 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Parent Company financial statements Note 8 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities SEKm 2016 2015 Pledged assets for own liabilities Pledged assets 19 13 Total 19 13 Contingent liabilities Guarantees, PRI 137 135 Guarantees, other 2 – Guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries ​917 726 Total 1,056 861 Not 9 Financial instruments December 31, 2016 Financial Financial Financial assets Loan and trade ­liabilities liabilities measured at receivables measured at measured at Carrying amount and fair value fair value measured at fair value amortized Carrying Fair of financial assets and liabilities, SEKm via income amortized cost via income cost amount value Financial investments 19 – – – 19 19 Interest-bearing receivables, Group companies – 8,059 – – 8,059 8,059 Other receivables, Group companies – 172 – – 172 172 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Credit institutions – – – –1,050 –1,050 –1,055 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Other – – –19 – –19 –19 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Group companies – – – –1,030 –1,030 –1,030 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – –1,999 –1,999 –2,029 Trade payables – – – –1 –1 –1 Other current liabilities – – – –43 –43 –43 Derivatives – – –7 – –7 –7 Total financial assets and liabilities by category 19 8,231 –26 –4,123 4,101 4,066 December 31, 2015 Financial Financial Financial assets Loan and trade ­liabilities liabilities measured at receivables measured at measured at Carrying amount and fair value fair value measured at fair value amortized Carrying Fair of financial assets and liabilities, SEKm via income amortized cost via income cost amount value Financial investments 13 – – – 13 13 Interest-bearing receivables, Group companies – 8,207 – – 8,207 8,207 Other receivables, Group companies – 38 – – 38 38 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Credit institutions – – – –3,049 –3,049 –3,100 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Other – – –14 – –14 –14 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities, Group companies – – – –979 –979 –979 Current interest-bearing liabilities – – – –100 –100 –100 Trade payables – – – 0 0 0 Other current liabilities – – – –1 –1 –1 Derivatives – – –15 – –15 –15 Total financial assets and liabilities by category 13 8,245 –29 –4,129 4,100 4,049 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 73 The Board of Directors' and CEO's certification The Board of Directors’ and CEO’s certification The Board of Directors and the President and Group CEO hereby declare that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice in Sweden and that the consolidated accounts have been p ­ repared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as referred to in Regulation (EC) No. 1606/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council dated July 19, 2002 on the application of international a­ ccounting standards. The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts give a true and fair view of the financial p ­ osition and results of the P ­ arent Company and the Group. Nothing of material importance has been omitted that might affect the view of the C ­ ompany ­created by the annual report. The administration report for the Parent Company and the Group provides a true and fair p ­ icture of the development of the operations, financial position and performance of the Parent Company and the Group and also describes material risks and uncertainties to which the Parent Company and the other companies in the Group are exposed. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved for publication by the Board and the President and Group CEO on February 23, 2017. Solna, February 23, 2017 Jens Moberg Chairman of the Board Mats Abrahamsson Gunnel Duveblad Christian Ellegaard Director Director Director Torben Janholt Magnus Skåninger Anitra Steen Director Director Director Kristofer Björklund Lars Chemnitz Johan Lindholm Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative Håkan Ericsson President and Group CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 2, 2017 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Authorized Public Accountant 74 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of PostNord AB, corp. id 556771-2640 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of PostNord AB for the year 2016. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 4–9, 16–74 and the section on environmentally licensed operations on page 83 in this document. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the parent company as of December 31, 2016 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of December 31, 2016 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. The statutory administration report and the corporate governance statement are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and the corporate governance statement is in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Basis for Opinions We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our ­opinions. Key Audit Matters Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation of goodwill See note 2 and 10 and accounting principles on page 46 in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit The carrying value of goodwill in the consolidated We have assessed whether the impairment tests accounts at December 31, 2016 amounted to SEK have been prepared in accordance with the pre2,600 million, after the effect of the impairment loss scribed method. of SEK 796 million. The carrying value has been Moreover, we have considered the reasonable­subject to impairment tests, which are complex in ness of the predicted future cash flows as well as nature and are based on significant elements of the discount rates used through evaluation of the judgment. Impairment tests have been prepared for group’s written documentation and forecasts. all cash generating units, or group of units, that have Our work has also included an assessment of the goodwill associated to them, which for the group accuracy to previous years’ cash flow forecasts consists of seven units. in comparison to actual outcome. The impairment tests require that the group An important part of our work has also been to make projections about both internal and external examine the group’s own sensitivity analysis to evalconditions and plans for the operations. Examples uate how reasonable changes in the assumptions of such judgments include future cash flows, which may impact the valuation. We have involved our valin turn require assumptions to be made of future uation specialists in the audit, in particular related to development and market conditions. the assumptions made regarding external markets. Another important assumption is which disWe have also assessed the disclosures relating count rate to be used in order to reflect the time to the impairment tests presented in the annual value of money as well as the specific risks the accounts and the consolidated accounts. ­operations face. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 75 Auditor’s report Valuation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets See note 2 and 22 and accounting principles on page 47 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit The group had defined benefit obligations of SEK We have involved our pension specialists in the 20,829 million at December 31, 2016, that primarily assessment of the reasonableness in assumptions are funded but to a lesser extent also unfunded. made and interpretations of the regulations for The fair value of the plan assets amounted to accounting for pensions. Moreover, we have perSEK 20,921 million at same date. formed detailed testwork and reconciled informaThe accounting for pension obligations is tion to external actuaries. based on several assumptions for calculating the Specifically, we have evaluated the estimates size of the obligations, which implies that changed of the inflation rate, salary increases, mortality rates assumptions could result in significant effects and retirement ages. on the group’s earnings and financial position. We have confirmed the fair value of plan assets to independent financial institutions as well as ­randomly tested the valuation of the assets. We have also assessed the disclosures relating to pensions presented in the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. Deferred tax assets related to tax losses carried-forward and temporary differences See note 2 and 16 and accounting principles on page 47 in the annual account and consolidated accounts for detailed information and description of the matter. Description of key audit matter Response in the audit The group had at December 31, 2016, deferred tax We have tested and assessed the applied principles assets of SEK 12 million related to tax losses carried and the integrity of the group’s method for fore­ forward and SEK 110 million related to temporary casting future profits. ­differences. The accounting for deferrred tax assets We have also evaluated the reasonableness is based on the group’s projections and assessed of the group’s assessment of future profits and timing of future taxable income. ­compared key assuptions used in the calculation The assumptions made for future taxable to business plans as well as considered the group’s income require assessment of future market condihistorical ability to prepare accurate forecasts. tions as well as interpretation of tax regulations. Moreover, we have assessed the reasonableThe carrying value of deferred tax assets may be ness in the group’s assessment and interpretation over or underestimated and can vary significantly of the current tax legislation. if different assumptions are applied in assessments We have also assessed the disclosures relating of future profits and the possibility of future use. to deferred tax assets in the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. 76 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Auditor’s report Other Information than the annual accounts to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responand consolidated accounts sive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient This document also contains other information than the annual and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. The risk of accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–3, not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is 10–15 and 79–85. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Officer are responsible for this other information. collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated or the override of internal control. accounts does not cover this other information and we do not • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relexpress any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other evant to our audit in order to design audit procedures that are information. appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the informainternal control. tion identified above and consider whether the information is • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoliand the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our disclosures made by the Board of Directors and the Chief knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether Executive Officer. the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ If we, based on the work performed concerning this inforand the Chief Executive Officer’s, use of the going concern mation, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this basis of accounting in preparing the annual accounts and conother information, we are required to report that fact. We have solidated accounts. We also draw a conclusion, based on the nothing to report in this regard. audit evidence obtained, as to whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast sigResponsibilities of the Board of Directors nificant doubt on the company’s and the group’s ability to conand the Chief Executive Officer tinue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncerThe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are tainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and ­consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation in consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concerning the to modify our opinion about the annual accounts and consoliconsolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by dated accounts. Our conclusions are based on the audit evithe EU. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer dence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. Howare also responsible for such internal control as they determine ever, future events or conditions may cause a company and is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and a group to cease to continue as a going concern. consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the whether due to fraud or error. annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated closures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer accounts represent the underlying transactions and events are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and the in a manner that achieves fair presentation. group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disclose, • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the the financial information of the entities or business activities going concern basis of accounting. The going concern basis of within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated accounting is however not applied if the Board of Directors and accounts. We are responsible for the direction, supervision the Chief Executive Officer intend to liquidate the company, and performance of the group audit. We remain solely to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. ­responsible for our opinions. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. the planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of significant audit findings during our audit, including any Auditor’s responsibility ­significant deficiencies in internal control that we identified. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statewhether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to regarding independence, and to communicate with them all fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with safeguards. ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will From the matters communicated with the Board of Direcalways detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatetors, we determine those matters that were of most significance ments can arise from fraud or error and are considered material in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be including the most important assessed risks for material misexpected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on statement, and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation preAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise cludes disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare ­professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be comthroughout the audit. We also: municated in the auditor’s report because the adverse conse• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the quences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh annual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due the public interest benefits of such communication. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 77 Auditor’s report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions Auditor’s responsibility In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of PostNord AB audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance for the year 2016 and the proposed appropriations of the whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief ­company’s profit or loss. Executive Officer in any material respect: We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in which can give rise to liability to the company, or the statutory administration report and that the members of the • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer be discharged Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. from liability for the financial year. Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriaBasis for Opinions tions of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not section. We are independent of the parent company and the a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with genergroup in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the comin accordance with these requirements. pany, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgResponsibilities of the Board of Directors ment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the and the Chief Executive Officer audit. The examination of the administration and the proposed The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for approappropriations of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily priations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a divion the audit of the accounts. Additional audit procedures perdend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is formed are based on our professional judgment with starting justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the examand the group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the ination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material size of the parent company’s and the group’s equity, consolidafor the operations and where deviations and violations would tion requirements, liquidity and position in general. have particular importance for the company’s situation. We The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. actions taken and other circumstances that are relevant to our This includes among other things continuous assessment of the opinion concerning discharge from liability. As a basis for our company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensuring that opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the proposal management of assets and the company’s financial affairs is in accordance with the Companies Act. ­otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing Stockholm, March 2, 2017 administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines KPMG AB and instructions and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Helene Willberg Authorized Public Accountant 78 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability information Sustainability information 1 Principles and delimitations 2 Materiality analysis Sustainability reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) “G4 SusIdentification tainability Reporting Guidelines”, “Core”. The reporting covers all of PostNord's Within a framework comprising identification with GRI’s aspects, ISO 26000, operations unless otherwise stated below. As of 2015, U ­ udenman Pikakuljetus the UN Global Compact, regulations and strategically important questions OY (UPK) and Jetpak Borg AS are included in the environmental data. Figures from stakeholder dialogues, an outline list of sustainability issues relevant to for earlier years have been adjusted. UPK is included in the employee data. In PostNord was drawn up in 2014. During 2017, the process of identification 2016, GP Spedition AS was acquired. Environmental data for the company are relative to the UN’s Global Sustainability Goals will be carried out. not included, but employee data are. Otherwise, PostNord Strålfors’ subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Poland and France were sold and are therefore Priorities not included in the results for the year. In 2014, these sustainability issues were ranked in terms of their importance to PostNord and their importance vis-à-vis decision-making by Environment ­PostNord’s stakeholders, by a group consisting of the Group Executive PostNord follows the Greenhouse Gas Protocol when calculating emisTeam and representatives of Group functions, country organizations sions. The environmental data includes PostNord’s Nordic operations. and business areas. Over 2015, a number of in-depth interviews were ­During the year, Strålfors’ non-Nordic businesses were divested. As a result, ­conducted with personnel in management and other strategic functions, emissions attributable to these operations have been excluded from all in order to establish support for the initiative. environmental data in this report. The operations of Direct Link are not included in the calculations. Swedish Adressändring AB is not included, Verification as the business does not have any significant environmental impact. Work continued on validation of the results of the materiality analysis by selected representatives of selected stakeholder groups. Customers Employees highlighted delivery quality, the environment and follow-up of the supply In addition to the Nordic businesses (representing around 98% of the chain as important areas, while employee representatives emphasized Group’s average number of employees), employee data also comprise health and safety, responsible restructuring, environmental issues and the non-Nordic operations of Strålfors. ­sustainability in the supply chain. Suppliers regarded environmental issues and follow-up of the supply chain as the most important issues. During Suppliers 2015, PostNord’s Swedish owners conducted a sustainability analysis of The data encompass PostNord's Nordic operations. Total purchasing ­PostNord, focusing on issues such as responsible and attractive employer, refers to purchases during the period May 2015 to April 2016. sustainable logistics, sustainable products and services, procured transport services/sustainable supply chain. 1 Delivery quality [OWN] VERY HIGH RELEVANCE 2 Product labeling/Customer satisfaction [GRI] 3 Customer privacy [GRI] Financial results [GRI] Important to stakeholders’ decisions 6 [OWN] Overnight delivery 7 5 Customer complaints [OWN] 4 Environmental impact of products and services [GRI] [OWN] Accessibility 8 9 Emissions [GRI] 11 Impact on local communities [OWN] 14 Sustainable supply chain [OWN] 10 Delivery reliability/security [OWN] 12 Return on capital/Dividend to shareholders [GRI] HIGH RELEVANCE 15 Sustainable product solutions [OWN] 13 Compliance [GRI] 16 Indirect economic impact [GRI] 17 Anti-corruption [GRI] 18 Responsible restructuring [OWN] 19 Anti-competitive behavior [GRI] 20 Health and safety [GRI] 22 Diversity and gender equality [GRI] 21 Employee confidence in management [OWN] HIGH RELEVANCE VERY HIGH RELEVANCE Important to PostNord from a financial, environmental or social perspective PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 79 Sustainability information Compilation of results of the materiality assessment: Important Sustainability issues in Why important to Why important Important area matrix on, page 88 Ext. Int. stakeholders’ decisions? to PostNord? We are striving for Financial results 6 x x A well-managed, profitable company Profitable, sustainable develop­profitable long-term Return on capital/Dividend is attractive in the eyes of the world ment is required if the company development to owners 12 x x outside – the company finds it easier is to exist and be successful. to attract new customers, employees, suppliers and financiers. Dividends are paid to the owners and, by extension, to all citizens in Denmark and Sweden. Taxes are paid to the State For more information, see treasuries in the countries where inside cover, pages 16–17. business is conducted. We enable companies Delivery quality 1 x x High delivery quality is crucial to Along with customer satisand consumers Delivery reliability/security 10 x x ­customer decisions on choice of faction, it is a requirement to do business and Product labeling/Customer x x ­supplier of communications and for ­continued business and communicate ­satisfaction 2 x x logistics services. profitable development. Customer complaints 5 For more information, Overnight delivery 7 see pages 8–11 and 15. We take responsibility Environmental impact of products x x Many customers have ambitious Environmental efforts are for our environmental and services 4 environmental targets that PostNord, becoming an increasingly impact Emissions 9 x x as supplier, can help to achieve. As important competitive factor Sustainable product solutions 15 x a State-owned company, PostNord and are crucial to PostNord's is expected to act in an exemplary ability to rise to the challenge manner in environmental matters. of competition. Lower environmental impact often means For more information, see lower resource consumption, pages 13, 30–31 and 83–84. and consequently lower costs. We care about our Responsible restructuring 18 x Being a good employer is As one of the Nordic region's employees Health and safety ​20 x x ­fundamental to attracting skilled biggest employers, PostNord Employee confidence x ­personnel. Many customers also bears major responsibility for in management ​21 x x make demands in this respect. its employees. Good employee Diversity and gender equality ​22 relations are crucial to PostNord, particularly if it is to succeed in restructuring the business. For more information see pages 12, 31 and 81–82. We take responsibility for Accessibility 8 x Many consumers and organizaPostNord has a key role to play our impact on society Impact on local communities 11 x x tions use and depend on PostNord's in the business community and Indirect economic impact 16 x services – they expect PostNord in society, both in the perforx to always keep its promises. mance of its universal postal service obligations, and by being a communication and For more information logistics supplier with extensive see page 15. coverage and capacity We make demands when Sustainable supply chain 14 x x Good relations with suppliers have Working with responsible purchasing goods and a positive effect on cooperation. ­business partners reduces risks services Customers and other stakeholdand contributes to PostNord's ers expect PostNord to manage own sense of responsibility its ­supply chain in a responsible and performance in terms For more information manner. of sustainability. see pages 14 and 31. We comply with legislaCustomer privacy 3 x x PostNord handles large volumes of PostNord has several extertion and regulations Compliance with regulations ​13 x x mail items and customer data, and nal and internal principles Anti-corruption 17 x x all stakeholders expect PostNord and ­regulations to navigate For more information Anti-competitive behavior 19 x x to handle them in the correct way. and comply with. see pages 30–31. 80 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability information 3  Measurement and calculation 6  Number of employees methods – Corporate Image by category Corporate image is a study conducted by an external market research Employees by category at end of period, company, TNS SIFO. The study is based on a survey in which 300 basic staff 2016 ­individual customers per week (100 in Sweden, 100 in Denmark and 100 in Norway) are asked questions as to how they perceive the PostNord Administration 4,484 brand in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. The survey consists of five key of whom, women 1,905 questions producing data that build into an index. The overall result is of whom, men 2,579 a weighting of results from each country unit. Production 28,173 of whom, women 8,727 4 Measurement and calculation of whom, men Total, PostNord Group 19,446 32,657 method – Customer value (CVI) The figures shown in the 2015 Annual and Sustainability Report are not comparable with the figures shown for 2016, as certain roles have been The customer value index (CVI) has since 2011 been used as PostNord's reclassified. monitoring tool for regular follow-up of customer satisfaction and how customers perceive the business. Since the start of 2015, the survey has been conducted once a year (previously twice a year) and includes all Number of employees at end of period 2016 2015 PostNord country organizations, with the emphasis on the Nordic counBasic staff 32,657 34,819 tries. Starting in 2015, the survey has been conducted among individual customers online instead of by telephone. The survey of businesses still of whom, women 10,632 ​11,453 takes place by telephone. The methodology adjustments introduced were of whom, men 22,025 23,366 tested carefully to ensure comparability with earlier results. On that basis, Temporary employees 7,272 7,292 PostNord takes the view that the 2013 and 2014 figures provided for comof whom, women 2,401 2,633 parison, as presented in this report, are relevant and reliable. The 2016 ­survey was carried out during November and December, with 3,664 of whom, men 4,871 4,659 ­corporate customers responding and 4,600 individual customers Total PostNord Group 39,929 42,111 ­making up theonline panel. Measurement and calculation method: Basic staffing consists of all ­­ fulland part-time regular employees. Basic staffing must meet the need for staff during “normal” production flows. Temporary staff covers “peaks” 5 Quality – letters and parcels in production; for example at Christmas and during vacation periods. Quality: 1st class mail Measurement and calculation method: Swedish External Monitoring (SWEX) and Danish External Monitoring (DEX) are two independent exter7 Sick leave nal quality measurements that continuously gage the share of 1st class mail that is delivered on time from customer to customer. Measurements of of are conducted by means of a statistically assured test mail operation that Total, whom, whom, Total meets the requirements set forth in EN standard 13850. Sick leave, % 2016 women men 20151) PostNord Sweden 6.8 8.6 6.0 6.5 Quality: parcels Measurement and calculation method: The PostNord Group’s overall PostNord Denmark 5.0 5.7 4.7 5.0 quality figure is a weighted figure that is calculated from the reported PostNord Norway 6.3 n/a n/a 6.1 ­quality and volumes for the country concerned. The production system PostNord Finland 3.4 4.1 2.9 3.4 measures the proportion of parcels that arrive on time, from the first proPostNord Strålfors 4.2 6.4 3.1 4.0 duction scan until the delivery scan, either at the distribution point or at the recipient. The products included in the measurements are B2B parcels Other units 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.0 and B2C parcels, other than in Finland, where only B2B parcels are Total 6.0 7.3 5.4 5.8 included. In Denmark, C2C parcels are also included. 1) Figures for 2015 are not comparable with the figures presented in the 2015 Annual and Sustainability Report. This is because, starting this year, PostNord will be reporting results for the Group’s operational country units, rather than for the actual countries themselves. Measurement and calculation method: Sick leave in relation to regular, contracted working time, reported as a percentage. Total sick leave for the Group is weighted on the basis of the number of employees in the different countries. Sick leave includes absence due to illness when the employee is absent sick. Regular, contracted working hours cover the time of both employees paid by the hour and temporary staff. Regular working hours cover hours worked, sick leave, vacations, parental leave, care for sick ­children and other paid leave. A gender analysis for sick leave is not available for Norway. As a result, sick leave for Norway is presented only on an aggregated level. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 81 Sustainability information 8 Occupational injuries 10  Measurement and calculation Occupational injuries, Total, Total method Employee Index and per million hours worked 2016 20151) Leadership Index PostNord Sweden 45.8 45.4 Employee index (MIX) PostNord Denmark 85.6 87.3 The data from the Group's employee surveys are compiled into an PostNord Norway 23.7 19.3 employee index (MIX). Surveys are conducted in cooperation with an PostNord Finland 22.5 10.8 ­anonymous external party and analyzed by a partner independent of the Group. Since 2015, the survey has been conducted by a new supplier and PostNord Strålfors 15.3 11.0 the results are presented and followed up using an average-based calculaOther units 4.1 5.5 tion method, in which the average of all results on a scale of 1–5 is used. Total PostNord Group 54.7 54.3 ­Previously, the percentage of 4s and 5s were measured (“top box” method). 1) Figures for 2015 are not comparable with the figures presented in the 2015 Annual and For the purposes of comparability, the results for 2014 have been recalcuSustainability Report. This is because, starting this year, PostNord will be reporting lated by the new supplier using comprehensive survey data from 2014. results for the Group’s operational country units, rather than for the actual countries On that basis, PostNord takes the view that the 2014 figures provided for themselves. comparison, as presented in this report, are relevant and reliable. Comment: Most occupational injuries in the Group occur in production Leadership Index (LIX) and distribution and, in the vast majority of cases, are caused by various The results of the Group's employee surveys are also compiled in a types of fall. PostNord uses a structured system for reporting of near-acci­leadership index (LIX). LIX measures levels of satisfaction of employees dents in order to create the conditions that will enable the prevention of with their immediate manager, the degree to which employees believe occupational injuries. Absence resulting from accidents, measured in the their managers live up to PostNord's leadership criteria: deliver, involve, number of hours, has been falling since 2010, indicating fewer serious take responsibility and clarify. occupational injuries. No occupational fatalities occurred in 2016 and 2015. Measurement and calculation method: Registered occupational injuries in relation to hours worked (does not include injuries sustained during occupational travel). Minor injuries (first-aid level) are also included in the 11  Membership of employer report. Calculations are based on the total number of hours worked, irrespective of type of employment. The injury ratio is calculated as the total ­organizations, collective number of injuries per 1,000,000 hours worked. Occupational injuries are registered in System C2 and handled in Sweden and Denmark by the per­bargaining agreements etc. son's immediate manager. In Norway they are handled in LIS (managePostNord is a member of relevant employer organizations, such as, ment and information system). There is no special registration system in for example: Finland and thus reporting is carried out on special forms and the data Sweden: Almega and the Swedish Confederation of Transport Enterprises compiled via a health and safety commission. Statistics on reported occuDenmark: Dansk Industry pational injuries can be retrieved from the systems, compiled into statistics Finland: The Confederation of Finnish Industries and classified into various categories such as falls, crushing and traffic Norway: The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) and ­injuries. The duty to record occupational injuries is made very clear. the ­Norwegian Logistics and Freight Association All employees are entitled to join associations and other organizations, and 9 Gender and age distribution to organize trade unions. In the Group, more than 99% of the workforce is covered by collective bargaining agreements entered into in the country concerned. Gender distribution, basic staff 2016 2015 Managers 1,616 1,702 of whom, women 31% 28% Number employees 32,657 34,819 of whom, women 33% 33% Age distribution, basic staff 2016 2015 –29 15% 14% 30–50 44% 46% (51) 41% 40% Total PostNord Group 100% 100% Measurement and calculation method: Data on gender affiliation are taken from the payroll system that the particular employee is registered on. Age distributions for employees at Direct Link in the USA and APAC are not available (approximately 0.4% of the overall population). 82 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Sustainability information 12 Emissions Rail Only the Swedish and Norwegian operations use rail transportation to any major extent. All rail transportation in Sweden is eco-labeled with Emissions (tonnes, unless otherwise indicated) 2016 2015 Bra Miljöval (Good Environmental Choice). Rail transportation in Norway uses non-fossil-fuel electricity. Fossil carbon dioxide emissions, total 364,608 375,300 Ferry Direct carbon dioxide emissions (EN15, Scope 1) 151,783 133,180 Only the Danish operation uses ferry transportation to any major extent. Information on transportation performed is registered in the transportaOwn transportation tion management system and emissions are calculated in tonnes/km. Fossil fuels 151,049 132,452 Renewable fuels 30,303 24,550 Emission factors: Direct heating (gas and oil) 734 729 Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA Indirect carbon dioxide emissions (EN16, Scope 2) 19,094 21,631 Denmark 2010 Heating and electricity 71,345 78,497 Purchases of eco-labelled electricity (EN19) –52,252 –56,865 Premises Other indirect carbon dioxide emissions Electricity purchased in Sweden is for the most part eco-labeled with (EN17, Scope 3) 193,732 220,489 Bra Miljöval (Good Environmental Choice). In other countries, electricity purchased is mostly from product-specified renewable resources. This Sub-contract transportation electricity is assumed not to generate any carbon dioxide emissions, (road, rail, air and sea) since only the usage phase is included in the reporting. In the case of Fossil fuels 189,014 215,721 other electricity, carbon dioxide emissions are calculated using emission factors from references given below. Renewable fuels 37,892 22,454 Business travel, EN17 4,718 4,768 Emission factors: Other significant air emissions from transportation (EN21) Denmark Carbon monoxide 332 367 Electricity Danish Energy Agency Nitrous oxides 1,918 1,302 District heating Danish Energy Agency Hydrocarbons (VOCs) 126 129 Other information Particulate emissions 50 ​45 Nordic region Comment: PostNord’s long-term environmental goal is to reduce Electricity Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate, ­c arbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2020, taking 2009 as the base year. ­supplier data The base year has been selected on the basis that 2009 was the year Heating SCB (Statistics, Sweden), supplier data of the merger between Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S. Gas Swedish Environmental Protection Agency Measurement and calculation methods Road CO2 emissions are calculated on the basis of the volumes of fuel ­purchased, or distance driven and type of vehicle. Calculations based 13 Emissions intensity on subcontractor costs are used when required. All emission factors refer to the usage phase. CO2 /mail item refers to the handling of priority mail, Värde, Varubrev, Magasinpost, Brevet, Quickbrevet, Posttidning A (newspaper/periodical, priority delivery) and daily newspapers in Sweden and Denmark. EmisEmission factors: sions include own transportation and direct heating consumption (Scope Denmark 1), heating and electricity (Scope 2) and transportation by subcontractors (Scope 3). CO2 /parcel refers to handling in the Swedish and Danish parcel CO2 Danish Energy Agency networks. Emissions include own transportation and direct heating conOther gases Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 sumption (Scope 1), heating and electricity (Scope 2) and transportation by subcontractors (Scope 3). Other Nordic CO2 SPBI (Swedish Petroleum & Biofuel Institute) Other gases NTM (Network for Transport Measures) 14  Environmentally licensed Air ­operations PostNord purchases air transportation externally for operations in ­Sweden and Denmark. PostNord did not use air transportation in Finland PostNord runs operations subject to licensing under national legislation or Norway during the year. The Swedish operation receives data from in Sweden and Denmark. The licensing requirement applies to facilities for ­suppliers on amount of fuel and distances. The Danish operation registers graphic production at Strålfors. In Sweden, a number of vehicle washing transportation performed, via a transportation administration system and facilities are subject to licensing. emissions are calculated based on tonnes/km. Foreign air transportation is not included in the calculations. Emission factors: 15  Climate compensation Denmark Danish Ministry of Transport, TEMA 2010 No climate compensation has taken place. PostNord is affected by local regulations in emission control areas, e.g. bans on studded tires on certain Sweden Swedish Environmental Protection Agency streets and in certain environmental zones. PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 83 Sustainability information 16  Customer reports in environmental conservation PostNord also assists in customers’ reporting and communication. This assistance is provided in the form of customer-specific environmental reports that customers use to follow up and streamline their logistics and as a basis of their own environmental or sustainability reporting. During the year, customer-specific environmental reports were developed such as to meet the requirements of CEN standard EN 16258. 17  Cooperation within ­environmental conservation PostNord takes the view that environmental objectives are best achieved in cooperation with others. As a result, a focus is placed on dialogue with customers, suppliers of vehicles and fuels, for example, and infrastructure owners regarding ways in which logistics can best be environmentally adapted in the Nordic countries. PostNord also takes an active role in the CONCITO, KNEG and NTM business networks in Denmark and Sweden. In December, PostNord hosted a Nordic conference on the use of biofuel in heavy transportation, in association with NTM, CONCITO and FORES. ­Internationally, PostNord participates in the IPC’s EMMS environmental program, and IPC has judged PostNord’s work on reducing carbon dioxide emissions to be among the best in the industry, awarding PostNord the ranking of Gold. During the year, PostNord also supported WWF on Science Based Targets and contributed to WWF’s work in the climate sector via PostNord’s charity stamp. PostNord is also an active member of CSR Sweden and the WSP Green Chain. PostNord is affiliated to the consortium that is developing an electrified road system at Arlanda Airport. The planned electrified road will enable fossil-fuel-free heavy goods transport between Stockholm Arlanda Airport and PostNord’s Green Building verified terminal in the Rosersberg ­logistics center. 18  Other PostNord is affected by local regulations in emission control areas, e.g. bans on studded tires on certain streets and in certain environmental zones. 84 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 GRI Section, Page/ Global Compact STANDARD DISCLOSURES Comments (principle number) Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the President & Group CEO statement, pages 2–3, ­organization's strategy for addressing sustainability ­Strategy, pages 6–8 1–10 Organizational profile G4-3 Name of organization Page 1 G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Pages 9–10, page 15 G4-5 Location of headquarters Back page G4-6 Number of countries and names of those in which the organization has significant operations Page 15 and Note 5, page 50 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 6 and Corporate Governance Report, page 25 G4-8 Markets, (including geographic breakdown, sectors served Market, pages 4–5 and Society, pages 15, and types of customers and beneficiaries) ­Operations, pages 18–21 G4-9 The scale of the organization, including total number of employees, Pages 15–16, page 22, Statement of changes in ­operations, net sales and capitalization ­financial position, page 40, Note 5, page 50, ­Number of employees by category, page 81 G4-10 Number of employees per contract, gender, region and Note 5, page 50, Number of employees division into permanent and temporary employees by ­category, page 81 6 G4-11 Number of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, ­percentage Sustainability information 11, page 82 3 G4-12 Description of the organization's supply chain Sustainable supply chain, page 14 G4-13 Changes during the reporting period regarding the organization's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Note 29, page 65 G4-14 Handling of the precautionary approach or principle Corporate governance, page 31 7 G4-15 External sustainability principles and initiatives that the organization s­ upports Corporate governance, page 29 G4-16 Memberships of associations, industry organizations and advocacy organizations Sustainability information 17, page 84 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the report Sustainability information 1, page 79 G4-18 Process for defining the report content Sustainability information 2, pages 79–80 1–10 G4-19 Material aspects identified Sustainability information 2, pages 79–80 G4-20 The aspect boundary for each material aspect within the o ­ rganization Sustainability information 2, pages 79–80 G4-21 The aspect boundary for each material aspect outside the o ­ rganization Sustainability information 2, pages 79–80 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports Sustainability information 1, page 79 G4-23 Changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries No changes have been made. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Strategy, page 6 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Strategy, page 6 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Strategy, page 6, Customers/recipients, pages 10–11, Employees, page 12. G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Strategy, page 6 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Page 1 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report March 18, 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 1 G4-31 Contact persons Inside back cover G4-32 Reporting option and content Page 1, Sustainability information 1, page 79, GRI Index, pages 85–86 G4-33 Policy and current practice for external assurance Page 1 and Assurance Report, page 87 Corporate governance G4-34 Governance structure, including committees and Board responsibility for economic, environmental and social performance Corporate governance, pages 25–31 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior, e.g. Code of Conduct Corporate governance, pages 29–31 10 Section, Page/ Global Compact SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Comments (principle number) Economic – Economic development G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Inside cover, Strategy, pages 6–8, Corporate governance, pages 25–30, 32–33, pages 79–80 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Society, page 15 PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 85 GRI Section, Page/ Global Compact cont. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Comments (principle number) Environmental Impact – Emissions G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Inside cover, Strategy, pages 6–8, Environment, page 13, Corporate governance, pages 30–31, pages 79–80 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Environment, page 13, Sustainability ­information 12, page 83 7, 8 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Sustainability information 12, page 83 7, 8 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Sustainability information 12, page 83 7, 8 G4-EN18 Emissions intensity Environment, page 13, Sustainability 13, page 83 8 G4-EN19 Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions Inside cover, Environment, page 13, Sustainability information 12, page 83 8, 9 G4-EN21 Other significant air emissions Sustainability information 12, page 83 7, 8 Environmental – Compliance 7, 8, 9 G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Corporate governance, page 29–31, pages 79–80 G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws Corporate governance, page 30 8 Social – Labor law – Health and safety G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Inside cover, Strategy, pages 6–8, Corporate governance, pages 29–31, Sustainability ­information, pages 79–80 G4-LA6 Accidents, occupational injuries and sick leave Inside cover, Employees, page 12, page 57 et seq., Sustainability information 7 and 8, page 82 Social – Labor law – Workplace equality and diversity G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Inside cover, Strategy, pages 6–8, Employees, page 12, Corporate governance, pages 29–31, Sustainability information, pages 79–80 G4-LA12 Gender and age distribution for all employees Inside cover, Employees, page 12, and managers Sustainability information 9, page 82 6 Social – Society – Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Corporate governance, pages 29–31, ­Sustainability information pages 79–80 10 G4-SO5 Incidents of corruptions and action taken Corporate governance, page 30 Social – Society – Anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Corporate governance, pages 29–31, ­Sustainability information pages 79–80 G4-SO7 Legal actions taken against anti-competitive activities Corporate governance, page 30 Social – Society – Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Corporate governance, pages 29–31, ­Sustainability information pages 79–80 G4-SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations Corporate governance, page 30 Social – Product liability – Labeling of products and services G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Customers/recipients, pages 10–11, ­Sustainability information, pages 79–80 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Customers/recipients, page 11, Sustainability information 4, page 81 Social – Product liability – Customer privacy G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach Corporate governance, page 31, Sustainability information, pages 79–80 G4-PR8 Number of complaints regarding Corporate governance, page 31 breaches of customer privacy OTHER MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES Section, Page/ Global Compact FOR POSTNORD Comments (principle number) OWN Delivery quality Inside cover, Customers/recipients, pages 10–11, Operations, pages 18–20 OWN Customer complaints Customers/recipients, page 11 OWN Overnight delivery Inside cover, Customers/recipients, pages 10–11, Operations, pages 18–19 OWN Sustainable product solutions Offering, page 10 OWN Accessibility Customers/recipients, pages 10–11, Society, page 15 OWN Delivery reliability/security Corporate governance, page 31 OWN Impact on local communities Society, page 15 OWN Sustainable supply chain Inside cover, Suppliers, page 14, Sustainability information, pages 79–80 OWN Responsible restructuring Employees, page 12 OWN Employee confidence in management Inside cover, Employees, page 12 86 · PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 Assurance Report Assurance Report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report To PostNord AB Introduction ­ rocedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurp We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of ance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in ­PostNord to undertake a limited assurance engagement scope than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conof PostNord’s Sustainability Report for the year 2016 ducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing ­PostNord has defined the scope of the Sustainability and other generally accepted auditing standards in Report on the inside cover. ­Sweden. The auditor applies ISQC 1 (the International Standard on Quality Control) and therefore uses a comResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the prehensive system of quality control including docuExecutive Management for the ­Sustainability Report mented guidelines and procedures regarding compliThe Board of Directors and the Executive Management ance with the requirements of professional ethics, stanare responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability dards as to the exercise of professions and relevant Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as requirements of laws and other statutes. Consequently explained on page 86 in the Sustainability Report, that the procedures performed do not enable us to obtain are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines assurance that we would become aware of all significant (published by The Global Reporting I­ nitiative (GRI)) that matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurare applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as the ance engagement. Accordingly we do not express a accounting and calculation principles that the Company ­reasonable assurance conclusion. has developed. This responsibility also includes the interOur procedures are based on the criteria defined by nal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability the Board of Directors and the Executive Management Report that is free from material misstatements, whether as described above. We consider these criteria suitable due to fraud or error. for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Responsibilities of the auditor ­sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the ­conclusion below. ­Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance ­procedures we have performed. Conclusion We conducted our limited assurance engagement Based on the limited assurance procedures we have perin accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability formed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement to believe that the Sustainability Report is not prepared, consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responin all material respects, in accordance with the criteria sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, defined by the Board of Directors and Executive and applying analytical and other limited assurance ­Management. Stockholm, March 2, 2017 KPMG AB Helene Willberg Torbjörn Westman Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR PostNord Annual and Sustainability Report 2016 · 87 Contact persons Per Mossberg, Chief Communications Officer Tel +46 10 436 39 15 Gunilla Berg, CFO Tel +46 10 436 28 10 Financial calendar Annual General Meeting April 27, 2017 Interim report January–March 2017 April 28, 2017 Interim report January–June 2017 July 20, 2017 Interim report January–September 2017 October 27, 2017 C ECOL AB DI NO EL R 341 151 PRINTED MATTER Swan marked printed matter. Photographers: Peter Phillips, June Witzoe and others. Production: PostNord in partnership with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. Printed by: Strålfors 2017. We deliver! PostNord is the leading supplier of ­communication and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. We ensure postal ­service to households and businesses in Sweden and D ­ enmark. With our expertise and strong ­distribution network, we develop options for to­morrow’s communication, e-commerce, ­distribu­tion and logistics in the Nordic region. In 2016, the Group had around 33,000 employees and sales of just over SEK 38 billion. The ­Parent ­Company is a Swedish public limited ­company with Group headquarters in Solna, Sweden. Visit us at www.postnord.com PostNord AB Tel +46 10 436 00 00 SE-105 00 Stockholm Visiting address: Terminalvägen 24 Solna postnord.com Sweden
