Communication on Progress 2016 United Nations Global Compact Key facts about Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) Company footprint 180 48 2 Countries where Production facilities Research facilities – PMI operates in 32 countries one in Neuchâtel (Switzerland) and one in Singapore. Consumers Financial 150m >3m 8,000 $70bn $7bn Combustible Smoke–free Smokers switch to Excise taxes on Net profit products products IQOS every day PMI products (2016) (2015) (August 2017) (June 2017) (2016) Employees 80,000 +400 32.8% 68% Employees worldwide Scientists and experts Women in of employees covered hired since 2008 to work management by collective labor on smoke-free products positions agreements Suppliers Distribution 380,000 50,000 77,000 5.9m Farmers contracted by PMI and Suppliers worldwide Distributors and Retailers selling our suppliers in 28 countries wholesalers PMI products Contents Introduction Introduction Letter from the CEO 2 The role of PMI’s Board of Directors 4 Our approach to sustainability 5 External perspectives on our business transformation and smoke-free vision 7 Our business transformation Our products 10 Our approach to sustainability Key developments since 2000 12 Find out more on page 5 Our ambition for a smoke-free future 18 Our global progress overview 22 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Our business transformation Acting with integrity 30 The guiding principles on business and human rights 38 Our people 40 Our supply chain 47 Managing our environmental footprint  56 Our ambition for a smoke-free future Next steps 66 Find out more on page 10 Additional information Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements 68 Annex 1: Business Transformation Metrics – Independent Assurance Report 69 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Annex 2: Overview of marketing principles for combustible products  70 Annex 3: Overview of engagement principles  73 Acting with integrity Annex 4: Cross reference to UNGC Find out more on page 30 Principles and relevant SDGs 75 Additional information 1 Letter from the CEO — Philip Morris International Inc. joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2015. By doing so we committed to embed its Ten Principles into the strategy, culture and daily work of our company, and I am pleased to renew this commitment. 2 There is no doubt that the Our minimum ambition is that by 2025 at least 30% of our volume comes from smoke-free greatest contribution PMI can >3m make to society is to replace products. It could be higher with the right demand side measures. Longer term, PMI will be ready to People have stopped support industry-wide supply side measures as smoking cigarettes and switched to IQOS cigarettes with less harmful soon as scientifically substantiated smoke-free (August 2017) alternatives. products become widely accepted and a large majority of smokers have switched to them. Smoking cigarettes causes serious disease, and Introduction the best way to avoid the harms of smoking is Other points of concern raised by our critics never to start, or to quit. But much more can be relate to our marketing and lobbying practices. done to reduce the health risks for the world’s We have strong policies in place, and in this 1.1 billion smokers. While nicotine is addictive, it report you will find an overview of our marketing principles and engagement principles 8,000 is the smoke generated by burning tobacco that is the principal problem. Through groundbreaking on which we welcome feedback. Smokers switch to IQOS every day research, we have developed a range of As this report shows, we continue to make (June 2017) smoke-free products that are enjoyable for progress in embedding the UNGC Principles into smokers and have the potential to significantly our thinking and activities. Highlights include our reduce health risks when compared to smoking. comprehensive action on climate change, which is, In last year’s UNGC report we announced our in my view, one of the biggest challenges facing ambition to replace cigarettes with less harmful, humanity today. I’m particularly proud that PMI smoke-free products as soon as possible. We has received recognition on CDP’s Climate A-List intensified our work and are now focusing our for the third year in a row. The environmental Metrics efforts to transform our company from a cigarette maker to a smoke-free technology challenges related to tobacco go beyond CO₂ emissions. We particularly recognize the need and Publication of metrics to make our business leader. We have re-allocated a very significant opportunity to improve the prevention of litter transformation part of our company’s resources to make our and the recycling of waste, including new verifiable vision of a smoke-free world a reality. We programs for our smoke-free products. announced plans to invest in four factories in Our Agricultural Labor Practices (ALP) program Germany, Greece, Italy and Romania to continues to raise the bar on corporate efforts to manufacture heated tobacco units for IQOS, our improve labor conditions in agriculture. I believe main smoke-free product. Today, the product is the scale and transparency of our ALP program available in key cities or nationally in more than are unique, and the extensive data collected 25 countries. Already over three million people >30% have stopped smoking cigarettes and switched to shows both significant progress and many complex challenges we still need to overcome. Part of PMI shipment IQOS, and 8,000 more are switching every day. volume taken by smoke-free products Another focus area is the fight against illicit Starting with this report, we will regularly (ambition 2025) cigarette trade, which fuels broad-ranging crime publish key metrics for investments, resource and deprives governments of essential revenue. allocation and results to make our business In 2016, we launched PMI IMPACT, a global transformation verifiable by the outside world. initiative governed by independent experts to Furthermore, we plan to support the sponsor third-party initiatives to prevent tobacco establishment of an independent foundation to smuggling and related crimes – an area of accelerate progress in achieving a smoke-free continued concern for our business and society. world by focusing on science-based approaches. A-list The foundation will operate independently of PMI, scrutinizing the progress of PMI and other We are pleased to share with you this report In CDP Climate Survey outlining our work to transform our company. for 3rd year in a row companies in the sector, and ensuring that the We aim to successfully prevent and manage the public health interests of society are met negative externalities associated first and foremost through the foundation’s Board of Directors. with our products, our own operations and our value chain, inspired by the UNGC Principles and I am fully aware that many people are skeptical framework. We are committed to continue about our company and our products. I am operating responsibly, while successfully delivering frequently asked when we will stop selling solutions not only to our consumers, employees cigarettes. Our objective is to reach this moment and shareholders, but also to society in general. as soon as possible and we will spare no effort USD 100m to convince smokers to switch to smoke-free I cordially invite you to comment, challenge, and Pledged for programs alternatives. However, we cannot achieve this guide us as we continuously seek to improve the to fight illicit trade alone. It also depends on a number of factors sustainability of our business and to contribute (PMI IMPACT) out of our direct control, mainly support from to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. regulatory and public health authorities, that will influence the pace and scale of switching. Whether or not PMI alone stops selling cigarettes is in any case irrelevant from a public health perspective. As long as there is smoker ANDRÉ CALANTZOPOULOS demand for cigarettes there will be supply. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 3 The role of PMI’s Board of Directors PMI Operations Center, Lausaunne, Switzerland The global business The Board understands PMI’s With the Board’s encouragement, PMI responsibility as a global tobacco company. became a signatory to the UNGC in 2015. environment is being Over the last decade, the Board has spent Over the years, the Board has encouraged reshaped by technological an increasing portion of its time the company’s efforts in relation to the overseeing the company’s progress in topics covered by the UNGC’s Principles. breakthroughs, climate developing smoke-free products and is Specifically, the Board strives to link pay to change, resource scarcity, now closely following the steps to performance in areas ranging from PMI’s commercialize them, as well as all business ethics and compliance culture, to rapid urbanization and management efforts to ensure that the agricultural labor practices, climate change, demographic change. company and its employees are prepared and the ongoing efforts to train and to meet the new and substantial develop the workforce and promote In the context of a fast-changing world, challenges of its business transformation. diversity and inclusion. Sustainability PMI’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) The Board has also monitored the performance is built into the equation that understands that environmental, social, development of business transformation determines the level of incentive awards and governance (ESG) factors relevant metrics, which are presented in this report, earned by the company’s executives. to the company’s business are critical so that PMI can track and publicly disclose to PMI’s long-term success. At the core its transformation progress. PMI’s commitment to publicly report on of the Board’s oversight framework is how it operates in relation to the UNGC’s a focus on management’s efforts to Principles is a real opportunity to show enhance shareholder value responsibly progress, efforts and challenges, while and sustainably. continuing to take a systematic and transparent approach to all its work in relation to these principles. 4 Our approach to sustainability For PMI, sustainability is ——Public Health Policy and Research: ——Responsible Sourcing of Non-Tobacco Introduction Our role and proactive approach in Materials: Actions to identify and trace about seeking opportunities supporting public health and harm non-tobacco materials to origin and to create value while reduction policies and research. source those materials in a responsible and sustainable manner (including minimizing the negative ——Respect for Human Rights: electronics and considering conflict Our understanding, due diligence and externalities associated actions to respect human rights minerals); with our products, our throughout our global operations and ——Agricultural Labor Practices: Actions to value chain. eliminate all forms of labor abuses and own operations, and our achieve safe and fair working conditions value chain. Credibility and responsibility on tobacco farms; The analysis also identified a number of aspects that are critical to building the ——Good Agricultural Practices: Actions to We seek to embed the UNGC Principles credibility and engagement required for ensure tobacco farmers have access to into our day-to-day work and to our business transformation, particularly the information, systems and tools continuously improve our understanding, the need to substantiate our needed to be successful business management and performance regarding commitments, demonstrate transparency owners who minimize the environmental our environmental and social impacts. and consistency in our approach, and impacts of their activities and provide good working conditions on their farms; Defining our focus maintain the highest standards in our policies, practices and actions. This also ——Climate Change Mitigation and In our last report, we highlighted the need includes ensuring that we continue to Adaptation: Efforts to reduce for a systematic approach to assess and market all of our products in a responsible greenhouse gas emissions and prepare prioritize the most significant sustainability way, and only to adult consumers, and for the effects of climate change in our areas to our business. We did so in 2016. being even more transparent in how we operations and supply chain, including Working with Business for Social advocate on policy issues related to our water stewardship actions; Responsibility (BSR), we identified the products, including taxation and ——Post-Consumer Waste: Actions to areas that are most significant to our regulation. minimize impacts through product business sustainability and to our stakeholders and prioritized them. That ——Corporate Governance and Ethics: design, waste management programs and analysis also highlighted for us the areas Promotion of the highest standards of recycling where possible. Littering of opportunity and risk, emerging themes, compliance and integrity across our prevention through consumer education. and gaps for management action. The global operations and value chain. analysis consisted of a structured review Underpinning our approach Clear alignment of our public policy Finally, a number of governance, product, and engagement process, carried out by advocacy with our core strategy and BSR, involving PMI’s functional leaders environmental and employee-related commitment to stakeholders. aspects were identified as being important or subject matter experts and external stakeholders. It considered both our ——Responsible Marketing and Youth for our continuous improvement efforts. current business and the change driven by Tobacco Prevention: Actions to ensure Many of these aspects are described in our vision of a smoke-free future. In many that we continue to market our products this report and include: areas described below we already have responsibly and only to adult consumers. ——Employee engagement and well-being, strong programs in place on which we can ——Transparency and Reporting: labor relations, workplace health and build; in other areas new approaches may Disclosure of our significant sustainability safety, diversity and inclusion, and talent be needed. The results were sorted into performance risks and opportunities in a recruitment and management; four categories as follows. clear, comparable and accessible manner. ——Our efforts to fight illicit trade; Fundamental to our business strategy Turning strategic risks into opportunities ——Good laboratory and clinical practices in Three key areas are fundamental to the A number of other areas were identified as our R&D efforts; sustainability of PMI’s business strategy: strategic priorities from a risk management ——The good environmental management of ——Product Innovation for Harm Reduction: perspective, including good agricultural and our operations. Our continued recognition of the health labor practices in tobacco farming, and the impacts of our products and the need for climate change mitigation and The outcome of this analysis has helped prioritization and investment in reducing adaptation action throughout the value us to focus on where we need to prioritize or eliminating those impacts through chain. We also need to anticipate and and allocate resources to mitigate negative innovation and development of manage the supply chain risks related to our impacts and create opportunities for wider products that can substantially reduce non-tobacco materials, especially as our societal value, keeping product harm individual risk and population harm product portfolio shifts to electronic devices. reduction as the fundamental premise when compared to cigarettes. Our ambition is to turn these strategic risks of our new business strategy, now and into opportunities to add value. in the future. 5 How our work relates to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The SDGs represent the future we all want. PMI has welcomed the adoption of the SDGs and is committed to play its part in making them become a reality. This means: Taking decisive action where we have the greatest impact Smoking cigarettes causes serious disease. By replacing cigarettes with less harmful alternatives we can significantly reduce the negative impact of our products on society. This report’s section on “Our business transformation” describes in detail how our business vision aligns with this SDG. Taking ownership where we can provide a substantial contribution Through good agricultural We ensure good working We improve the life cycle Our efforts to combat illicit practices and crop conditions for all our impacts of our products. From trade in tobacco products are diversification we can help to employees and can play a role the environmental impacts of particularly relevant for this improve the productivity and in promoting good working tobacco growing, to efficient, goal, because illicit trade fuels food security of smallholder conditions for millions of low carbon, manufacturing, and broader criminal activity and farmers. workers in our supply chain. litter prevention and recycling corruption. programs. Aligning our practices with the overall goals, even when we have less impact We care about all SDGs, and on some of these – such as Climate Action – we consider ourselves leaders. Nevertheless, given the related impacts of our business we can only make a relatively modest contribution to these global objectives. 6 External perspectives on our business transformation and smoke-free vision — Introduction As we assessed the most significant sustainability issues, we also sought the perspectives and questions stakeholders have about our business transformation and ambition to create a smoke-free world. We have aggregated and captured the “ How is PMI supporting youth smoking main questions stakeholders ask about prevention measures for its cigarette our transformation. We attempt to business today? How will PMI ensure its address these concerns in this report smoke-free products won’t lead youth to as we outline the different aspects of Affordability start smoking or former smokers to relapse?” this transformation. See pages 17, 24, 30 and Annex 2. “Are these new products aimed at wealthier consumers? Are they being funded by Independent cigarette sales from lower income smokers, Business in developed and developing markets?” verification of the rationale See page 24. science behind smoke-free products Responsible “How does PMI plan to transform its marketing and “ PMI’s smoke-free products are not risk free. Is PMI being transparent in communicating existing cigarette business (market volumes advocacy about the risks of these new products to and timescale)? When will you stop consumers? How can we trust the science selling cigarettes?” See pages 26-27. behind these smoke-free products? Similarly, is PMI proactively talking about the health “ What’s driving PMI’s business transformation risks of cigarettes to consumers?” and why now? Do investors really support See pages 16, 17, 24, 30 and Annex 2. this move away from cigarettes? Is the launch “ Is PMI being consistent in upholding of these new products simply an opportunity stringent marketing standards across all for PMI to expand its commercial footprint countries where it operates, irrespective in places with declining cigarettes volumes?” of local regulation and enforcement? See page 21. How can we trust PMI to market these “PMI’s new products contain nicotine and new products responsibly and in an Transparency are still addictive. This means household ethical way?” See pages 24, 30 and and collective Annex 2. income is diverted from other items. Is this action for a a new business strategy to get more people “How can we be sure that PMI is being smoke-free addicted to nicotine and boost sales of both smoke-free products and cigarettes?” honest and transparent with regulators, future smokers and the general public when See pages 16, 19, 21. they advocate for smoke-free products? How is PMI proactively advocating for a smoke-free future when its cigarette portfolio makes up 99% of its sales? “ Is PMI’s new business vision simply a way Why is PMI still fighting against tax to distract from the negative impact of its and regulation of cigarettes?” core business? Is PMI really serious about See page 20 and Annex 3. creating a smoke-free future? If so, how is it leading and bringing its tobacco industry peers towards the same vision?” See pages 21, 26, 27. 7 Our business transformation 8 Key developments Our ambition for a Our global progress since 2000 smoke‑free future overview See page 12 See page 18 See page 22 Our business transformation 9 Our products In 2016, PMI manufactured For over a century the basic design PMI has developed a portfolio of smokeand use of cigarettes have not changed. free products, including heated tobacco and sold over 800bn A smoker lights the cigarette, shredded products and products without tobacco, cigarettes to approximately tobacco leaves are burned, and the that have the potential to significantly smoker inhales nicotine, flavors and reduce individual risk and population harm 150m adult consumers in various other substances present in the compared to cigarettes. We currently more than 180 countries smoke. While nicotine is addictive and not commercialize Platform 1 under the brand risk-free, experts agree that the primary name IQOS and a range of e-cigarettes Smoking cigarettes causes serious cause of smoking-related diseases is found (Platform 4) under brand names such as disease. Smokers are far more likely than in a number of toxicants generated by Solaris and Vivid. non-smokers to get heart disease, lung combustion and inhaled in cigarette smoke. cancer, emphysema and other diseases. The timeline on the next pages shows the In addition, smoking is addictive, and it While several past attempts have been key product innovations since the year can be very difficult to stop. made to develop better alternatives to 2000 in the context of policy developments. smoking, drawbacks in the technological The best way to avoid the harms of capability of these products and a lack smoking is never to start, or to quit. of consumer acceptance rendered them But much more can be done to improve unsuccessful. Recent advances in science the health and quality of life of those and technology have made it possible who continue to use tobacco and nicotine to develop innovative products that products, through science and innovation. consumers accept and that are less 1 Source: UK Royal College of Physicians, harmful alternatives to continued smoking.¹ “Harm Reduction in Nicotine Addiction,” 2007. 10 Replacing cigarettes with smoke-free products Many stakeholders have asked us about the role of these innovative smoke-free 845bn products in the context of our business vision. Are these products an extension of our cigarette product portfolio? Are they intended for developed countries only? Combustible products shipped in 2016 Are they aimed at compensating a decline in cigarette sales? In 2016, we made a bold announcement: our business vision is to replace cigarettes with less harmful, smoke-free products as soon as possible. Smoke-free products – our product platforms Heated tobacco products 7.7bn Platform 1 Platform 2 Smoke-free products shipped in 2016 Our business transformation +USD 3bn Investments in smoke-free IQOS, using the heated tobacco TEEPS uses a pressed carbon heat source products since 2008 consumables (heated tobacco units), that, once ignited, heats the tobacco features an electric holder that without burning it, to generate a nicotineheats tobacco rather than burning it, containing vapor with a reduction in thereby creating a nicotine-containing harmful toxicants similar to IQOS. A city vapor with significantly fewer harmful launch of the product is planned in 2017. toxicants compared to cigarette smoke. USD 1.7bn Products without tobacco Planned further Platform 3 Platform 4 investments in smoke-free production capacity Platform 3 is based on acquired Products under this platform are e-vapor technology that uses a chemical process to products – battery-powered devices create a nicotine-containing vapor. We are that produce an aerosol by vaporizing a exploring two routes for this platform: one nicotine solution. One of these – MESH – with electronics and one without. A city uses new proprietary vaporization launch of the product is planned in 2017. technology. 11 Key developments since 2000 The first e-cigarettes commercialized in China Late 1980s: PM USA US Institute of PMI expands commercialized Next, Medicine publishes R&D on smokea nicotine-free cigarette “Clearing the Smoke” free products It failed to satisfy consumers It concludes that “reducing risk and was later withdrawn of disease by reducing exposure to tobacco toxicants is feasible” Pre 2001 2003 2004 2000s 1996: Launch of Eclipse in the USA by RJ Reynolds The first attempt at a heated tobacco product, using a carbon tip. Consumer acceptance was low, and the product was withdrawn 1998-9: PM USA and PMI launch the first electronically heated tobacco product, called Accord in the USA and Oasis in Japan Consumer acceptance was low, and the product was subsequently withdrawn Adoption of the WHO Framework Convention for Tobacco Control (FCTC) It defines “tobacco control” as “a range of supply, demand and harm reduction strategies that aim to improve the health of a population” 12 PMI opens The Cube, a new R&D facility dedicated to smoke-free products in Neuchâtel, Switzerland The Cube R&D facility in Neuchâtel, Switzerland Our business transformation 2006 2007 2009 2006-7: Launch of US Family Smoking Heatbar by PMI in Prevention and Tobacco Switzerland and Australia Control Act Heatbar is the second generation Provides authority to US Food of electronically heated tobacco and Drug Administration (FDA) products; consumer acceptance to regulate tobacco products and was low due to the bulky creates a regulatory framework device and sub-optimal for the commercialization of taste, and the product “Modified Risk Tobacco Products’ was withdrawn UK Royal College of Physicians publishes a report on tobacco harm reduction It states that “nicotine itself is not especially hazardous” and that “if nicotine could be provided in a form that is acceptable and effective as a cigarette substitute, millions of lives could be saved.” 13 PMI completes multiple five-day clinical studies on IQOS, one of its smoke-free tobacco products Smokers who switched to IQOS reduced their exposure to harmful chemicals, on average to levels approaching those found in smokers who quit for the duration of the study R&D facility in Singapore PMI opens R&D facility in US FDA releases draft Singapore dedicated to guidance on evidence that assessing smoke-free should support a Modified products Risk Tobacco Product Application (MRTPA) Launch of PMIScience.com to share PMI's research methods and findings 2010 2012 2014 PMI launches IQOS city tests in Italy and Japan PMI acquires Nicocigs Ltd. and enters the e-cigarette market PMI announces its first new factory dedicated to heated tobacco unit production PMI invests USD 680m in its first purpose-built factory for heated tobacco units in Bologna, Italy EU Tobacco Products Directive II adopted establishing specific rules for marketing “novel tobacco products” and electronic cigarettes 14 PMI’s CEO announces In Japan, HeatSticks for ambition to convince all IQOS achieve a 10% adult smokers who intend market share in Q2, 2017 to continue using tobacco products to switch to PMI reaches 200 peerPMI launches an e-vapor smoke-free products as reviewed publications product, Solaris, in Spain soon as possible and book chapters on the and Israel science around its smokeJT launches PloomTECH free research to date in Japan a hybrid e-vapor product UK Department of Health publishes five-year tobacco PMI city test of MESH control plan in Birmingham, UK welcoming innovative technologies an innovative e-vapor product that minimize the risk of harm for smokers Public Health England FDA announces publishes report on comprehensive plan to Our business transformation electronic cigarettes significantly reduce The report concludes that tobacco-related disease e-cigarettes are significantly recognizing that innovation can less harmful than cigarettes lead to less harmful products 2015 2016 2017 IQOS available in IQOS available in IQOS available in more six countries 19 countries than 25 countries launches in key cities in Portugal, launches in key cities in Canada, launches in key cities in Colombia, Romania, Russia and Switzerland Denmark, Germany, Greece, Czech Republic, France, Lithuania, Israel, Kazakhstan, Monaco, the Poland, Serbia and South Korea PMI completes two Netherlands, New Zealand, South three‑month clinical studies Africa, Spain, the United Kingdom More than 3m people and Ukraine have stopped smoking by in the US and Japan on IQOS, confirming results from the earlier switching completely to BAT launches Glo in Japan five-day study IQOS (August 2017) a heated tobacco product PMI submits an MRTPA for IQOS to the US FDA More than 1m people have stopped smoking by switching completely to IQOS (December 2016) 15 Scientific assessment of ——Laboratory studies confirm that Engaging the scientific switching to IQOS, conducted in animal our smoke-free products model of diseases, led to a reduction in community and encouraging We knew from the outset that our science key smoking-related diseases and their scrutiny of our science would be met with skepticism. Since 2008, associated mechanisms. These reductions approached those observed Sharing our science, gathering feedback we have hired over 400 scientists and in the cessation group;² and participating in robust scientific experts who are working in state-of-thedebate help answer important questions art facilities and using cutting-edge ——Clinical studies conducted to date we receive about our innovative products technologies to develop and assess our confirm the results of our laboratory from the public, scientific experts, and smoke-free products. Our scientific studies. Smokers who switched regulators. In 2016, our scientists assessment programs align with leading completely to IQOS in two one-week presented research results at 79 leading pharmaceutical industry standards and and two three-month clinical studies scientific conferences and published guidance issued by the US Food and Drug significantly reduced their exposure over 50 book chapters and articles in Administration’s (FDA) Center for Tobacco to 15 toxicants. These reductions peer-reviewed journals. Products. Our research includes approached levels observed in the laboratory and clinical studies based on cessation groups;² Our systems biology program uses large internationally accepted Good Laboratory datasets to build an understanding of Practices and Good Clinical Practices. ——IQOS use does not adversely affect indoor air quality and is not a source of disease mechanisms, predict the extent of second-hand smoke;³ and damage to the body from exposure to toxic We follow a thorough and systematic substances, and estimate improvements if approach to smoke-free product ——Smokers indicate a strong intention to those exposures are reduced. In 2011, we development and assessment, including use IQOS while people who have never launched our SBVImprover platform, a clinical and behavioral studies to assess smoked or who quit smoking do not.⁴ crowd-sourcing initiative developed with individual risk and population harm. IBM, to enable independent scientific These results give us confidence that Take IQOS, our main smoke-free product experts to review and validate our scientific switching fully to IQOS is likely to present so far, as an illustrative example of our methods and conclusions. It does so less risk of harm than continuing to scientific research. Findings to date show through the publication of Challenges and smoke. We also believe its introduction that switching completely to IQOS is likely defined criteria by which scientific will benefit public health. On this basis, in to present less risk of harm than continued institutions can independently develop December 2016 we submitted evidence smoking. Specifically, the results show that: methodologies and draw their own to the US FDA in the form of an conclusions. Through this robust, 21st ——IQOS does not generate combustion or application for IQOS as a modified risk century approach to peer review and smoke;¹ tobacco product (MRTP) – the first ever scientific verification, we can gauge the for a heated tobacco product.⁵ ——IQOS vapor contains on average 90-95% extent to which our own research is in line lower levels of toxicants compared to Our research efforts will continue to seek with these crowd-sourced results. Since the smoke from a reference cigarette ways to further reduce the risk of harm the inception of the SBVImporter platform, designed for scientific research, with and to broaden our smoke-free product nearly 200 institutions across the globe nicotine at similar levels to cigarette portfolio such that we have products have taken part in the program, and the smoke;² that are acceptable and affordable to Challenges have verified our research. all smokers. We fully recognize that there The Challenges and all publications and ——Laboratory studies conducted in animal is concern about the addictiveness of news articles related to this platform are models of disease confirm that these nicotine products, however nicotine available online.⁶ lower levels of toxicants result in IQOS vapor being significantly less toxic than delivery is an important factor in helping In addition, we recently launched the cigarette smoke;² to ensure rapid and complete switching of Investigator-Initiated-Studies (IIS) program cigarette smokers to smoke-free products to encourage others to review our science in the shortto mid-term. and conduct additional studies to confirm, improve or challenge our findings.⁷ 1 https://www.pmiscience.com/news/absence4 https://www.fda.gov/TobaccoProducts/Labeling/ combustion-pmi%E2%80%99s-heated-tobaccoMarketingandAdvertising/ucm546281.htm product-platform-1; and https://www.pmiscience. 5 Read more here: http://pmiscienceusa.com/ com/system/files/publications/gfn_2017_mcgrath_ wp-content/uploads/2017/06/Brief-Summary-ofwhat_is_combustion_and_why_the_absence_of_ PMIs-MRTP-Application-May-2017.pdf combustion_is_important_in_heated_tobacco_ 6 https://www.sbvimprover.com/sbv-improver/ products.pdf publications 2 http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/ 7 https://www.pmiscience.com/our-goals/ S0273230016301891 investigator-initiated-studies-program/supported3 https://www.pmiscience.com/system/files/ investigator-initiated-studies publications/jsfec_2017_ggoujon_air_quality_ assessment_during_indoor_use_of_ths_2.2.pdf 16 79 Scientific conferences where our scientists presented research results 50 Book chapters and articles in peerreviewed journals Our seven-step approach to in comparison with smoking and cessation. Our systems toxicology program allows us SBVImprover assess individual risk and to compare the effects of switching with population harm 200 Product design and control principles those of cessation on the molecular-level disease mechanisms caused by smoking. Institutions across the globe have taken part in The first step of the assessment is designed This is achieved by measuring the changes crowdsourcing initiative to ensure that a given smoke-free product in gene, protein and metabolite levels is manufactured to appropriate quality caused by switching and cessation in standards and is sufficiently characterized comparison with continued smoke to document product performance exposure and analyzing this data using Our business transformation parameters. This product characterization advanced computational methods. enables the establishment of a product specification, which all products entering Clinical studies the subsequent assessment steps must We conduct clinical studies with adult meet, as must the products that are smokers according to the principles of introduced to the market. In this initial Good Clinical Practice. These studies help phase, PMI verifies that the product’s us understand whether switching to a design is likely to result in a significant smoke-free alternative reduces a smoker’s reduction in risk for smokers who switch to exposure to toxicants compared with it and that it does not pose any additional on-going smoking. We also determine risks to those already known for cigarettes. whether this leads to a reversal of clinical Realizing the risk reduction potential of a risk markers linked to smoking-related Transparency in smoke-free product relies on the quality of diseases. These studies compare the effects in continued smoking, switching our science at PMI the product design and on strict manufacturing controls to ensure that the and quitting cigarettes for the duration of At PMI we use various print and online the studies. This phase is fundamental to product operates consistently and reliably. communication tools to share our science help substantiate claims. and encourage further debate and Aerosol chemistry and physics understanding about our smoke-free We analyze the chemical composition of Perception and behavior studies products. We have a dedicated website the aerosol generated by the smoke-free Our program of Perception and Behavior (www.PMIscience.com) to share the latest product to quantify the reduction in Assessment studies is aimed at developing information about our ongoing research, formation of harmful and potentially understandable and scientifically accurate peer-reviewed publications, and we issue harmful constituents in comparison with a consumer messages; assessing the a regular ‘Scientific Update for Smokecigarette. We also evaluate whether new comprehension of these messages and the Free Products.’ potentially harmful constituents are risk perception of the smoke-free product generated by the smoke-free product and among various adult consumer groups; and We have also opened the doors of our assessing the suitability of the smoke-free confirm the absence of combustion in R&D center in Neuchâtel, Switzerland, to product as a substitute for cigarettes aerosol generation. those interested in learning more about among adult smokers. our science. Standard toxicology assessment Once a product has been developed, we Post-market studies and surveillance use robust laboratory techniques to Once a smoke-free product is on the evaluate whether a product is less toxic market, we conduct post-market studies than cigarette smoke. We do this by to understand how the product is used assessing whether it causes less damage to and by whom. Our aim is to ensure that cells and organs using in vitro and in vivo the product does not attract significant techniques. numbers of never and former smokers, but does lead to a significant portion of current Systems toxicology assessment adult smokers switching to it completely. We use highly sophisticated laboratory Additional clinical studies are conducted techniques to assess the effect of to determine the health outcomes of switching to a smoke-free product on the switching to the product compared with development of smoking-related disease ongoing smoking and to cessation. 17 Our ambition for a smoke-free future Projection of smoking prevalence Projected smoking prevalence Today, an estimated 1.1 billion people around the world smoke cigarettes or other combustible tobacco products such as cigars, bidis and pipe tobacco. Smoking prevalence, which was estimated at 22.1% in 2010 (age 15+), has been in constant decline for several decades, and the World Health Organisation 22.1% 18.9% (WHO) projects it will continue declining by 0.21 percentage points per year.1 At the current pace, it will take almost 100 years until the world is smoke-free. At the same time, global population is growing by 2010 2025 around 70 million people per year. The combined effect of a growing population and a declining smoking prevalence is a projected number of Projected number of smokers 1159 million smokers by 2025. Slowly declining numbers of smokers in OECD countries, China and 6130m India are offset by growth in the rest of the world. 5080m These WHO projections assume current tobacco control policies and do not consider the potential 1123m 1159m of smoke-free products. WHO target The member states of the WHO are rightly dissatisfied with the slow pace at which smoking is declining and have established a 2025 target to reduce the prevalence of tobacco use by 30% compared to 2010.2 As population growth partially offsets the impact of this prevalence target, there will still be 2010 2025 approximately 950 million smokers by the year 2025 if the WHO achieves its objective. Global population increase Projected number of smokers These projections are based on WHO/UN data and refer to age 15+ 1 Data and projections are based on WHO global report on trends in prevalence of tobacco smoking, 2015 and UN Population Prospects. These official projections refer to age 15+. 2 WHO Budget 2016-2017. 18 PMI’s ambition The combination of measures to discourage tobacco initiation and encourage cessation, and our full-scale We believe smoking prevalence can be reduced effort to replace cigarettes with smoke-free products much faster by supplementing the measures that could reduce smoking of PMI products by 40% governments take to discourage smoking initiation within a decade – a major acceleration towards a and encourage cessation, with efforts to encourage smoke-free world. smokers who would otherwise continue smoking to switch to smoke-free products. To illustrate the These are illustrative calculations. We left out the opportunity for public health, we project the number possibility for PMI to grow market share by switching of consumers of PMI products for the year 2025. consumers of competing cigarette brands to our These calculations are consistent with the WHO smoke-free products. This would further amplify projections, the PMI business transformation metrics the opportunity for public health. shown on page 26, and assume a constant global market share for PMI. Of course we cannot achieve a smoke-free future by ourselves. Government and civil society, especially In the base case scenario, and without smoke-free leading scientists and public health professionals, Our business transformation products, the number of smokers buying PMI products and ideally the WHO, can play a decisive role in is projected to increase slightly to an estimated encouraging smoke-free products to replace cigarettes 152 million by 2025. The WHO target to reduce the for people who would otherwise keep smoking. prevalence of tobacco use – assuming a proportionate effect on PMI – implies a 19 million reduction to Our competitors are also increasing their efforts to 133 million smokers of PMI products by 2025. develop and commercialize their own smoke-free products. As a result, we expect a positive acceleration It is our ambition that at least 30% of our consumers of innovation, competition and consumer adoption who would otherwise continue smoking switch to that could reduce global smoking prevalence at a pace our smoke-free products by 2025. We project that significantly beyond past reductions and future goals by 2025, at least 40 million PMI cigarette smokers set by the WHO. will have switched to smoke-free products. Consumers of PMI products – projection 2025 (assuming constant PMI market share) People who quit or less people starting People who switch to PMI smoke-free products Smokers of PMI products Reduction aimed for by 19m WHO with additional tobacco control measures PMI’s aspiration to >40m switch smokers to our smoke-free products 152m Smokers of PMI products <95m 2025 estimate based on 2025 estimate based on WHO prevalence WHO prevalence projection target and PMI smoke-free aspiration 19 Our view on tobacco regulation The well-known risks of smoking have led regulators to impose more restrictions and higher excise taxes on cigarettes than apply to any other consumer product – while allowing cigarettes to remain available to adults. There’s absolutely no doubt that tobacco products should be subject to strict rules and enforcement. At times, we have forcefully objected to regulations, such as those that remove branding from our cigarette packages. We still believe that plain packaging inappropriately treats adult smokers as unable to make their own decisions. And we don’t agree that banning legal sales of cigarettes makes sense for smokers or for society at large. With comprehensive requirements in place to control nearly every aspect of the cigarette business, the question becomes: what’s the plan to address the needs of more than one billion people who still smoke? The answer, in our view, is innovation – in products and in policies. As we work to design a smoke-free future, our priorities are changing. Technology that we and others have developed makes it possible to shift the tobacco and nicotine market A cigarette manufacturing line (on the left-hand side) and a towards a future in which cigarettes are heated tobacco unit manufacturing line (on the right-hand side) replaced by less harmful, yet satisfying, at our factory in Neuchâtel, Switzerland smoke-free alternatives. In this context, sensible, scienceand The rationale for Our success as a business was primarily risk-based regulation regulation of built on offering the best smoking smoke-free, combined with further our business vision experience through our top quality restrictions on cigarettes, can help We understand that our vision of replacing cigarette brands, including Marlboro, address the harm caused by smoking cigarettes with smoke-free products is L&M and Chesterfield. We are convinced more effectively – and faster – than any unprecedented for a tobacco company. that our continued success will depend, other traditional regulatory measure. Some will question our motives, and above all, on our ability to offer men and others will question why PMI would seek women who smoke less harmful alternative To be clear, regulations should continue to transform a very profitable market for products. to dissuade people from starting to smoke cigarettes. The answer is simple: our goal and encourage cessation. But it’s equally Our business case is straightforward. of developing and commercializing less clear that millions of men and women will PMI leads the smoke-free category thanks harmful products to replace cigarettes is continue to smoke, and they should have to sustained R&D investments. We are completely aligned with the expectations the opportunity and information to switch therefore in an excellent position to not of smokers, society and our shareholders. to better alternatives. only switch consumers who smoke PMI cigarettes, but also those who smoke competing cigarette brands. 20 We are observing this in Japan, where Investing in production the majority of IQOS users previously smoked cigarettes made by our competitors. capacity for smoke-free We thus have the opportunity to increase products market share which would enhance business results. In addition, the profit Our company’s shift toward a smoke-free margins of smoke-free products are similar future means going beyond developing to or exceed those of cigarettes as a result the products and science. It also means of differentiated excise tax. supplying the demand. The case of IQOS in Japan illustrates the need to anticipate A smoke-free world can be achieved faster demand. Despite optimistic projections if the industry as a whole, including new for a nationwide roll-out of IQOS in Japan, entrants, accelerates its efforts in this in 2016, consumer demand greatly direction. A wide variety of companies exceeded our expectations. We were – from small start-ups to multinational surprised by the rapid pace of adult smoker tobacco companies – is increasingly active conversion to the product once we hit a in the smoke-free category. Virtually all critical mass of 2-3% market share nationmultinational companies commercialize at wide. By June 2016 we had to ration the least one smoke-free product, and the number of IQOS devices sold across the category is undergoing rapid change. country to avoid smokers who had switched to IQOS not being able to find Technological innovation is transforming heated tobacco units. At the same time, our industry. Developing, assessing and we accelerated investment in IQOS heated commercializing novel, less harmful tobacco units manufacturing capacity. alternatives to cigarettes should in our view become the focus of competition. Our factory in Neuchâtel, Switzerland, PMI has been, and will continue to be, was the first to produce the heated Our business transformation a driving force of this transformation. tobacco units used with the IQOS device. In 2015, our factory in Bologna became We are also often asked about our the first site fully dedicated to heated willingness to license our technology to tobacco unit production. To keep pace other tobacco companies. PMI has granted with demand, we are rapidly building new Altria an exclusive license to sell IQOS in manufacturing facilities and converting the United States, and we are in principle existing factories. In the next pages we open to other partnerships where it makes describe the substantial investment in business sense and helps to advance a our manufacturing transformation. smoke-free world. 21 Our global progress overview IQOS launches in key cities or nationwide: 2014 – to date By the end of 2017, we expect IQOS to be in key cities or nationwide in 30 to 35 countries, subject to capacity. 2014 2015 2016 2017* Italy Portugal Canada Colombia Japan Romania Denmark Czech Republic Russia Germany France Switzerland Greece Lithuania Israel Poland Kazakhstan Serbia Monaco South Korea Netherlands *As of July 2017. New Zealand South Africa Spain UK Ukraine 22 Milestones and investments +USD 3bn +400 scientists 30 locations Since 2008, we have invested more Since 2008, we have hired over PMI scientists also work with a network than USD 3bn in fundamental research, 400 scientists and experts to work on of research and technology partners product and commercial development, our portfolio of smoke-free products in over 30 locations worldwide. production capacity, scientific in two R&D facilities – one in Neuchâtel substantiation and studies on adult (Switzerland) and one in Singapore. smoker understanding. Our business transformation Plans for further investment in heated tobacco manufacturing (total USD 1.7bn) Germany Italy Romania USD 320m USD 550m USD 550m Plan to invest USD 320m in a new facility Following the inauguration of our new Plan to invest approximately USD 550m to for heated tobacco units in Dresden, facility in Bologna in 2016, a further transform our cigarette production factory expected to create approximately 500 investment of approximately USD 550m in Otopeni into a heated tobacco new jobs and be operational in 2019. is foreseen to expand its capacity to meet manufacturing facility, creating about growing demand, bringing total investment 300 additional jobs. Greece to USD 1230m, creating an additional USD 320m estimated 600 new jobs. Plan to invest USD 320m to convert our cigarette factory in Aspropygros to heated tobacco unit production and create 400 new jobs. Production capacity Around 100bn heated tobacco units By end 2018, PMI anticipates a total manufacturing capacity of around 100 billion heated tobacco units per year. 23 Our commercialization efforts behind smoke-free products Developing and manufacturing scientifically substantiated smoke-free products is only the start: the next challenge is to convince smokers to switch. We learned a great deal about the consumer conversion journey since our city tests of IQOS in Milan, Italy, and Nagoya, Japan, in late 2014. Smokers need time to fully switch (usually one to two weeks), and they need information about how these novel products work. The regulatory environment in which we commercialize our smoke-free products varies substantially around the world. As a result, it is easier in some countries than others to make smokers aware of smokefree products and how they should use them. The differences in the regulatory environment explain, to a large extent, why switching to smoke-free products varies from one geography to another. Smoke-free products contain nicotine, are addictive, and not risk-free. We understand that any communication with adult smokers about these products must be carried out responsibly, attuned to the local environment and observing regulatory An IQOS flagship store in Japan obligations. Our employees and third parties acting on our behalf must follow strict principles in the commercialization of A substantial part of our marketing and smoke-free products, which are formalized Good Conversion Practices sales budget in countries where we have in our “Good Conversion Practices” (GCPs) launched IQOS has been re-allocated from (GCPs) for smoke-free products which are being implemented as smokecigarettes to IQOS. Clearly, to promote 1. Smoke-free products are for adult free products are launched. our smoke-free vision we must allocate smokers who want to continue enjoying our budget and headcount accordingly. tobacco or nicotine. Our goal to replace cigarettes with 2. We do not offer smoke-free products to smoke-free products extends to all people who have never smoked or who countries where we operate, regardless have quit smoking. of development status. We are only at 3. Our goal is to switch every adult smoker the beginning of commercializing a fully who would otherwise keep smoking fledged portfolio of smoke-free products to smoke-free products such as IQOS. and realize that additional efforts are We are committed to supporting adult necessary in finding products that are smokers in their switching journey affordable and acceptable for consumers through education and guidance. in different parts of the world. We 4. Smoke-free products are not an acknowledge the need to continue working alternative to quitting. The best choice to develop different product platforms for consumers concerned about the that can achieve this goal. We are also health risks of smoking is to quit tobacco experimenting with other solutions to altogether. reduce the financial barrier to switch to smoke-free products, such as the 5. To experience the benefit of smoke-free temporary lending of IQOS devices, products, adult smokers should switch combined with promotional offers if completely and abandon smoking permitted by local legislation. permanently. 6. Smoke-free products are not risk free or a safe alternative to cigarettes, but they are a much better choice for smokers who wish to continue to use tobacco and nicotine. 24 Equipping our people Managing significant to successfully transform changes in our our business value chain Our transformation goes beyond the Our transformation will have implications product itself. Training and employee for our value chain. We are committed engagement have taken on a new level to managing these consistently with of significance across our organization to the UNGC Principles, and contributing ensure employees are involved in and help to the SDGs where we can make a achieve PMI’s transformation. We have positive difference. introduced three key initiatives in the past year to support us on this journey: Our current smoke-free products use less tobacco than cigarettes; they also ——An entrepreneurial way of working. have specific requirements in terms of Learning from the disruptive innovation the variety and quality of the tobacco. of other companies and start-ups, we We recognize that this will eventually have taken elements of approaches such impact tobacco farmers and are putting as Lean, Agile and Design Thinking and plans in place to help support farmers complemented them with existing PMI throughout this transition, including methodologies. Known as Fast-Forward ongoing efforts to promote crop (FFwd), this new way of working has diversification. a strong customer-centric approach – putting the customer at the heart of The commercialization of our smoke-free everything we do – and embeds a new products also means a whole new sector is experimental approach to how we work gaining increasing relevance in our supply to help unleash new ideas and pilot chain – electronics – which presents its test what works (and what doesn’t) in Our business transformation own challenges and risks. We expand on a short period of time so that we can how we plan to responsibly manage these then scale-up and execute those that challenges and our progress to date in the are successful as quickly as possible. chapter on Our supply chain (page 47). As of July 2017, over 2,000 employees across the globe had participated in Another issue we are addressing is intensive FFwd workshops to instill this post-consumer waste of our smoke-free new way of working and mindset across products, both the consumables and the our organization; electronics. Read more about our work and commitments in this area in the Our post-purchase ——A new methodology to improve the chapter on Managing our environmental performance of our Operations: Over consumer care approach the last year we have introduced an footprint (page 56). to support switching integrated way of working called OPEN+. This uses new standardized routines, processes and tools, deployed sequentially to develop the capabilities of our people. This is aimed at permanently eliminating non-value-added activities, increasing effectiveness and reducing waste in a systematic way; and ——A new training program to equip “Product understanding, postManagement Teams for our purchase support and transformation: We have developed encouragement, and consumer a 12-week training program for all Management Teams worldwide known care through a helpline, are all as our Transformation Academy. The important elements in the smoker program aims to build the foundational switching journey, especially knowledge, alignment and mindset during the critical initial 2-3 weeks needed to help us achieve our business to avoid relapse to cigarettes.” vision of a smoke-free future. The program includes a module on sustainability, and CEMHAN OZGUVEN in 2017 a first wave of management DIRECTOR, CUSTOMER CARE AND teams of over 30 countries are E-COMMERCE, SMOKE-FREE scheduled to complete this training. PRODUCTS 25 Business Transformation – Metrics Actuals Estimate Aspiration¹ 2014 2015 2016 2017 2025 R&D expenditure² (Smoke-free/Total) 70% 72% >70% Commercial expenditure (Smoke-free/Total) 2% 8% 15% >30% Net Revenues³ (Smoke-free/Total) 0.0% 0.2% 2.7% >10% Smoke-free product⁴ shipment volume (billion units) 0.2 0.8 7.7 >30 >250 Combustible product⁵ shipment volume (billion units) 890 881 845 <800 <550 1 Assuming constant PMI market share. We do not set aspirational targets for R&D and commercial expenditure but we expect both ratios to continue increasing to enable the stated outcome in terms of shipment volume 2 R&D expenditures for smoke-free products were tracked separately as of 2015; the related metric was therefore left blank for 2014 3 Excluding excise taxes 4 Includes heated tobacco units and e-cigarettes 5 Includes cigarettes and other combustible tobacco products The 2014, 2015 and 2016 metrics are subject to PwC’s Assurance Report included in Annex 3 Our first purpose-built factory for heated tobacco unit manufacturing near Bologna, Italy 26 Business Transformation Metrics The first metric – R&D expenditure – It is our ambition that by 2025 at least We are introducing a set of five Business shows how much of our total spent on 30% of our volume comes from smokeTransformation Metrics to make the actions research and development is dedicated to free products. we are taking to pursue our smoke-free smoke-free products. It includes the costs vision measurable and verifiable. The first related to clinical studies, the development Of course, we hope that even faster two metrics show our resource allocation of new machinery, prototype and product progress can be achieved, and our between combustible products and acceptability testing. The R&D expenditure experience in individual countries shows smoke-free products, while the following for our combustible tobacco products that this is feasible. In the second quarter three show progress in making smoke-free are largely related to legal compliance of 2017, less than three years after our products the core of our business. We will requirements, such as the measurement test launch of IQOS in Japan, smoke-free publish updates on these metrics on a and reporting of tar, nicotine and carbon products already represent over 40% regular basis. monoxide for cigarettes, and adaptation to of our nationwide shipment volume in regulatory changes. the market. The second metric – commercial This section outlined our major activities expenditure – shows how much of our to advance a smoke-free world: significant total spend on the commercialization of investments in research and development, our products is dedicated to smoke-free ramping up production capacity, substantial products. Commercial expenditure includes reallocation from cigarettes to smoke-free costs for marketing, consumer engagement, products and increases in commercial and trade promotions. As with the other expenditure, equipping our people and metrics these refer to our global business facilitating the transformation for the and therefore include commercial whole value chain. expenditures related to cigarettes in the But we recognize that achieving a many countries where we have not yet smoke-free future does not only depend launched smoke-free products. For on us. Many challenges lie ahead of us, countries where we are commercializing Our business transformation and a collaborative approach with many our new products, this percentage is and different stakeholders is essential for will be significantly higher. success. To further accelerate progress The third metric – net revenues – shows in achieving a smoke-free world, we the portion of our revenues that is plan to support the establishment of an generated by the sales of smoke-free independent foundation that will focus on products (including electronic devices and strengthening science-based approaches. accessories). Excise taxes are excluded The foundation will operate independently from the net revenue figures. of PMI, scrutinizing the progress of PMI and other companies in the sector, and Finally, the last two metrics show our ensuring that the public health interests of smoke-free product shipment volumes society are met through the foundation’s (including both heated tobacco units Board of Directors. and e-cigarettes) and our combustible tobacco product shipment volume (mainly cigarettes). 27 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals PMI R&D facility, Neuchatel, Switzerland 28 Acting with The guiding Our people Our supply Managing our Next steps integrity principles on See page 40 chain environmental See page 66 See page 30 business and See page 47 footprint human rights See page 56 See page 38 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals 29 Acting with integrity We believe that doing Our Compliance program In 2016, Compliance received 792 reports of suspected misconduct (vs. 744 in 2015). business with integrity Honesty, respect and fairness are core values 82% of the people that decided to help which unite and guide us at PMI. They are an and preventing unlawful integral part of our company culture and are PMI by reporting suspected misconduct trust the Compliance Program enough to and unethical behavior is the basis of our Code of Conduct (known as be comfortable giving their name when essential to our long-term our “Guidebook for Success”). reporting. 292 of those reports (54%) resulted in substantiated misconduct success; that includes how We believe that a strong compliance (vs. 52% in 2015). culture is achieved through a combination we advocate on issues of the right Code of Conduct and related to our products, Principles & Practices, the required level of and our efforts to tackle awareness, training and commitment to our values from all employees, a working the illicit tobacco trade. environment that fosters and facilitates appropriate conduct, an understanding on Our Compliance program and our culture how and why people behave in certain of ethical business conduct provide a ways, followed by a diligent and fair strong foundation for our commitments as investigation process for suspected we transform our business. misconduct and humane, proportionate disciplinary action. In this section we provide an update on key developments in 2016 under our The Guidebook for Success, together with A pack of Marlboro Compliance program, including training its supporting Principles and Practices, with a graphic our own employees and third parties health warning covers the following core risk areas: in Germany working on our behalf to prevent competition law, conflicts of interest, misconduct. We also share our ongoing environment, health, safety and security work to address the illicit tobacco trade Marketing (EHSS), fiscal and trade (including anti-illicit and report on one of our key initiatives in trade), protection of information, One area where many of our critics this area, PMI IMPACT. Lastly, we look at marketing and sales, and workplace and express concern relates to our marketing some of the main challenges we anticipate labor practices. It also covers a range of principles and practices. Some of the as our business changes, namely in: anti-bribery topics, including giving and concerns raised include whether our ——ensuring our Compliance systems receiving gifts and entertainment, communications to adult consumers are provide support and guidance for our facilitating payments (prohibited), appropriate, whether we target nonemployees on how to handle new risk contributions involving or connected with smokers or minors, and whether we have areas related to smoke-free products; government officials, third parties who lower marketing standards in developing interact with government officials on our countries than in developed countries. ——further improving the transparency of behalf, membership of organizations, our advocacy efforts; and Our Marketing Code for cigarettes is advocacy activities and reporting and ——efforts to combat the illicit tobacco based on these key principles which are record keeping. trade, both of cigarettes and our applied across the world without any smoke-free products. Awareness of, and commitment to, our exceptions: Guidebook for Success is implemented 1. We market and sell our cigarettes to through training for all employees and adult smokers (not to minors or nonrelevant third-parties (in the form of smokers); classroom and online training, town halls, 2. We warn consumers about the health leadership communications and team effects of cigarettes; discussions), and the promotion of a working environment where employees 3. Our marketing must be honest, accurate feel comfortable and safe speaking up and transparent; and when things don’t seem right or can be 4. We respect the law and our high standards. improved. We have a Compliance Helpline available 24 hours a day, seven days a In order to proactively invite discussion week, in all languages spoken at PMI. with stakeholders about opportunities to improve our approach, we are In 2016, we increased the number of providing a complete overview of our Compliance-related trainings provided marketing principles for combustible through different channels to employees products together with this report. and relevant third parties. See Annex 2. 30 Compliance Training 2015 2016 Compliance Law 7,784 5,831 77% 23% Compliance Overview 51,001 111,588 Environment, Health & Safety 7,565 9,393 Employees Third Parties Employment/Privacy 11,520 10,516 Fiscal & Trade 22,705 13,882 Government Relations 18,994 11,771 Information Security 8,956 7,562 Intellectual Property 10,259 4,402 Marketing Records Management 44,264 9,611 37,832 15,226 53% 47% Live Online Regulatory Affairs 473 298 Taxation 346 540 Total Trainings 193,478 228,841 Our Chief Compliance Officer oversees the application of our Compliance Program, and adherence to our Principles and Practices is monitored by our Internal Controls function along with our independent Corporate Audit department, which reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. In 2016, Compliance, together with the Internal Controls and Corporate Audit functions, integrated our risk assessment into one single process leading to a more holistic view of risks both at corporate level and in the affiliates. Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Looking ahead: maintaining a strong compliance culture As our company transforms, we must also be mindful of new challenges. Our commitment to continue to uphold a Our culture of Compliance: Our interactions strong culture of ethical business conduct, new challenges as our company with government including anti-corruption, is essential. In transforms Some of our critics have voiced concerns particular, we plan: about the way in which we interact with These include engaging with a wider range ——A comprehensive, third-party assessment of stakeholders (government officials, governments. Our Code of Conduct and of our Compliance Program in 2018; scientists and the public health specific Compliance Principles & Practices ——A company-wide employee survey on our community), explaining our smoke-free govern these interactions, which are compliance culture in 2018 to gain insights products and the science behind them, conducted transparently, with integrity, into areas for further improvement; deploying new methods of and in adherence to local laws. We comply commercialization to make adult smokers with rules for advocacy, report on our ——A revision to our Code of Conduct and activities as required in several jurisdictions, aware of them, their attributes and how to related Compliance Principles & and we are transparent when others use them, and the implementation of a Practices in 2017 to address new engage on our behalf. We also publicly post-purchase consumer care approach to challenges and ensure ethical behaviour disclose the limited political contributions support the switching journey. on fields such as scientific integrity. we make (www.pmi.com/transparency). While confident about our practices, we want to be more proactive in addressing concerns raised. Together with this report we are making available and inviting feedback on our principles for engagement with governments and public organizations. See Annex 3. 31 Strengthening efforts to Effective measures to secure Our tools Principles and Practices: tackle the illicit tobacco our supply chain and prevent Our “3 Knows” (Know Your Customer, trade and related crimes the illegal diversion of our Know Your Payment, Know Your Vendor) own products provide a system of due diligence to Preventing the illicit tobacco trade is one ensure we know to whom we sell our of PMI’s core business strategies. Recent Our commitment and governance products. They include checks to ensure studies by the OECD,¹ Transcrime,² Our commitment is to ensure our products our customers have the legal right to trade and others show that illicit tobacco is a are legally sold in the market for which in or purchase tobacco products. highly-profitable trade for organized crime they are intended. In 2015, we created an groups and is linked to corruption and Anti-Diversion Governance Committee Given the fast-evolving nature of criminal many related crimes, such as terrorism and (ADGC), comprising senior management activity in this area, our tools and trafficking of other illicit goods or even team members, to help ensure our Policies processes are continuously refined and human trafficking. Global illicit tobacco and Practices are applied systematically updated to help address new areas of risk.³ trade deprives governments of tax revenue across PMI. The Committee adopts a and undermines the effectiveness of excise risk-based approach, mapping smuggling Tracking and tracing tax policy to reduce smoking. Given its hotspots of PMI legal products, Tracking and tracing is a process to follow sheer scale, it is clear that coordinated, implementing tools and processes to and keep track of product shipments. integrated action is needed to tackle this address root causes. A stand-alone It helps determining where products problem. For us this means continuing to Progress and Outlook report on the status have been diverted from their legitimate invest time, effort and resources in of our efforts will be available in supply chain. In our business environment, maintaining the integrity of our supply September 2017. we are continuously implementing chain and working with governments and tracking and tracing at the master case other partners to improve law(10,000 cigarettes), carton (200 cigarettes, enforcement measures to tackle the 10 packs) and pack level. problem’s systemic causes. Our efforts focus on three main objectives: ——effective measures to secure our supply chain and prevent the illegal diversion of our own products; ——support for regulation and multistakeholder public-private partnerships to stop illicit trade; and ——investing in research to improve understanding of the size and drivers of the problem, alongside education and training for public officers in charge of tackling the issue. 1 OECD, Reviews of Risk Management Policies, “Illicit Trade, Converging Criminal Networks”, April 2016: http://www.oecd.org/gov/risk/charting-illicittrade-9789264251847-en.htm 2 Transcrime, “European Outlook on the Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products”, January 2015, p. 47 3 Our Anti-Diversion Toolkit provides detailed A customs official and member of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) information about these tools and is available here: check the authenticity of a shipment of cigarette master cases https://www.stopillegalcigarettes.com/anti_ © European Communities, 2003; Source: EC – Audiovisual Service diversion_toolkit.pdf 32 Tracking and tracing to prevent the illegal diversion of our products in the supply chain 95% Tracking and tracing of our products occurs across our global supply chain. Today we have more than 700 tracking locations in more of our master than 130 countries, which required an cases were PMI employee scans a master case as tracked.¹ investment of more than USD 100 million. part of our tracking and tracing system Support for regulation and cooperation with governments and third parties Tracking PMI welcomes regulation and partnerships to help address illicit trade. In addition to supporting country ratification of the World Health Organization’s FCTC Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Manufacturing PMI warehouse 1st external 2nd external customer Retail Tobacco Products, which we expect will customer introduce new controls in tracking and tracing, licensing, and due diligence processes, we also support regulations Tracing which extend beyond national borders covering trading blocs, such as in the European Union (EU). With much of the illicit tobacco trade entering the EU from outside its borders, we know that concerted action is needed to have a real impact. Last year, a joint agreement between the European Commission and PMI to tackle illicit trade of our brands in the EU expired. Despite its expiration, PMI remains committed to the same anti-diversion Greek police officers participate in a training practices through bilateral cooperation program to learn how to authenticate PMI brands agreements with governments and local customs authorities in the EU (in the form Volume monitoring of “Memoranda of Understanding” – or “MoUs”). These MoUs have resulted in the In addition to standard controls of Know continued exchange of information and your Customer, we need to be alert to any technical training for law enforcement unusual activity or trend in our volumes officers who act on this issue. In 2016, Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals sold. As part of our Fiscal Compliance PMI signed 5 MoUs with 15 countries programs, on a regular basis, all markets bringing the total to more than 50 MoUs analyze the sales trends to our direct with governments in 40 countries. customers. In hot spots for illicit trade, we extend our monitoring further into the supply chain by examining not only monthly volumes to our direct customers, but also volumes sold to our indirect customers. 1 We do not apply tracking and tracing to kretek cigarettes due to negligible risk of international diversion. 33 PMI IMPACT: A unique initiative to tackle illicit trade PMI IMPACT was established in 2016 as the first-of-its-kind global initiative to support public, private, and nongovernmental organizations to develop and implement projects against illegal trade and related crimes, such as corruption, money laundering, and organized crime. PMI has pledged USD 100 million for three funding rounds. The centerpiece of PMI IMPACT is an independent Expert Council,1 whose members evaluate and select project proposals to be awarded the grants and review the progress of the projects during their implementation. The PMI IMPACT Expert Council selected 32 projects for funding in the initiative’s first round, which focused on tackling illegal trade and related crimes in the European Union. The selected projects have real potential to advance global efforts against illegal trade. Many of them go beyond tackling the illegal tobacco trade and will explore the nexus with organized crime, terrorism, online and offline trafficking, and the interdependencies with illegal trade of other goods. Overview The projects are expected to be completed over the next two years and include: ——Projects building technical solutions and ——Research from public universities and equipment to support law enforcement PMI IMPACT independent think-tanks exploring the operations and strengthen the control First funding round scope and drivers of illegal trade to over illegal activities; develop recommendations tackling the issue from different perspectives, including consumer demand, legislative ——Activities to enhance the capacity and proficiency of law enforcement and 32 customs officers, relevant public Projects selected with activities and judicial frameworks, stakeholder in more than 20 countries institutions, and the expert community; action; ——Educational and awareness programs for USD 28m opinion leaders and the broader public, including forums for greater crosssectoral collaboration. $ Total amount of grants allocated for the projects’ implementation 1 See: http://www.pmi-impact.com/Apply/Expert 34 The x-scanner donated by our Greek affiliate, Papastratos, to customs to help combat the illicit tobacco trade X-ray scanner helps fight illicit trade in tobacco In Greece the illicit tobacco trade is significant, with one in every five cigarettes consumed being illegal.² In December 2016, our Greek affiliate, Papastratos, donated an x-ray scanner valued at EUR 2m to customs’ authorities to help combat the “Progress against illegal illicit tobacco trade. The impact in the first few months has been significant. trade requires ideas, The impact in the first few months has resources, and actions been significant. It resulted in 68,420,000 cigarettes seized, corresponding to – and that’s why we’re avoided duties and taxes of around excited to launch PMI Partnering with others EUR 13m.³ IMPACT. We’re especially Working with other private sector grateful that distinguished companies is essential to combat the illicit experts have agreed to trade in tobacco products and other guide this effort, and we Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals goods. In 2016, PMI signed a joint Declaration of Intent to Prevent the are encouraged by the Maritime Transportation of Counterfeit Goods together with eight other global positive response from civil brand owners and five of the world’s society. In parallel, PMI is largest shipping companies – the first of its kind. The intent of this commitment is to continuing to control its strengthen and improve supply chain own supply chain and to controls by developing operational tools that can be applied as best practices in the support international industry (such as Know Your Customer protocols against illicit programs).¹ trade.” Research, education and training to ALVISE GIUSTINIANI, combat the illicit tobacco trade VICE PRESIDENT, ILLICIT TRADE A key element of our strategy includes STRATEGIES & PREVENTION increasing awareness of the illicit trade 1 For more details please read https://iccwbo.org/ problem and its drivers. By assessing these media-wall/news-speeches/brand-transportaspects, PMI and others can provide leaders-sign-historic-declaration-stop-maritimeshipping-counterfeit-goods/ insights to government and local 2 https://assets.kpmg.com/content/dam/kpmg/uk/ authorities to inform future actions and pdf/2017/07/project-sun-2017-report.pdf combat illicit trade more effectively. 3 Data at mid-June 2017 35 Research: A tool to guide us in improving ——Setting up online controls to detect the our strategy parallel distribution of our electronic A standard research methodology devices and their consumables, introduced in the mid-2000s (known as removing platforms which violate our Empty Pack Surveys or “EPS”) helps us IPRs and reinforcing controls of suppliers gain a better understanding of the size, of key product components and logistics nature, trends and wrongdoers typifying operators; the illicit tobacco trade. In 2016, 126 EPS ——Developing anti-counterfeit and were conducted in 82 countries, and 79 anti-diversion policies to secure our of these were done jointly with other supply chain and the integrity of our cigarette manufacturers. EPS surveys are smoke-free products; also widely used in independent research conducted by KPMG, Oxford Economics ——Applying unique serial numbers and and UK-based think-tank, Royal United other security features to PMI devices Services Institute (RUSI). and heated tobacco units for authentication and tracking and tracing Education and training to authenticate purposes; PMI legal products ——Cooperating with authorities to enhance PMI works in partnership with law their knowledge about our products and enforcement agencies in countries our supply chain which helps law worldwide, investing in education and enforcement to increase their technical training as another key part of effectiveness to tackle fraud; our anti-illicit strategy. In 2016, we trained SUN Report 2016 more than 2,000 members of law ——Enhancing intelligence and research enforcement agencies in 13 countries on tools to monitor illicit trade; The SUN Report¹ is an annual study of the how to authenticate tobacco products ——Using best practices from our illicit cigarette market in the EU, Norway bearing PMI trademarks and to combustible tobacco business and the and Switzerland. The research is based differentiate between counterfeit and medical and electronic device industries. primarily on the analysis of legal or authentic packs of PMI cigarettes. duty-paid sales of cigarettes and cigarette Read more about our efforts on pack surveys (EPS methodology). Looking forward www.stopillegalcigarettes.com. The realities of globalization and a booming The latest report for 2016 shows that the online economy provide an environment joint efforts of governments, law which is vulnerable to counterfeiters and enforcement agencies, manufacturers and illicit traders, allowing them to sell goods retailers are working to slow the illegal directly to customers worldwide with flows of cigarettes in the region, but it is virtually no barriers to entry, low still a huge problem which underscores the overheads, easier distribution and fewer need for more joint action, effective risks of being caught. Add to this the policies, and broader awareness to strong propensity for the manufacture continue to address its increasing and distribution of fake and smuggled complexity. electronic devices and consumables, we Illicit trade flows of cigarettes decreased see new risks for PMI as we commercialize by 8.8% versus 2015. Despite this smoke-free products. Assuring the progress, one in every ten cigarettes integrity of products with scientifically consumed in the EU is still illegal (that’s an substantiated claims is critical to the health estimated 48.3bn illegal cigarettes, outcomes of consumers. To respond to amounting to EUR 10.2bn in lost tax these challenges, alongside our continued revenue in 2016). efforts to combat illicit trade of PMI brands, we are: ——Registering and maintaining trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights (IPR) to provide legal remedies against counterfeiters; 1 https://assets.kpmg.com/content/dam/kpmg/uk/ pdf/2017/07/project-sun-2017-report.pdf 36 Customs officers in Ecuador attend a training session to understand how to identify illicit trade of tobacco products Preventing illicit trade – Metrics Metrics Goal for 2017 Goal for 2018 Tracking and tracing – master case level¹ Full coverage² in more than 130 countries Full coverage in more than 130 countries Tracking and tracing – % of sold packs with 75% 85% unique code applied² Extending Memoranda of Understanding Five additional At least three additional Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals (MoUs) with law enforcement agencies/ governments – number of countries Regional studies and country analysis to 25% 27.5% improve awareness of illicit trade – % of global cigarette consumption covered Training for law enforcement agencies to At least 500 across ten countries At least 500 across ten countries monitor diversion of PMI products – number of law enforcement officers trained 1 Box with 500 cigarette packs (10,000 cigarettes). 2 For PMI, full coverage equates to 95% tracking and tracing in our supply chain. There are 5% of master cases not covered – these are destined to countries which are not identified as a source of potential diversion or where PMI sells to a single customer in the country. 37 The guiding principles on business and human rights Overview of our progress Our commitment At the heart of our Commitment is a structured governance process for Following our commitment to the UNGC The foundation of PMI’s human rights ongoing human rights due diligence: Principles, we have been working to align program is our Commitment to Human our business practices with the United Rights.1 Approved by our CEO, the ——Capacity building for our employees Nations Guiding Principles on Business Commitment is the result of internal and business partners to understand and Human Rights (“Guiding Principles”). cross-functional consultations and and implement our human rights We continuously strive to ensure that our external stakeholder dialogue. The final commitment; policies highlight and foster respect of text reflects the breadth of this ——Assessments to identify human rights human rights of all rights-holders, engagement by setting out PMI’s risks and adverse impacts, which we including consumers, employees, workers fundamental principles and the practical may request third parties to conduct, in our supply chain and our downstream steps we will take to respect the rights of either on a stand-alone basis or as part value chain, and the communities in which all stakeholders: of the company's overall integrated risk we operate. assessment; “Honesty, respect and fairness are the core In our last Communication on Progress, we values that embody our commitment to ——Effective action in response to highlighted the many existing policies and society. Every day, we interact with millions assessment findings in our operations procedures we have in place to address of men and women: consumers, employees, and, to the extent possible, throughout human rights risks throughout our value workers in our supply chain, shareholders, our value chain. Actions may include chain. We also committed to improving and the communities in which we live and practical guidance, process improvements, those “with our foremost focus on risks operate. We care about their dignity and revised commercial terms and other to rights-holders.” Over the last year, human rights. measures; we engaged internally and externally to ——Monitoring effectiveness of measures, identify the strengths and weaknesses We are committed to business practices that including through third-parties as of our existing framework from a Guiding respect internationally recognized human appropriate, to mitigate or address human Principles perspective. We are drawing rights in line with the United Nations Guiding rights risks and adverse impacts; and on this broad-based engagement and Principles on Business and Human Rights. We base our commitment on the ——External communication about our work research to develop a detailed action plan International Bill of Human Rights and the on human rights and the key indicators to inform concrete and practical measures International Labor Organization’s 1998 we are using to assess performance. we will take to ensure we respect the Declaration on Fundamental Rights and Further to our United Nations Global human rights of stakeholders throughout Principles at Work. Compact commitments, we will formally our operations. report on progress at least once a year, This section seeks to provide a candid We will talk with and listen to people whose or by other appropriate means. account of the steps taken to respect our human rights we might affect. We will look commitment. closely at our practices, continuously strive to improve them, and operate systems to implement this commitment from supplier to consumer.” 1 https://www.pmi.com/sustainability/ourcommitment-and-ongoing-focus 38 Human rights core team Training and capacity building Company-wide gap and risk To ensure continuous oversight and Practical knowledge on human rights is analysis and human rights improvement of our human rights critical for our objective of embedding our action plan program, we have established a crosscommitment in the organization and our In 2016, PMI engaged the Danish Institute functional Human Rights Core Team of 80,000 employees. We have developed a for Human Rights (DIHR) to conduct a specialists from our various business general e-learning on human rights for all high-level, company-wide human rights functions, including Operations, Human employees, rolled out at the same time of risk mapping and gap analysis. Over a Resources, Law, Corporate Affairs, the release of our Commitment to Human seven-month period, the DIHR team Marketing & Sales, Sustainability, and Rights. In addition, we are developing reviewed PMI’s group-level policies, Compliance. The Human Rights Core tailored functional training to ensure a procedures and practices. Though this was Team is supported by the functional more in-depth understanding of what an informative and group-level assessment, leaders who report to our CEO and is human rights mean for individual functions the research process was wide-ranging, coordinated by the Sustainability Team and to PMI as a whole, as well as the incorporating document review, interviews reporting to our Senior Vice President of concrete steps and actions expected from with managers and senior-level employees Corporate Affairs. The Human Rights Core the different functional areas. from across the central organization, two Team also engages externally for advice cross-functional workshops, and and expertise on human rights. consultation with external stakeholders with whom PMI has engaged regarding labor and human rights. The Human Rights Core Team is now drawing on the DIHR’s analysis and our broader engagement with experts and stakeholders to develop a detailed human rights action plan. We will report on this work separately before the end of 2017. We remain committed to do our best to continuously improve our processes and work with our business partners and suppliers to support our commitment. Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals A hand-roller of kretek cigarettes in Indonesia 39 Our people We are a multigenerational, In this section we look at employment the relevant processes and tools to nurture at PMI and our company culture, our a workplace that is inclusive, safe and diverse community of approach to diversity and inclusion, professional. With this in mind, we have around 80,000 employees our labor relations as a foundation of adopted a suite of Principles and Practices sustainable business, and ongoing efforts to meet the expectations set out in our worldwide, speaking over in the area of employee safety, health and Guidebook for Success and implemented 80 languages and working well-being. We also look to the future specific programs to advance its integration. and the steps we are taking to equip our together in a culture of people to adapt and thrive as our company Diversity and inclusion honesty, respect and shifts towards smoke-free products. We operate in many countries and as we move forward in a rapidly changing fairness. Strong governance as a foundation business environment, our people continue for our culture to come from and represent a wide Our priority is to be a top employer Our Human Resources (HR) Leadership spectrum of backgrounds and perspectives. and to attract, support, and retain Team is accountable for establishing and We continue to promote an inclusive people from every part of the globe – implementing the Principles and Practices workplace that is safe and professional regardless of race, ethnicity, age, gender, to shape employee behavior as part of and free from discrimination. We also know gender expression, sexual orientation, maintaining a workplace of honesty, that this is key to improving our creativity religion, national origin, citizenship, marital respect and fairness. Together with and performance in the future, and we are status, physical ability, or similar status. management across different functions, making progress in a number of areas. Our differences foster innovation and our company-wide HR organization is support our company’s transformation. responsible for creating and implementing 40 Progress in 2016 Our employment principles ——We are on track to reach our 2022 goal of increasing the representation of and practices 80,000 female employees in management positions to 40%, with the percentage We make employment decisions on merit. We do not engage in or condone forced or Employees worldwide of women hired and promoted by PMI child labor anywhere we operate. We do increasing in 2016. By the end of 2016, not employ persons below the age of 15, 32.8% of management positions were or the local minimum employment age or held by women and 43.1% of PMI’s mandatory schooling age, whichever is new hires at the managerial level higher, except for official apprenticeship were women. programs authorized under local laws and regulations. We do not employ persons ——Through a series of workshops, we below the age of 18 for any hazardous continued to educate our management work. Our Labor Relations Principles 80 on inclusive leadership and constantly increase opportunities to stimulate recognize our employees’ right to freedom Languages of association and to collective bargaining. spoken diverse perspectives. Workshops were We do not accept any form of discrimination held in 24 countries and in two of or harassment. We make safety of all our our Shared Service Centers. We also employees and those who might be launched an Unconscious Bias e-learning affected by our operations a priority. tool, available to all employees worldwide, and we integrated into our standard PMI training curriculum key learnings about the benefits of diversity and how to be more inclusive. 32.8% ——We received external recognition for Women in management our work in a number of countries: positions ——In Australia, we received the Employer of Choice for Gender Equality Award by the Government’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency; and ——In Switzerland, we achieved the Innovation Excellence in Diversity and Inclusion Award from the Profiles 48 in Diversity Journal for our strong Employer certification program Counties with advocacy in closing the gender pay flexible working gap worldwide. The Top Employer certification program is arrangements designed to recognize the best employers Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals ——The Equal-Salary Foundation examined around the world. It is awarded by the Top and certified another of our affiliates – Employer Institute following an assessment Japan – for equal compensation validated by an external auditing company practices among men and women. of the companies’ practices in several Following this key milestone, our areas including compensation and aspiration is to attain a global Equalemployee benefits, career development, Salary certification by 2019 as the working conditions and training and 68% assessor develops their organizational capacity. development. PMI has been certified in Employees covered Europe for five years, the Middle East for by collective labor agreements ——We are also working to better support two, and Africa for the first time in 2016. our people in balancing business and personal priorities. PMI has now implemented flexible work arrangements under our FleXability program in 48 countries where we operate. The program gives employees various options including flexible start and finish times, 79 working from home one day a week or working a shorter working week by Collective labor agreements compressing their normal working hours. globally 41 Good labor relations – finding Labor relations Our approach to labor relations reflects common ground is not always the vision, culture and identity of our easy: The case of Pakistan company. We believe that dialogue with Although we do our best to foster positive employees and their representatives is and meaningful dialogue, at times this a cornerstone of strong business proves challenging, and issues often ensue performance. Our Global Employment from necessary changes in our operations. Policy, which all PMI employees are One such instance occurred with the expected to know and follow, speaks of reorganization of our affiliate in Pakistan in our commitment to fundamental rights 2015-2016. PMI seeks to avoid job losses and principles at work. We respect the wherever possible, but this reorganization right of our employees to join trade was necessary because of reduced leaf unions and representative organizations purchase and processing requirements of their own choice, and we encourage and affected a total of 186 employees. engagement and dialogue with our Even though the reorganization process employees. We recognize workers’ right complied with all legal requirements in to bargain collectively through workers’ the country, one of the trade unions took representatives, who may communicate the view that our consultation had been openly and without fear of retaliation. We inadequate and filed petitions before the promote cooperation on matters of mutual National Industrial Relations Commission concern and observe high standards of in Pakistan. The petitions were later employment and labor relations. dismissed however, this instance was unfortunately described in the International Progress in 2016 Trade Union Confederation report of Collective Labor Agreements with trade 2016, as a violation of union rights. unions and employee representatives illustrate our genuine labor relations This event reinforced our resolve to engagement. They govern many of our continuously and proactively promote employees’ terms and conditions at constructive dialogue and positive work and may include working hours, relations with employee representatives occupational health and safety, holidays, to ensure that we are able to cooperate wages, and procedures for dispute on matters of mutual concern and observe resolution. Our status in 2016 included: high standards of labor relations. ——79 collective labor agreements in 35 countries covering 68% of our employees; Logistics worker in our manufacturing ——The development of a set of facility in Neuchâtel, Switzerland comprehensive labor relations principles aimed at establishing the Compensation crucial elements to advance and sustain We are convinced that motivated and Leading the way in successful engagement and collaboration engaged employees drive individual and, equal-salary certification between management, employees and ultimately, business performance. This is their representatives; and In 2015, we were the first multinational why in every country we operate we offer company to receive the equal-salary ——The continuous strengthening of the career and development opportunities certification in Switzerland. Following this, labor relations capability within our through diverse and inspiring professional we embarked on a certification procedure HR function. After deploying a labor experiences, including international in Japan which consisted of statistical relations assessment toolkit in 2015, assignments. Compensation and benefits analysis of all Japanese employees’ salaries we developed an e-learning tool for HR are also important, and PMI’s policies in followed by a thorough onsite audit. Our employees who lead our labor relations this area in every country are at or above Japanese affiliate was officially certified in work at the country level, which we plan the market median. Alongside these September 2016. to roll out to all HR staff in our affiliates efforts, we are looking at ways to educate in 2017. and enable our employees to reduce Currently, we are focused on the equalshortand long-term financial impact salary certification project that will give inherent to changes in employment or us the possibility of receiving a global retirement. equal-salary certification for PMI, with the Equal-Salary Foundation working in partnership with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) for the 18-month audit and certification procedure. 42 We encourage the establishment of local H&WB committees in our affiliates. Composed of cross-functional team members and employee representatives, they foster the collaboration and dialogue necessary to tailor the activities according the specific needs of local employees. To date, we have H&WB committees in the EU, where the program was piloted, and our ambition is to expand to the remaining regions. As part of continuously improving our efforts, we are studying best practices in other companies and looking at ways to define and embed evidence-based employee H&WB metrics into our broader corporate reporting framework, which we envision to include data in line with the most recent Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard. ‘Balanced You’ program key areas Illness and Encouraging disease prevention physical activity Living wage Health and well-being According to surveys conducted by The health and well-being (H&WB) of unions, academia and the International our employees, both inside and outside Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Labor Organization (ILO) on the concept the workplace, is a key part of our Promoting Support in stress of living wage, in some countries minimum people management and is something healthy eating management and legal wage levels may not fulfil the needs we continuously seek to improve. work-life balance of employees and their families to have a decent life. In 2016, we started a project H&WB is a multifaceted topic touching with Business for Social Responsibility on the physical, emotional and behavioral (BSR) to assess whether the lowest-paid aspects of living. H&WB is understood people in our organization are able to differently from country to country and is maintain an adequate standard of living. influenced by personal preferences, local Together with BSR we have defined the culture, behaviors, and demographics. concept and methodology, and after With this in mind, we continue to roll out conducting initial desk research, we our framework and minimum requirements have decided to run a living wage survey on promoting H&WB initiatives through in countries where we have more than our “Balanced You” program across our 50 employees. affiliates worldwide. This covers four main areas: We want to define living wage rates, ——Illness and disease prevention; identify where we can improve and establish adjustment actions if needed ——Encouraging physical activity; for those employees whose wages might ——Promoting healthy eating; and be below these rates. We are in the process of identifying the first countries ——Support in stress management and to be part of this exercise. work-life balance. 43 The PM EU Works Council Safety in the workplace PMI has 48 production facilities in 32 celebrates 20 years of different countries. We have developed sustained, meaningful dialogue and implemented a leading environmental and occupational health, safety and “I have the pleasure of participating security management system, which in the EU Works Council of PMI as involves policies, standard practices and its Vice-Chairman. The EWC is a high procedures at all of our manufacturing level dialogue body that discusses centers. topics relevant to the social partners – business performance, employee We set minimum requirements based on PMI best practices and local regulations health and well-being, and embed these requirements into every reorganizations – and shares level of our organization. Training and successes and challenges, good awareness programs support our practices, projects and initiatives ambitions, globally and at the affiliate level. taking place in the PMI EU region. In 2016 we revised our Mission Zero In 2016 we celebrated the 20th program to reinforce the importance of anniversary of sustained safety beyond compliance (now called collaboration in EWC. Despite Mission Zero “Because We Care”). We sometimes challenging topics, have rolled out a Safety Climate Survey in discussions are always constructive; all our manufacturing sites to get feedback we have meaningful dialogue to find from 20,000 employees. the best solution for everyone In 2016, our Lost Time Injury (LTI) rate, concerned. This is something we can the most widely used benchmark to all be proud of.” assess prevalence of serious work-related injuries, was the best in our industry and HARALD WIEDENHOFER one of the lowest among our Fast-Moving GENERAL SECRETARY OF THE Consumer Goods peer group. In 2016 the EUROPEAN FEDERATION OF FOOD, LTI rate across the whole of PMI was 0.12 AGRICULTURE AND TOURISM TRADE (injuries per 200,000 hours worked) and UNIONS (EFFAT) in our factories it stood at 0.05. Thirty five of our factories have achieved zero LTI for more than a year and several sites have reached up to five years without LTIs. We also conduct regular safety An engineer operating a make-pack cigarette assessments at our offices, warehouses machine at our facility in Neuchâtel, Switzerland and car fleet organizations. Additionally, we have engaged Bureau Veritas, an external certification body, to assess the Engaging our people through training management systems at our manufacturing and learning as our company evolves centers around the world in accordance The ability to learn and adapt quickly and with internationally recognized standards effectively is of particular importance in for safety and environmental management. light of the major changes that come with In 2016, 93% of our factories were our business transformation. In addition to certified to the international safety novel initiatives to equip employees to management standard OHSAS 18001, adapt and thrive, we are also implementing and two additional factories were in the the following tools to support our process of gaining certification. collective learning effort: ——We have created a Learning Council, Despite good results and low injury which is a decision-making body with rates, we are committed to explore more oversight of all global, regional and innovative and engaging ways to keep functional training programs covering our performance world-class. Managing general employee learning and change with safety in mind is essential as development. Its main accountabilities we convert existing factories or build new are twofold: first, strategic governance, production sites for smoke-free products. setting global and regional priorities for From 2017 onwards, we are implementing learning; and, second, operational our Mission Zero “Because We Care” governance, related to efficiency and program beyond our manufacturing effectiveness factors. operations to reach our country sales and marketing organizations. 44 ——We developed a 360⁰ learning platform Safety across our fleet ——We created Fleet Safety Teams/ Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals which is a simple, web-based tool for Committees in the largest countries With a fleet of more than 25,000 vehicles where we operate to help reduce the employees. The platform can be in more than 100 countries, road safety risk of workplace injuries and illnesses accessed on multiple devices and is a key concern. We manage our vehicle and maintain compliance with safety accommodates different affiliates’ needs fleet with an integrated approach based regulations; with local content where staff can on nine elements: leadership, baseline access the same training tools. ——We launched a fleet safety e-learning assessment, risk assessment, hiring ——Our company culture is also key to our of drivers and placement, training, tool in 79 countries, with 15,000 drivers future success. In 2017, we launched performance recognition, vehicle selection enrolling each year and reaching a a Shape our Culture and Leadership and maintenance, incident reporting and training completion rate of 90% across initiative (SHAPE) focused on gathering investigation, management reviews and our organization worldwide; feedback from employees about the communication. ——We also established a PMI Fleet culture and leadership behaviors we Safety Award, which receives 50-60 Progress in 2016 need to succeed in our business submissions each year and senior We are making good progress across all transformation and will report back management attention; and nine areas of our Fleet Safety program: on our progress in 2018. ——We implemented our Fleet Safety ——We have gained better understanding program in all countries where we of safety dynamics in our fleet based operate and involved our sales force on employee feedback and reporting organization; (5,000 individual reports per year). ——While our overall crash rate (which includes cosmetic damage) has increased, reflecting better internal reporting, our preferred indicator – collision rate (collisions per million km driven), which covers higher severity road accidents, has declined to 1.22 (from 1.24 last year); 45 Looking ahead Our business vision to create a smokefree future entails an organizational transformation which calls for a new mindset and perspective. Employee centricity, greater inclusiveness and diversity are key enablers to achieve this. In the next couple of years, we will continue to work on our goal of increasing the representation of female employees in management positions to 40% by 2022, and we will pursue our goal to reach a global equal-salary certification by 2019 with the Equal-Salary Foundation working in partnership with PricewaterhouseCoopers An employee in our heated tobacco (PwC) for the 18-month audit and manufacturing facility in Bologna, Italy certification procedure. We are looking ahead with confidence that We will maintain safety as one of the Environment, Health and Safety Award sound labor relations and a constructive pillars of our new way of working to recognize those functions that have dialogue with our employees and their across operations, known as OPEN+ already started applying the Mission Zero representatives will help us to respond to (see page 25). This will serve to further philosophy to their day-to-day work, the the challenges and opportunities arising drive sustainable safety performance and objective being to encourage their further from our company transformation. We will our safety culture evolution. Operational commitment to sustaining PMI’s safety continue building and reinforcing our labor discipline, continuous health checks culture, environmental commitments and relations capabilities across the globe. (gap assessments) and scorecards will in identifying best practices that can be We want to define living wage rates help accelerate progress. shared and applied globally. and identify where we can improve and We will expand our Mission Zero In 2017 and specifically in respect to establish adjustment actions where “Because We Care” program beyond our our fleet of vehicles, we will focus on needed. As part of continuously improving manufacturing facilities. Starting in 2017, innovative technology solutions our efforts, we are studying best practices we will launch new safety leadership (gamification/telematics) to facilitate safe and looking at ways to define and embed workshops and tools, upgrade minimum driving and accident prevention. We are evidence-based employee H&WB metrics requirements and undertake employee also implementing safe route planning into our broader corporate reporting engagement activities across our affiliates. systems, driving style and safe driving framework. We will also launch a country-level simulators. Our people – Metrics Metrics Coverage 2014 2015 2016 Goals Status Check Total number of employees All PMI 82,500 80,200 79,500 % of management positions held by women All PMI 29.5 31 32.8 40 by 2022 On Track Equal-Salary certification All PMI N/A Switzerland Switzerland Global by 2019 On Track and Japan % of employees covered by All PMI 67.7 67.0 68.0 Collective Labor Agreements Lost Time Injury (LTI) Rate – All PMI 0.14 0.11 0.12 <0.1 Note 1 LTIs per 200,000 hours worked Fleet Crash rate – PMI vehicles 5.9 5.3 6.8 <4 Note 2 Vehicle crashes per million km driven Fleet Collision rate – PMI vehicles 2.4 1.24 1.22 <3 Note 2 Vehicle collisions per million km driven % of manufacturing facilities with PMI factories 91 93 93 100 Note 3 OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation Note 1 – Safety comes first at PMI so despite our LTI rate being the best in our industry and one of the lowest among our Fast-Moving Consumer Goods peer group, we continue to seek improvement. By extending Mission Zero “Because We Care” program beyond our manufacturing facilities we believe we can beat our LTI rate goal. Note 2 – Our overall crash rate (which includes cosmetic damage) has increased, reflecting better internal reporting; our preferred indicator – collision rate (collisions per million km driven), which covers higher severity road accidents, has continued to decrease – we will focus on this indicator going forward. Note 3 – Newly acquired or built factories have begun the certification process. Because there might be new factories we may not reach 100%, but that remains our goal. 46 Our supply chain With a complex global Ensuring our responsible supply chain comes a sourcing program starts number of significant on the right foot As a preliminary step, we informed PMI’s sustainability issues that suppliers of our commitment to the we need to understand, UNGC’s Principles and of our intention manage and continuously to develop a comprehensive responsible sourcing program with a view to sourcing address. our products and services from suppliers who themselves are committed to the These range from climate change and same principles. Our communication, in environmental impacts (discussed in the 25 languages covering more than 90% environment chapter on page 56), to the of our supply chain spend and across potential for labor and human rights all procurement categories, emphasized abuses or corruption. the importance of working together on these topics as a way to strengthen our We take our role seriously and are working business relationship. with our business partners to proactively identify, manage and reduce risks, create The feedback from our suppliers was mutual value and have a positive impact very positive, with many expressing their on the wider communities from which we The RSP were developed in consultation support and readiness to work with PMI source. We see this as a fundamental part with external expert stakeholders on in the area. As a next step, we actively of upholding our commitment to the human rights and sustainability and with a engaged with some of our key suppliers to UNGC and embedding its Principles into select group of our key suppliers. The RSP better understand their existing programs, our daily work. operationalize our commitment to the discuss our expectations in different areas, UNGC’s Principles across our supply chain. and consolidate our views regarding the To date, our efforts have concentrated They complement our existing programs due diligence processes we need to have largely on our agricultural supply chain to in our agricultural supply chain (our Good in place so that we can make progress. address labor and other risks in the places Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Agricultural where we source tobacco. Our priority Labor Practices (ALP) programs) and set Managing risk as we develop Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals as we continue this work is to establish process and performance requirements a comprehensive approach to sustainable for all suppliers doing business with PMI. our electronics supply chain supply chain management for a broader We will be increasingly reliant on a new and more complex supply chain. Looking ahead and complex supply chain that includes In 2017, we will roll out the implementation electronics manufacturing. Electronics In this section, we cover the framework of the RSP starting with our global and suppliers are new business partners to and programs we have put in place to strategic partners, supported by a PMI, often in geographies where PMI move us forward, our progress so far, and comprehensive training program for our has not previously done significant where we are concentrating our efforts procurement organization. Our intention procurement of direct materials (mainly to both overcome existing challenges is to reach over 90% of our suppliers China and Southeast Asia) and where and anticipate future ones. (weighted by total spending) by mid-2018. human rights issues have been flagged in Building a framework for the recent past. Further, the fast-growing nature of this novel part of our business sustainable supply chain means that new suppliers are continuously management being added to our electronics supply During 2016 we set the foundations for chain, particularly for suppliers at tier two a more comprehensive and systematic and below. approach to addressing supply chain sustainability through the development of a set of Responsible Sourcing Principles (RSP) and Implementation Guidelines.¹ These establish our expectations in the areas of Human Rights, Labor Rights, the Environment and Business Integrity, and apply to all suppliers doing business 1 https://www.pmi.com/resources/docs/defaultwith PMI. source/pmi-sustainability/pmi’s-responsiblesourcing-principles.pdf?sfvrsn=15c19ab5_8 47 Assessment and selection of electronics manufacturing services (EMS) suppliers Our focus so far has been on our main smoke-free product IQOS. In 2016, PMI engaged a leading not-for-profit organization, Verité,¹ specializing in labor and human rights issues (and which is also our strategic partner on the Agricultural Labor Practices (ALP) program) to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the labor management systems starting with our main EMS supplier. The purpose of the assessment was to identify strengths and gaps in the supplier’s systems and to understand the living and working conditions of workers, particularly foreign migrant workers that make up a significant percentage of the supplier’s labor force. PMI is working with the supplier and Verité on the management action plan which will be implemented during 2017 and 2018. In addition, we started to map out the IQOS supply chain to identify human rights risks down to fourth tier suppliers. We have identified all suppliers (totaling more than 140) and have engaged Verité to conduct the risk assessment. We aim to complete Our overall goal Conflict minerals due diligence this work during 2017 with action plans to address the prioritized risks, scheduled for During 2016 we strengthened our conflict implementation in 2018. minerals due diligence process related to 3TG minerals (tungsten, tantalum, tin, and We are also taking steps to integrate gold) that are mined in the Democratic sustainability criteria into the assessment Republic of the Congo and neighboring of new EMS suppliers for PMI. countries. ——We engaged with our direct suppliers of To select PMI’s second EMS supplier, Platform 1 and Platform 4 products to we established specific qualifying criteria “PMI’s supply chain strategy for communicate our expectation that they (e.g., regarding labor/human rights risks, sustainability is based on three key should increasingly source minerals from preference to suppliers contracting and pillars: first, the identification and smelters or refiners that are certified as managing workers directly), and conducted mitigation of risk; second, integration “conflict-free” by the available thirda one-day assessment with an on-site visit into the business; and third, the party sources.² In 2016, all but two and management interviews for each of creation of value. During 2016, smelters or refiners in our supply chain the three finalists in the bidding process. were reported as “conflict-free” in our We have conducted a full sustainability we set the foundations for this conflict minerals report. review of the selected supplier to gain a strategy with the RSP and our first more in-depth understanding of their comprehensive analysis of the main ——We included conflict minerals due status and seek alignment with our RSP categories of risk in our supply chain. diligence in the Management Systems early on, and we plan to conduct such of our main supplier. In the coming years we will work to reviews with all future EMS suppliers. ——We engaged Verité to help us provide communicate our expectations, and make continuous progress in its a conflict minerals due diligence Looking ahead implementation. Our ultimate goal training for PMI staff involved in Increasing our visibility over the IQOS the procurement of electronics. supply chain will be paramount in helping is to create value for PMI, for our us to better identify and manage risks. suppliers and for society.” We intend to establish a monitoring and auditing system for specific groups of HAFED BELHADJ suppliers in this part of our supply chain, VICE PRESIDENT, SUPPLY CHAIN including manufacturers and suppliers of IQOS accessories. Mapping our IQOS supply chain will also enable us to identify a priority list of sub-tier suppliers for further due diligence. 1 https://www.verite.org/ 2 http://www.lbma.org.uk/refiners-gold-current (London Bullion Market AssociationGood Delivery list) http://www.conflictfreesourcing.org/conflict-freesmelter-refiner-lists/ (CFSIconflict free smelters) 48 Agricultural supply chain Our Good Agricultural Farm economics, mechanization and innovation We take our role in promoting sustainable Practices (GAP) program Tobacco is a valuable crop that allows agricultural production very seriously, and Our GAP program defines the principles farmers to generate significant income, our Good Agricultural Practices (GAP)1 and standards we expect to be met by all particularly in the case of smallholder program is mandatory for farmers farmers and suppliers of tobacco for PMI. farms. However, tobacco growing is also contracting with PMI or our suppliers. In It includes three focus areas: labor intensive, and as such efficiency 2016, PMI and our suppliers contracted ——How to make tobacco farming more improvements are crucial for the optimal with approximately 380,000 tobacco profitable and sustainable. Promoting outcome of the production. Initiatives to farms worldwide. practices to improve farmers’ yields and reduce the number of working hours A unique business model underpins crop quality, maximizing their production required to grow the crop range from our work with farmers: The Integrated to use less land for tobacco and reduce packing simplification, to mechanization, Production System (IPS) labor requirements. This helps to or curing preparation. We source the vast majority of our generate a higher income for the farmer, While this is a global effort, the specific tobacco (approximately 88%) through frees up land for alternative crops for initiatives depend on the particular direct contractual relations (established by local food security, and with surplus characteristics of the crop and the farms us or by our suppliers) with independent crops, helps to create an alternative in each country. For example, in Indonesia, farmers across nearly 30 countries source of income; preparing the land for cultivation is mostly worldwide. This is critical to enable us ——How to minimize the impact of tobacco done manually, and farmers increasingly (or our suppliers) to work collaboratively farming on the environment. Promoting face difficulty in finding workers during the with farmers and to drive the systematic environmentally sustainable practices, crop season. PMI’s Indonesian affiliate (HM implementation and monitoring of our including curing barn improvements, Sampoerna), together with three tobacco standards. Direct contractual relations also the use of more sustainable tobacco leaf suppliers, Alliance One, Universal Leaf benefit the farmer in a number of ways: curing fuel sources , CPA reduction, and Sadhana, has been helping to make ——Ahead of the growing season, the reforestation, as well as water and waste mechanical handheld cultivators available contractual agreement on the volume management; and to groups of five to six farmers in regions and price of the tobacco protects the ——How to improve working conditions on of light soils since 2014. These machines farmer from market fluctuations and the farm. Promoting and monitoring are used for ridging, soil tillage and weeding ensures there is a buyer for the crop; good labor practices, including health and help farmers save 13 labor days/ ——Farmers can access crop inputs (e.g., and safety conditions, and prevention hectare in tobacco. Half of the farmers fertilizer) at a lower cost; of child or forced labor (the Agricultural also use these mechanical handheld Labor Practices program). cultivators for other crops such as corn, ——Removing middlemen reduces rice and onions. In 2016, 289 handheld transportation costs or other non-valueThe GAP program encompasses a wide cultivators were made available, reaching added fees charged to farmers; range of initiatives to support farmers a total of 493 cultivators being used ——The contract can be used by the farmer in the implementation of best practices, by more than 3,000 farmers since the as collateral for credit or other financing ranging from farmer training programs beginning of this initiative. For 2017, arrangements; on sustainable land stewardship or our plan is to make 300 to 400 new management and entrepreneurial skills, cultivators available. ——Trained agronomists provide support to the provision of personal protective to contracted farmers throughout the Another example comes from Turkey. Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals equipment to safely apply chemicals tobacco growing season to improve In Turkey’s oriental tobacco growing, labor for crop protection and on the use of overall conditions and production. is not only the main cost, but it is also the new technologies. 1 https://www.pmi.com/sustainability/goodbottleneck limiting the volume that each agricultural-practices farmer can produce, due to the laborintensive preparation of the small Oriental leaves for curing. The “vento” machine technology allows farmers to harvest Oriental tobacco leaves in bulk by enabling the curing preparation in a cotton net tube instead of the traditional practices whereby tobacco leaves need to be carefully aligned during harvesting so they can be individually sown on a string for curing. These machines enable the farmer to make an estimated labor saving of 25 labor days/ha and allows farmers to harvest larger volumes, thereby significantly increasing income. With PMI’s technical and financial support, around 1,700 farmers, representing 27% of PMI’s volume sourced in Turkey, were using “vento” machines by the end of 2016. In 2017, we expect to source over 40% of our tobacco in Turkey to be cured Tobacco farmer in Brazil using this technology. © Sarah Hazlegrove, Tobacco People 49 Continued support to farmers to grow alternative crops For several years, we have been supporting smallholder farmers to grow food crops alongside tobacco. In Africa (Mozambique, Malawi and Tanzania) these efforts encompass technical assistance and financing for food crop inputs (fertilizer and seeds for mainly maize). In 2016 the total tonnage of food production supported by PMI in these countries (over 260,000 tons) already surpassed the production of tobacco, with the program reaching 60.000 farmers. In 2017, we expect that direct support for food crop production will reach approximately 150,000 smallholder farmers Food crops (maize and ground nuts) grown alongside across the three countries. We have seen tobacco on an IPS contracted farm in Malawi significant improvements in food crop yields, up by nearly fourfold in the case of maize, which are strengthening food Farmer testimonial security and oftentimes generate a surplus “Vento changed a lot our life. Before for sale at local markets. Together with our suppliers, we are currently exploring with Vento we were manually stringing other international food crop buyers the tobacco from noon time to the late possibilities to create a route to market for evenings and we did not have any surplus food crops produced by tobacco spare time for resting and for our growers in these countries, leveraging on other farm activities. I was producing the infrastructure and logistics already in Tobacco farmer operating one ton of tobacco. Now I managed place for tobacco production. hand-held cultivator in rice crop to double my production with the © Sarah Hazlegrove, Tobacco People In Brazil, farmers contracting with PMI’s same labor force. I have also more affiliate (Philip Morris Brazil – PMB) usually comfort in my life so I can also deal Looking ahead grow maize as a rotation crop after tobacco, with my livestock and other crops. Smoke-free products require less tobacco as fertilizer remains available in the soil My near future plan is to produce after tobacco harvest. Since 2016, through compared to cigarettes. When large three to four tons of tobacco.” a collaboration with DuPont Pioneer (a numbers of consumers eventually switch to smoke-free products, we do expect leading seed company) PMB started to MEHMET DEMIR a gradual decrease in tobacco leaf provide farmers with certified maize seed, (TOBACCO FARMER) requirements, which will free up land and enough for 1 hectare per farmer. Yield ADIYAMAN, TURKEY capacity for other uses. We are actively improvements applying certified seed and working with the relevant stakeholders best practices in corn can increase average and other potential business partners to Adiyaman productivity by 30%. DuPont Pioneer explore new opportunities and to prepare trained PMB field technicians on maize and manage potential midto long-term Turkey good agricultural practices, to support impacts. We already encourage and over 1,500 contracted farmers enrolled in support crop diversification efforts as a this project in the southern area of the Syria way to improve farm outcomes, manage country. PMB is now considering alternative environmental impacts and strengthen the Iraq avenues for the farmers to commercialize resilience of tobacco growing communities. their surplus corn production. Although These efforts will continue as they the proportion of farmers growing food become even more important in a context crops for their own consumption remained of change, and we will continuously adapt stable globally (approximately 70%), the our programs to the local realities. We number of farmers growing and selling envision that the foundation referred to on food crops as an additional source of page 27 will also focus on addressing the income rose from 35% in 2015 to 41% consequences of declining demand for in 2016. tobacco alongside its efforts to accelerate this decline. 50 A field technician discusses the ALP Code with a farmer in Malawi Monitoring progress with the Agricultural The third-party assessment process, Assessors from CU collect information on Labor Practices (ALP) program including assessor training, was specifically individual farm practices for each of the The ALP program¹ aims to eliminate child designed for this program, leveraging on ALP Code Measurable Standards, review labor and other labor abuses in tobacco Verité’s experience with in-depth supply all relevant program documentation of growing. Verité is our strategic global chain social assessments. Verité continues PMI’s affiliate or supplier and interview partner in this program, which reached to play a quality control role in the whole the staff involved in the program’s approximately 380,000 contracted farmers process, but does not participate in the implementation, including senior management. Unannounced farm visits Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals in 2016. Since its inception, we have actual assessments themselves, in order committed to full transparency regarding to safeguard the third-party autonomy of and interviews with farmers, family the evolution and status of the program, Control Union. The selection of countries members and workers are also conducted publishing standalone regular updates and where a third-party assessment is for a random sample of farms. external assessments of implementation conducted takes into consideration the status on a country-by-country or supplier relative volumes of tobacco sourced and This information enables PMI’s affiliates basis. The next stand-alone complete aims to represent the geographic and and suppliers to evaluate and enhance update is due in early 2018, but we take socio-economic diversity of PMI’s tobacco their implementation of the program. the opportunity in this report to highlight supply chain. The external assessments As a requirement following each some key developments in 2016, are conducted once PMI’s affiliates or assessment, they are expected to develop particularly as they relate to the program’s suppliers have rolled out the ALP program, comprehensive plans to change conditions monitoring. looking at how it has been set-up and taking on farms in light of the CU assessment stock of the quality of implementation. findings and reflect improvement needs ALP includes a farm-by-farm monitoring and priorities. These action plans are system (conducted by us or our suppliers) In each third-party assessment, CU included as an addendum to each CU and third-party assessments conducted evaluates the implementation of the ALP assessment report. by Control Union Certifications (CU).² program, including knowledge of the ALP While the internal systematic monitoring Code, the internal training and is implemented by approximately 2,800 organizational capacity of our affiliate or trained field technicians who support supplier, how the ALP program is being farmers on a day-to-day basis, the communicated on farms, the processes third-party work consists of country and being used to monitor labor practices, supplier-specific assessments. The results whether issues are being addressed, and of these CU assessments are disclosed the working and living conditions of publicly in a detailed report, which also farmers and farm workers. includes the action plans of our affiliates 1 https://www.pmi.com/sustainability/goodagricultural-practices/upholding-labor-rights-onand suppliers to address identified issues. the-farms 2 https://certifications.controlunion.com/en 51 Tobacco field of PMI contracted farmer in Indonesia © Sarah Hazlegrove, Tobacco People Illustrative example of Control Union machines, as these replace the use of Since the beginning of the program, CU (CU) Assessments and action plans stringing and require much less labor, has conducted 21 ALP assessments in 15 disclosed in 2016: thereby reducing the risk of child labor. countries covering nearly 67,000 farms In 2016, we released the reports from According to our internal data collection, and interviewing farmers, workers, and the CU assessments conducted during the the number of child labor issues related to family members on over 1,000 contracted 2015 crop season in two different regions stringing has declined from 480 in 2015 farms. Although we are fully aware that in Turkey (Tavas and Mugla, where two to only one instance in 2016. To mitigate we face many complex challenges in our different suppliers source tobacco for the risk of children potentially shifting to tobacco supply chain around the world, PMI). These assessments found that child other hazardous tasks on the farm (and we hope that our efforts and transparency labor remains present, confirming the replacing one problem with child labor with can help to improve cooperation among findings of our internal monitoring system, another), the existing community program stakeholders in this sector and act as a which identified stringing and harvesting offering after-school activities was expanded catalyst for change in raising the bar on as two hazardous activities in which to reach three cities and six villages in the labor standards in agriculture. children are involved in these regions. Aegean region. This has seen school In light of these findings, our suppliers enrollment figures rising substantially in have developed an action plan which the past year, increasing from 82 children also includes the introduction of “vento” in 2015 to 526 children in 2016.1 1 https://www.pmi.com/resources/docs/defaultsource/pmi-sustainability/cu_third_party_ assessment_aot_turkey.pdf?sfvrsn=a766b3b5_4 52 Human Rights Watch (HRW) research mitigating risks and addressing issues on Child Labor in Indonesia through the implementation of our ALP Our first Communication on Progress to program. Expansion of our IPS approach the UNGC included information on HRW’s is a complex process that requires major research and report released in May 20161 investments in resources and infrahighlighting the issue of children’s structure, entails a significant financial exposure to hazardous work in smallholder risk (due to “side-selling” into traditional tobacco farming in Indonesia. Since then, channels and the difficulty of enforcing we have continued open and constructive contracts), and is conditioned by our dialogue with HRW and other relevant limited leverage with stakeholders (in stakeholders as part of our efforts to 2016, tobacco sourced through IPS tackle this systemic issue. In February 2016, represented less than one quarter of the we published a third-party assessment total crop in the country). Notwithstanding, report on the implementation of our ALP our local affiliate (HM Sampoerna) has program in Indonesia (Lombok region), continued working with our suppliers to including detailed information about the expand the proportion of our tobacco progress made and challenges we faced in purchases made through the IPS in addressing child labor, as well as our local Indonesia, which we envision will reach supplier’s action plan to address issues 76% and 86% of our volumes in 2017 identified in the report. and 2018, respectively. In 2016, our IPS purchases remained at approximately In Indonesia there are around 550,000 60% (similar to 2015), affected by severe tobacco farmers in diverse locations in the weather events that negatively impacted country, and our suppliers have signed yields of contracted farmers. direct contracts with approximately 28,000 farmers (2016). Given the size In 2016, our suppliers hired an additional of the country and fragmented nature of 15 trained agronomists and field production units, another typical feature technicians (FTs) in Indonesia to support of tobacco production in Indonesia is the farmers in the day-to-day implementation multi-layered supply chain. After the farm, of the ALP program, bringing the total tobacco goes through a number of number of FTs to 237 in the country. “poolers,” “intermediaries” and “middlemen” These FTs regularly monitor farms and before reaching the final buyer, making it take action to address problematic virtually impossible for suppliers to gain practices, such as children helping with visibility into conditions of production. tasks on the farm considered to be We believe that the single most important hazardous work. One example is the aspect creating a positive impact in reducing distribution of approximately 220,000 child labor has been to progressively move “clip sticks” (194,000 in 2015), which are away from the multi-layered supply chain a more efficient way of preparing the and to implement the Integrated tobacco leaves for curing replacing a task Production System (IPS) in Indonesia, oftentimes performed by farmers’ children. Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals where our suppliers contract farmers (or This initiative is being coupled with farmer groups) directly. This is the only off-farm programs for school-aged CU third-party assessments of way to gain visibility into farm practices children during the harvest season. From ALP program implementation and make tangible and sustainable the 2,348 children enrolled in 25 schools improvements to the production in 2015, these programs reached 4,800 (2016): conditions on farms, while children enrolling in 50 schools in 2016. Eight reports published covering six countries: 1. Colombia 2. Indonesia 3. Mozambique 4. Poland 5. Tanzania (2 suppliers) 6. Turkey (2 suppliers) 1 Human Rights Watch report, “The Harvest is in My Blood: Hazardous Child Labor in Tobacco Farming in Indonesia. May 24th, 2016: https://www.hrw. org/report/2016/05/24/harvest-my-blood/ hazardous-child-labor-tobacco-farming-indonesia 53 A survey conducted before and after the Our suppliers also provided personal that levels of awareness about the ALP implementation of the program gathered protective equipment (mask, gloves, program are 96% among farmers and 86% feedback directly from the participants long-sleeved shirt and boots) and training among family members, and only 43% and reduced by approximately 43% the to contracted farmers in Indonesia and among hired workers. Although CU did involvement of children in tobacco promoted an ALP roadshow in six tobacconot find any children hired by contracted growing. growing regions to raise awareness about farmers or child family members helping the program and deliver training. From out on contracted farms, the supplier’s Other programs aimed at eliminating child 1,421 participants in 2015, the initiative internal monitoring data continue to labor include high school scholarships in reached more than 3,000 participants in show this is an area of risk. This finding tobacco-growing communities, which have 2016, which includes 1,196 farmers, 993 reinforces our belief that combining and increased from 953 students in 2015 to farmers’ wives, and 880 workers. cross-checking data from both our internal 1,535 students in 2016, and vocational monitoring systems and external audits training for more than 1,000 people on Due to the geographical spread of our enable us to overcome blind spots in our income-generating activities, a child’s right tobacco-growing supply chain in Indonesia, ALP program approach. We plan to release to education and safe working and living we commissioned CU to conduct a the CU assessment report for this region conditions on farms. second assessment for our supplier and our supplier’s action plan before the sourcing tobacco in a different location, in end of 2017 once the supplier action plan Lumajang. Preliminary information showed is finalized. Tobacco growers in Brazil © Sarah Hazlegrove, Tobacco People 54 Our supply chain – Metrics Metrics Coverage 2014 2015 2016 Goals Status Check Coverage of supplier communication Non-tobacco materials N/A N/A 93 >90 On Track on Sustainability (% of total spend)¹ and services % of tobacco purchased by direct contract Tobacco supply chain — 87 88 88 >90 On Track (by our aﬃliates or our suppliers)² total purchases Systematic monitoring of labor practices Tobacco farmers supplying N/A 32.5 72 100 On Track (% coverage)² PMI aﬃliates or our suppliers via direct contract Number of contracted farms within the Tobacco supply chain 23,870 11,043 7,508 scope of external assessments by year³ Number of supplier locations assessed Tobacco supply chain 5 6 5 >5 On Track 1 In the remaining 10%, no individual supplier represents more than 0.1% of the total annual spend. 2 Data relates to crop seasons which may span more than one calendar year. 3 The number of farms within the scope of assessment varies according to the crop-size and number of contracts in a given supplier location. The initial focus of this program was on countries with larger crops and locations where PMI or our suppliers had a bigger number of contracts, which explains the relatively lower number of farms under the scope of assessments conducted in 2016. Freedom of Association for migrant workers in our tobacco growing supply chain In the United States of America and specifically in North Carolina – the largest tobacco-growing state – there have been expressions of concern from stakeholders regarding farm worker intimidation as it relates to the right to associate and organize. The Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC), along with other stakeholders, have raised such concerns at our annual meetings of shareholders, noting the prospect of worker intimidation by farm labor contractors. In our ALP Code, we have made an unequivocal commitment to Freedom of Association rights, and we take these allegations seriously. We have taken action to ensure specific allegations Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals are investigated and resolved, in cooperation with our suppliers and in dialogue with worker's representatives. Further, we have launched concrete initiatives to advance fair and humane working conditions for migrant workers. While 75% of the farms contracted by our suppliers are abridged by a collective bargaining agreement between FLOC and the North Carolina Growers Association (NCGA) that includes a grievance mechanism, more needs to be done to ensure all workers fully enjoy their rights. We remain in dialogue with all stakeholders to achieve this goal. 55 Managing our environmental footprint The world’s changing climate ——Value chain carbon reduction, climate comprehensive action to reduce change impacts and CDP reporting; greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and more than ever calls for ——Energy and water management; mitigate climate change, and for the respect of the environment, ——Agricultural environmental practices; transparency of our disclosures. and this is something all our and Science-Based Targets employees and business ——Product and post-consumer waste. PMI supported the call for a price on carbon in the Paris Climate Agreement and partners can help with. In this section, we provide an update on committed to develop science-based our activities in 2016 related to these key targets. Our targets have been recently From the farms where tobacco is grown, recognized by the Science-Based Targets areas. These efforts demonstrate how we to our production facilities, distribution initiative and demonstrate how PMI can are embedding the UNGC’s Principles 7, 8 networks, retail trade, and the roughly contribute to keeping global warming and 9 into our sustainability strategy and 150 million consumers of our products, below 2°C based on pre-industrial levels. how these activities contribute towards environmental sustainability is key for advancing the SDGs, notably SDG12 on our long-term business success. We have set our performance baseline as Responsible Consumption and Production. 2010. Against that baseline we have a Effective environmental management longstanding commitment to reduce our across our operations and value chain goes Climate change – emissions intensity (GHG emissions per beyond compliance with the applicable a science-based approach million cigarettes equivalent) by 30% by laws and regulations; it is central to the 2020 across the whole of our value chain. Climate change, one of the biggest security of raw material supplies, promotes challenges facing humanity today, requires efficiency and savings, and minimizes In addition, we have now developed global collective action. Following the environmental impacts. Science-Based Targets. These address our adoption of the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015, there is widespread understanding absolute emissions reduction. By 2030 Our environmental management strategy we will reduce absolute GHG emissions follows a two-pronged approach: of what needs to be done to protect the planet. PMI supported the Agreement by 40% across both our own operations 1. Minimizing our impact on the and we are playing our part in delivering and value chain, and by 2040 we will environment through carbon footprint on the necessary action. reduce by 60% for our own operations. and water use reduction, waste We are well underway with a 23% minimization and other mitigation In 2016, we made progress in reducing absolute reduction in GHG emissions initiatives. our environmental impact across our value achieved in 2016. 2. Understanding and adapting to potential chain in our factories (where our carbon future business impacts of major footprint is relatively small compared to other industries), as well as beyond the Carbon footprint environmental trends, such as climate Scope 1 and 2 emissions change and water scarcity. We factory gates. That includes looking at undertake risk assessments to quantify both our upstream supply chain activities 914,050 the impacts of these trends along our (currently focusing on tobacco farming) 666,039 value chain. Based on the results, and downstream, following our product we develop management and and packaging environmental impacts to -27% adaptation strategies. end-of-use. We also developed a set of ambitious targets based on climate science Through life-cycle and other assessments to guide and inform our climate change along our value chain we understand our programs as part of our culture of 2010 tonnage 2016 tonnage main areas of impact and therefore where continuous improvement. to set priorities. These main areas include Total carbon footprint tobacco farming for carbon footprint CDP leadership for the third year in a row Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions reduction and water stewardship action Every year we report on the status of our activities and progress to CDP, the leading 7,401,498 and product end-of-use for action on litter and waste. We also need to manage international not-for-profit organization 5,690,876 new areas of impact due to the increasing assessing companies’ efforts on climate use of electronics and batteries in our change. Out of over a thousand of the -23% products. We have established global world’s largest companies assessed by improvement programs that currently CDP last year, PMI’s operational carbon cover: footprint is nearly 90% lower than the 2010 tonnage 2016 tonnage average, and PMI is listed in the top 9% ——Environmental management and related of companies, recognized in CDP’s standards for our factories and facilities; “Climate A List” for consistently taking 56 Scope of our Science–Based Targets -40% Greenhouse Gas Emissions by 2030 Upstream Downstream activities activities Scope 3 Indirect PMI Scope 3 Indirect Scope 2 Scope 1 Indirect Direct Business travel Employee Transportation Purchased Company Transportation Use of sold End of life commuting and distribution electricity, facilities and distribution products treatment of steam, heating sold products and cooling for own use Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Waste Fuel and Purchased Company generated in energy related goods and vehicles operations actvities services Capital goods Absolute GHG Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 – results and targets 1m 900k 800k 700k 600k 500k 400k 300 200k 100k 0 2010 2015 2016 2020 2030 2040 Set our baseline and Beat our target of Achieved 27% absolute 30% absolute 40% absolute reducon – 60% absolute reducon – targets to 2015 and 2020 20% reducon in reducon. Developed reducon Science-Based Target Science-Based Target factory GHG intensity Science-Based Targets 57 Water: a precious resource Marginal Abatement Cost Curve in need of proper stewardship Projects to be Water is fundamental to growing tobacco implemented in 2017-2018 1. High efficiency Cogeneration plant in Mexico and operating our factories; it’s essential 2. Solar Photovoltaic Plant in Senegal that we don’t just seek to reduce what 3. Solar Photovoltaic Plant in Philippines we use but also act as a water steward. 4. Biomass Boiler in Switzerland That means responsibly using the water we need without negatively affecting 40 the needs of others by: ——Understanding how much water we Abatement cost (US$/ton CO₂) need and using it optimally; 20 PMI carbon price USD 17/ton ——Not negatively impacting the quality of water resources; 0 ——Ensuring access to safe Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) in all our facilities; -20 4 ——Respecting the vulnerability of water resources we use and the role of those -40 resources in the wider community; ——Seeking partnerships to improve our 3 water management practices; and -60 2 ——Continuously improving these practices through our Good Agricultural Practices 1 CO₂ abated (ton/yr) program in our tobacco supply chain. Water is not a major input to tobacco product manufacturing, but we continue to look for opportunities to improve our water management practices. In 2016, +70 +USD 8m +11,500 our factories used less than 4m³ of water for every million cigarette equivalent; this projects to be invested CO₂ tons expected assessed in 2017-2018 to be reduced reflects a 26% improvement in water efficiency since 2010. During 2016 we undertook a high level climate change risk assessment across our value chain and used the Water Resources The programs to achieve our targets are Institute (WRI) aqueduct tool1 to identify comprehensive – covering initiatives such our factories located in areas with as purchasing greener electricity, greener relatively high risk water stress or drought. fuels, eco-design into new facilities, and We then added the total consumption and fuel efficiency in our vehicles as well as in local cost of water to this assessment and our manufacturing processes. We have prioritized those factories located in higher taken an innovative approach to identify water stress areas as well as those that are which projects to implement using a larger water users. This resulted in the Marginal Abatement Cost Curve (MACC). “The adoption of science-based creation of a shortlist of 12 sites where Through the MACC, we compare and rank targets by PMI is an ambitious we will focus extra attention to reduce all of our greenhouse gas reduction step for our company. I’m really our water-related impacts, by promoting projects globally based on their costproud that my daily work on water-use reduction activities and looking effectiveness in reducing emissions. By energy-saving projects supports at water catchments both upstream and using this approach, we expect to achieve our efforts to reduce our downstream of our facilities, as part of the optimal emission reductions within a environmental impact and wider water stewardship action. Starting set global budget to enable meeting our contributes to achieving in 2017, we will pilot the adoption of a targets. We used the MACC work to standard for water stewardship in our these targets.” calculate the internal price on carbon that factory in Brazil, using the opportunity to would be necessary to drive projects INES SOFIA ROMAO learn how such standards could also forward in line with our reduction targets ENGINEER, OPERATIONS support our tobacco supply chain work. for 2020. For us that price is currently NEUCHÂTEL, SWITZERLAND We’ll report on our plans to move forward USD 17 per ton, but it will certainly change with water stewardship next year. as we progress through our targets. On a day-to-day basis we continue to focus on our energy management program and use the MACC to refresh and enhance our list of initiatives. Going forward, we also intend to expand such programs to consider our supply chain. 1 http://www.wri.org/our-work/project/aqueduct 58 Water reduction efficiency in our factories Water efficiency We seek continual reduction in our water use across 600 manufacturing facilities and focus Olympic on achieving improvements in water efficiency, conservation pools We improved water efficiency and reusing or recycling water by 26% since 2010, saving the equivalent of 600 olympic sized where possible. swimming pools. In 2016, PMI implemented a number of 4m3 other initiatives to reduce water use and Our factories use less than 4m3 of water for increase water recovery, allowing us to save every million cigarettes 260,000m³ of water and approximately we produce. USD 975,000 compared to 2015. For example, in our Quebec facility, we have decreased water consumption by over 81% since 2010. The implementation of closed-loop cooling systems were instrumental in achieving these results. Putting tobacco’s water footprint into context Tobacco growing and manufacturing take around one In our Berlin factory, we implemented third of the water required to make the same amount of a comprehensive awareness-raising tea or one sixth that of coffee or chocolate (per weight campaign to encourage water-saving of finished product).¹ initiatives, helping us to save 32,000m³ of water in 2016, equivalent to a 15% reduction versus 2015. Water use in tobacco growing More than half of global tobacco crops around the world are rain fed, do not require supplementary irrigation other than at the seedling stage, their overall water requirements are similar to other crops. Tobacco Tea Chocolate Building on our overall water stewardship strategy, we have identified principles for 1 Estimation based on PMI water use data for manufacturing and “The green, blue water stewardship specifically for our Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals and grey water footprint of crops and derived crop products” M. M. Mekonnen tobacco supply chain, which cover three and A. Y. Hoekstra, 2011. (http://wfn.project-platforms.com/Reports/ pillars: (i) Preservation, (ii) Engagement and Mekonnen-Hoekstra-2011-WaterFootprintCrops.pdf) (iii) Innovation; these principles will be implemented through our GAP program. 2017 is the foundation year for our water stewardship strategy. Between 2018 and Principles guiding our water stewardship 2020 we will assess local water-related approach in our tobacco supply chain risks and build knowledge of best practices through pilot projects. Preservation Preserve water resources by sustainably managing consumption and preventing pollution Engagement Innovation Engage with farmers and Support the development communities to provide and cultivation of access to safe water climate‑resilient supply, sanitation and varieties of tobacco and hygiene (WASH) alternative crops 59 Managing our environmental process by 70% (per kg of cured tobacco) we source Virginia tobacco, we will also by 2020, compared to a 2010 baseline. increase the use of sustainable curing footprint on the farm In 2016, the GHG emissions related to fuel sources by developing reforestation The environmental pillar of our Good our purchases of Virginia tobacco were programs for firewood and switching to Agricultural Practices (GAP) program 14% less than 2010. To achieve our 2020 biomass fuels such as olive pits, forest supports farmers in applying best target, strategic initiatives are being and wood by-products and sustainable practices, from training programs on implemented to; palm oil kernel shells. land stewardship and management, to ——Improve curing barn efficiency: we In 2016, PMI affiliates and suppliers planted the safe and responsible application of plan to improve combustion efficiency, approximately 29 million trees in Brazil, agrochemicals, water stewardship, waste ventilation or controls of 30,000 Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, Malawi, management, and use of novel techniques, flue-cured barns by 2020, resulting in Mozambique and Tanzania. In 2017 such as biomass fuels for more carbon a further 10% GHG emissions reduction and 2018, our GHG emissions related efficient tobacco curing on farms. of the targeted 70%. In 2016, to tobacco flue-curing are expected to As part of mitigating our environmental approximately 15,000 barns were decrease rapidly through a significant impacts, we have set ourselves ambitious improved in Mozambique, Pakistan, increase in usage of renewable and targets to continuously improve and Philippines and Tanzania. traceable firewood coming from address the farm level impact of the ——Increase the use of renewable and sustainably managed tree plantations tobacco we buy. To meet our science-based traceable curing fuel sources, such as (140 million trees planted between 2000 targets, we committed to reduce our wood and other biomass sources, and and 2015). As part of our precautionary absolute GHG emissions across our eliminate coal usage for tobacco flueapproach, we do not assume that value chain, which includes tobacco curing. Based on current plans, 70% of fuelwood is from sustainable sources growing. In fact, reductions of the on-farm our flue-cured tobacco purchases should unless we have proof – and we calculate footprint are the largest contribution to be cured with renewable fuel sources by our carbon footprint accordingly, using a meeting our value chain targets. 2020. In 2016, approximately 21% of our “full carbon” emission factor for fuel wood Virginia purchases were still cured with that we are not sure is renewable. One of the main tobacco types used in coal. Plans have been developed to our products is Virginia flue-cured tobacco replace coal with agricultural waste Responsible management of (hereafter, referred to as Virginia), which pellets, green electricity produced by chemicals for crop protection is cured in heated barns and thus requires hydro-power plants and sustainable We have established an Integrated Pest an energy source. Our target is to lower firewood in China, Colombia and Poland. Management (IPM) program to help us GHG emission intensity of this curing In the other main countries from which achieve responsible management of chemicals for crop protection and to reduce risks to the health and safety of PMI targets for 2020 to improve environmental farmers and farm workers alongside performance in our tobacco supply chain minimizing our environmental impact. This aims to reduce the use of chemicals for crop protection (Crop Protection Agents (CPAs)) and eliminate those that are most hazardous. We partner with a leading international not-for-profit organization, the Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International (CABI), which applies its scientific expertise to help us implement this approach. In 2014 and 2015, we CO₂ reduction* Coal usage for Tobacco purchased at tobacco curing no risk of deforestation worked with CABI to establish the baseline of old growth forest for our global program and implemented country-specific action plans for eight pilot Target 2020 Target 2020 Target 2020 countries. In addition, we made significant progress toward our goal to eliminate the use of WHO TOX1 CPAs1 in the production of all the tobacco we purchase by crop year 2018 and met our goal to 70% 0% 100% eliminate all CPAs listed in the Montreal protocol or Stockholm Convention. We have also made substantial progress in reducing Highly Hazardous Pesticides (HHP) residues as per 2016 FAO/WHO Actual 2016 Actual 2016 Actual 2016 guidelines towards achieving our target to eliminate the use of all HHPs by crop year 2020 through promoting alternative and less toxic CPAs and biopesticides. 14% 21% 88% 1 http://www.who.int/ipcs/publications/pesticides_ *CO₂ emissions intensity reduction from tobacco-curing process compared to 2010 baseline. hazard_2009.pdf 60 Progress on Integrated Identifying and promoting use of natural agents Pest Management in 2016 to combat pests in tobacco plants ——8,700 farmers and 450 field technicians were trained in the eight pilot countries. ——An online application (Tobacco IPM toolbox APP, available for iOS and 48 7 Android), a dedicated website² and an online training manual³ were developed Micro-organisms Semiochemicals and are freely available for anyone (bacteria, fungi, (Pheromones) oomycetes, virus) involved in integrated pest management in tobacco. 120 ——A biopesticide database of 120 active substances has been created based on active substances a market survey of 20 countries where identified tobacco is grown. It identifies biopesticide active substances that target tobacco pests and lists the commercialized 14 51 products currently available that contain them. This database helps our affiliates Botanicals Micro-Organisms and suppliers to identify the most (beneficial nematodes, lacewings, ladybird beetles, promising biopesticides and test their © CABI parasitoid wasps, predatory substitution over synthetic substances. bugs and mites) Putting the usage of crop protection agents (CPA) in tobacco into context In Brazil, the second-largest producer of tobacco worldwide, a comparative analysis¹ found the usage of CPA in tobacco to be the lowest among the country’s main crops (Brazil is also one of the world’s biggest exporter of agricultural products). Kg of CPA per hectare Apple 70 Potato 32 Tomato 29 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Coon 22 Citrus 21 Grape 21 Peanut 14 Onion 8 Soya 7 Coffee 5 Garlic 5 Banana 3 Sugarcane 3 Maize 3 Wheat 3 Rice 3 Tobacco 2 1 Translated and adapted from Sinditabaco (Brazil’s Interstate Tobacco Industry Union). Available here: http://sinditabaco.com.br/en/socio-environmentalprograms/gestao-ambiental/reducao-uso-deagrotoxicos/. 2 https://www.tobaccoipm.com 3 http://www.cabi.org/cabebooks/ ebook/2016340349) 61 Product waste We can play an important role in raising awareness and encouraging consumers We have a waste management program in not to litter and have done so over many our factories to reduce, reuse, and recycle years in different countries around the before any disposal of waste in landfill. world, including both information In 2016 we continued to achieve an 87% campaigns and the distribution of portable recycling rate in our factories and are ashtrays. However, in 2016 we assessed now focusing on reducing waste which is the littering situation in different countries sent to landfill or for incineration without and recognized that there is an energy recovery. Currently, over 95% opportunity to be more consistent in our of our total factory waste is recycled, work over the long-term and that littering composted or sent for energy recovery. is an increasingly important topic in many However, a bigger challenge lies in places. We also recognized that the waste resulting from the use of understanding behavioral drivers for our products. littering and the triggers that can change Littering those behaviors is key to solving the issue. Littering of consumer goods is an issue of These drivers and “behavioral nudges” concern to society in many parts of the vary by country, culture and demographic, world and is linked to two main drivers: and an adaptable approach is needed. consumer behavior and the availability of We can achieve more by working with waste disposal infrastructure. others – industry peers, anti-littering organizations and authorities and realize Cigarette butts are among the most that there is a need to share best practices frequently littered items. In natural across cultures and geographies to make a environments, cigarette butts decompose real difference. We have revised our slowly, leach smoke residues and risk being strategy to guide our efforts and will scale accidentally ingested by animals. Smokers up anti-littering activities with a toolbox of should avoid littering and dispose of their best practices for our affiliates to use cigarette butts responsibly. At this point, when developing and supporting local we believe that after stubbing, disposal anti-littering campaigns. We also believe with general waste is the most efficient that more should be done to monitor way of dealing with cigarette butts, and in littering and consumer behavior and to many countries this results in energy being measure the results of different antirecovered from the waste. littering campaigns so that their effectiveness is better understood. Possible applications for recycled material from IQOS heated tobacco units A prototype machine for purchase and recycling of Components of IQOS heated tobacco units include cellulose acetate (CA), a bioheated tobacco units; fixtures in background made based polymer produced from wood pulp; polylactic acid (PLA), a bio-based polymer with materials recycled from heated tobacco units mainly produced from corn starch; tobacco and the wrapping paper. The CA and PLA polymers can be extracted from the used units to pure recycled material that can potentially be used in several applications. PMI will use these recycled materials in Recycling after consumer use our future IQOS retail fixtures, and we are also exploring other options for their use, With the growth of smoke-free products such as eyewear, fabrics and textiles, 3D printing, and other solutions to create such as IQOS, we want to ensure that the potential new markets for this type of post-consumer waste. entire life-cycle of these products is managed sustainably. Heated tobacco units for IQOS do not burn and carry less odor than cigarette butts. First observations suggest that these consumables have a lower propensity to be littered than conventional cigarettes and furthermore Frames for a sustainable recycling approach can Fabrics and 3D printing sunglasses textiles be envisioned. Material for IQOS Accessories retail fixtures 62 However, our objectives go beyond regulatory compliance. We aim to recover materials with second use potential, educate consumers on their responsibilities for proper disposal, and provide better options to our consumers for recycling and device disposal. Recovery schemes are being developed and will be deployed in every country to ensure that consumers can return their device for sustainable disposal at end of use. For example, this system is already implemented in our largest market for IQOS, Japan, where returned devices are recycled to recover valuable metals, nickel and cobalt. In addition to supporting the recovery of our devices, we believe it is essential to evaluate the environmental impact of the product. To achieve this, we conduct life-cycle assessments on the environmental impact of IQOS, including both the device and consumables. Preliminary results show that 1) the use of less tobacco for heated tobacco units, and 2) the new electronic devices, are the two main drivers of their difference in environmental impact compared to cigarettes. These assessments allow us to prioritize programs to address the most relevant steps in our value-chain, from innovation and product development to end-of-use and disposal. Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals Logistics center for recovery and recycling of used devices in Japan In 2016, we developed a pilot awareness Electronic waste and recycling campaign for heated tobacco The heated tobacco units for IQOS are units in our Operations Center, Factory used with an electronic device, composed and R&D facility in Switzerland. In the first of a holder and a pocket charger. Wherever 10 weeks from April 2017, we collected IQOS devices are sold, they can also be 100,000 IQOS heated tobacco units – returned. Returned devices are then estimated 50% of consumption – to be disposed of responsibly. The disposal and recycled into fixtures for our retail treatment of electronic waste has legal environment. requirements which vary from market to market. Before the launch of IQOS in We will analyze the results from this pilot any given market, a thorough regulatory and report next year on our recycling assessment of the landscape of electronic plans for heated tobacco units in those waste disposal and treatment is performed countries where IQOS is available. and shared with our local teams. In each case, regulations regarding electronic waste are strictly followed. 63 © Sarah Hazlegrove, Tobacco People Looking ahead ——With new factory processes comes the Implementing the Social and Our business transformation brings new opportunity to design-in efficiency and challenges but also significant opportunities low environmental impact from the Natural Capital Protocols into for environmental sustainability. Our longstart. We are developing new design our decision-making term targets on environment, including our plans for utilities and renewable energy As part of our work as a member of the science-based targets, have been developed supply for our new sites where we will World Business Council for Sustainable taking into account the changes in our manufacture heated tobacco units, Development (WBCSD), we are business (including both new product integrating the learnings from our implementing the natural capital concept manufacturing and market place factors). experiences in Bologna. into our management decision-making The areas of particular importance are: A new electronics supply chain – with the processes. We began work in 2016 to Changes in factories and manufacturing use of batteries, plastics and printed circuits. develop a methodology that fits with processes – while we embed new both the Social and Natural Capital ——We are identifying potential partners to Protocols and are already seeing potential processes, the efficiency of our energy make the production process for our and water use may worsen until both application in our project selection electronic devices more efficient. for energy efficient processes in knowledge and economies of scale improve. ——We are focusing on incorporating the manufacturing. Our adoption of a price ——We will measure and understand the environment into product design, using on carbon is part of that work. We will environmental impact of our new components that can be recovered or also review the potential application of product manufacturing processes at recycled, and working with experts to the Social and Natural Capital Protocols our site in Bologna, Italy, including develop the best technologies to reuse in our agricultural supply chain as well as implementing our energy metering and materials. how the Social Capital Protocol can be targeting program. We already know applied to the implications of smoking, that our new processes may use more and will report back on our overall water. For this reason, we are initiating progress in next year’s report. projects to reduce energy and water consumption in this factory. 64 For the first time our products consume New post-consumer waste – where electricity, so building in design for energy possible, electronics and consumable efficiency is important. products need to be designed for ——We are investigating more efficient recycling. Disposal programs need to batteries and improving the efficiency of be put in place, along with consumer components, for example, increasing the awareness initiatives. number of recharging cycles. ——We will continue to use life-cycle assessment to prioritize, guide and inform our activities. In the long-term, our goal is to design products that contribute to “closing the loop” wherever it makes sense. We aim to minimize inputs and to recycle, reuse and even upcycle waste into other products, as part of the circular economy. Managing our environmental footprint – Metrics Metrics Coverage 2014 2015 2016 Goals Status Check % of manufacturing facilities certiﬁed to PMI factories 91 93 93 100 Note 1 ISO 14001 CO₂ (Scope 1 and 2) – metric tons All PMI facilities 746,286 691,044 666,039 CO₂ (Scope 1 and 2) – All PMI facilities 18 24 27 30 by 2020 On track % reduction since 2010 40 by 2030 60 by 2040 Total (Scope 1, 2 and 3) – PMI Value Chain N/A N/A 23 40 by 2030 On track % reduction since 2010 CO₂ from factory operations – kg per PMI factories 661 603 614 Note 2 million units of product equivalent Water use – thousand m³ PMI factories 3,886 3,654 3,394 Water use m³ per million units of PMI factories 4.35 4.05 3.95 Note 3 cigarette equivalent Total Waste – metric tons PMI factories 133,488 127,361 130,077 % of Waste that is recycled PMI factories 85 87 87 Target of 85% Complete achieved % of Waste that is disposed to landfill or PMI factories 6.5 5.6 4.8 <5% Note 4 Strengthening our sustainability fundamentals incineration without energy recovery Vehicle CO₂ emissions PMI ﬂeet 230 215 227 Note 5 (gCO₂ per km driven) % of purchased tobacco without Tobacco supplied 93 94 96 100% by crop On track detection of any WHO TOX1 Crop to PMI – from our year 2018 Protection Agents (CPAs)* affiliates or our suppliers % of purchased tobacco without Tobacco supplied 65 69 78 100% by crop On track any≈detection of other identified to PMI – from our year 2020 HHP residues† affiliates or our suppliers * 2016 data is provisional. †2016 data is provisional. HHPs are Highly Hazardous Pesticides, classified as per FAO/WHO Guidelines published in 2016 (http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5566e.pdf ). Note 1 – Newly acquired or built factories have began the certification process. Due to the potential for new factories to be developed we may not reach 100% but that remains our goal. Note 2 – In 2016 there was a slight increase in the amount of CO₂ emitted per unit of product manufactured; this was due to process changes resulting in a temporary increase in manufacturing complexity. Note 3 – At the end of 2015 we beat our target to improve our water use efficiency by 20% compared to 2010. We are now developing a broader water stewardship strategy and will communicate new water-related targets in due course; in the meantime we aim to continue improving our water use efficiency year on year. Note 4 – On achievement of our target to recycle at least 85% of our factory waste in 2015, we have switched our focus to minimizing the amount of waste that goes to landfill or incineration without energy recovery – Disposal Ratio . Note 5 – In 2016 there was a slight increase in the amount of CO₂ emitted per km driven by our fleet. This was due to a change in emission factors used for previously reported biodiesel and inclusion of some vehicles that had not been captured in prior years. 65 Next steps In our first UNGC The report was received with much ——Open and transparent dialogue with all interest, but also with skepticism. Many stakeholders is fundamental to achieve Communication on of our critics wanted more details on our a smoke-free future as soon as possible Progress (CoP), June 2016, plans to understand whether we are and in a responsible way. As mentioned aligning actions with words. in this report, some critics have we provided an insight into expressed concerns about our lobbying our business in the context We therefore decided to focus a substantial part of this second UNGC CoP practices, and we are looking for feedback on the principles for of the UNGC Principles on our ongoing business transformation engagement with government and and briefly described and report on the concrete steps we have public organisations. taken to make our vision of a smoke-free our ambition to replace future a reality. In addition, we provided ——We are at the initial stages of developing a comprehensive human rights action cigarettes with smokemore detail on our social and environmental plan. This is another focus area on which sustainability programs and shared free products. program updates. Over the last year, we seek to work with external we published our Responsible Sourcing stakeholders. Principles, which regard our non-tobacco ——We began work on the application of supply chain, and our Good Conversion the Social and Natural Capital Protocol Practices, which codify our marketing and in our project selection for energy sales principles when commercializing efficient processes. Our adoption of smoke-free products. Furthermore, we a price on carbon is part of that work. published our human rights commitment. We will also provide an update on the application of the Social Capital Protocol In our next UNGC CoP report, we will to the implications of smoking. include updates on the following topics: ——Our number one priority is clear: We look forward to hearing from you succeed in switching adult consumers as we work to improve the sustainability who would otherwise continue smoking of our business and contribute to the to our smoke-free product portfolio. UN Sustainable Development Goals. We will provide an update on the As highlighted by our CEO, we invite business transformation metrics, while you to help guide us. highlighting progress and challenges Please provide your feedback to: to achieve our smoke-free vision. sustainability@pmi.com ——In the present report, we publish an overview of our marketing principles for combustible tobacco products and our Good Conversion Practices for smoke-free products. We look forward to stakeholder feedback. 66 Additional information Forward-Looking Business Overview of Overview of Cross reference to and Cautionary Transformation marketing engagement UNGC Principles Statements Metrics – principles for principles and relevant SDGs See page 68 Independent combustible See page 73 See page 75 Assurance Report products See page 69 See page 70 Additional information 67 Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements This report contains Pursuant to the “safe harbor” provisions cost and quality of tobacco and other of the Private Securities Litigation Reform agricultural products and raw materials; projections of future results Act of 1995, PMI is identifying important and the integrity of its information systems. and other forward-looking factors that, individually or in the PMI’s future profitability may also be aggregate, could cause actual results and adversely affected should it be unsuccessful statements. Achievement outcomes to differ materially from those in its attempts to produce and commercialize of future results is subject contained in any forward-looking reduced-risk products or if regulation or statements made by PMI. PMI’s business taxation do not differentiate between such to risks, uncertainties and risks include: excise tax increases and products and cigarettes; if it is unable to inaccurate assumptions. discriminatory tax structures; increasing successfully introduce new products, marketing and regulatory restrictions that promote brand equity, enter new markets In the event that risks or could reduce our competitiveness, or improve its margins through increased uncertainties materialize, eliminate our ability to communicate with prices and productivity gains; if it is unable or underlying assumptions adult consumers, or ban certain of our products; health concerns relating to the to expand its brand portfolio internally or through acquisitions and the development prove inaccurate, actual use of tobacco products and exposure to of strategic business relationships; or if it results could vary materially environmental tobacco smoke; litigation is unable to attract and retain the best related to tobacco use; intense global talent. PMI is further subject to from those contained in competition; the effects of global and other risks detailed from time to time in such forward-looking individual country economic, regulatory its publicly filed documents, including the and political developments, natural Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, statements. disasters and conflicts; changes in adult 2017. PMI cautions that the foregoing list smoker behavior; lost revenues as a result of important factors is not a complete of counterfeiting, contraband and discussion of all potential risks and cross-border purchases; governmental uncertainties. PMI does not undertake investigations; unfavorable currency to update any forward-looking statement exchange rates and currency devaluations, that it may make from time to time, except and limitations on the ability to repatriate in the normal course of its public funds; adverse changes in applicable disclosure obligations. corporate tax laws; adverse changes in the 68 Annex 1: Business Transformation Metrics – Independent Assurance Report To the Board of Directors Board of Directors’ Responsibilities Summary of work performed The Board of Directors of PMI is Our assurance procedures included the of Philip Morris responsible for both the subject matter following work but are not limited to: International Inc. and the reporting criteria as well as ——Reviewing the application of the internal for the entire reporting process of the financial reporting guidelines. We have been engaged to perform selected information in accordance assurance procedures to provide reasonable with the criteria. This responsibility ——Interviewing PMI representatives assurance on the Business Transformation includes the design, implementation and responsible for the internal reporting Metrics reporting of Philip Morris maintenance of related internal control and data collection. International Inc. and Subsidiaries (‘PMI’). relevant to this reporting process that is ——Test a sample of data from PMI free from material misstatement, whether operations in Switzerland, Japan and the Scope and Subject matter due to fraud or error. UK concerning the completeness, Our reasonable assurance engagement accuracy, consistency and classification focused on the Business Transformation Our Responsibility as smoke-free products. Metrics of PMI for the financial years Our responsibility is to perform a ended December 31, 2016, December 31, reasonable assurance engagement to ——Inspecting relevant documentation on 2015 and December 31, 2014 included in express an opinion on positions in the a sample basis, including PMI policies, the United Nations Global Compact related Business Transformation Metrics management reporting structures and Communication on Progress 2016 Report: table on page 26. We planned and documentation. ——The application of the internal financial conducted our engagement in accordance ——Reviewing and assessing the management reporting guidelines for the preparation with International Standard on Assurance reporting processes for Business of the Business Transformation Metrics Engagements (ISAE 3000) (revised) Transformation Metrics data and described on page 27; ‘Assurance engagements other than consolidation and their related controls. audits or reviews of historical financial ——The internal reporting system and information’. That standard requires that We believe that the evidence we have procedures to collect and aggregate we comply with ethical requirements obtained is sufficient and appropriate the Business Transformation Metrics and plan and perform our procedures to to provide a basis for our assurance data; and obtain reasonable or limited assurance conclusions. ——The data and information in the whether the related Business Transformation Metrics summary was Reasonable assurance conclusion Business Transformation Metrics table, prepared, in all material aspects, in In our opinion, in all material aspects, on page 26. accordance with the reporting criteria. ——The internal financial reporting The prospective data in the Estimate and guidelines are applied in all material Aspiration columns for 2017 and 2025 Our Independence and Quality Control aspects as described on page 27; are not subject to this assurance report. We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of ——The internal reporting systems to Consequently, we do not express any the Code of Ethics for Professional collect and aggregate the Business conclusion on this data. Accountants issued by the International Transformation Metrics data are Criteria Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, functioning as designed and provide an The reporting criteria used by PMI are which is founded on fundamental appropriate basis for the reporting; and described and disclosed on page 27 and in principles of integrity, objectivity, ——The data and information disclosed the internal financial reporting guidelines. professional competence and due care, in the Business Transformation Metrics These define those procedures, by which Additional information confidentiality and professional behavior. table on page 26 give a fair picture of the Business Transformation Metrics PMI’s smoke-free products’ performance. data are internally gathered, collated Our firm applies International Standard and aggregated. on Quality Control 1 and accordingly Lausanne, September 12, 2017 maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented PricewaterhouseCoopers SA policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Richard Thomas Raphael Rutishauser professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 69 Annex 2: Overview of marketing principles for combustible products What we do While we are moving with speed to make ——We must not use outdoor Advertising our vision of a smoke-free world a reality, that exceeds 35 square meters in total Our Guidebook for Success (Code of we must acknowledge that the majority of size, either individually or in deliberate Conduct) and internal Practices and our business today is traditional combination with other Advertising, Polices, including the PMI Marketing Code, combustible cigarettes. At PMI, we unless we can do so responsibly in light reflect our commitment to market our operate under Responsible Marketing of existing local circumstances (e.g., products responsibly, in compliance with Principles. These principles, as defined where most of the billboards available applicable laws, only to adult smokers, and below, embody our Company’s for placement of Advertising exceed 35 providing accurate information. This is a commitment to engage in responsible square meters in size). summary of those standards, as they are marketing directed only to Adult Smokers. set forth on different internal documents. ——We must not place outdoor Advertising Our brands are among the most valuable where the Advertising is readable from in the world. We put our creativity and Responsible marketing facilities attended or frequented primarily by minors. Outdoor innovation into developing and maintaining brand value. At the same time we know principles Advertising should not be placed within 100 meters of such facilities. that tobacco products create health risks 1. We market and sell our to consumers. This is why it is so combustible tobacco products ——Company activities involving important to market our products engagement and interaction with responsibly and only to adult smokers. At to adult smokers only consumers, whether offline or online via PMI we have to ensure that our employees What do we mean? digital media, such as events or Direct and agents only engage in responsible We sell Combustible Tobacco Products Communication, must be directed only sales and marketing practices. and compete for market share among to age-verified Adult Smokers, subject to Adult Smokers who have chosen to smoke. specific age verification process. We do not seek to influence any adult How we do it consumer’s decision about whether or not ——Premiums must be designed for adults and must not have particular appeal to The Marketing Code contains our to smoke. minors. We may brand smoking-related minimum global standards that apply to all premiums such as ashtrays and lighters. sales and marketing activities of PMI Our standards ——We must not use images that have If premiums are not smoking-related, the relating to Combustible Tobacco Products. branding, if any, must not be visible to We apply these standards voluntarily particular appeal to minors, including youth-oriented celebrities or cartoons. others when the premium is used. when there is no applicable law or when the applicable law is less strict. As We must not use models who are or ——We may sell and deliver Combustible Combustible Tobacco Products represent who clearly appear to be under the age Tobacco Products directly only to the largest part of our business today, the of 25. age-verified Adult Smokers residing in Marketing Code provides a solid ——We must only place Advertising in media the country of intended sale. foundation for responsibly selling and channels, venues or events that are not ——We may offer free Combustible Tobacco communicating these products. directed to minors and whose audience Products in limited quantities (typically is reasonably estimated to be at least no more than one pack) only to ageThe top priority for PMI is to develop and 75% adults. Advertising on television, in verified Adult Smokers as part of market smoke-free products that are a radio broadcasts, or in cinemas should product trial, switch-selling or swapping better choice for smokers than continued only appear in the later evening hours. activities. We must not engage in switch smoking and have the potential to reduce selling until after the initial purchase has the risks of smoking-related diseases. ——We must not place Advertising on the front or back cover of a printed occurred. These innovative smoke-free products, like heat-not-burn, are subject to different publication for general circulation or marketing and sales rules, namely the general circulation to the trade. “Good Conversion Practices”. 70 2. We warn consumers about ——PMI employees or contractors who 5. Implementation interact with consumers, including in the the health effects of our context of Unbranded platforms or We have a robust process for ensuring combustible tobacco campaigns, must make it clear that they that our Marketing Code is implemented at the market level. The Affiliate Head is products are working for a tobacco company. accountable for compliance with these What do we mean? ——We must not pay to include the use of principles and practices, and must ensure Smoking causes serious disease and is Combustible Tobacco Products, a that the affiliate uses a robust and addictive. We warn consumers about the Combustible Tobacco Product brand substantive review and approval process, health effects of smoking. name or items bearing a Combustible such as a Brand Marketing Review. All Tobacco Product brand name in movies, activities subject to these principles and Our standards: entertainment programs or theatrical practices must be (i) approved by the ——All Advertising and Consumer Packaging productions, on television or radio, on Affiliate Head and the Affiliate Head of must have health warnings, even if the the Internet or in any other production Marketing and/or Sales and (ii) reviewed law does not require these warnings. If (e.g., video games). by the Affiliate Law and Corporate Affairs the law does not require or specify Departments. All decisions taken during ——Standard brand presentation (i.e., brand health warning content and appearance, the review process must be documented. name, trademark and/or logo) must we must ensure that health warnings are predominate in all Consumer Packaging clear and conspicuous. designs. We must not use Advertising 6. Training ——If there is a legal requirement to print visuals on Consumer Packaging. Any All Company employees who are directly yields, we may voluntarily print tar, text placed on the external part of involved in marketing and sales activities nicotine and/or CO yield numbers on Consumer Packaging must be factual, must receive training on these principles Advertising and on Consumer Packaging brand-related and/or product-specific, and practices. All third parties who are in addition to yield labeling required by and not Advertising copy. substantively involved in marketing and law, as long as we also print the following sales activities on behalf of the Company statement in a clearly legible typeface and 4. We respect the law and also must be trained on the parts of these size: “The amount of tar, nicotine and/or CO you inhale will vary depending on how ensure that: principles and practices that are relevant to their activities. The Affiliate Heads, the you smoke the cigarette.” ——All persons, such as hosts, hostesses, Regional Marketing & Sales Heads and the brand ambassadors and trend experts, 3. Our marketing must be honest, acting on behalf of the Company to Marketing Code Program Owner are accountable to implement these trainings accurate and transparent engage with Adult Smokers must be of for all employees in and third-parties legal age to purchase Combustible What do we mean? contracted by their respective Tobacco Products and at least 19 years All of our marketing and sales activities organizations. old. We must ensure that it is clear to must respect applicable laws, global Adult Smokers that these persons are standards of decency, and the local culture acting on behalf of the Company. and practices prevailing in the country We must also adequately monitor their where the activities will be implemented. activities for compliance with these Our standards: principles and practices. ——Product or brand-related statements ——All written communications with Trade must be accurate and not misleading, Partners must clearly state “For Trade including about the health risks of Only. Not for Distribution to Consumers.” smoking. All product-related claims Advertisements in publications intended require adequate substantiation. for general circulation to the trade must have health warnings in black text on a white background, occupying no less than 10% of the total area of the advertisement. Additional information 71 Definitions Smoke-Free Products or Reduced Risk Products (RRPs) – products that present, Advertising – any branded commercial are likely to present, or have the potential communication aimed at promoting a PMI to present less risk of harm to smokers Combustible Tobacco Product to Adult who switch to these products versus Smokers, regardless of the medium. continued smoking. We have a range of Adult Smoker – a consumer of RRPs in various stages of development, Combustible Tobacco Products who is of scientific assessment and legal age to purchase such products and is commercialization. These products are not at least 18 years old. Combustible Tobacco Products and because they do not burn tobacco, they Company or PMI – Philip Morris produce far lower quantities of harmful International Inc. and its direct and indirect and potentially harmful compounds than subsidiaries. found in cigarette smoke. Consumer Packaging – packaging, Trade Partner – any representative of a wrapping, bundles or any materials in retail outlet, legal age meeting point which Combustible Tobacco Products are (LAMP), or other business that is involved in offered for sale to Adult Smokers. the sale of Combustible Tobacco Products. Combustible Tobacco Products – Unbranded – without a name, trademark, cigarettes and other combustible tobacco logo or indicia of a Combustible Tobacco products, such as “roll your own”, “make Product brand. your own”, pipe tobacco, cigars, cigarillos, and cigarittos. Who must follow the marketing code Direct Communications – Company communications to an Adult Smoker that This Marketing Code applies to Philip are not intended for the general public, Morris International Inc. and its direct and including communications via one-to-one indirect subsidiaries, collectively referred consumer engagement, direct mail, to as Philip Morris International, PMI, or electronic mail, telephone, shortthe company. Compliance with the messaging, and Company consumer Marketing Code is mandatory for all PMI websites. employees and anyone doing business on behalf of PMI. PMI Marketing Council – the PMI Senior Vice President Marketing and Sales, the Senior Vice President Corporate Affairs and the Vice President & Associate General Counsel responsible for Brand Building. 72 Annex 3: Overview of engagement principles Our framework What we do ——We have strict standards governing how we provide gifts and entertainment to Our Guidebook for Success (Code of ——PMI’s research and development activities government officials, members of public Conduct) and several Principles & follow rigorous scientific standards. When institutions and private individuals. We Practices set out detailed standards for it comes to our Reduced-Risk Products, comply with those standards. engaging with governments and public PMI makes its findings public and invites organizations or third parties generally, external review. ——We have strict rules concerning what doing external communications or public contributions are appropriate, what due ——PMI scientists are committed to those diligence is required before making statements, making contributions or rigorous standards. providing financial support to certain them, what disclosures are in order and, projects, giving gifts or providing ——PMI only communicates to governments when needed, how to maintain the entertainment to third parties, and and public organizations product independence of those that receive such recording and reporting such expenses. information that has been substantiated contributions. The same applies to our by such rigorous scientific methods. membership in external organizations. This document does not replace those We comply with these rules. ——The positions PMI publicly advocates standards, but it describes their basic for, and the arguments supporting such ——We require third parties interacting with tenets and summarizes their spirit. It also positions, are consistent with PMI’s governments, public institutions or other provides a means for PMI to tell the public internal positions and do not overlook any audiences on our behalf to refrain from what is important to PMI when interacting information that PMI may internally have engaging in bribery or in other forms of with governments and public that might be material to PMI’s audience. inappropriate influence. We make our organizations, and allows PMI to invite internal standards known to them and feedback on these fundamental tenets. ——PMI’s positions on regulation of its monitor their compliance therewith. products, taxation, harm-reduction, employment, safety, and a vast array of ——We require third parties interacting with Key points to remember important topics result from self-critical, others on our behalf and communicating respectful internal debate that considers about PMI’s positions on topics such as ——Communication and respectful not only business objectives but also, harm-reduction, product regulation, exchange of informed, substantiated, among other things, PMI’s legal taxation and others, to disclose their and reasoned ideas is the best way to obligations, societal expectations, relationship with, and any financial achieve regulatory and fiscal human rights, long-term environmental support they receive from, us so that frameworks beneficial to the societies effects, and consumers’ rights to full and their audience has access to the they apply to. accurate information. information material for them to make a ——We think it is our responsibility to share decision or adopt a view. our knowledge and expertise with ——We believe that regulation and taxation of tobacco and nicotine products should ——We keep accurate and complete governments, authorities and public be consistent with their different risk financial records of all expenses incurred organizations. profiles. We make our views known in interacting with government officials, ——The merit of PMI’s ideas, the rigor and through our website, the media, and public organizations and any other third validity of its scientific conclusions, the communications to governments such as party. verifiability of its facts and the integrity through public consultations and other ——We communicate honestly and of its employees should be the only available platforms. respectfully, internally and externally. means through which PMI advances its positions and communicates them to ——We do not bribe or try to governments, public organizations and inappropriately influence other people’s Additional information opinion leaders. objectivity. ——Corruption, bribery, influencetrafficking, misleading information, secrecy about issues that are material to a decision, and dishonesty in general are not acceptable forms of doing business at PMI. 73 ——We market and sell our products ——We communicate institutionally and do according to the following principles: not allow the use of personal email ——We do not market or sell to minors, accounts, or other means that might be non-smokers or non-users of nicotine misleading, for company products. communications or the transmittal of PMI information. ——Consumption of combustible tobacco products is harmful to health. ——We do not seek to gain access to, nor discuss with governments or other third ——Non-combustible products are not parties, confidential information of risk-free. others, including our competitors. We ——People concerned about the risks comply with anti-trust regulations. associated with any of our products, ——Our Compliance help-line and should quit. Department are available to anyone ——Any positions or messages wanting to report suspected violations communicated or advocated for with to our Guidebook for Success or governments or public organizations Principles & Practices. Reports can be are consistent with, and respectful of, made anonymously. PMI respects and these principles. protects the identity of those that raise concerns. PMI does not tolerate ——We comply with reasonable, legal retaliation of any kind against good-faith governmental requirements to provide reporting. information to authorities. 74 Annex 4: Cross reference to UNGC Principles and relevant SDGs Theme UNGC principle/sdg Section/pages Comments Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should “The guiding principles on business Human Rights topics are covered support and respect the protection and human rights” Pages 38-39. generally throughout this report, but of internationally proclaimed we describe our commitment and human rights. overall approach in this dedicated section. Principle 2: Businesses should As above As above make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should “Our people” Pages 40-46. This Principle is also covered by the uphold the freedom of association Specifically, “Labor relations” work in our supply chain. It is part of and the effective recognition of Page 42. our Agricultural Labor Practices code the right to collective bargaining. and is also included in our Responsible Sourcing Principles. Principle 4: Businesses should “Our people” Pages 40-46. Forced or compulsory labor is not uphold the elimination of all forms “Our supply chain” Pages 47-55. allowed under our Employment of forced and compulsory labor. Principles and Practices. We believe the main area where we can act to support this UNGC Principle is in our supply chain – this forms part of our Agricultural Labor Practices code and is also included in our Responsible Sourcing Principles. Principle 5: Businesses should “Our people” Pages 40-46. Child labor is not allowed under our uphold the effective abolition of “Our supply chain” Pages 47-55. Employment Principles and Practices. child labor. We believe the main area where we can act to support this UNGC Principle is in our supply chain – this has been a key focus of our Agricultural Labor Practices code for many years and is also included in our Responsible Sourcing Principles. Principle 6: Businesses should “Our people” Pages 40-46. This Principle is also covered by the uphold the elimination of Specifically, “Diversity and work in our supply chain. It is part of discrimination in respect of inclusion” Pages 40-41. our Agricultural Labor Practices code employment and occupation. and is also included in our Responsible Sourcing Principles. Additional information 75 Theme UNGC principle/sdg Section/pages Comments Environment Principle 7: Businesses should “Managing our environmental We highlight our science-based support a precautionary approach footprint” Pages 56-65. targets and carbon price for carbon to environmental challenges. Specifically Pages 56 and 62-65. footprint reduction, our use of lifecycle assessment to guide our work and our implementation of concepts from the Natural Capital Protocol. Principle 8: Businesses should “Managing our environmental We have implemented initiatives undertake initiatives to promote footprint” Pages 56-65. across our own operations and supply greater environmental chain (currently focusing on our responsibility. agricultural supply chain), which are described in this dedicated section. Principle 9: Businesses should “Managing our environmental We highlight our Marginal Abatement encourage the development and footprint” Pages 56-65. Cost Curve approach, our progress on diffusion of environmentally Specifically Pages 58 and 60-65. Integrated Pest Management, friendly technologies. including a biopesticides database, and our work to find possible applications for recycled material from IQOS heated tobacco units. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should “Acting with integrity” Pages 30-37. We highlight our Compliance work against corruption in all its “Our supply chain” Pages 47-55. program, our specific safeguards for forms, including extortion and interactions with government officials bribery. and our efforts to tackle the illicit tobacco trade and related crimes. This Principle is also covered by the work in our supply chain. Sustainable Overview of SDGs “Our approach to sustainability” We describe how our work relates to development Pages 5-6. the SDGs. While all SDGs are relevant goals to us, we have highlighted SDG 3 as most important and 2, 8, 12 and 16 as other goals where we believe we can make a substantial contribution. SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and “Our business transformation” Whilst our biggest contribution is in promote well-being for all at all Pages 8-27. replacing cigarettes, we also highlight ages. our work on health and well-being for our employees on pages 43-45. SDG 2: End hunger, achieve food Good Agricultural Practices and We describe our approach to security and improved nutrition, crop diversification, Pages 49-50. sustainable agriculture, which can and promote sustainable help further food security. agriculture. SDG 8: Promote sustained, “Our people” Pages 40-46. We describe our employment inclusive and sustainable economic “Our supply chain” Pages 47-55. principles, which are also reflected growth, full and productive in our approach to supply chain employment and decent work for sustainability. all. SDG 12: Ensure sustainable “Managing our environmental We connect our environmental work consumption and production footprint” Pages 56-65. together under SDG 12 rather than patterns. “Our business transformation” separately linking it to SDG 6 on clean Pages 8-27. water, SDG 7 on energy, SDG13 on climate action, SDG 14 on life below water and SDG15 on life on land. SDG 16: Promote peaceful and “Acting with integrity” Pages 30-37. We describe our efforts to tackle the inclusive societies for sustainable illicit tobacco trade and related crimes. development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 76 Philip Morris International Avenue de Rhodanie 50 1007, Lausanne Switzerland www.pmi.com
