United Nations Global Compact; Communication on Progress 2017 CEO Statement of Continued Support About Us Core Values Our Services Communication on Progress Report CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT To all our stakeholders, I am pleased to reaffirm our continued support and commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles. As we submit this annual report, we describe our actions to integrate the United Nations Global Compact Principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information to our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication and also through the United Nations Global Compact website. This report covers the period between October 2016 and October 2017. Sincerely, Mary Wanja Thuo. Managing Director. ABOUT US – Cityscape Trends Services Limited is a housekeeping organization that provides superior facility management services with a smile. Since inception, we have managed to establish a footprint in the Kenyan market. We are customer oriented and our costs are fairly reasonable. We are headquartered in Nairobi but have spread our operations to include the Coastal, Western and Central regions. Vision – We exist to champion wholesome transformation of our environment and community. Mission – To innovatively deliver outstanding facility management services with a smile. Core Values – Creativity and Innovation. – Honesty. – Respect and dignity for customers. – Team work. – Responsiveness while maintaining a smile. – Order/ Cleanliness. Our Services – Comprehensive office cleaning – One-off spring cleaning of premises. – Upholstery shampooing. – Floor stripping and polishing. – Provision of sanitary solutions. – Landscaping and gardening services. – Provision of garbage collection and disposal. – Pest control and fumigation services. Our Customers Communication on Progress – This Communication on Progress report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our staff, customers, suppliers and the community we operate in in adherence to the four main areas of the United Nations Global Compact, i.e: – Human Rights. – Labour. – Environment. – Anti-Corruption. HUMAN RIGHTS The company has also ensured that all the employees have medical covers and has undertaken to pay for them. – Conducting of free medical camps to check on the staff’s health and wellbeing. This is to ensure the staff are in good health to ensure optimum performance of their work. Development of a Human Resource Manual and Sexual Harassment Policy that contains policies that govern interaction among employees in the – Conducting of various trainings regularly in the company. These policies are made clear to all course of the year to sensitize the staff about their employees during orientation and a copy of the rights. manual is availed to all new employees. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 2017-2018 – Review of our human rights policy to ensure that it is not only in compliance to existing human rights laws but also suited to our employees’ needs. – Continued awareness trainings for employees on human rights. LABOUR RIGHTS – We have also ensured that all our We have a Human Resource Manual that is employees have been provided with PPE’s structured to ensure equality and diversity in (personal protective equipment) to the workplace. Currently, women constitute safeguard them from injury and aid in the about 55% of our labour force. performance of their duties. – We recently joined the Occupational Safety and Health Administration – All our employees are free to join and in line with the Occupational trade unions and collective Health and Safety Policy bargaining units that advocate for their rights. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES – Better retention of staff since they feel that their labour rights are respected and protected. – Less demands from employees since they understand the operational structure of the company. – Increased productivity from the employees and subsequent growth of the company as a result. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 2017-2018 – Continued training and sensitization of our staff in regards to health and safety practices. – Review of the existing policies to see how we can better improve on them to cater for our employee needs. ENVIRONMENT – We encourage all our staff to re-use – As a company, we are committed to and recycle whatever they can. This using less paper in our daily not only ensures effective operations. We have instead management of waste and lower adopted new technology in the business cost it also promotes internet. environmental preservation. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 2017-2018 – In order for more integration and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology, we are looking to go into green cleaning. This would be across the board right from the ingredients we use to the equipment and machinery used for cleaning. – Conducting of environmental audits to determine the effects our operations have on the environment and also how we can continually improve our environmental commitment. – Adoption of a corporate social responsibility initiative by the company that touches on the environment such as tree planting and also encouraging community/public participation in practising health waste disposal and maintaining the environment clean and conducive for habitation. – As part of our growth and expansion programme of going into supply of sanitary bins, we will have to review our waste management system and ensure it is environmentally sound and doesn’t pose environmental threats. ANTI CORRUPTION – Ensure strict compliance with the existing laws and regulations with regards to corruption such as the Anti-Corruption Act. – Carry out internal audits to identify areas that we need to monitor and manage in order to eradicate bribery and other forms of corruption. – Development of an Anti-Corruption Policy contained in our Human Resource Manual that is availed to all employees during induction into the company. – Cityscape Trends has been able to join networks such as KAM that enables Collective Bargaining in cases of corruption. – The company is greatly reducing cash transaction and moving to online payments, cheque payments and M-Pesa to prevent temptations that arise whilst dealing in cash. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME – Cityscape Trends has not been involved in any legal cases pertaining to corruption or bribery. – Every year, we invite external independent financial auditors to check that our accounts are well managed and that there are no discrepancies that are related to corruption. We have not had any discrepancies between October 2016 October 2017. – Increased transparency and accountability in all our departments as a result of review of our Standard Operating Procedures. ACTIONS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN THE YEAR 2017-2018 – Provide more training and sensitization on anti-corruption policies to all our employees. – Review of our Anti-Corruption Policy. – Continued re-evaluation of our Standard Operation Procedures to ensure we deliver quality satisfactory services to our clients. – Rewarding of employees that are activists in ensuring the company remains a corruption-free zone. CONCLUSION – Cityscape Trends will continue to work on and improve the projects and initiatives it has launched and introduce new projects in the next year that we will report annually on the progress made to incorporating the Global Compact principles in our business operations and by extension meeting the sustainable development goals set by the United Nations. – This report shows our continued commitment to the United Nations Global Compact principles and to communicate actions undertaken to ensure a better world for future generations to come.
