Corporate stewardship report Building value for the longer term at Aberdeen Asset Managment PLC 30 September 2016 Introduction Andrew Laing Deputy Chief Executive Businessmen and women who seek to build long-term businesses know they may do so only by treating stakeholders fairly this includes providing value for customers and delivering attractive and sustained employment opportunities. Profit and the creation of value for shareholders is an outcome of delivering effectively for stakeholders and a measure of success. At Aberdeen, we are operating in an increasingly competitive and scrutinised environment, in which the profile and needs of our clients are changing. To respond effectively to these changes we must listen to stakeholders and prioritise accordingly. Our customers are at the core of this process, with employee and shareholder engagement, trust and support, fundamental to our success. Wider stakeholder approval also impacts our licence to operate. Our annual report includes an assessment of our strategy, including progress against our objectives, key performance indicators, the risks we face and the market in which we operate, together with a detailed review of our financial performance during the year. This report acts as a supplement, setting out how we engage with our stakeholders on material issues, and providing an update on developments during the year. These include: • Forming a cross asset class stewardship function and appointing Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) specialists in each investment team to ensure a fully integrated approach • Signing the Women in Finance Charter and launching four diversity networks Contents • Undertaking our second employee satisfaction survey Who we are Introduction 1 Aberdeen Asset Management is a global asset manager with • Engaging with UK government and industry bodies following the UK’s decision to leave the EU a broad range of investment capabilities. As a pure asset Our stewardship approach 2 manager, without the distractions of wider financial services • Publishing our progress in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals activities, we are able to concentrate all of our resources on Key stakeholders and material issues 3 • Creating a Supplier Code of Conduct which includes our global commitment to the Modern Slavery Act our core investment management business. By managing our business to the same standards we demand of the companies Our customer focus 4 • Announcing our fifth emerging markets charity and new partnership with buildOn in which we invest, we ensure the interests of our clients and of our shareholders are completely aligned. Investment stewardship and ESG integration 8 Investing in our people 10 Key facts Andrew Laing • Launched in 1983 Public policy, tax, suppliers 14 Deputy Chief Executive December 2016 • Listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1991 Managing our environmental impact 15 • 38 offices in 26 countries • Over 2,700 employees UN Global Compact 16 • Over 700 investment professionals UN Sustainable Development Goals 17 • £ 312.1 billion in assets under management (as at 30 September 2016) GRI Assessment 18 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com1 Our stewardship approach Key stakeholders and material issues As a large, global corporate, many of the factors which are pertinent to As a company with a global footprint by clients, investments, employees the investment decisions we make on behalf of our clients, and their and shareholders our interactions with stakeholders are wide-ranging. end-customers, also apply to Aberdeen. Different stakeholders have different views and balancing these conflicting demands at times can be challenging. Prioritisation is therefore critical. Our stewardship role is therefore two-fold as an investor, determining how to invest funds from an asset allocation, portfolio construction and holding Our commitment to high ethical standards and regulatory compliance is the period perspective; and as a large international company which employs foundation upon which we operate. Quality – of investment delivery, client approximately 2,700 individuals in 26 countries, and has a global interactions and employees – is also unwavering. And in any year, the shareholder base. environment in which we operate will change, whether due to macroeconomic, political or industry specific factors, and we will need to Stewardship issues such as good governance, culture, tax practices, adapt accordingly. innovation, diversity, labour standards, cyber security, climate change and bribery and corruption, vary in materiality by investee companies Below we set out our key stakeholder groups and the material issues which and for Aberdeen, but they pose challenges and opportunities which we apply to each. must address. This report, together with our annual report, sets out how we operate as a responsible business and ensure we generate value for stakeholders over the longer term. Clients and Authorities and Employees Investments Shareholders prospects regulators • High quality • Attraction and • Performance • Value creation • Compliance with products and retention of talent • Transparency • Return on laws services which meet • Diverse and investment • Engagement on • Communication on their needs inclusive operating relevant issues material issues • Sustainable • Generation of environment performance • Good conduct long-term value • Training and • Dialogue • Transparency development • Ethical conduct • Remuneration • Information security Suppliers Media Communities Environment • Service provision • Open, clear • Positive • Minimise negative • Conduct communication contribution to environmental • Thought leadership economy and impact and • Cost society encourage adoption of environmental improvement measures 2 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com3 Our customer focus Our approach to conduct Page We are rightly expected to take a close look at every aspect of our Our approach to conduct 5 operating model to ensure the interests of our customers are incorporated Managing bribery and corruption risks 6 at every step. Protecting our data and customer This is not only a clear expectation of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) information 6 but is also a driving force behind emerging regulation globally. Stewardship across the asset classes 7 In the UK, the FCA’s extensive review into competition in the asset We have in place a number of committees focused on management industry sought to address whether the industry conduct from an end-customer perspective including: operates in the most efficient and effective way possible for • Investor protection committee oversees decisions in the benefit of clients and end-customers. It covered how asset relation to trading in Aberdeen’s collective investment managers compete to deliver value; how they manage costs along products. the value chain; and the impact of consultants on competition. • Pricing committee ensures assets within portfolios are At Aberdeen, we are supportive of the FCA’s suggested remedies appropriately priced. which should help to strengthen confidence and competition in • Conflicts committee oversees instances where the the UK asset management industry, making it more attractive on interests of Aberdeen may conflict with those of the global stage by leading the way in best practice. our clients. We remain committed to treating customers fairly and analysing • Performance & investment risk committee oversees and our processes to determine whether improvements can be made. challenges the management of our funds in terms of We have continued to focus on the areas highlighted last year, performance, risk and liquidity management. with the scope of conduct management information expanding to • Execution oversight, derivatives & credit committees incorporate linkages with the risk management practices within oversee our trading activities and counterparty risk Aberdeen. The approach outlined below is being trialled in the UK management actions. and Europe but with a view to being rolled out globally: 1 Target market: our framework has been refined to address the requirements of MiFID II and we have been leading We also have a suite of mandatory global employee training courses covering a wide range of conduct-related Who our customers are and what we do efforts in the industry to form a consensus both on the matters including: As an asset manager, it is essential that best approach to target market and how it should be used • Conduct & treating customers fairly; We manage assets solely on behalf of third-party clients who span our clients, shareholders and all the endthe full spectrum of institutional to retail investors. for the benefit of end customers. • Anti-bribery and corruption; customers we ultimately serve can look to Aberdeen to maintain the very highest We are the chosen investment partner of pension funds, insurers, sovereign wealth funds, governments and local authorities, 2 Use of an independent consumer testing service: Aberdeen’s product team uses The Wisdom Council to • Financial crime; • Personal responsibilities such as personal account dealing, review certain proposed new products prior to launch to standards of conduct in every aspect of our charities and financial institutions, to which we provide both ensure fair treatment of customers. We are also reviewing gifts and hospitality. business. Our commitment to integrity, pooled and segregated investment management. In the retail other sources of consumer insight. investment market, we support wealth managers, private banks, honesty and always doing the right thing is, alongside our investment expertise,­what financial advisers, as well as making our investment products available directly to private investors in some markets. 3 Integrating conduct and risk management: Last year we reported on the roll-out of conduct management information based on an assessment of customer inspires investors around the world to We have investment teams across six asset classes covering expectation statements by our key oversight committees. entrust their assets to us. equities, fixed income, multi asset, alternatives, quantitative This year the focus has been on extending coverage and investments and property and our solutions team works across devolving responsibility for the assessment to the business all capabilities to help clients achieve their investment objectives. areas responsible for the activities. A key development has been the introduction of a methodology for aligning Meeting their needs customer outcome statements with core risks, linking the Our clients want access to capital markets for three reasons: conduct outcomes to the risk management framework. capital preservation, income and growth. Additionally, they want this access within their own risk parameters, determined by both liquidity and volatility. In the annual report we provide details of our investment processes and developments over the year. 4 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com5 Managing bribery and Protecting our data and Stewardship across the asset corruption risks customer information classes With the advancements of technology in the finance industry and We have a zero-tolerance policy for bribery and corruption business in general, security risk relating to human error, malicious One theme which has impacted all asset classes during the and we are committed to working against corruption in all intent, and compliance regulations is an ever increasing risk we year is the increasing demand for the integration of ESG its forms. This is communicated throughout the organisation face. Our information security and business continuity committee factors into investment processes. For Aberdeen this is by both the PLC Board and Group Management Board and provides the overall strategic direction, framework and policies already a core element of our stewardship approach. reiterated in our ethical standards and mandatory employee for technology and information security, with a particular focus We invest on behalf of thousands of individuals who training. Due to the nature of our business, our Anti-Bribery on cyber-crime prevention. This is supported by Aberdeen’s global entrust their savings to us to protect and enhance over the and Corruption (ABC) policy also extends to agents acting cyber security programme which is focused on the protection of long-term, and act as stewards of their assets. Increasingly, or providing services on our behalf and partners in joint the confidentiality and integrity of our information assets. this requires us to integrate ESG factors, both the risks they ventures. We employ an external global capability to support the pose and the opportunities they provide, into our products While we operate in multiple jurisdictions, each with varying management and protection of our network, critical internal and services. requirements, we follow a globally consistent approach to assets and data. This includes an incident response service in While our approach differs by asset class, a review of the managing ABC at all levels of our business and in all the real time to identify and thwart potential malicious activity. material ESG factors impacting every investment decision is a regions in which we work to ensure the highest standards We also recently concluded a security simulation to help test fundamental element of our investment processes. are applied. and develop defence planning. To mitigate the risks, a large-scale programme to improve user access controls is in progress. In addition to the integration of material factors, we also Responsibility for managing and mitigating the risk of This includes the implementation of an internal education offer clients bespoke ESG solutions to meet their investment unethical business practice resides with all employees, with programme on information protection focusing on phishing needs. This process is led by our stewardship centre together the day to day management of our policy and procedures attacks, safety at home, physical security, password protection, with ESG specialists on each investment team to ensure a undertaken by our group wide anti-financial crime team. and social media best practices. fully integrated approach. An important element of our commitment to fostering a culture in which bribery and corruption are never acceptable, We are dedicating increasingly significant resources to maintaining is the provision of a secure, confidential and accessible means and updating our systems and processes designed to protect the for internal or external parties to raise concerns about bribery security of our assets as we recognise that a breach of information on the part of associated persons. Aberdeen uses Safecall, security could expose the Group to significant damage to our an independent whistleblowing reporting line. reputation and financial loss. Raising awareness amongst employees has been a particular We also continue to work with specialist partners, asset focus this year, not only of our ABC policy but also related management peers and industry bodies to adopt and enhance policies such as conflicts of interest and gifts and hospitality. privacy and security best practices. This has been achieved through regular training and communications with monitoring and review conducted by our compliance and internal audit teams. In addition to regular monitoring and making improvements when appropriate, we also review our policies and procedures in response to other stimuli, for example regulatory changes. Regular risk assessments ensure we take a proportionate, risk-based approach to the management of bribery risks across all aspects of our operations. We support international and regional legal frameworks including the UN Convention Against Corruption and only operate in countries which have ratified, or are in the process of ratifying, the convention. We are also a signatory of the UN Global Compact, the tenth principle of which commits participants to avoid bribery, extortion and other forms of corruption. There have been no reported breaches of our ABC policy in the past three years. 6 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com7 Investment stewardship and ESG integration Aberdeen’s investment divisions Alternatives Quantitative investments Equities Fixed income Property Alternatives Quantitative Multi asset For our indirect investment teams, our first step is to understand The quantitative investment team build bottom-up equity • Specialist markets • Global reach • Bond-like risk; • Counter-cyclical investments • Unconstrained how external asset managers integrate ESG considerations into portfolios targeting factors which predict out-performance. • Proprietary • Wide range equity-like returns • Specialist insights • Index • Strategic and their investment analysis and decision making. Integrating ESG Our systematic investment process allows the integration of any research • Liability driven • Local and • Universal provider • Low cost active tactical factors into this process can provide additional insight into the ESG factor into a client’s portfolio. This can include a customised investments macro view • Top-down and • Enhanced beta quality of a company’s management, its culture and risk profile as implementation targeting a positive exposure to any desired ESG bottom-up well as identifying opportunities for growth and improvement. factor at the portfolio level versus the benchmark, for example It is therefore important not only for value protection but also for overall ESG score, carbon profile or gender diversity. The team also First-mover Global market Riskand costReturns despite Value for money Income in low-yield value creation. offer the more standard exclusion methodology of not holding advantage in new exposure across the control market cycle environment stocks and industries which do not meet the client’s requirements. markets risk spectrum As with the other asset classes, ultimately the attractiveness of any investment opportunity will be driven by a broad range of factors. In some cases ESG issues will have a limited impact on Multi asset Equities Fixed Income the potential risks or opportunities of an investment. However, Our multi asset funds are built around a clear philosophy of particularly for less liquid private markets and our investments diversification and utilising the team’s expertise in managing the For our active equity business, our bottom-up stock selection Within fixed income, the material risks of an investment are in less developed markets, these issues can be meaningful in our market risks of traditional and alternative assets. We are able process is long-established and, with lengthy average holding examined across a spectrum of issues, including traditional assessment. This means that we have, and will, make decisions to draw on the breadth of Aberdeen’s investment capabilities, periods of generally eight years or more, we actively consider financial metrics, governance issues, country and industry specific incorporating metrics other than just financial ones, including not including ESG integration, to provide multi asset solutions to matters of long-term value for both potential and held considerations, and environmental and social risks. These are progressing with an investment on ESG grounds even when on meet our clients needs. investments. We are committed to the very active role we play, all taken into consideration, using information from many behaving as owners of our investee companies, not just investors. different sources, before an investment decision is made on financial metrics alone we would have chosen to proceed. Our approach to stewardship is focused on materiality and behalf of clients. understanding the specific risks and opportunities a company faces Our approach from an ESG perspective is to examine factors -­both financial and ESG -­prior to making any investment decision which have a potential, material impact on the credit risk of In focus: Carbon and then in our on-going due diligence. the underlying investment. We assess how they are managed We maintain close contact with the companies in which we and mitigated, as well as the opportunities they create for the The drive towards decarbonisation means that investors are increasingly invest which means we can respond pragmatically to their issuer and therefore the investor. This includes factors such as interested in the impact climate change and associated regulations will individual needs and seek to consider what is in the best interests remuneration, board structure, corruption, climate change, human have on portfolios. Our risk-focused, research-based approach across all of the company and its shareholders at the relevant stage of its rights, and supply chain issues. As with our equity holdings, we development. To illustrate, this year we held more than 4,600 look to engage actively where we believe this can add value. asset classes means we are well placed to respond to demands for low meetings with the companies in which we invest and voted at carbon strategies. In addition to integrating the analysis of material, credit-impacting more than 4,400 shareholder meetings worldwide. ESG factors into all issuer reviews, Aberdeen also offers clients a Because of this bottom-up approach which focuses on individual Example: Fixed income Example: Property detailed comparative assessment and scoring of a broader range company strengths, our assessments of material issues can vary of ESG factors which can be customised to suit specific ESG As countries implement new climate regulations and budgets, Our property team has worked with key stakeholders Nokia and greatly even within individual industries. Factors such as board requirements. the resulting impact will be far reaching. Interest in carbon the city of Tampere, Finland to build a world leading data centre structure and effectiveness, remuneration, the impact of climate approaches by countries, companies, individuals and wider in the city, which minimises energy consumption and monetises change, labour standards, innovation and diversity, vary in Property stakeholders is increasing. To meet this demand we are able waste. The data centre will buy its energy from the nearby importance but they are matters which are assessed and discussed to provide clients with portfolios which have a lower carbon Tammerkoski hydroelectric power plant and, when coupled with If both direct and indirect environmental and societal impacts with management and boards where the factors have the potential footprint than the benchmark, both in terms of carbon output solar panels on the roof, this will produce 10% of the energy are well managed, the portfolio risk of our property investments to have a material impact on our investment. Our regular and and intensity. In this way, we can offer a solution which enables required to power the plant. The cooling is solely powered by can be reduced, with higher rental growth and occupancy ongoing dialogue with investee companies forms the bedrock of clients to capitalise on the trend towards a low carbon world. renewable energy sources through district cooling. Rather than rates achieved. our engagements. considering the resultant heated water as waste, the plant Our fixed income investment teams can manage the carbon For decades, we have also offered investors a variety of screened In our property division, the consideration of ESG factors is will enable it to be sold back to the city of Tampere for district exposure of portfolios by selecting best in class positioned portfolios which ensure the avoidance of areas or activities, integrated into each stage of our investment process – from heating of homes and hospitals. issuers within peer groups on a current and historical carbon including tobacco, alcohol, weapons, child labour or animal testing. allocation to selection and management. Our approach is not just emissions basis while also factoring in future carbon exposure. Nokia has calculated that if all such centres around the world This involves a screen being superimposed on specific funds. These about saving carbon and energy, it is about managing our risks worked as efficiently as their facility in Tampere, the global funds still employ our bottom-up equity investment process in and increasingly operational efficiencies to the longer term benefit This strategy inevitably highlights that fossil fuel heavy energy savings would be equal to the amount of power which ESG related risks are examined for each holding but have an of building occupiers and ultimately our investors. industries, in for example the utility or energy related sector, produced by 100 nuclear power plants. additional step in which negative screens act as filters to remove will be the most at risk to rising regulatory pressure. We activities in order to satisfy clients’ needs. therefore do not limit ourselves to beating a benchmark of carbon emissions but seek to find new ways to capture the low carbon market transition by identifying key emerging opportunities. We currently manage over £1 billion in a low carbon fixed income portfolio. 8 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com9 Investing in our people Diversity of ages Culture One commitment the Committee has Culture has played a fundamental role in our growth over the already made is to sign the Women in past 33 years and, as we grow, we want to ensure we maintain Finance Charter. 20 and under 21-30 years 2% 20% and enhance our culture both to differentiate ourselves in a competitive market, and to manage risks within our business. Andrew Laing is our elected senior executive 31-40 years 41-50 years 37% 28% for this initiative. Our aim is for 42 45% of 51-60 years 11% Our culture is how we manifest our values as a company – the standards we set for ourselves and the attitudes we have to our UK employees to be female by 2022. 61-64 years 1% 65 and over 1% our work, our clients and each other. Through our distinct Within this, our goal is to increase female corporate culture we seek to attract the best people to work for us, and give investors worldwide the confidence to entrust representation at UK senior management Length of service their financial future to us. level to between 31 33%. We have set Having a strong corporate culture does not mean putting similar targets globally. Less than 1 year 1-5 years 14% 43% people into boxes or trying to make everyone think identically. 6-10 years 22% 11-15 years 10% Quite the opposite. By sharing the same values and standards, Performance objectives have been set at management level linked 16-20 years 7% we hope to promote a workplace in which different talents, to the achievement of these targets and we will report on our 21-25 years 2% opinions and personalities work even better together. progress on an annual basis. 26-30 years 1% In a competitive industry, we want to keep building a global Over 30 years 1% During the year, we also launched four new employee networks: company where talented, dedicated people are committed to Balance, Capability, Liberty and Unity; rolled out unconscious working together and delivering tangible results. A place where bias training to employees globally; and participated in a number of everyone’s skills and ideas are valued and used to their full industry initiatives including The Diversity Project which is focused potential. on improving diversity in the asset management industry, in its Total workforce: 2,700 broadest sense. Our Culture Committee, which includes representation from all business divisions and geographies, is responsible for Where we are legally allowed, we now ask all employees to declare 56% 44% determining and implementing how we can better safeguard, Unplanned employee Retention rates after their age, ethnicity and disability status, which so far has allowed manage, monitor and improve our culture. turnover rateA parental leave us to collate data for the Americas, UK and Asia Pacific. From this we can determine if there are areas of the business where we need Senior managers: 184 This year, the committee undertook a number of initiatives, 2016 2015 2016 2015 71% 29% including a group wide employee opinion survey specifically to do more to promote diversity and inclusion. focused on our culture. This survey will provide important 11.2% 10.3% 100% 94% Diversity and inclusion is also considered as part of our sponsorship evidence from which our executive team can gauge overall A The average US employee voluntary turnover rate in 2014 for Banking and Finance strategy as we want to align with events which promote a wide 131 in total 53 in total was 13.3%. (Source: Compensation Force), while in the UK voluntary labour turnover in engagement and importantly highlight strengths and range of both participants and viewers. Our biggest sponsorship Group management board: 21 Financial Services in 2013 was 11.8% (Source: XpertHR). weaknesses in particular priority areas. activity during the year is the Scottish Open and we remain proud 90% 10% sponsors of both the Men’s and Ladies tournaments. This year, to coincide with the latter event, we held a Female Leadership in Recruitment and retention Retention of talent is a focus globally and we have a number Business and Sport event the day before the ladies open started. As an investor in companies globally we know the best companies of initiatives in place to address our employees’ diverse needs, 19 in total 2 in total including mentoring, maternity coaching and a range of draw on the widest pool of talent so it is important for us that the Board of Directors: 12 businesses in which we invest do not limit themselves in the way development opportunities. We also offer a range of flexible work they recruit and how they develop their people. This applies to our own business too. arrangements, encourage agile working and offer equal shared parental leave to both parents in a number of our locations. 75% 25% At an entry level, we recruited 107 interns, 31 graduates, 9 in total 3 in total Fostering diversity, promoting inclusion 10 apprentices and seven individuals on the Investment 2020 Aberdeen is committed to building and sustaining a diverse scheme. These programmes aim to equip recruits with a broadworkforce and inclusive workplace. Our aim is to ensure we provide Case study: International Women’s Day 2016 based knowledge of both Aberdeen and the asset management our clients and wider stakeholders with the diversity of thought The theme of the 2016 International Women’s Day campaign was #PledgeForParity and respecting and valuing differences in the industry as a whole. necessary to build long-term value. workplace. Our initiative, #IAmOnlyDifferent, which involved over 500 employees from all over the world, aimed to celebrate the At a senior level, we have strengthened our management team huge range of different people who work for Aberdeen and to promote the value that diversity and inclusion brings to the workplace. We realise this needs to be an ongoing commitment and one with senior external appointments in distribution, strategy and Please look at our website to see the video. which requires continual monitoring. As such, we have formalised operations, and internal promotions in our investment teams. our Global Diversity and Inclusion Committee which includes Morale has been impacted by our asset class outflows but we representation from across the Group and several Group remain focused on our team-based approach. Senior employees, Management Board members. who have weathered previous financial cycles, play an important role in re-assuring more junior team members. 10 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com11 Learning, development and talent management Innovation and engagement The Aberdeen Charitable Foundation Local communities Last year we committed significant additional investment to our The environment in which we operate is changing the way clients In the four years since inception, the Aberdeen Charitable Global engagement with our local community projects continues learning and development offering, by introducing the Aberdeen want to do business. Our business model must adapt and we Foundation has had a positive impact in all of the communities in to grow and this year some great new charities have been Asset Management Academy. This platform combines a wide recognise that many ideas for improvement and innovation can which employees live and work, through our local community and identified as well as the development of long term partnerships. range of learning and development initiatives and enables come from within the business. Led by the Innovation Committee emerging markets programmes. We once again participated in Global Give and Gain Day with employees to record, explore and plan their careers and personal and enabled by our platform Ignite, we want to harness the over 400 employees from 23 offices taking part in a range of local In 2016 £2.4m was donated to charitable causes globally up community projects. development. The learning is split into technical training and ideas of our employees to work more efficiently and effectively. from £1.6m in 2015 and £1.6m in 2014. This includes donations business skills. Collaboration and knowledge sharing are fundamental to this. Emerging markets made by the Foundation (£0.9m), the Group (£1.2m) and As such, we have continued to improve our internal Our emerging markets grant programme also continues to make In addition to training for all employees, our senior leadership GAYE employer contributions (£0.3m) but excludes unspent communications through email bulletins, senior management substantial long-term investments to charities supporting the and emerging talent programmes continue to receive positive contributions made by PLC to the Foundation. videos and town halls. education of underprivileged young people. Each partnership runs feedback. We invest significantly in the development of leadership 20% of our global workforce volunteered during the year, up from for three years and we ensure by the end the charity’s work remains skills and to date, 62 employees have completed the INSEAD 16% in 2015 and 17% in 2014. sustainable for the future. An example of this is highlighted by our senior leadership programme and 188 the emerging talent programme. Employees selected for these programmes come previous partner ABC Trust which has now become an official part from across our global offices. These programmes involve the of the organisation Childreach International. identification of top talent and feed through to our succession planning process. Our emerging markets charity partners Karen Hilltribes Trust (KHT) Thailand, 2016 elected partner Average hours of training per employee Aberdeen’s support will fund two new school dormitories in Mae Hong Son, 2016 2015 the poorest of Thailand’s 76 provinces. 28 hours 28 hours SeeBeyondBorders (SBB) Cambodia, AfriKids Ghana, 2013 elected partner 2014 elected partner We support an educational project in We support four educational Bavel, one of the poorest and most initiatives for the poorest children vulnerable communities in Cambodia. living in Bolgatanga in the Upper The programmes we support enable ChildHope Peru, East Region (UER) of Ghana – a teachers to make the right choices, building 2015 elected partner region where 71% of children over skills and capability, and encouraging Our support focuses across five six have never attended school and students, parents and members of the districts in Lima and Callao, covering 78% of people over 15 are illiterate. community to engage with and play a 7,000 children. The project aims to role in strengthening education from a create safer school environments community level up. in eight schools and will benefit indirectly 320 teachers and 3,800 parents. Case study buildOn: As an extension of our emerging markets programme, we also support the work of buildOn. In May 2015, a group of employees helped to build two schools in Malawi in the name of two former colleagues who died tragically on a charity cycle ride. In November 2016, 16 people from across our global offices travelled to Nicaragua to help build a primary school; the first one of three we have committed to fund. 12 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com13 We are frequently asked and ask our investee companies about matters Managing our environment impact such as interactions with policy makers in operating countries, tax practices, supplier relations and environmental management. For Aberdeen, these are issues which have the potential to pose both risks and opportunities for the Our largest environmental impact comes from the investments we hold, Group, notably from an operational, cost and brand perspective. rather than our direct activities. However we look to reduce our negative environmental impact and improve our environmental performance. Reducing carbon emissions from the buildings we occupy, business travel, waste generation and resource use are our principal areas of focus. Public policy ISO14001 Certification We have maintained our certified Environmental Management Waste management and resource use In the UK we send zero waste to landfill and have achieved a 68% Systems (EMS) across our UK offices and are now looking towards recycling rate, sending approximately 161 tonnes of waste for transitioning to the ISO14001:2015 standard ahead of the 2018 recycling and saving an estimated 2,200 trees through recycling all We have a responsibility to help shape a policy environment which operates deadline. of our paper. We work with all of our offices to reduce the amount in the long-term interests of our clients, employees, shareholders and the Global engagement of waste generated and where possible separate waste streams at source. In our London and Edinburgh offices we currently separate wider financial services sector. We have used the EMS as a platform to engage with our offices over 10 waste streams on-site This year has been marked by significant political and economic Financial Enterprise, to ensure we are involved in helping to shape globally. We undertook an assessment of all offices to understand their contribution to our environmental performance and we In the UK our procured cut sheet paper is 100% sustainably sourced events. In the UK, the single most influential factor was Brexit. developments. Our Chief Executive has also joined the European are holding meetings with stakeholders across all the business and we hope to roll this out globally. However, until the negotiation begins formally, expected by the end Financial Services Chairmen’s Advisory Committee led by Baroness of March 2017, the terms of the withdrawal and any impact will Vadera, which has been created to advise the UK Government on functions. These meetings enable us to review environmental Future targets be largely unknown. At Aberdeen, we are confident that we will be financial services during Brexit negotiations. performance and share environmental best practice and behaviours. We have set targets for our direct environmental impacts able to meet any challenges and opportunities leaving the EU may We aim to minimise our environmental footprint across our In addition to Brexit, following the result of the US election we associated with our office based activities to be achieved present. We already operate in a number of countries across Europe international operations. have set up a project group to monitor the situation and ensure our by 2020: through locally regulated subsidiaries and our principal crossCarbon emissions clients are kept up to date. • Reduce our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 15% per FTE and border fund range for European investors outside the UK has been As an office-based business a large proportion of our direct energy intensity by 10% per FTE across our UK offices.A domiciled in Luxembourg for many years. We do not expect either More generally, we continue to be an active participant in both environmental impact is associated with carbon emissions from • Increase video conferencing and understand the impact of its use our non-UK or UK businesses to be affected in a substantive way global and local policy developments which impact our operations. energy use (scope 1 and 2 emissions) in the buildings we occupy. on business travel trends whilst also seeking to reduce our scope 3 by the result of the referendum, although there may be regulatory At a senior level, our CEO chairs the Prudential Regulatory Authority With the exception of our headquarters in Aberdeen, we are tenants and/or legal changes in the longer term. Practitioner Panel and is a member of the International Advisory carbon emissions per FTE associated with business travel. of the buildings we occupy and therefore we have needed, in many Board of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the International • Maintain zero waste to landfill and increase our recycling rate in Internally, we have set up a Brexit working group and are instances, to adopt a collaborative approach, working with building Advisory Board of British American Business. Our Deputy CEO is on the UK to 75%. liaising closely with a number of organisations, including the UK managers and other occupiers, to bring about change. the board of the Investment Association. Investment Association, the Corporation of London and Scottish • Work with our offices to ensure our paper products are This year we achieved a 5.5% reduction in our absolute scope 1 sustainably sourced and use recycled paper products where Tax Suppliers and 2 emissions and have reduced our carbon emissions per full time equivalent (FTE) to 1.68, a 10% decrease on last year. Since A possible. Baseline year of 2015 2011 we have achieved a 26% fall in scope 1 and 2 emissions per FTE. These reductions have been realised through changes in CO2e emissions (tonnes) Our policy is to ensure profits are earned in the countries in which At Aberdeen, we adhere to strict standards of corporate conduct, 2016 building use and improved building management. Ongoing projects economic activities are undertaken and that those profits are ethical behaviour and compliance as set out in Aberdeen’s Scope Emissions source Location Market 2015 to reduce carbon emissions associated with our corporate offices properly subjected to tax in accordance with the tax legislation Statement of Ethical Standards. And we want to work with 1 Natural gas 453 452 414 include: rationalising the out-of-hours energy use through improved which applies in each jurisdiction. We aim to comply fully with suppliers who share our business standards. Group owned vehicles 172 172 118 management of computer systems; agile working; minimising desk the requirements and expectations of each of the relevant tax Diesel This year, to reinforce this approach, we developed a Supplier infrastructure to reduce small power use; and refining ventilation authorities and to work with these authorities in an open and Refrigerant gas loss 28 28 28 Code of Conduct which outlines the basic ethical requirements and air conditioning strategies on our occupied floors. transparent manner. 653 652 560 suppliers should adhere to when doing business with Aberdeen. This year, the effective tax rate on the Group’s underlying It also sets out our global commitment to the Modern Slavery Act. Business travel 2 Electricity and district 4493 5748 4885 profit was 16.5% (2015: 15.2%). UK tax payable on the This Code of Conduct supplements our new supplier due diligence Reducing the environmental impact associated with business travel heating Group’s underlying profit for the year was £32.7 million questionnaire which includes questions on key issues such as: remains a challenge. We track journeys and are off-setting air travel Total 5146 6400 5445 (2015: £37.6 million), together with overseas taxes of risk management; anti-financial crime; outsourcing; information where possible. We also work with our travel partners to identify Intensity ratio: Emissions per FTE for 1.68 2.09 1.86 £25.7 million (2015: £28.9 million). Our tax rate reflects the security; data privacy; business continuity; labour policies and areas where improvements can be made. While we are reliant on air, Scope 1 and Scope 2 fact that a large element of the Group’s profit is earned in Asia, environmental management. road and rail travel for many aspects of our business, we are focused We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) for our principally Singapore, where we have a large and long-established on ensuring our video conferencing facilities provide an alternative methodology and have used operational control as our boundary for reporting. We have adopted dual More locally, in the UK, Aberdeen is a Living Wage Foundation to travel when appropriate. During the year we achieved a 44% reporting, and applied residual mixB emissions factors on European sites and grid mix emissions factors investment presence and where local tax rates are generally lower for all other sites, for the calculation of market based emissions. Location based emissions have been Employer, does not employ any individuals on zero hours increase the in number of calls and a 53% increase in the number of calculated applying grid mix emissions factors for all sites. We have gathered data from invoices on than in western countries. The effective tax rate has also benefited energy consumption, register of refrigerants and service logs of owned vehicles. contracts and continues to comply with the UK Government connections (number of rooms connected to a call). This increase is from a further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate to 20% B The residual mix is the mix of energy generation resources and associated attributes such as GHG Prompt Payment Code, an initiative to promote best practice reported alongside a reduction in scope 3 emissions associated with emission in a defined geographic boundary left after contractual instruments have been claimed retired/ (2015: 20.5%). between companies and their suppliers. business travel. cancelled. 14 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com15 UN Global Compact UN Sustainable Developments Goals (SDGs) In 2013, to demonstrate further our support for the adoption of As a signatory of the UN Global Compact and the UN supported responsible business practices, we became a signatory to the UN Global Principles for Responsible Investment, Aberdeen has a role in Compact. The ten principles provide a framework against which we can contributing to the realisation of the SDGs. benchmark our performance and work to improve our practices. Our role in achieving these goals is three-fold: as an investor; as a The table below provides a reference to the relevant section in this report large international company; and through our global charitable against which our progress on the principles can be assessed. foundation. Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant sections While many of the SDGs are more closely linked to our investments than the operations of the PLC, the table below sets out the most Human rights Principle 1 Investing in our people & suppliers Businesses should support and respect the protection of relevant goals for Aberdeen. internationally proclaimed human rights Investment Aberdeen Aberdeen Charitable Principle 2 Investing in our people & SDG stewardship PLC Foundation Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human investment stewardship rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Investing in our people & p.8-9 p.10-12 p.13 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the investment stewardship We foster diversity and inclusion within our organisation; engage with investee effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining companies on this matter and ensure the charitable projects we support are Principle 4 Investing in our people & committed to equality. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and investment stewardship compulsory labour Principle 5 Investing in our people & p.8-9 p.15 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour investment stewardship Climate action is an increasingly material issue for both our clients and investee companies. For Aberdeen PLC, our UK properties are ISO14001 certified and we Principle 6 Investing in our people & are committed to reducing our negative environmental impact. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in investment stewardship respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Managing our environmental impact Businesses should support a precautionary approach to p.8-9 p.10-14 p.13 environmental challenges We are an integral part of the economy and society as an employer, corporate and taxpayer. We expect all of our suppliers and partners to adhere to our newly Principle 8 Managing our environmental impact & formed supplier code of conduct and modern slavery statement, and help to Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater investment stewardship strengthen and ensure sustainability of our charity partners. environmental responsibility Principle 9 Managing our environmental impact & Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of investment stewardship environmentally friendly technologies p.8-9 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Our customer focus managing bribery and We invest, directly and indirectly, in properties, infrastructure and companies Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including corruption risks which align with our commitment to act as stewards of our clients assets and extortion and bribery create long-term value. p.8-9 p.14 We recognise our responsibility to help shape an environment, both political and economic, which operates in the long-term interests of our clients, employees, shareholders and wider stakeholder. 16 Aberdeen Asset Management Integrated stewardship Report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com17 aberdeen-asset.com17 GRI Assessment This year we updated our GRI index disclosure to align to the G4 KEY Profile Disclosure Reference / comments sustainability reporting guidelines, supporting our commitment Yes G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or We have been a member of the FTSE4Good Index since 2002 and are a signatory to the PRI and UN Global Compact. We to transparency. This disclosure has not been externally assured No which it endorses respond to the annual CDP survey and our UK business is ISO 14001 certified. We are also members of, and/or submit data by a third party and therefore the information below is selfPartial to, a large number of other organisations globally including assessed based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. Not material corporate governance associations, global property organisations, Business in the Community (UK), and the UK We have only included those indicators we believe are relevant Government’s Think, Act, Report initiative. During the year, we also signed the Women in Finance Charter. Please refer to our to Aberdeen and our stakeholders. website for further information. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and As above. national or international organizations Standard disclosures: profile Identified material aspects and boundaries Profile Disclosure Reference / comments G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Annual report p.162-169 Strategy and analysis G4-18 Explanation of the process for defining the report content and the This Report p.3 Aspect Boundaries, and how the organization has implemented the G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation This report – Introduction by Andrew Laing Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy (Deputy CEO) Organisational profile G4-19 The material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content List of GRI aspects applicable to Aberdeen: Economic G4-3 Name of the organisation Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Economic performance G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Annual report p.28-31 Environmental Emissions G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters Annual report p.11 Products and services G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates Annual report p.11 Compliance Social G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual report Labour practices and decent work G4-8 Markets served Annual report p.11 Employment Training and education G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual report Occupational health and safety G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender This report p.11 Diversity and equal opportunity Equal remuneration for women and men G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining All employees are free to join collective bargaining agreements. We respect freedom of association and in countries where an Human rights agreements employee delegate or works council is not present, employees -Freedom of association and collective bargaining are encouraged to share their opinions with line managers or -Supplier human rights assessment human resources representatives. Society Local communities G4-12 The organization’s supply chain As an investor in companies globally we analyse businesses Anti-corruption through a critical lens, weighing up the risks and opportunities Public policy of each investment decision. And we apply this approach to our Anti-competitive behaviour own business too, recognising that we need to act in the best Compliance interest of our shareholders, clients, employees and wider stakeholders including our supply chain. Product responsibility Health and safety We aim to treat all suppliers fairly and our global procurement Product and service labelling team ensures we have policies and guidance in place to oversee Marketing the process for major appointments and ongoing relationship Customer privacy management. Aberdeen will always require that our suppliers Compliance comply with all applicable laws, regulations and standards within the geographies in which they operate. In instances G4-20 The Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect We report on all aspects of the business. where the standards we require differ from local laws and G4-21 The Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect We report on all aspects of the business. customs, we expect suppliers to respect these standards within the context of the customs and the local laws of their specific G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous No material restatement required. geography. reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the No material changes during the year. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and No significant changes on prior year. organization’s size, structure or ownership Aspect Boundaries G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle We adopt a precautionary approach to environmental Stakeholder engagement is addressed by the organization management, as set out in our Group wide environmental G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Annual report – p.51-88; this report p.3 policy (available on our website). We recognise that our activities have both direct and indirect impacts on the G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Annual report – p.51-88; this report p.3 environment and the communities in which we operate and so engage accept our responsibility to identify and manage these impacts G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Annual report – p.51-88; this report p.3 as effectively as possible. We focus on mitigating risks at all levels of our business. More G4-27 Explanation of key topics and concerns that have been raised through Annual report – p.51-88; this report p.3 information on risk management is provided in the annual stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to report pages 40-49. them 18 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com19 Profile Disclosure Reference / comments Disclosure Location of disclosure Report profile GRI Aspect: Compliance G4-28 Reporting period for information provided 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-29 Date of most recent previous report December 2015 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions during the year. sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual regulations G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr@aberdeen-asset.com G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen and GRI content index for the chosen Our report is aligned to GRI G4. This disclosure has not been Category: Social option externally assured by a third party and, therefore, the Disclosure Location of disclosure information below is self-assessed based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. GRI Aspect: Employment G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking Once again we have chosen not to have our report G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach external insurance for the report independently assured given its limited length and data G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee This report p.10-13 content and the extensive internal review process in place turnover by age group, gender and region at Aberdeen. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender This report p.11 Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization Annual report – p.51-88 GRI Aspect: Labour practices and decent work Ethics and integrity G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Annual report and our corporate website. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including Minimum notice periods, where applicable, are governed by whether these are specified in collective agreements state or local law. GRI Aspect: Occupational health and safety Specific standard disclosure Category: Economic G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Disclosure Location of disclosure G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and There were no accidents or near misses in the current or prior absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region year as reportable by RIDDOR. GRI Aspect: Economic performance and by gender G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach GRI Aspect: Training and education G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Annual Report p.12-13 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the This report p.8 and p.15 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by This report p.12 organization’s activities due to climate change employee category G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report p.148 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support This report p.10-13 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government None the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at Annual report p.22-25 GRI Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity significant locations of operation G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services This report p.8-9 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career All employees have, at minimum, a formal annual appraisal. supported development reviews, by gender and by employee category Category: Environmental G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Annual report p.22-25 and this report p.10-13 Disclosure Location of disclosure employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity GRI Aspect: Emissions GRI Aspect: Equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) 652 tonnes of CO2e (560 in 2015) G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by We are preparing the data to comply with UK’s gender pay gap G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) 4493 tonnes of CO2e (4885 in 2015) employee category, by significant locations of operation reporting requirement from 2017. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) 5168 tonnes of CO2e (7,030 in 2015). This covers air travel for our global operations. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 76 tonnes of general waste UK only (76 tonnes in 2015), 161 tonnes of recyclable waste UK only (155 tonnes in 2015). GRI Aspect: Products & services G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and This report p.8 and p.15 services 20 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com21 Category: Human rights Category: Product responsibility Disclosure Location of disclosure Disclosure Location of disclosure GRI Aspect: Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI Aspect: Health and safety G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There were no such incidents in the financial year. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or Human rights issues are incorporated into our mandatory voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to annual compliance training for all employees. and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes operations, including the percentage of employees trained GRI Aspect: Product and service labelling G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Not applicable G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the In most of the countries in which we operate there are strict at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights organization’s procedures for product and service information and regulations which govern product and service information. GRI Aspect: Supplier human rights assessment labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories We ensure that we comply with these standards. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There were no such incidents in the financial year. G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights This report p.14 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and criteria labelling, by type of outcomes GRI Aspect: Marketing Category: Society G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach Disclosure Location of disclosure G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and There were no such incidents in the financial year. GRI Aspect: Local communities voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach GRI Aspect: Customer privacy G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Annual report p.24 and this report p.13 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of There were no such complaints in the financial year. GRI Aspect: Anti-corruption customer privacy and losses of customer data G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach GRI Aspect: Compliance G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related This report p.6, all operations assessed. G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and There were no such fines in the financial year. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and This report p.6, mandatory training for all employees on our regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services procedures policy and procedures. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No such incidents were faced in the financial year. GRI Aspect: Public policy G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ It is the Group's policy not to make contributions for political beneficiary purposes. GRI Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, No such actions were faced in the financial year. anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes GRI Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonThere were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations non-compliance with laws and regulations during the year. 22 Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate stewardship report 2016 aberdeen-asset.com23 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH Telephone: +44 (0)20 7463 6000 Fax: +44 (0)20 7463 6001 aberdeen-asset.com Registered in Scotland No. 82015. Registered Office 10 Queen’s Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG 121025891
