UN Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 20 16 Communication on progress 2016 2 3 Contents Accounts and audits 20 What is the UN Global Compact 4 Acceptance of gifts 20 The ten universal principles 5 What is DubaB8? 6 The Executive Board on DubaB8 & CSR Policy 7 Human Rights Principles and Labour Principles 8 Rights and obligations 8 Working time 8 Child labour 9 Education 9 Maternity leave 9 Holiday entitlements 9 Days off and Public Holidays 10 Sickness 10 Seniority and employee satisfaction 10 Staff benefits 11 A safe and healthy workplace 11 Measures to improve the physical working environment 12 Raising risk understandgin in the organisation 13 Risks in the administration 13 Recording of near-accidents 13 Minimising stress factors in the administration 14 One company One culture 14 DubaB8’s collaboration with suppliers 15 Our suppliers’ working environment 15 Suppliers code of conduct Status 16 Environmental Principles 16 Waste management and recycling 17 Certified office furniture 18 The Nordic Swan Ecolabel The official Ecolabel in the Nordic Countries 19 Environmental requirements for suppliers 20 Anti-Corruption Principles 20 Communication on progress 2016 4 5 UN Global Compact The ten universal principles Communication on progress Human Rights Principles 2016 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses This Communication on Progress (COP) covers the period from 1 January 2016 until 31 December 2016. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of What is the UN Global Compact the right to collective bargaining; The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operPrinciple 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As social, political and economic challenges (and opportunities) — whether occurring at home or in other regions — affect business more than ever before, many companies recognize the need to collaborate and Environmental Principles partner with governments, civil society, labour and the United Nations. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental chal Participation in the Global Compact is a widely visible commitment to the implementation, disclosure, and lenges; promotion of its ten universal principles. A company joining the initiative is expected to: Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Make the Global Compact and its principles an integral part of business strategy, day-toPrinciple 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies day operations and organizational culture; Anti-Corruption Principles Incorporate the Global Compact and its principles in the decision-making processes of the highest level governance body (i.e. Board); Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery2. Contribute to broad development objectives (including the Millennium Development Goals) through partnerships; Integrate in its annual report (or in a similar public document, such as a sustainability report) a description of the ways in which it implements the principles and supports broader development objectives (also known as the Communication on Progress); and Advance the Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers and the public at large1. 1) Reference www.unglobalcompact.org 2) Reference www.unglobalcompact.org Communication on progress 2016 6 7 What is DubaB8? The Executive Board on DubaB8 & CSR Policy DubaB8 A/S is a 100% Danish-owned company and the largest manufacturer of office furniture in DenDubaB8 has drawn up a CSR policy (the DubaB8 Code of Conduct and Suppliers’ Code of Conduct) that lays mark.DubaB8 designs and manufactures a range of office furniture under its own name and also deals in down the framework for interaction with our stakeholders. These stakeholders include: customers, suppliers, recognised national and international brands. Our customer base consists of four segments: small acemployees, public authorities and the local community. DubaB8’s CSR policy is founded on the ten principles counts, medium accounts, large accounts and corporate accounts. DubaB8 designs, manufactures, delivers, of the UN Global Compact and is built on DubaB8’s mission to create freedom at work for our customers, services and disposes of complete solutions for businesses. Many furniture concepts are tailor-made for our customers’ employees, the environment and our surroundings. the customer in question, and 80% of the company’s own production is created for specific customers and DubaB8’s mission to create freedom at work is the value base that permeates every decision and action that specific layouts. Our customers typically focus on corporate identity, employee development and well-being, stems from the organisation, and DubaB8’s CSR policy is a natural extension of the same. Both the mission the environment and CSR. We work with product development from a holistic perspective, where the end to create freedom at work and DubaB8’s Code of Conduct are points of reference in everyday work and product is more than just an item of furniture; it is also work enjoyment for the end user and a product that interaction with customers, suppliers and partners. They also form the foundations for our interaction with aligns with the company’s goals and values. DubaB8 is the result of a merger between two traditional Danish one another. Moreover, the attitudes and values expressed through our mission and policies constitute what office furnituremanufacturers: System B8 møbler and Duba Møbelindustri. Both these furniture companies could be termed “the company spirit”. were founded as family businesses by men with strong opinions and visions. These opinions and visions still exist to thisday and are a big part of the DubaB8 identity. The values, which can be expressed through words such as credibility, responsibility, profitability, sustainability and respect, should not be viewed exclusively as concepts linked to a modern company, but as firmly rooted values which, throughout the more than 100-year history of the business, have helped shape the DubaB8 Our customer promises organisation into a modern Scandinavian company in a globalised world. For DubaB8 and our valued customers, furniture and interior design are not costs. We are convinced that When sustainability is expressed as specific actions, whether these are initiatives which directly affect the activity-based interior design must create solutions that meet and improve the organisation’s performance working environment for our employees or the purchasing choices we make, sustainability ceases to be a and capacity to meet corporate and strategic goals. Our primary objective is to ensure that your interior declaration of intent and becomes a principle for actions that help drive the company forward. Fulfilment of design solution adds value to your business and make your new furniture a profitable investment. Our office the goals of the UN Global Compact does not start with ten principles, but with the way in which we interact furniture, services and interior design solutions create value via three signally important parameters. with each other on a daily basis. Efficiency: We supply office furniture, services and interior furnishing solutions focusing on Total Cost of Social responsibility starts with the actions we take and the decisions we make on an everyday basis as Ownership – whilst we optimise efficiency, reduce overheads and eliminate risk for our customers. people and players in the DubaB8 company. Endorsing the UN Global Compact is a specific way to tell the world around us that we are willing to shoulder our social responsibility. At the same time, it constitutes a Performance: We use activity-based working as a tool to create individual office solutions to boost job hand extended to our suppliers, customers and partners: “come and join us – together we can make a difsatisfaction, knowledge-sharing and flexibility stimulating organisational development and performance. ference”. I hope that this global network of commercial companies will grow both in size and in influence over Brand Power: We design and produce furniture and solutions that combine aesthetics, functionality and the coming years. One thing is for sure: DubaB8 will also be a part of it in 2017. quality and create attractive spatial perceptions that strengthen the visual brand identity of our customers. Peter Arndrup Poulsen CEO, DubaB8 A/S Communication on progress 2016 8 9 Human Rights Principles and Labour Principles Child labour DubaB8 operates production in Denmark and sales offices in Denmark, Norway, Finland, Dubai and SingaIn Denmark children are required to attend school for nine years, and children and adolescents under the age pore. A total of 153 people are employed at the company’s facilities in these countries. Our customers are of 15 who attend school are not permitted to take normal work. However, from the age of 13, children may primarily Scandinavian companies that operate at global level, and we service these customers’ overseas do a limited number of hours of light work after school. Figures from 2010 (Danmarks statistik) show that 52 departments through a network of partners. In the following sections, we therefore differentiate between percent of girls and 45 percent of boys age 15 years have a job in addition to their schooling. When children how we work with the principles of the UN Global Compact internally at DubaB8, and externally through our and young people have jobs, they do so to earn money for their own use, i.e. to fund leisure pursuits and suppliers and partners. entertainment. Children and adolescents who are covered by the obligation to attend school must not work more than two hours a day on school days and not more than 12 hours a week. Children and adolescents The countries of Scandinavia have a long tradition of implementing legislation to regulate the behaviour of are not allowed to work between 20:00 and 06.00. Children and adolescents may only do light work, and both citizens and companies. This legislation covers all areas: fundamental rights of freedom, employer and their duties must not include heavy lifting, contact with hazardous substances, or operating heavy machinery. employee rights, the environment and occupational health and safety. Pay conditions for children and adolescents are typically established under the collective agreement. DubaB8 employs 1 person under the age of 18, who performs light office tasks. Rights and obligations In Denmark conditions related to working hours, wages, maternity leave, gender equality, holidays and time Education off, occupational health and safety, environmental impact and waste disposal are all determined by law. The The same working conditions apply to apprentices as to other employees. The working conditions for aplegislation in all of these areas designates minimum requirements. prentices must be the same as for any other group of employees. If an apprentice is under 18 years of age, In a range of areas, however, we work more intensively and more broadly than we are obliged to by law. We the regulations for child and adolescent work are applicable. In 2016 DubaB8 has employed three graduhave agreements with several of our employee groups and have set up a collaboration committee to deal with ate students from the University in Aarhus and Aalborg as part time employees. This approach brings new any conflicts that may arise. Provisions in the collective agreements that apply to some groups of employees knowledge to the company and gives the students insight in the mechanism in a company when you apply are, by tradition, extended to apply to all our employees, including those who are not covered by a collectheories in practice which can be useful both in relation to their study and in their future career. tive agreement. This means that all monthly-paid workers work under the terms of the Industrial Agreement (the collective agreement for salaried employees in industry). The hourly-paid employees are covered by the Industrial Agreement and the Collective Agreement for the Danish Woodworking and Furniture Industries. Maternity leave According to the Danish legislation, a mother is entitled to hold four weeks of maternity leave prior to the birth and 14 weeks after her child is born. In pursuance of the Danish Maternity Leave Act, the mother is entitled to Working time a maternity allowance during maternity leave. However, as DubaB8 complies with the collective agreements The European Working Time Directive and the collective agreements provide the framework for the maximum mentioned and belongs to the Industrial Maternity Fund, our employees receive full pay for a period of 18 number of hours that may be worked. (4+14) weeks and thereafter full pay for 11 weeks of their parental leave. In the collective agreements, working time in Denmark is fixed at an average of 37 hours a week. Working The child’s father is entitled to two weeks’ paternity leave, which must be taken between the first and fourtime in excess of 37 hours is recompensed at a predetermined higher rate of pay or time is taken off in lieu. teenth week and can begin on the day the child is born. Paternity leave must be taken as a contiguous period. Some groups of employees have to accept overtime and this is reflected in their salary. In pursuance of the The mother and father can also share 8 weeks of parental leave. Danish Working Time Act, the average working week must not exceed 48 hours a week over a period of four Parental leave may be divided between the parents and taken as two separate periods (unless otherwise months. According to the Danish Working Environment Act, an employee has the right to 11 hours of rest in agreed with the employer). any working day. A working week may comprise of maximum 6 days and 1 rest days. DubaB8 employees work flexible working hours, which means that the individual employee cooperates with their superior to plan work so that both workplace requirements and the individual employee’s needs are Holiday entitlements taken into account. If working conditions allow, salaried workers are permitted to work from home. The flexiAccording to the Danish Holidays Act, paid employees are entitled to five weeks holiday, three of which they hours and work from home schemes should be seen in the light of a desire to give DubaB8 employees the must be allowed to hold consecutively. At DubaB8, employees also accrue five extra days of holiday a year opportunity to create work-life balance. Communication on progress 2016 10 11 after nine months’ employment at the company. This too is covered by the collective agreement. Holiday pay Staff benefits is calculated as 12.5% of the employee’s salary, which is paid out when the employee takes holiday. DubaB8 employees are offered a variety of staff benefits. All our employees have free coffee and tea, chilled drinking water and fresh fruit. At the Bjerringbro facility we have a staff cafeteria, where employees can buy Days off and Public Holidays healthy and nutritional meals. The ingredients are mostly organic. It is also possible to order meals to take home. In Copenhagen and Oslo, there is a lunch scheme for everyone. Regardless of how they are run, all For employees in production the following are days off: 1 May, Danish Constitution Day (5 June) and Christour lunch schemes offer our employees healthy and nutritional food. DubaB8 meets 50 % of the costs of the mas Eve (24 December). For monthly paid employees, 1 May is not a day off. There are also a number of lunch schemes. The remainder is paid by the employees. Public Holidays which will usually be days off. These are Palm Sunday, Thursday and Friday in Easter week, Easter Sunday and Monday, Ascension Day, Prayer Day and Whit Sunday and Monday. These are all public For a long time now, it has been possible to take out health insurance via a joint DubaB8 insurance scheme. holidays for which employees receive pay. The health insurance provides fast and professional medical assistance in different situations, including surgery at a private hospital, physiotherapy etc. The health insurance covers employees in Denmark. At present it is not possible for us to offer health insurance to employees in our Norwegian sister-company DubaB8. Sickness According to the Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act, which applies to all employees in Sales and adA safe and healthy workplace ministration, an employee is entitled to pay during a period of sickness. For the hourly-paid employees, after nine months’ employment, the employer may grant up to nine week’s absence with pay in connection with According to ILO Convention No. 187, Promotional Framework for Occupational Safety and Health Convensickness, corresponding to the hourly rate of pay the employee would have received if he or she had worked. tion, 2006, DubaB8 is obliged to work to create a safe and healthy working environment for its employees. This too is included in the collective agreement. In this Convention, working environment is defined as covering not only the physical aspects of the work, but also the mental aspects too. This chapter will consider issues that concern both the physical and the mental According to the collective agreement, parents are entitled to one day off work with pay if their child is sick. working environment. Common to problems in the physical working environment is the fact that they are This applies equally to salaried employees and hourly-paid employees who have nine months’ seniority. relatively easy to identify and find operational solutions for. Problems with the mental working environment are often more difficult to relate to causes and a change in behavior is more frequently required in order to rectify the problems. This chapter therefore makes a clear distinction between measures aimed at bringing Seniority about improvements to the physical environment and those targeted at the mental working environment. We place great emphasis on developing the potential of the individual employee and on retaining staff at our DubaB8 is certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard for occupational health and safety. This confirms company. As a company, we are committed to ensuring that DubaB8 is a good place to work with regard to that DubaB8 works purposefully and systematically to improve occupational health and safety on an ongoing both physical and social working environments. This commitment permeates all areas of the organisation – basis. We have drawn up a range of safety policies and contingency plans, which are openly available on the from owners, board members and managers to individual employees – in shared efforts to promote a good, company intranet. Moreover, we have established a working environment committee that deals with occupaenjoyable working environment on an everyday basis. tional accidents and near-accidents and implements measures to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents. In 2016, we celebrated quite a few jubilees as shown in this table: This committee consists of representatives of the management and representatives of the employees. Every second year an election is held to elect employee representatives for the committee. Number of employees with 10 25 40 50 seniority at DubaB8 (years) Over the past eight years, systematic records have been kept of sick leave, accidents and near-accidents. These records form part of the fulfilment of our objectives in accordance with the OHSAS 18001 standard. Number of employees 11 1 1 1 The average seniority in 2016 was 11,09 years. Communication on progress 2016 12 13 Table: Recording sick leave, accidents and near-accidents. Raising risk understanding in the organisation Financial Incidents No. of Ratios No. of IIndex = Index = AbsenteeDubaB8 has been very focused on providing a safe and secure working environment since it’s very beginning. Year (for which “Near(rounded employNo. of “Nearmisses”/ ism It has never been necessary to discuss whether a helping aid should be installed if it was needed to spare notification Misses” figures) ees incidents/ employees the employee. Over the years, we have realized that it is not sufficient to offer all the help aids available – it is employee expressed is also crucial to raise awareness and understanding of work place hazards and risks. Over time, you can mandatory) expressed as a percentage as a percentage make a habit of neglecting risks and because it is part of your daily routine it would never be a threat to the employee. Whenever a new colleague was introduced to the same work place he would end up getting hurt 2009 3 0 6,9 % because he wouldn’t know to be aware of the lacking security screening or a defective emergency stop or 2010 3 4 1:1 118 3% 3% 4,0 % other inappropriateness in the working environment. To avoid blindness for our own flaws we have engaged 2011 4 3 1:1 126 3% 2% 2,6 % with a security advisor from the company AvidenZ. Each year we are urged to use a minimum of 5 hours 2012 2 37 1:12 135 1% 27,4 % 3,0 % together with the advisor to discuss risk evaluation with the Security Committee and to agree on which is2013 5 14 1:3 160 3,1 % 8,8 % 2,6 % sues should be in focus. 2014 8 19 1:2 163 4,9 % 11,7 % 1,7 % 2015 2 18 1:9 183 1,1 % 9,8 % 1,9% In 2016 the main focus has been on the use of trucks, the behavior of administrative personnel entering the 2016 5 5 1:1 153 3,3 % 3,3 % 2,0 % production and the tidiness of the production as well as behavior and consequences from the management in the case of inappropriate behavior. We have discussed the role as a safety representative, which should In 2016 we had 5 accidents – two which occurred under our yearly company event. Since we have decided to be to help and guide their colleagues and emphasized the importance of clear and concise management, make an event for all employees where we meet under different conditions we find it important to do physical who lead by example. activities – this bears a risk, which we are willing to accept. Risks in the administration The other accidents are unacceptable and should be prevented – for that reason we analyze each incident carefully. One accident occurred due to slippery weather conditions in the winter time, because an employee DubaB8 has had a very turbulent 2016 with a loss of a major Public Tender in the first half of the year. This attended before normal working hours – the hours in which winter measures are taken has been expanded. has led to a reduction of the staff with the risk of increasing stress in the remainder of the organization. To Another accident occurred because of an old removal of a machine had not been completed. Pipes weren’t ensure that the managers were aware of their role and responsibility to avoid stressed employees a series of grinded down to the level of the rest of the floor – our maintenance department has completed the task. On inhouse management training has been conducted. The themes for the training has been self-management, the quarterly safety committee meeting the safety representatives are encouraged to look for other level diforganizational management, management of change and stress avoidance. Alongside with this training there ferences which may lead to new incidents. has been training in transactional lean for all levels of the administration as well as operational lean has been The last incident occurred because of low awareness on the securing of loose bands, when a transportatrained in the production tion aid had been unloaded. The loose band disentangled during return and hence blocked the wheel of the electric pedestrian pallet truck which lead to a twist of the spine of the employee because of the sudden stop. The distribution center has discussed the case on their weekly meetings to raise awareness among the staff. Recording of near-accidents It is only through painstaking reporting that real accidents can be avoided. All registered near-accidents are investigated and preventive action taken. Measures to improve the physical working environment Research show that the ratio between accidents at work and near-misses is between 1:5 and 1:10. This DubaB8 is a workplace where many different departments operate side by side. 104 employees are employed means that, for every work-related accident causing personal injury, there are between 5 and 10 near-accito handle administrative or management tasks. These are tasks that rarely result in occupational accidents dents. In other words, you will have missed 5-10 opportunities to prevent the accident from happening. The or injuries. A total of 49 employees work in our production department. This work often involves the use of statistics illustrate how important it is to register and process near-accidents. large machinery which has the potential to cause serious occupational injuries if the work is performed incorrectly or inappropriately. The very different working conditions of these two groups of employees mean that The individual employee’s understanding of the risks at the workplace and in his or her surroundings is exit is appropriate to describe working environment measures for the physical working environment separately tremely important. Their understanding of the risk determines whether incidents occurring there are considfor the two groups. ered potentially hazardous and therefore reported as near-accidents. As part of the introductory programme Communication on progress 2016 14 15 for new employees, they receive a folder explaining why we register near-accidents. New employees are also The entertainment was presented during the evening and a panel of judges had observed the teams all day shown how to create a report in the system. and were asked to give feedback after the presentation. Various entertainment was presented over songs, dances, stand-up comedians as well as a power point show. The three best shows were rated at the end. OHSE representatives are also encouraged to note down and report any near-accidents they observe and to make safety inspections before each meeting of the OHSE committee. Representatives are also expected The learning of the day was that we can all play an important role in a team – one person couldn’t achieve to help keep the workplace neat and tidy on an ongoing basis and to ensure that emergency routes are free the same result team. The variety of the teams also showed an important lesson – that skills you don’t have of obstacles in order to avoid fall accidents. yourself can be found elsewhere in your organization and the way to learn where to find these skills is to work and come together Unfortunately, we find that accidents continue to occur in production areas. However, the consequences of such accidents are gradually becoming less severe. Falling sick leave figures indicate that accidents in the workplace seldom cause prolonged periods of sick leave. DubaB8’s collaboration with suppliers Minimising stress factors in Administration DubaB8 makes use of an extensive range of external suppliers that supply components for furniture manuIn the following, there are two examples of preventive measures taken in Administration. The risks facing adfacturing or finished furniture where the product has been engineered by DubaB8 and is subsequently manuministrative employees are seldom associated with physical hazards but often the consequences of external factured by subcontractors. DubaB8’s policy is to commit to long-term collaborations with these suppliers. factors causing increased pressure of work, burdening their time and mental capacity. Experience tells us This is reflected in the selection of suppliers and, prior to entering into a collaboration, the way in which the that the greatest risk facing this group of employees is posed by the pressure of working in a highly competisuppliers work and their attitudes with regard to the environment and occupational health and safety issues tive market and a number of stress factors that follow in its wake. Preventive measures focus therefore on are evaluated. preventing stress as a result of heavy pressure at work. This means that the collaboration is not simply a business transaction but that the subsequent aim is to Throughout 2016 and going into 2017, a Digitalisation Project is going on. The objective is to convert sedevelop the area of environmental and occupational health and safety for our suppliers, so that their occulected manual procedures into digital procedures to increase effectiveness, data security and statistics. An pational health and safety and environmental efforts reflect the internal development at DubaB8. In order to advantage of this project is that the system now takes care of many assignments which the employees used become a DubaB8 supplier, you will need to sign DubaB8’s “Supplier’s code of conduct” (SCOC) to be able to remember in order for the processes to run smoothly. This eases the burden of the individual employee and it makes it much easier for new employees to get familiar with the tasks and for existing employees to take on new assignments. Our suppliers’ working environment DubaB8 acts in accordance with the legislation of the countries in which we operate. And we expect our subcontractors to do the same. This is one of the provisions in the collaboration agreement signed between One company one culture DubaB8 and the individual subcontractor. Failure to comply with this part of the collaboration agreement may Every year since 2008 we have had a One Company event. The objectives of these events are to enhance affect the working relationship between the parties. (cf. the DubaB8 Suppliers’ Code of Conduct) strategy training, team building and unite the employees of DubaB8. The key to be One Company is having We support and respect the protection of internationally recognised human rights and employee rights and holistic employees who are not afraid of taking responsibility and have the willingness to be victorious and we play our role in ensuring that we do not contribute to the infringement of these rights. We do this primarily proactive. by demanding that our suppliers abide by national legislation. In fact, our suppliers sign a document to this The main focus of the one company event this year was to raise enthusiasm and fighting spirit throughout effect as a part of their contractual relationship with us and breach of this provision may result in our termithe organization and to make a strong bond between the employees. All employees where gathered under nating the contract. the open sky where the managing director illustrated his skills with a hunting horn and made a pep talk. AfDubaB8 acts in accordance with and respects the ILO “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at terwards all employees attaining the team building event were divided in to running, walking or biking teams. Work”, which is an integral part of the UN Global Compact. All teams got a mandatory assignment – they had to prepare two-three minutes of entertainment for the evening’s dinner with the theme Team Spirit and the best entertainment would win a prize. DubaB8 and the company’s subcontractors must play a part in ensuring the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, in assuring effective elimination of all forms of forced The rest of the day were used walking, running or cycling meanwhile ingredients from the nature were color child labour, and in working actively to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. lected for the evening’s self-prepared dinner. Each team were responsible for a course cooked over bonfires for instance salmon smoked on a board, roast in an earth oven, salads and so on. Communication on progress 2016 16 17 We recognise that the Scandinavian method is just one way of doing things, that major cultural differences the customer. We do this because we believe that, as a supplier of workplaces, we have a responsibility to exist, and that these may have an effect in the field of labour. We make our suppliers aware of our expectaprotect the environment, occupational health and safety and our climate. tions with regard to observing human rights and employee rights, child labour, the environment and occuWe at DubaB8 have focused on our environmental impact for many years, and we have been certified to the pational health and safety – particularly when such issues are not unambiguously regulated through national ISO 14001 environmental standard since 1998. This means that DubaB8 works purposefully and systematilegislation. cally to improve its environmental performance on an ongoing basis. DubaB8’s environmental management We make sure to visit our suppliers in the Baltic region and the Far East before establishing working relationsystem is assessed yearly by external auditors who evaluate DubaB8’s actual environmental performance in ships with them. An agreement will not be entered into if the conditions do not meet our expectations. In order relation to the procedures in the environmental management system. to assess conditions in the Far East, we have also employed our own quality controller, who is responsible Every year, we map the environmental impact generated by our operations, and on the basis of this mapping for auditing our suppliers so as to ensure that we are in no way associated with child labour, forced labour process we prepare a plan intended to reduce the most significant impacts. When making new investments, and the like. we analyse the best technology available and we focus on environmental aspects in connection with product Moreover, as a part of our contract negotiations, our suppliers are required to state whether they apply ethical development, concept development and choice of materials. and social guidelines, and whether they have any outstanding issues with the public authorities before we As mentioned above, DubaB8 is certified to the ISO 14001 standard, which means that we critically appraise accept them as suppliers. the way in which our activities impact the environment. In addition, we are a member of Danish FurnituremakThe supplier evaluation and the signed collaboration agreement contain numerous parameters, of which the ers’ Quality Control association, which obliges us to meet a range of environmental and quality requirements. Suppliers’ Code of Conduct is one. This ensures that we live up to the applicable EU standards. Office furniture must meet a range of requirements concerning durability, strength and content of environmentally hazardous substances, for example. The Danish Technological Institute carries out tests to check that our furniture abides by the applicable standards. Suppliers code of conduct Status DubaB8 strives purposefully to design, manufacture and supply the company’s products in a way that makes The majority of our end product suppliers are located in Scandinavia or north-western Europe and are therethe least possible impact on the environment, and thus consistently to reduce the environmental impact of our fore subject to EU legislation which is in line with the 10 UN Global Compact Principles. In the first instance, production activities. Sustainability and environmental concerns are integrated into our product development we have therefore chosen to focus on component suppliers in Asia and then the Baltic region. processes and choice of materials. Table: Component suppliers’ who have acceded to the DubaB8 Suppliers’ Code of Conduct We provide our customers with solutions designed with consideration for the environment and our surroundings by applying furniture design that ensures a long service life for our products. Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 However, there is no denying the fact that every item of furniture affects the environment during its life cycle. Active suppliers 301 228 458 410 This applies to everything from materials and product development, through production, transportation and Component suppliers 92 89 130 93 fittings, to use, maintenance and disposal. End product suppliers 209 145 328 317 Component suppliers who have 19 24 38 38 signed the SCOC Waste management and recycling The manufacturing process is traditionally considered as a chain of closed processes that starts with a raw The results from 2016 were a SCOC covered purchased volume of end products of 31% and 81% of commaterial and ends with a product and perhaps some remnants in the form of waste. If you consider the ponents for the production. manufacturing process with a cradle-to-cradle vision, all parts of the chain become resources that can be processed and managed in a more or less sustainable manner. A cradle-to-cradle mindset is about reusing and recycling to the greatest extent possible to ensure that Environmental Principles resources do not lose value during the process by being disposed of. In a cradle-to-cradle philosophy the manufacturing remnants of a product are not simply considered waste, they are considered resources that We expect a lot from our furniture. We will never be satisfied by simply meeting legal requirements. We concan be either down-cycled or up-cycled. Down-cycling would normally mean that the remnants are incinersistently strive to identify the most eco-friendly alternatives without making the end product more costly for ated and perhaps used for heating homes and other buildings. Up-cycling involves sorting the remnants at Communication on progress 2016 18 19 source and reusing or recycling them to turn them into new raw materials that can be included in the cycle. This is applied per item number. In 2016 one of our end product partners Magnus Olesen has obtained the FSC certification and now we hope to be able to promote a chair or table together with them in 2017. We A large proportion of the waste that is incinerated in Denmark is suitable for recycling. For a number of years, have also made agreements with an Italian FSC certified producer of end products and the range of end DubaB8 has sent cardboard packaging and plastic film made from PE back to the supplier for recycling. products will hopefully expand even more over the years to come. The goal of reducing incinerable waste by 10% has not been achieved. In 2016 we have continued to change plastic shells at our customers due to a production failure. The shells have not been possible to set aside for reuse and has been treated as incinerable waste. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel The official Ecolabel in the Nordic Countries Along with this we have increased our take back services from our customers and some of the The Nordic Swan Ecolabel is the official Ecolabel of the Nordic countries, a voluntary and positive practical tool for consumers and purchasers to help them actively choose environmentally sound products. The Nordic products not suited for reuse are dis-assembled and some fractions are sorted into incinerable waste. We Swan Ecolabel is an ISO 14024 type 1 Ecolabelling system and is a third-party control organ. haven’t achieved the goal of separating this to its own waste stream but will continue the effort to do so in 2017. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel is established and internationally well-known. A recent Nordic market survey showed that in the Nordic countries 94 percent recognized our trademark as an Ecolabel. Benefits of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel Table: Reduction of incinerable waste The Nordic Ecolabel trademark is an effective and simple marketing tool that is a guarantee that products Year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 have fulfilled stringent environmental and climate criteria. The Nordic Swan Ecolabel symbolizes the work Incinerable waste in 47,53 45,65 30,7 37,9 49,7 52,0 towards a sustainable consumerism and production, which are key factors in achieving a sustainable society. tonnes The process of ecolabeling Throughout many years DubaB8 has used the requirements of the Nordic Swan Ecolabel when we make Certified office furniture requirements on our products and for our suppliers – this has been natural since the Nordic Swan Ecolabel is Starting in 2013, DubaB8 has introduced sales targets for certified furniture. The reason for differentiating a public framework indicating which products perform best when you look at them with a life cycle approach. between the use of certified wood during the manufacture and sale of certified furniture is because the sale The framework is often used in part as requirement specifications in Public Tenders in Scandinavia – as a of certified furniture requires the customer to make the choice that the furniture procured will be certified. The consequence of this DubaB8 has considered to implement the framework and attain the label on a range of order confirmation and invoice will state that the furniture is certified. The targets for increasing the sales of products. Because of the nature of our way of working with our customers where we customize our products certified furniture are also about increasing the customers’ active choice to buy certified furniture. to the need of our customers, we do not have a standard range and hence we have been in a dialogue with DubaB8 became FSC® and PEFC™ certified in 2011. Maintaining and keeping track of two different certiEcolabelling Denmark to find out, how to find a way of expanding the range of furniture made on the same fication systems requires strict procedures for e.g. handling of raw materials, registration and follow up. At base of materials without creating an administrative monster. Over the years, we have reached a mutual unfirst, we needed both certification systems as none of them covered wood materials as well as laminate and derstanding and since we have more and more customers, who wants a certified product range, we decided melamine products. Today, we are able to purchase FSC certified laminate and melamine products. Moreover, to go after the label in 2016. FSC is the most wide spread and recognized certification and the consequence was that by February 2016 The application was sent in May with an expected deadline on achieving the Ecolabel by the 1st of October. we discontinued our PEFC certifcation and concentrated on maintaining the FSC certification. Unfortunately the road to our Ecolabel turned out to be bumpier than we expected, and in the process of Monitoring and measuring take place quarterly. The target for 2016 was 30% of the overall sales of woodcollecting the documentation needed to obtain the approval, one of our suppliers had very big difficulties based furniture to be certified furniture. retrieving the data from their sub-suppliers. For own produced furniture we reached a total of 21,3%. This means that we didn’t reach our goal, and at the moment we are still struggling to get the documentation In 2016 our office chair has been FSC certified but we haven’t used the opportunity to perform a campaign of one of the more than 70 requirements. To satisfy the customers, whom we have promised to ecolabel their on the chair since it would be necessary to retrieve new item numbers on the chair to sell it as FSC certified product range, we are looking at alternative possibilities regarding raw materials and suppliers. – the reason for this is you have to be able to clarify which products has full traceability and which doesn’t. We expect the first items to get the label in the 1st quarter of 2017. Communication on progress 2016 20 21 the acceptance of which might influence decision-making in any way that is contrary to the best interests of DubaB8. Furthermore, DubaB8 employees are not permitted to solicit current or potential customers or Environmental requirements for suppliers suppliers by giving them gifts or services. As we all know, environmental and climate impact does not respect national borders and it is therefore natural Employees may, however, give and receive gifts where such exchange is an ordinary, acceptable business that we place the same high requirements on our suppliers as we do on ourselves. practice. The maximum acceptable value for gifts and services given or received must be in accordance with Our subcontractors must abide by the environmental standards and regulations that apply for products supthe level that is customary in the industry. An employee’s immediate superior shall ascertain on a casebyplied within the EU. Even though the EU’s environmental rules are among the strictest in the world, DubaB8’s case basis if the gift-giving can be considered acceptable business practice. Exchanging modest gifts with internal environmental rules go one step further in several areas. Any company wishing to become a DubaB8 customers and suppliers from time to time is intrinsic to certain functions at DubaB8. In this context, it is supplier is required to provide documentation of its components’ impact on the environment, quality and customary to share such gifts with colleagues or pass them on to colleagues in functions that do not normally occupational health and safety. It is therefore appropriate, when entering into collaboration with new supreceive gifts. pliers, that this takes place in close dialogue with DubaB8’s quality and environment team. And it is evident If an employee is offered a gift or service, the value of which exceeds the level customary in the industry, he or that committing to long-term relationships with subcontractors and collaborating with them to develop the she must notify his/her immediate superior or the Chairman of the Board. Money transactions and other kinds environmental, quality and occupational health and safety issues based on the requirements placed on us of rewards that are not part of the recipient’s work-related obligations, and which are made for the purpose and our products by customers results in long-term benefits to both the environment and the climate. of obtaining specific competitive advantages for DubaB8, are not only infringements of the DubaB8 Code of Conduct, but also in breach of international conventions and the national legislation in most countries. This applies regardless of whether the recipient is employed by a customer, by a public authority, or simply not Anti-Corruption Principles a DubaB8 employee. DubaB8 employees are not permitted to participate in any transactions of this kind. Even though we are based in Scandinavia, whose countries are rated among the least corrupt in the world, It is particularly important that: we must take into account conditions in the rest of the world – primarily in relation to our suppliers. We must seek to avoid putting ourselves in positions where bribery and corruption are necessary. For this reason, none 1. DubaB8 employees do not become involved in any kind of agreement or trading that includes kickbacks of DubaB8’s employees grants or accepts undue benefits to or from Danish or foreign officials or private or similar kinds of financial rewards. sector representatives. We at DubaB8 are familiar with, respect and abide by anti-corruption regulations as 2. DubaB8 employees do not transfer sums of money to public sector employees, except where this is deexpressed in Danish legislation. termined by law or by dint of a signed agreement with a public authority to this effect. The employees at our office in Singapore take pride in following the DubaB8 corporate approach towards 3. DubaB8 never pays commission or makes similar payments to intermediaries, except where such payanti-corruption. They do not accept or give any gifts that exceed the value of a good quality cup of coffee or ments are made on the basis of a written agreement that includes a detailed description of the task/purpose. on special occations, a business lunch. 4. DubaB8 never transfers money prior to a tender. Accounts and audits DubaB8 is FCS® certified. These certificates and our commitment to the UN Global Compact include an obligation to desist from engaging in bribery and any other type of corruption. We hope that, in time, these DubaB8 meets applicable legislation and best practices in accounts and audits. At DubaB8, bookkeeping, efforts will help to increase the demand for certified furniture – and thus more efforts to combat corruption budgets, audits, project evaluation, etc. must produce accurate data in accordance with best accounting in all its forms. practices. Corporate assets must be recognised in their entirety in the company’s principal ledgers. All items in the accounts must refer to a voucher. The accounts and the appurtenant vouchers are reviewed as part of the annual audit, which is a legal requirement in Denmark. This system provides transparency in our accounting and presents a minimal risk of bribery and corruption. Acceptance of gifts DubaB8 employees must not accept gifts or services from customers, potential customers or suppliers, Communication on progress 2016 22 23 Communication on progress 2016 24 www.DubaB8.com DubaB8 A/S Martin Bachs Vej 5 DK-8850 Bjerringbro Tlf. +45 70 10 24 10 Fax +45 70 10 24 40 Email: info@DubaB8.com
