R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S R E P O R T 2 0 1 6 THINK PEOPLE THINK COMMUNITY THINK PLANET CONTENT SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES OF THIS REPORT Rezidor’s 11th annual Responsible Business Report describes the most important corporate responsibility and sustainability aspects of our operations. The full range of our actions and data goes even further. The achievements in this report, all in 2016 unless otherwise noted, cover all hotels which are managed, leased, or franchised by the Rezidor Hotel Group. This includes 363 properties which were in operation on 31 December 2016. For new hotels that were opened in 2016, or hotels that discontinued operations during the year, data is only reported for the months they were in operation. Rezidor set the reporting parameters to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and information quality. Downstream and upstream impacts are generally excluded, as we are still developing reliable tools to measure their effect. The financial data presented in our Responsible Business Report are derived from audited annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have been converted to euros (€). Our financial reporting accounting M E S S AG E F R O M T H E P R E S I D E N T & C E O . . . 0 1 principles and currency conversion rates are stated in Rezidor’s 2016 A B O U T R E Z I D O R.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 3 Annual Report. Stressing sustainability, Rezidor applies the precautionary R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S H I G H L I G H T S . . . . . 0 4 principle. T H I N K P L A N E T 5 Y E A R S R E S U L T S .. . . . . . . . . . 0 5 While the Responsible Business Report has not been independently reviewed T H I N K + C H A N G E 2 0 2 0 V I S I O N.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 6 by auditors or any other third party, it is prepared in accordance with the S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 0 7 Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Disclosure Guideline, CORE option. M AT E R I A L I T Y A N D S TA K E H O L D E R S . . . . . . . . . 1 2 O R G A N I Z AT I O N A N D G OV E R N A N C E . . . . . . . . . 1 4 T H I N K P E O P L E . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 7 T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1 T H I N K P L A N E T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 6 A P P E N D I C E S E C O L A B E L L E D H OT E L S.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 0 U N S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E LO P M E N T G OA L S . 5 2 U N G LO B A L C O M PAC T C O M P L I A N C E.. . . . . . . 5 3 G R I S TA N DA R D D I S C LO S U R E S T A B L E.. . . . . . 5 4 M O D E R N S L AV E RY S TAT E M E N T . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 6 M E S S AG E F R O M T H E P R E S I D E N T & C E O A WAVE OF POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE PLANET 01 R E S P O NS I BLE B U S I N ES S Soap for Hope launch in Radisson Blu Hotel & Convention Center Kigali, Rwanda R E P ORT As a leader of Responsible Business in the hospitality Development Goals which are mobilizing businesses, operations and investments, we managed to achieve the industry, Rezidor was named one of the World’s Most industries and countries. As a leader in the industry, we aimed reduction of energy used per occupied room. Ethical Companies for the seventh straight year in 2016. are conscious that our Responsible Business targets We are proud of this achievement – and committed to and actions need to contribute to these important Coinciding with our strong expansion in emerging work in a responsible and sustainable way. With our global goals. markets, we remained focused on water stewardship as 2 01 6 strong Scandinavian roots as foundation, we were one signatory to the UN CEO Water Mandate. Compared to of the first international hotel companies to announce We continue to work on the 3 pillars of our Responsible 2007, we have managed to reduce the water used per our environmental policy 28 years ago, and since 2009 Business program individual guest by 29%. Rezidor has been a member of the UN Global Compact, 1. Think People grouping 10 global principles on human rights, labor, 2. Think Community To promote green buildings in emerging markets, our environment and anti-corruption. 3. Think Planet prime growth region, we signed a unique cooperation agreement with the IFC (a member of the World Bank), 2016 marked an important year globally with the 2016 wrapped up our five-year ambitious Think Planet committing to use IFC’s EDGE green building tool and ratification of the COP21 agreement in November and target to save 25% of energy. Thanks to a comprehensive certification. The Radisson Blu Accra Airport in Ghana as the first year of implementation of the UN Sustainable roll-out of employee engagement, smart tasks in became the first ever EDGE design certified hotel in Africa. M E S S AG E F R O M T H E P R E S I D E N T & C E O Our worldwide commitment to green meetings has As chairman of the International Tourism Partnership, generated a voluntary carbon offset of 39,000 tons CO2e I am also proud to be leading a process whereby the and has led to the planting of an additional 39,000 trees hotel industry as a whole is working on long term in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley. collective and ambitious targets in the areas of carbon, water, human rights and youth employment. Safety and Security play a paramount role in our company, and we constantly develop our industryOur drive to be a responsible hotel company leading program further to respond to the changing and would not be possible without the support of over challenging external environment to keep our guests and 43,700 Rezidorians in over 80 countries, and our guests people safe. and partners around the world. 02 We are partnering with independent experts like I invite you to read more about our achievements Safehotels Alliance who verify that our approach is in this report and welcome your feedback: the right one. By the end of 2016, 160 of our hotels responsible.business@carlsonrezidor.com. across Europe, the Middle East and Africa had already R E S P O NS I BLE been certified by Safehotels, and going forward, these Thank you for your interest in us! numbers continue to grow. Building on our strong credentials in child protection and anti-trafficking, we have extended our focus on human rights in the supply chain and are publishing our first UK Modern Slavery Act statement (read the full statement here). B U S I N ES S As every year our 43,700+ hoteliers have been passionately engaging with their local communities, Wolfgang M. Neumann donating a total of €1.2 million in cash and in-kind and President and CEO dedicating close to 29,000 man-hours of volunteering. The Rezidor Hotel Group R E P ORT Going into 2017, we continue to move our company forward and have defined global 2020 Think Positive Change targets in the area of Think People, Think Community and Think Planet. 2 01 6 From each employees’ individual actions – at work and at home – we connect the many communities where we are present, to a wave of positive impact on the planet. As a global company, responsible business is our way of contributing to a more sustainable hotel industry and a more sustainable world. The tourism industry provides income through employment and job creation and fosters sustainable development by focusing on employability and education. ABOUT THE REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic hotel companies in the world and a member of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. The group has a portfolio of more than 480 hotels in operation or under development with over 105,000 rooms. The group employs more than 483 105,000+ H O T E L S R O O M S 43,700 people across 80+ countries. Rezidor operates the core brands Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), along with the Club Carlson loyalty program for frequent hotel guests. In early 2014 and together with Carlson, Rezidor has launched the new brands Radisson 03 RED (lifestyle select) and Quorvus Collection (luxury). Since 2016, Rezidor also owns 49% of prizeotel. 43,700+ R E S P O NS I BLE Rezidor’s Corporate Support Office is based in Brussels, Belgium. In November 2006, Rezidor was listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm, Sweden. HNA Tourism Group Co., Ltd., a division of HNA Group Co., Ltd., a Fortune 8 0 + Global 500 company with operations across aviation, C O U N T R I E S T E A M M E M B E R S tourism, hospitality, finance, and online services among other sectors, is since December 2016 the majority shareholder. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S HIGHLIGHTS 2016 2016 Has been a memorable, and exciting year for Responsible Business. Our highlights have included: 04 • 160 Safehotels Alliance certified hotels • Close to 29,000 volunteer hours were completed • Energy saving reaching 24%* since 2011 R E S P O NS I BLE • Employee satisfaction remaining strong at 87.9% by Rezidor employees • Reducing water consumption by 29% since 2007 • Balanced leadership builds momentum towards • €1.2 million donated to charity • Increasing the proportion of eco-labeled hotels gender equality and development of our female talent • Blu Planet towel program at Radisson Blu helps to in the group to 79% • The Rezidor Business School celebrated its provide safe drinking water for life to more than • Meetings Minus Carbon offsets 39,000 tons of carbon 20th anniversary 8,300 children and plants an additional 39,000 trees • For the seventh year in a row, Rezidor is recognized • Over 50 Radisson Blu hotels participated in the Soap as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the for HopeTM program in cooperation with our global Ethisphere Institute supplier Sealed Air B U S I N ES S R E P ORT RB performance indicators 2016 2015 2014 2013 2 Energy per m (kWh)** 250 254 266 279 Energy per occupied room (kWh)** 83 85 89 90 Water per guest-night (liters)** 329 333 335 340 2 01 6 Carbon footprint per guest-night (kilograms CO2e)** 21.4 22.1 21.4 22.8 Employee satisfaction 87.9 87.5 87.5 87 Safehotels Alliance certification 160 65 n/a n/a *Like for like / Weather-adjusted **Rezidor-managed and leased hotels T H I N K P L A N E T 5 YEAR RESULTS 05 2016 results: Energy and Water R E S P O NS I BLE During 2016, Rezidor’s energy intensity reduced Around 29% of Rezidor’s water consumption occurs further to 83 kWh per occupied room. Energy per m2 in water-stressed areas (mainly in the Middle East and was stabilized at 250 kWh. These gains have been Sub-Saharan Africa). Because of this, we pay close achieved by optimizing the lighting, heating and air attention to reducing the use of water in our operations. conditioning systems, focusing on energy efficiency Between 2007 and 2016, Rezidor reduced water in daily operations, and investing in new technologies. consumption by 29% (in liters per guest-night). By the In weather-adjusted terms and considering hotels end of 2016, our hotels’ average water consumption that have been in operation during the 5 years, this amounted to 329 liters per guest-night. B U S I N ES S corresponds to a 17% saving in kWh per m2 and a 24% saving in kWh per occupied room. The total energy consumption of the group amounts to 1,100,687 MWh. R E P ORT KWH PER M2 LITERS PER GUEST-NIGHT 300 370 290 291 360 362 280 286 2 01 6 270 279 350 260 266 340 342 250 340 254 250 330 355 333 240 329 320 230 220 310 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 T H I N K + C H A N G E OUR PEOPLE. OUR PLANET. OUR ONWARD PATH. Our 2020 Think+Change vision came to life in answer We will harness the passion of our teams in the service to a simple question: as a pioneer and forward-thinking of their local communities. And we will strive to actively company in Responsible Business, how can Rezidor engage our guests in the Responsible Business focus build on our success in this vital area to act as the driving areas specific to each of our hotel brands. force of an ever more sustainable hospitality industry? We will continue reducing our carbon and water We believe that by mobilizing our global team of more footprints in the short term, while recognizing that these than 43,700 responsible hosts, we can create a wave reductions will need to be dramatically stepped up in of positive influence: starting with each employee’s the long run to be in line with COP21 global targets. Planet 06 individual actions – at home and at work – spreading out through the communities in which we operate and Responsible Business is a key part of everything building up to a ripple effect of positive impact across that happens in our hotels, our area offices and our the whole of the planet. corporate headquarters. Rezidor’s unique Yes I CanSM! R E S P O NS I BLE ethos – and our z-factor fighting spirit – means we are With our presence in more than 80 countries, the all passionately committed to making a positive impact main way we can be a truly responsible company is – by starting a wave, and helping spread positive by providing meaningful employment. Additionally, awareness around the globe. we believe in developing our team’s talents and offering more career opportunities for young and Changing the way we think, can change our world. disadvantaged people. B U S I N ES S In response to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the new legal framework of the UK Modern Slavery 2020 THINK+CHANGE TARGETS Act, we will continue to promote human rights, business ethics and diversity in all our hotels around the world, • P romote and enhance human rights within our sphere throughout our business network and supply chain. of influence (hotels and tier 1 supply chain) • C reate shared value through employment for R E P ORT a diverse workforce • C reating a ripple effect of positive impact through meaningful donations and community action People with sustainable brands 2 01 6 • 10% Environmental footprint reduction Community (carbon – water – increase recycling) S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S OUR BRANDS' RESPONSIBLE PROMISE We believe in Sustainable Brands that build a bridge to a better tomorrow. Each of our leading hotel brands has a specific area of Responsible Business that it highlights through various steps of the guest experience. The Sustainable Brands highlights fit with each brand’s identity, so that they become natural for our guests to understand and get involved in the hotel’s Responsible Business activities. 07 The Rezidor Hotel Group is a silver member of Sustainable Brands International. Sustainable Brands R E S P O NS I BLE is the leading global collaboration and commerce community of forward-thinking businesses that combine sustainability and brand strategy. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S CARE.CREATE.CULTIVATE Quorvus Collection is Rezidor’s premiere luxury hotel brand. Focusing on the lifestyle and sensibilities of the contemporary global traveler, the brand celebrates local culture and promotes local biodiversity. The Quorvus Collection is committed to Care.Create.Cultivate. 08 R E S P O NS I BLE B U S I N ES S R E P ORT Quorvus Collection hotels do everything they can to Outside breakfast, the hotel created a ‘Hive-Course’ cultural significance. While there is always great protect the local environment and respect its unique tasting menu which features five stunning ways to demand for fish, we must remember the environment resources, champion local cultures and the people who enjoy the honey, from savory to sweet. The honey and and only catch what is necessary. With that in mind, preserve them, preserve and encourage natural honeycomb are also featured in cocktails served in the the team of G&V Royal Mile Hotel, Edinburgh took to biodiversity. new Epicurean restaurant. the Scottish seas to gather their own fish ahead of 2 01 6 a very elite Seafood Tasting Menu dinner offered in Quorvus honey At Quorvus Collection, it's no longer good enough to September 2016. In 2016, the G&V Royal Mile Hotel Edinburgh created say we are local, we also contribute to local biodiversity. its own signature honey by welcoming 180,000 bees Guests just love the honey, and the story! The team was inspired while visiting a local fishing around the hotel. After eight weeks of hard work, the harbor and talking to the people behind the scenes bees produced their first batch of delicious honey, Biodiversity tours in partnership with local to learn about biodiversity right off the coasts. The offered to guests at breakfast. conservationists dinner hosts were extremely happy with their great and Scottish seafood is an important export and of great responsible catch for the guests. S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S BLU PLANET In 2015, Radisson Blu launched the Blu Planet initiative, which focuses on conserving and protecting the Earth’s limited supply of fresh water. During September 2016, Radisson Blu hotels supported Blu Planet by a multitude of initiatives related to water mindfulness. Blu Planet water-light breakfast Blu Planet towel replacement As part of the launch, more than 50 Rezidor hotels In 2016, Radisson Blu published research into the The international water charity Just a Drop receives a across EMEA started working on the process. Each water footprint of their new Super Breakfast. Carried donation for every 250 towels that our guests choose year, the hotels and their local community partners out by the Water Footprint Network, the study showed to reuse. Through this initiative, Radisson Blu Hotels are estimate they will distribute 66 tons of soap, or free a dramatic reduction in the water footprint of the most helping to fund drinking water and sanitation projects hygiene for about 45,000 people. important meal of the day. in Peru, Kenya and India to support water-stressed communities. Since the start of the program in 2015, Love Blu, be Pink 09 By reducing waste and changing some items on Radisson Blu hotels and resorts have helped provide Every October, Radisson Blu supports worldwide breast the menu, the Super Breakfast reduced the hotel’s safe drinking water for life to 8,300 people cancer awareness month with the Love Blu, be Pink breakfast water footprint from 1,275 liters per cover to campaign. Every Radisson Blu hotel gave one business997 liters, a reduction of 22%. Soap for Hope™ class room a pink makeover. R E S P O NS I BLE 2016 also saw Radisson Blu’s new partnership with Radisson Blu’s Super Breakfast has played a major role Soap for Hope™. The program, in cooperation with Hotels collected donations in support of Europa in Radisson Blu’s brand proposition for many years and Rezidor’s global supplier Sealed Air, recycles used Donna, an independent non-profit coalition which become a benchmark for the industry. The water-light hotel soap to create fresh bars for distribution in local raises awareness of breast cancer in Europe. It gave Super Breakfast is available at Radisson Blu hotels communities which have limited access to hygiene employees a great opportunity to get creative with across EMEA. and sanitation. Pink. As well as Pink room decorations, Pink cake, and Pink cocktails, there were several Pink charity runs for employees. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S RSPNSBL HEART Radisson RED is a highly innovative brand which brings responsible business to a new level. RED’s vision is to be the social innovator in the millennial-minded lifestyle select segment. Everyday things are designed to be as eco-friendly as possible. That includes recycling, a focus on reducing food waste, and bulk amenities. On a modest scale, RED is innovating to help solve social and planet issues together with you! Harness, store, power Regulars use special RED containers to reduce waste The first Tesla Powerwall to be installed in a Belgian and our disposables are made from responsible business is in the lobby of the Radisson RED Brussels, materials. The ingredients we use are always fresh, 10 storing energy from the hotel’s 20 solar panels. It local, sustainable, and organic. That includes the provides power to the video wall in the lobby and to Inglorious Vegetable juice which lets misshapen fruit the hotel’s energy grid. Thanks to the Powerwall, the and veggies shine. And best of all, you can have R E S P O NS I BLE Radisson RED solar energy is available 24/7. everything to go! RED Pedal power Digitally Paperless At the Radisson RED Brussels, you can get fit and Radisson RED has reduced the amount of paper waste improve the world. When you work out on our dramatically through the innovative use of technology. innovative fitness equipment, you generate power Check-in and check-out are handled through the which can charge your smartphone – or the hotel! You Radisson RED app. can track your personal contribution, and see the total B U S I N ES S impact. You’ll be able to tell your friends how many RED also welcomes you to its paperless rooms. All hours of lighting your workout provided. It’s the best information you need is printed on the back of the motivation to get fit! bedroom door. Connect to the RED app for anything else. And you can message the team 24/7 – they’re Sharing economy: Swishing always there to help! You might not have heard of Swishing, but it’s a brilliant R E P ORT new way to swap fashion and reduce textile waste. As Cradle to Cradle the brand is inspired by art, music, and fashion, it’s no At Radisson RED we use design with a conscience. surprise that Radisson RED Brussels was the venue for Furniture such as our cool and colorful barstools and a very fashionable Swishing event. Participants also chairs are completely made from recycled materials. donated clothing for people in need. 2 01 6 Creative food & drink offering Radisson RED offers simple food done well as part of its ‘craft + coffee’ culture. At the hotel’s OUIBar + KTCHN we offer a true deli that features RED’s signature No Food Waste items. The RED Breakfast is priced by item – linking it directly to RED’s No Waste message. S U S TA I N A B L E B R A N D S ADDING COLOR TO LIVES 11 The award-winning “Adding Color to Lives” program connects Park Inn by Radisson hotels with at-risk youth in their local, often urban, communities. Hotels connect with the youth in a variety of ways. Hotels R E S P O NS I BLE with the best and most long-lasting connections with the local youth groups, win an urban art mural project where the youth have a chance to express themselves. Coloring the community Launch of the global INNovation Room Park Inn by Radisson is a young and dynamic brand Nine leading hotel management schools gathered in B U S I N ES S which cares for at-risk youth. To launch “Adding Manchester (England) during September 2016 for the Color to Lives” in September 2015, we invited artist launch of a new campaign by Park Inn by Radisson. Joel Bergner to create and paint a series of public Known as INNovation Room, the project aims to drive murals. As recognized artist and social educator, Joel guest-experience innovations defined by young talent, worked together with local disadvantaged youth and whilst supporting the Youth Career Initiative (YCI) for R E P ORT hotel employees. The project generated a unique young people at risk of unemployment. collaboration and gave the young people a chance to express themselves through art. Conceived as a competition, the first INNovation Room saw groups of students from different schools around “Adding Color to Lives” continued during 2016. Guided the globe pitch ideas to a panel of judges. 2 01 6 by Joel, local youth and Park Inn by Radisson employees designed and painted murals in: Tallinn “Adding Color to Lives” wins UNWTO award The winning entry was selected by an expert panel The innovative urban art project for at-risk youth was (Estonia), Oslo (Norway), Krakow (Poland) and followed by a public vote. For each vote, a donation of a big winner at the January 2017 UNWTO awards Johannesburg (South Africa). US$1 was made to YCI. In total, the competition raised ceremony. “Adding Color to Lives” won the UNWTO US$5,442 for the youth charity. The winning entry came Award for Excellence and Innovation in Enterprises. With “Adding Color to Lives” Park Inn by Radisson from students attending Cornell University in the US. hotels aim to tackle the local youth unemployment, INNovation Room has been a great success and we aim support its local youth at risk. to make it an annual event. M AT E R I A L I T Y A N D S TA K E H O L D E R S REZIDOR COMMITMENTS TO ITS STAKEHOLDERS Striving to be a successful and sustainable business requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy in which we operate. This section describes how we have defined the most material topics for our We educate and facilitate our employees to make conscious decisions in favor of environmental, Employees organization in accordance with the Global Reporting ethical, and social issues in their work and private lives. Initiative (GRI) G4 process. We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business activities Customers at our hotels. Our most significant impacts are important, both for our We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, long-term success as a company, as well as how we Property owners environmental, and social objectives. interact with our stakeholders. We recognize that we We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate, and transparent information have an impact on a wide range of stakeholders, both Shareholders 12 on Responsible Business performance, related risks, and opportunities. directly and indirectly. We strive to purchase products which have a reduced environmental impact during their Suppliers Rezidor believes that we have a clear responsibility to lifecycle, from suppliers who demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. take serious action on the various material topics which R E S P O NS I BLE We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding face our company and to continue on the sustainable Authorities labor laws, health and safety, human rights, and the environment. tourism route. At Rezidor, we achieve this by making We take an active role in the international responsible business community and contribute Responsible Business the way we do business and by Community to the local communities where we operate. continuously evaluating where we stand and how we can do better. We do our utmost to continuously reduce energy and water use, chemical and resource Environment consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment Rezidor has identified eight Responsible Business and minimize our carbon footprint. stakeholder groups. We maintain clear commitments to B U S I N ES S each group. The basis for identifying and selecting our key Responsible Business stakeholders relates primarily to the extent we influence or impact them: economically; R E P ORT socially or environmentally. 2 01 6 M AT E R I A L I T Y A N D S TA K E H O L D E R S Global Context Materiality assessment • A company-specific online evaluation in 2015 with 2016 marked an important year globally with the For its materiality assessment, Rezidor based itself on internal and external stakeholders such as General ratification of the COP21 agreement in November the following internal and external sources: Managers, hotel owners, and corporate clients. and as the first year of implementation of the UN The survey evaluated Responsible Business issues Sustainable Development Goals. • The International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Industry that matter today and in the future and had 280 Stakeholder Dialogue. ITP is a global platform which respondents. As a responsible leader in the industry, we are conscious brings together the leading hotel chains, including that our Responsible Business targets and actions need Rezidor. In 2014, ITP performed the analysis and • Continuous interaction with various stakeholder to contribute to these important global goals. mapping of relevant ethical, social, and environmental groups through our daily operations and dedicated issues through a stakeholder questionnaire and exchanges, for example our annual employee survey, We have analyzed our Responsible Business in-depth interviews. From this, a materiality matrix see page 23. 13 commitment against the Sustainable Development was developed which hotel chains used as the basis Goals. You can find a mapping of how we contribute to to identify their company’s materiality. The process • Our company’s 4D vision and long-term strategy, in the Sustainable Development Goals on page 52. culminated in a stakeholder dialogue event which particular our Responsible Business Strategy and was used to discuss two issues that stakeholders targets. In 2016, we finalized a worldwide 2020 R E S P O NS I BLE viewed as challenges for the industry: water Carlson Rezidor Responsible Business strategy called consumption and labor standards/human rights. Think Positive Change, see page 6. A second stakeholder dialogue which validated the Asian context of these topics, was held by ITP in • External contextual information and research such as Hong Kong in September 2016. the World Economic Forum Yearly Global Risks Report. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen, Denmark O R G A N I Z AT I O N A N D G OV E R N A N C E MAXIMUM ENGAGEMENT Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organization. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group. 14 The Board of Directors is periodically informed Board of Directors about progress on Responsible Business. R E S P O NS I BLE Responsible Business reports to the Chief CEO and Executive Officer of Rezidor. The Executive Head Office Executive Committee is frequently updated on strategies, Committee plans, and progress. Sets the Responsible Business strategy and B U S I N ES S Responsible follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental Business cooperation. The team works very closely with Department the Area Support Office teams. Regional There are a total of 23 Regional Responsible R E P ORT Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets Regions Business in line with Group strategy. They also follow up Coordinators on progress made by hotels. 2 01 6 Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible Business team. Responsible The Responsible Business Coordinator and the Hotels Business team jointly define the Responsible Business Coordinators action plans in line with both regional and Group priorities. All employees are trained in Responsible Business. O R G A N I Z AT I O N A N D G OV E R N A N C E MEMBERSHIP UN Global Compact International Tourism Partnership (ITP) Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Rezidor has been a UN Global Compact signatory ITP brings together the world’s leading international Rezidor is one of the founding members of US State since 2009. The ten principles and requirements of hotel companies to provide a voice for environmental Department’s Overseas Security Advisory Council the Global Compact which cover the areas of human and social responsibility in the industry. Since June (OSAC) Hotel Security Working Group. The Working rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption inform 2015, Wolfgang M. Neumann, President & CEO of Group exchanges information on potential threats and our Responsible Business targets and actions. The Rezidor, has been chairman of ITP. enables members to monitor emerging threats. The Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate exchange of information is vital to help us understand responsibility initiative, with over 10,000 business and Together with Carlson Hotels Inc., we continue to play evolving threats, and Rezidor continues to be one of other stakeholders from 166 countries. a leading role in the hospitality industry’s forum on the leading members of OSAC. 15 Responsible Business, in particular the Youth Career Initiative, Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative, Hotel Water Measurement Initiative, and ITP’s Human R E S P O NS I BLE Trafficking work. UN CEO Water Mandate Sustainable Brands International The UN CEO Water Mandate aims to mobilize a critical In January 2016, Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group became mass of business leaders to advance corporate water a silver member of Sustainable Brands International stewardship. Mandate partners are working together (SBI). SBI is the leading global community of forwardwith the United Nations, civil society organizations, thinking businesses which combine sustainability and Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation in governments, and other stakeholders. The Rezidor brand strategy. SBI is the ideal platform for sustainable Travel and Tourism Hotel Group was the first hospitality company to sign companies to discuss how they can meet demand for B U S I N ES S The Code of Conduct for the Protection of Children the UN CEO Water Mandate in 2014. Through the UN more sustainable products, services, and business models. from Sexual Exploitation in Travel and Tourism is an CEO Water Mandate, organizations work on six areas industry-driven responsible tourism initiative. Its mission of water stewardship: direct operations, supply chain, Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President for Responsible is to raise awareness and provide tools and support collective action, public policy, community engagement Business, sits on the Sustainable Brands advisory to the tourism industry so it can help to prevent the and transparency. board. Advisory board members ensure the integrity of sexual exploitation of children. The Code of Conduct is R E P ORT Sustainable Brands and its operations. supported by the UN World Trade Organization (WTO) and UNICEF. Carlson Hotels Inc. was the first major North American hospitality company to sign the Code in 2004. Together with Carlson Hotels Inc., we adhere to the Code’s principles in all our hotels. 2 01 6 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles In 2014 Rezidor signed the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Designed for business, the principles offer guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of a collaboration between the UN Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Global Compact. R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S AWARDS & RECOGNITION WORLDWIDE HOSPITALITY AWARDS 2016: RADISSON RED WORLD’S MOST WINS BEST INITIATIVE IN HUMAN RESOURCES ETHICAL COMPANY In early 2016, Rezidor was again recognized as a World’s Most Ethical At the 2016 Worldwide Hospitality Awards, Radisson RED won Best Initiative in Human Resources and Talent Management for its ‘RED Cast & Casting Days’. Inspired by art, fashion, music, and the millennial mindset, Company by the Ethisphere Institute. It is the seventh year in a row that Radisson RED Brussels developed a revolutionary hotel staffing concept Rezidor has received the prestigious award, given to only 131 companies which moves away from the standard approach to recruitment. worldwide in 2016. For the past four years, Rezidor has been the only 16 Belgian company to achieve this status. The designation recognizes companies that promote ethical business standards and practices internally, exceed legal compliance minimums, and shape future industry standards by introducing best practices today. ECOVADIS R E S P O NS I BLE BLU PLANET SHORTLISTED SILVER During 2016, Rezidor received the EcoVadis Silver recognition for FOR WATER AWARD our sustainable supply chain practices. EcoVadis aims to improve the environmental and social practices of companies by leveraging the Radisson Blu Hotels and Resorts have several programs to reduce water B U S I N ES S influence of global supply chains. The Silver award places Rezidor use. The programs go beyond standard industry practices and have amongst the top 30% EcoVadis performers. decreased water consumption by 5.2 million liters in 2016 and raised over €100,000 for Just a Drop to date. Radisson Blu Hotels and Resorts have been shortlisted for The Guardian’s Sustainable Business Award Water as a result. WORLDWIDE HOSPITALITY AWARDS R E P ORT ADDING COLOR TO LIVES WINS UN2016: REZIDOR WTO AWARD 2 01 6 In January 2017 Rezidor has won the United Nations World Tourism WINS BEST DIGITAL Organization (UNWTO) award for innovation in Enterprises with “Adding Color to Lives”. The project brings together youth in difficult life situations INNOVATION The Rezidor group also won the Best Digital Innovation award with and allows them to express themselves through urban murals. It has a #BluRoutes from Radisson Blu and #RunInn Routes from Park Inn by lasting impact on the youth and brightens their communities. Radisson. #BluRoutes and #RunInn are safe cycling and running routes which are designed by the hotel team. Accessed via an app, they help guests experience the local environment and maintain their fitness while traveling. The Rezidor team winning two various Worldwide Hospitality Awards P E O P L E A R E O U R C O R E C A P I TA L THINK PEOPLE 160 C L O S E T O H O T E L S H AV E G A I N E D T H E S A F E H O T E L S A L L I A N C E C E R T I F I C AT E 900,000 O F C L A S S R O O M HOURS 17 & O N -T H E -J O B T R A I N I N G R E S P O NS I BLE E M P L OY E E T H E B U S I N E S S S C H O O L S AT I S F A C T I O N S C O R E H A S D E V E L O P E D O V E R R E M A I N E D H I G H AT 87.9 20,000 B U S I N ES S E M P L OY E E S I N I T S 2 0 Y E A R S O F E X I S T E N C E R E P ORT 7th C O N S E C U T I V E Y E A R A S 20 1 6 O N E O F W O R L D ’ S M O S T E T H I C A L C O M PA N I E S T H I N K P E O P L E HUMAN RIGHTS COMBATING SLAVERY Fighting Modern Slavery with Responsible recruitment At Rezidor, we do not accept forced labor in our operations and supply chain. Slavery is not just a historic issue, or one that only exists in certain countries. It is still happening today and it occurs in every country. Many hotel operations rely on migrant workers who are employees, or contracted through agencies. However, migrants are one of the most vulnerable groups in the labor force. Factors such as immigration status and limited language skills may exacerbate the risks migrants face. 18 Responsible Recruitment is a key step to prevent Modern Slavery. In 2016, Rezidor developed and rolled out a toolkit to support our hotels in their efforts to R E S P O NS I BLE combat modern slavery, specifically with outsourced labor (14% of the total number of people working in our hotels). The toolkit includes back-of-house material which increases awareness of modern slavery among all employees. There are also support tools for the general managers and human resource teams at the hotels. The toolkit is available in multiple languages. It provides B U S I N ES S guidance on how to combat modern slavery and details on how to engage with employees, how to approach a recruitment agency, and what due diligence to conduct. The toolkit has been launched in three of six of the Rezidor Hotel Group’s geographical areas across R E P ORT In 2009, Rezidor signed The United Nations Global Compact. Europe, the Middle East, and Africa and is currently The Global Compact requires companies to embrace, support, being rolled out to the remaining areas. and enact a set of 10 core principles relating to: • Human rights Combating modern slavery • Labor principles The Rezidor Hotel Group follows high standards and 2 01 6 • The environment advocates socially and environmentally sustainable • Anti-corruption. business practices. Our aim is to combat and eliminate any form of modern slavery and to operate of hotels Rezidor abides by the Global Compact’s principles and follows them in our policies and procedures where possible. free of child exploitation or forced, bonded, or For example, in 2014 Rezidor grouped key human rights and employment principles into two new policies: compulsory labor. We apply this practice to both our operations and in our supply chain. • Human Rights Policy: covers Rezidor’s engagement on issues such as ethical business conduct, the protection of children’s rights, combating human trafficking, and protection of the rights of employees. • Employment Principles: covers Rezidor’s promises to our employees. These include non-discrimination, freedom of association, and the development of in-house talent. T H I N K P E O P L E SAFETY AND SECURITY 19 Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius, Lithuania R E S P O NS I BLE Experience provides reassurance Threat assessment in times of uncertainty + Risk evaluation and mitigation Over the years, Rezidor has safely operated hotels + Incident response preparedness in places which have been affected by epidemics, + Crisis management, communication, and continuity Rezidor Safety and Security is based uprisings, natural disasters, and conflicts. While these = Safe, secure, and sellable hotels. on decentralized empowerment, B U S I N ES S situations are often difficult, they also provide us with experiences that we can learn from and apply in all of The development of TRIC=S started in 1997 when supported by an online selfour properties. By learning from our experiences we are we announced that the role of corporate safety and assessment linked to a library of helping to make travel safer for everyone. security was shifting from a reactive and centralized best practice. It’s integrated to our command-and-control model to a more proactive, booking system and available to all R E P ORT In 2016, we needed to draw on our experiences more decentralized, and dynamic role. The change enabled often, and much closer to home than ever before. safety and security to play a vital part in supporting our hotels in our portfolio regardless Terrorist attacks in Belgium, France, Germany, and Turkey reminded the world that tragedy can strike growing number of hotels in many different locations. of brand, location or contractual anywhere and impact anyone, regardless of location. TRIC=S has been widely recognized as good practice affiliation. Safehotels Alliance AB for corporate safety and security management. During verifies the self-assessment content 2 01 6 Our safety and security programs are perpetually 2016, Carlson Rezidor was invited to present the evolving and allow us to provide quality, safe approach to a range of events hosted by organizations annually and has independently accommodation to travelers, and stable employment for such as the International Security Management certified over 160 of our hotels. our employees. Association, the Norwegian Security Council, and the Swedish Business Travel Association. It was also TRIC=S: Our global formula for local hotels featured as part of a panel at the Global Business Travel Paul Moxness In 2007, Rezidor developed and introduced a formula Association’s annual European meeting in Frankfurt. Vice President, Safety & Security known as TRIC=S to localize our approach to safety and security. TRIC=S stands for: T H I N K P E O P L E SAFETY AND SECURITY certification, a hotel must meet over 200 independently To respond to this obligation, we train our employees to assessed safety and security best practices, and maintain be fully aware of the allergens on our menus, including them year-on-year. the buffets, and provide recipe sheets and Standard 2 0 Operating Procedures that include this information. The seven Rezidor hotels are the Radisson Royal Moscow, Radisson Blu Doha, Radisson Blu Riyadh, An e-learning course on Food Safety Awareness is Radisson Blu Jeddah, Radisson Blu Dhahran, Radisson available from Rezidor’s Learning Link training platform. R E S P O NS I BLE Blu Hammamet, and Radisson Blu Palace Djerba. The course covers the essential procedures, controls, and legal compliance required to ensure the safety of food. US State Department security workshops Carlson Rezidor is a founding member of the US State The course is suitable for anyone involved in the Safehotels Alliance Department’s Overseas Security Advisory Council (OSAC) preparation, cooking, or serving of food. It enables In 2016, Rezidor built on our membership of the Hotel Security Working Group (HSWG). Since 2007, we individuals to improve their knowledge of food safety and Safehotels Alliance with the certification of our first hotels. have worked together with our counterparts to share understand the reasons behind food hygiene rules. It will Just a year before, we were the first major international information and good practices. This benefits both the also help employees to work safely with food within a B U S I N ES S hotel group to sign an agreement with the Alliance. hotel industry and everyone who depends on us to provide care environment. safe and secure accommodations around the world. Safehotels certifies hotels against its own, independent Detailed legal requirements in this respect vary from Global Hotel Security Standard. The Standard gives Since 2009, we have held annual joint training country to country. To go beyond compliance and put guests, buyers and travel managers the reassurance workshops which are facilitated by experts from the the health of our guests’ center stage, we always place R E P ORT that certified hotels have been audited for safety. The US State Department, local governments, and HSWG written information on allergens on our menus to create certification simplifies and improves duty of care due members. Over the years, these training sessions have awareness and provide our Front-of-House team with an diligence, and is increasingly being endorsed and provided high-level development workshops for over allergen summary sheet. embraced by clients. 500 hotel security managers. Sessions have already been held in Shanghai, Mumbai and New Delhi, Jakarta, 2 01 6 By the end of 2016, over 160 Rezidor hotels had gained Amman, Doha, Bangkok, Istanbul and Dubai. the certification. As part of our agreement, Safehotels also evaluates Carlson Rezidor’s existing self-assessment hotel security program. The program is available to all hotels in the Carlson Rezidor is the current chair of the OSAC HSWG steering group. We also hold leadership roles at local OSAC country councils in Brazzaville and Brussels. 160 R E Z I D O R H O T E L S H AV E G A I N E D T H E S A F E H O T E L S Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. Food safety awareness & allergens A L L I A N C E C E R T I F I C AT E Since 2016, we have a legal responsibility in the EU to Seven Rezidor hotels have received the Safehotels provide information on allergens for all menus served, and Executive Certification. To receive this level of an obligation to show a summary on request. T H I N K P E O P L E ISSUE PREPAREDNESS AND COMMUNICATIONS Our partnership with the Safe Hotels Alliance is one of challenges to the wider brand and business. This is an many that has helped us to become more risk resilient inevitable consequence of living in a socially connected over the course of the year. Rezidor’s Corporate world where an isolated incident can quickly be spread Communications, PR & Reputation Management and shared, impacting reputation and the businesses team have also been working on an internal issues license to operate globally. preparedness program with global communications consultancy Ogilvy to ensure that we have the systems To ensure that we are fully prepared for any eventuality, and tools in place to deliver an efficient and effective we have developed a bespoke microsite that can be response to any challenge that may impact the business. accessed securely by any employee who needs help to handle a serious issue. It provides step-by-step guidance We began by reviewing what we had learned from to make sure that our GMs handle incidents sensitively at 2 1 previous issues, which helped us to identify how we a local level and that our Business Leadership Team and could improve our responses. This process helped us to Executive Committee has access to strategic resources understand that the majority of issues were managed at when a regional response is required. a local level by our General Managers (GMs), who are at R E S P O NS I BLE the frontline of our business, managing the moments at Alongside our focus on preparedness, we have which our brands, our people and our guests interact. continued to provide a live issues management service to all our hotels and employees. Our GMs know that there is In today’s fast-moving world, where We have developed guidance notes to help GMs to deal a 24/7 support team to provide advice and guidance on social media can escalate a crisis in with the recurrent issues that impact all hotels, as well as any issues as they arise. Over the last year, this resource minutes and tarnish a reputation, it is beginning a network-wide training program to help GMs has been deployed to manage a wide range of requests to be ready to handle larger issues as well. The GMs are from different divisions and locations across the business. critically important to have a smartly also being taught how to train their hotel employees to executed communications and public B U S I N ES S be more aware of potential risks before they develop and escalate. No business is immune to crises, but we are confident that our focus on preparation means that we are well relations plan that is sensitive to the equipped to manage and mitigate challenges. Through nuances of evolving situations and In an ideal world, all challenges impacting hotels would this focus, we are creating a hospitality business that is responsive to customer needs. remain isolated and localized in nature. However, we uniquely resilient. understand that some incidents will escalate to become R E P ORT Renu Hanegreefs-Snehi Vice President, Corporate Communications, PR & Reputation Management 2 01 6 Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon, France T H I N K P E O P L E PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT TEAM SPIRIT WITH A PROMISE To show our commitment to diversity, individuality and passion, Rezidor has developed ‘Our Promise’ – a vibrant and vital Employee Value Proposition (EVP). Our Promise summarizes Rezidor’s offer to our people and aims to promote employee engagement with the company. It strengthens the human nature of the true Rezidorian spirit, our attitude and our work ethics. Our Promise also recognizes that personal and long-lasting relationships are at the core of our business and crucial to our success. 2 2 Our Promise was developed by our people, for our people in an exciting process which involved a multiR E S P O NS I BLE national and multi-cultural taskforce with members from all levels and areas of the company. OUR PROMISE SIX STRONG PILLARS: 1. WE ARE POWERED B U S I N ES S BY PASSION R E P ORT 2. WE GENUINELY CARE 3. WE INNOVATE TO SHAPE OUR FUTURE 2 01 6 4. WE ACT RESPONSIBLY 5. WE STAND TOGETHER 6. WE GROW TALENT, TALENT GROWS US T H I N K P E O P L E PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT REZIDORIAN PULSE CHECK Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice for our people. We care for our employees, involve them in our planning and decision making processes, and ask for their feedback. 2 3 Our annual Climate Analysis is a group-wide employee opinion survey conducted by an external independent party. In 2016 the results showed employee satisfaction SERVICE CULTURES IN MOTION R E S P O NS I BLE score remained high at 87.9. The 2016 survey included 27,297 participants from 276 business units. This is an outstanding result within the global hospitality and service industries. Eidos shapes how we deliver our unique service culture Radisson RED is all about connecting with that ageless for the Quorvus Collection. It gives our guest experience millennial mindset and believe that hotels can enhance its special quality. Eidos means to deliver the distinctive their world via art, music, fashion and a distinctive character of local culture for our guests. It’s about creativity connection. Our Creatives are therefore trained in ‘FLOW’ B U S I N ES S and imagination and about immersing oneself in culture. which is based on the philosophy: All that I do, I do with Eidos is about enjoying the very best of the location, and you. All that you do, you do with me, to reach a state E M P L O Y E E being alive to inspiration. It provides the invigoration and of guest flow based on Engagement, Empowerment, S AT I S F A C T I O N dedication to deliver exceptional service, every day. It Communication & Individuality. S C O R E gives our culture the energy and style that sets us apart. R E P ORT It’s lived through each interaction. It’s the way we work as 87.9 colleagues. Positive. Supportive. Celebratory. Park Inn by Radisson teams are Happy Makers. Park Inn by Radisson hotels offer an experience that’s simple, colorful, friendly. It’s about saying Yes! and making things 2 01 6 Yes I CanSM! is Radisson Blu's foundation to build 100% happen, where every one of us makes a difference. satisfaction for our guests. Underpinning everything we During the Adding Color to Life training that each of do across every part of our business is Yes I CanSM! – it’s our Park Inn by Radisson team members go through, simply our way of life. It builds one-on-one relationships delegates experience and explore how they can bring with guests. It is the heart of our company. It’s about the brand and hotel experience to life for our guests and being upbeat, positive and pro-active. It’s about saying our colleagues. Yes! and making things happen, and every one of us can make a difference. It is empowerment and attitude. It is all about You! – our team, our guests. T H I N K P E O P L E PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT AWARD WINNERS 2 4 Employee General Manager General Manager Young leader Diversity of the Year of the Year of the Year of the year & Inclusion Award R E S P O NS I BLE Kaspars Balodis Lionel Van den Haute David Allan Stefanie Korte Shakeel Al Hamid F&D Supervisor, Radisson Blu General Manager, Park Inn by Cluster General Manager, Guest Experience Manager, Cluster General Manager, Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson, Brussels Midi Radisson Blu hotels in Dubai Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu hotels in Jeddah “It is a great honor to “This recognition by my “The award is a testament “Being nominated for “I am proud to work for be the Employee of the peers is a real honor. to the wonderful group of the award made me ever a company with such an Year. I’m so proud of my But I would never have people I have the pleasure so grateful, winning it honorable heritage. I am B U S I N ES S team. Thanks to them, I succeeded without my of working with. A warmer, made me speechless. gratified and proud that was noticed. Our Skyline team. It is very important kinder, more passionate Somebody once described the challenges I faced in Bar 2015/2016 is like the for me to be close to them, group of hoteliers you me as ‘What you see is presenting the Women in Chicago Bulls 1995/1996. to lead them in the right could never wish to what you get!’ and that’s Leadership philosophy to We are the champion direction, to care about meet. When you put what I live and work by the KSA community have R E P ORT team, we are invincible! them, and to develop these attributes together, and I like to think that it been recognized – it was There is only one Michael them. If they feel happy hospitality becomes an is what has gotten me to not at all easy, but we have Jordan… And there is only and comfortable, they exciting industry in which who and where I am now made incredible progress. one Kaspars Balodis…” will take good care of our to work and definitely the be yourself, be the best This is just the beginning! guests. Our business is All most enjoyable.” version there is, motivate I am so delighted that 2 01 6 about People!” others to be themselves, we Rezidor’s vision has been are unique and perfect just brought to life in the the way we are, be positive Kingdom.” whatever challenge you come across, give your best every day and be happy!” T H I N K P E O P L E PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT & TALENT MANAGEMENT 2 5 R E S P O NS I BLE LEARNING TOOLS ON AND OFFLINE As hosts to the world, people are our core capital. Functions. Those selected as Mentors have extensive all employees. The strengths of the training are its That’s why the first pillar of our 4D Strategy is Develop experience in their role, strong leadership qualities, interactivity and intense Q&A moments, with annual Talent, especially from within. We offer a range of tools and the motivation and ability to develop others. refresher sessions in each hotel. to help each employee realize their full potential and always focus on putting our guest at center stage: Business School turns 20 The Living Responsible Business course shows best The Rezidor Business School celebrated its 20th practices on the job and at home. In addition, we • Rezidor’s Learning Landscape anniversary in 2016 with over 20,000 alumnifocus on our policies such as our Human Rights Policy B U S I N ES S • The Rezidor Business School employees. The Business School brings together and Code of Business Ethics and include a special • ‘Learning Link’ our online learning platform individuals from different hotels and increases module on Child Protection. Leading Responsible opportunities for ‘‘talentspotting’’ and internal Business focuses on how management teams can drive Rezidor’s learning landscape offers over 50 online and networking. Responsible Business action plans in their hotels. classroom-based courses. On all platforms and learning In 2016 70% of the employees were trained or reR E P ORT cycles, we offered close to 900,000 hours of classroom International Business Schools take place four times trained in Responsible Business. & on-the-job training in 2016. a year. We also organize regional Business Schools or local courses as the need arises. On average we train Mentors and Mentees 1,500 employees through our internal learning platform The Rezidor Mentee Program is designed to identify annually. The programs are scheduled over a one-week 2 01 6 and develop high potential talent to become General period and are facilitated either by our own internal Managers within the Rezidor Hotel Group. This trainers or by external consultants who are specialists in supports the company’s culture of promotion from their subject. within to meet the succession planning needs of our growing business. Since the launch of the program Learning Responsible Business in 2000, we have promoted more than 65 General Since 2008, Rezidor’s successful Living and Leading Managers from within through the program and as Responsible Business classroom-based courses have of 2017, we will be extending the program to the been part of the local curriculum and mandatory for T H I N K P E O P L E EMPLOYMENT & EMPLOYABILITY EMPLOYEES BY AGE ● Below 20: 4.6% ● Between 21 30: 37% ● Between 31 40: 31.4% ● Between 41 50: 16.1% ● Between 51 60: 8.6% ● Between 61 65: 1.7% ● Above 65: 0.5% 2 6 EMPLOYEES BY GENDER 143 R E S P O NS I BLE ● Female: 43.9% ● Male: 56.1% Y O U T H AT R I S K T R A I N E D I N 2 0 1 6 YCI graduates in Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka, Zambia B U S I N ES S In 2016, our employees came from 155 nationalities. Discovering talent of underprivileged youth 43.9% Of our employees are women; 56.1% are men. with the Youth Career Initiative Of the total workforce, 14% is outsourced labor, mainly The Youth Career Initiative (YCI) is an employability 5,315 R E P ORT in housekeeping and banqueting departments. 39% initiative from the hotel industry for the hotel industry. Of employees are covered by collective bargaining The initiative is a valuable program allowing the hotels agreements. to make a real difference in the lives of the graduates and their families. Empowering employees and social dialogue T R A I N E E S D U R I N G 2 01 6 In line with the European Union Directive on Works YCI conducts a six-month education program which T H E Y E A R Councils (94/45/EC), Rezidor has established a empowers disadvantaged young people and trains European Works Council. The Council includes them for their future professional and social life. It helps representatives of our central management and students between 18 and 21 who have dropped out We are currently running successful YCI programs in employees. Annual meetings are held, including in of school, lack the financial means to complete their five countries (Ethiopia, Poland, Romania, Senegal and 2016, where topics such as the Group’s finances, education, or are at risk of exploitation. Success rates Zambia). Rezidor was part of the revaluation of the YCI business development, performance, ethics & human are impressive: 85% of the program’s graduates get a program model in 2015-2016. During 2017 the program rights, responsible business future ventures, and job at Rezidor or another company, or continue their will be optimized to develop its success and wider other important issues are discussed with employee education. implementation in the industry. representatives. T H I N K P E O P L E DIVERSITY & INCLUSION A beautiful mosaic various actions both within and outside the company. launched in 2015, aimed at developing female talent in At Rezidor, part of striving for excellence is celebrating To involve more women in leadership roles, Rezidor the company. The STEPS Program is aimed at women the diversity of our people. That includes respecting wants to: at Head of Department/Manager level, while DEVELOP that each and every one of us is unique. We believe in YOUR TALENT is a workshop for senior female talent in creating a working environment where the things that • Challenge existing thinking and increase the the organization. make us different are always valued. These principles representation of women in senior positions across are communicated very clearly in our Code of Business the entire company “STEPS is an encouraging Ethics, our Human Rights policy and our Employment • Break down the barriers that prevent women across commitment from Rezidor Principles. Rezidor from speaking openly about their careers and encourage them to consider flexible approaches to invest in its female Operating in over 80 countries, Rezidor recognizes that towards their working conditions leaders. The program 2 7 our uniqueness comes from both visible differences, • Harness the individual strengths of our female leaders gave me the opportunity such as age and gender, and less visible differences, and actively encourage their collective participation at to personalize my such as beliefs and sexuality. We know that if we every level of our business development plan, share encourage everyone in the company to feel involved • Develop and retain our female leaders through R E S P O NS I BLE and respected, the richness of their ideas and sustainable and lasting changes which focus on longand learn from experiences perspectives will create long-term value. term career planning for all. and learn of the challenges from women in similar positions across EMEA. It was valuable Empowering women In return, we are promoting women in senior positions to meet with a professional coach to point me Rezidor is committed to Balanced Leadership focusing to lead by example and become positive role models on promoting more women to take on leadership roles for the future. They are uniquely positioned to help us towards the right direction for the future.” within the company. Supported by our CEO, Board and develop a culture where our principles and processes Anni Timonen Business Leadership Team, the initiative is driven by ensure that more employees choose Rezidor. Executive Assistant Manager B U S I N ES S Easier for Middle East moms STEPS up for women in Saudi Arabia All Rezidor Hotels in the Middle East Region have As a first for any hotel group, Rezidor held a special established enhanced Maternity Leave Policy. It’s aimed development course for 11 Saudi women at Radisson not only to encourage women to seek leadership Blu Hotel, Jeddah in November 2016, called the STEPS roles but also to create the right working environment R E P ORT High Potential Female Development Program. It’s all for them to grow to their full potential in their career, part of Rezidor’s aim to be the leading hotel company while balancing their professional and family life. in Saudi Arabia to promote and encourage gender The Middle East in general is considered to have the diverse workplaces. shortest average statutory maternity leave according 2 01 6 to ILO (International Labor Organization) at 9.2 weeks (6.4 weeks in UAE). Hotel companies operating in the region strictly follow this statutory minimum labor standard, except for Rezidor which now offers a sixmonth phased Maternity Leave. High-octane female leadership workshops Our Balanced Leadership initiative is paying off. During First STEPS program in Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia 2016 more than 100 women completed new courses T H I N K P E O P L E DIVERSITY & INCLUSION TALENT WORKSHOPS 2 8 R E S P O NS I BLE Diversity & inclusion in Radisson Blu Le Vendome Hotel, Cape Town, South Africa Develop Your Talent Workshops Diversity in action Rezidor has developed a dedicated, Nosiphwo Mngoma was born deaf and struggled tailor-made, and interactive ‘Develop to find employment as a result. Her situation is Your Talent’ Workshop to support “I experienced these courses as a fantastic common with over 70% of deaf people in South Africa B U S I N ES S senior female talent. Throughout 2015 struggling to find work. Nosiphwo’s break came when and 2016 the program welcomed opportunity. In fact, you get two big gifts: she was employed as a cleaner in the kitchen of the 30 participants to: time to reflect on yourself and a big mirror Radisson Blu Le Vendome Hotel. Executive Chef to look into. I learned a lot about myself by Craig Charmichael noticed Nosipho’s enthusiasm and • Refresh their core development questioning and by the open and honest passion for baking and promoted her from cleaner to planning skills, and discover how interaction with the other participants. baker. He has now arranged for her to start a 12-month R E P ORT people learn course with one of best master chocolatiers in South • Review their current role, identify It really helped me in taking the next Africa – Lindt. Nosiphwo’s appointment follows on potential future roles, and to identify professional career step. If you get this from the initiative of the Park Inn by Radisson Cape competency gaps chance, TAKE IT!” Town Newlands where 30% of the employees are deaf, • Practice prioritizing development which has won recognition by the Guardian Sustainable 2 01 6 areas and writing tailored, Business award. Tineke de Wit personalized development plans General Manager, Park Inn by Radisson, • Share experiences and ideas. Brussels Airport T H I N K P E O P L E BUSINESS ETHICS 2016 WORLD’S MOST ETHICAL 2 9 COMPANY R E S P O NS I BLE B U S I N ES S WORLD-CLASS LEADING ETHICAL Being honoree a seventh consecutive year underscores BUSINESS FOR 7th CONSECUTIVE YEAR Rezidor's commitment to leading ethical business R E P ORT standards and practices, ensuring long-term value to key stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers, In 2016, Rezidor was again listed as a World’s Most regulators and investors. Ethical Company by the Ethisphere Institute, a US think tank dedicated to business ethics. This was the seventh The World's Most Ethical Company assessment is based consecutive year in which Rezidor has received this 2 01 6 upon the Ethisphere Institute's Ethics Quotient™ (EQ) prestigious honor. Additionally, for the past four years it is framework developed over years of research and vetted the only Belgian company who has achieved this status. and refined by the expert advice from Ethisphere's Ethisphere and the World's Most Ethical Companies World's Most Ethical Company Methodology Advisory designation, which recognizes those companies who Panel. The EQ offers a quantitative way to assess a align principle with action, work tirelessly to make trust company's performance in an objective, consistent and part of their corporate DNA, and in doing so, they shape standardized way. future industry standards by introducing tomorrow's best practices today. For more information, go to www.ethisphere.com T H I N K P E O P L E BUSINESS ETHICS Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics Ethics Instruction Anti-bribery compliance Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics governs how Rezidor’s Code of Business Ethics applies to every Compliance with the UK Bribery Act and the US FCPA is we do business. It enables us to take positions on person who works for us and every one of our promoted by: key issues of business ethics with a single voice. companies. It is distributed to all employees in the • Making anti-bribery part of our Code The code includes ten principles which guide us ‘It’s All About You’ employee handbook. The Code of of Business Ethics whenever an business decision needs to be made. Business Ethics is available in summary and detailed • Training employees The principles are: form on www. rezidor. com and is included in our internal • Inserting a reference to the legislation procedures manual. All employees are trained in the in all partner contracts 1. WE RESPECT THE LAW Code of Business Ethics, its implications and reporting • Confirming compliance by all employees processes. The training occurs in the classroom-based in management positions once every year. Living Responsible Business course which is mandatory 2. WE SHOW RESPECT for all employees. Anti-bribery training FOR ALL PERSONS Rezidor’s Anti-Bribery e-learning training provides IN ALL SITUATIONS Ethics website and hotline participants with the opportunity to understand our 3 0 A key pillar of ethics in Rezidor is www. rezidorethics.com, company’s policies and procedures so they know how 3. WE THINK ETHICALLY a website run by an independent third-party organization to correctly respond to any bribery related issues. The – Ethics Point. Employees can use this site to find training is in line with the UK Bribery Act and the US 4. WE ACT FAIRLY information on our Code of Business Ethics and report Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). The aim of the R E S P O NS I BLE concerns anonymously. course is to educate individuals about anti-bribery regulations and the consequences if they are not 5. WE DO NOT DISCRIMINATE Any employee with concerns or questions about the applied correctly. At the end of the training, participants AGAINST ANYONE Code is encouraged to raise these directly with their know how to react when confronted with bribery. FOR ANY REASON supervisor or person of trust in the hotel or regional organization. If this is not possible, the employee can 6. WE ARE HONEST report the issue on www.rezidorethics.com. The site and hotline are available in 11 languages. B U S I N ES S AND TRANSPARENT Anti corruption 7. WE ARE LOYAL TO Rezidor does not make any contributions or give OUR EMPLOYER other support (direct or indirect) to political parties or individual politicians. 8. WE DO NOT EXPLOIT R E P ORT REZIDOR’S RESOURCES Financial assistance The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no direct or significant financial subsidies from governmental 9. WE THINK OF SAFETY organizations in the countries where we operate AT ALL TIMES 2 01 6 hotels. However, a number of our hotels have received subsidies or tax relief for their Think Planet 10. WE TAKE CARE environmental investments. These subsidies totaled €40,000 in 2016. OF THE EARTH Subsidies or tax relief for environmental investments was granted in Denmark, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and United Kingdom. P R O U D LY C O N T R I B U T I N G TO LO C A L C O M M U N I T I E S THINK COMMUNITY 540+ B L U P L A N E T D O N AT I O N S H E L P P R O V I D E A C T I V I T I E S D U R I N G R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S A C T I O N M O N T H 8,300 C H I L D R E N W I T H S A F E D R I N K I N G 3 1 WAT E R F O R L I F E R E S P O NS I BLE C L O S E T O 212 29,000 B U S I N ES S H O T E L S PA R T I C I PAT E D I N E A R T H H O U R V O L U N T E E R H O U R S R E P ORT T O TA L A M O U N T O F D O N AT I O N S I N C A S H 2 01 6 & I N K I N D € 1.2M T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT DONATIONS 2016 Radisson Blu Stavanger raises Annual Box Appeal campaign delivers again €45,000 for charity In 2016, 15 Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson 1,400,000 The Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel Stavanger closed hotels in six Middle Eastern countries took part in its doors on 1 September 2016 for a total renovation. our annual Box Appeal, a month-long annual charity 1,200,000 As part of RB Action Month, the hotel partnered with campaign in which the general public is asked to give Norsk Folkhjelp (Norwegian Rescue Team) to hold a back to those who need it most. The Appeal distributed 1,000,000 ● Rezidor cash clearance sale and auction furniture to raise funds 17,000 boxes filled with necessities to underprivileged 800,000 donations for the organization. Norsk Folkhjelp is renowned for laborers and people in need. This represents a ● In kind incl Box helping tourists and hikers who get into trouble while donation in-kind of approximately €335,000. Since 600,000 Appeal ● Blu Planet exploring Norway’s amazing nature. The auction was a the Box Appeal launched in 2008, Radisson Blu 400,000 donations huge success and raised over €45,000. The funds will and Park Inn by Radisson hotels have donated over 3 2 be used by the rescue team to buy a new boat which 100,000 boxes. This represents a total in-kind donation 200,000 will be used on the Norwegian fjords, a true Blu Planet of about €2.1 million. 0 water link. € R E S P O NS I BLE As a global hospitality company, we try to make the relationship between our business and the communities where we operate beneficial to both. There are important social needs in many of the communities where Rezidor operates. We aim to have a positive impact on those communities by creating shared B U S I N ES S value with our sustainable brand focus. We do this through Think Community which generates meaningful donations and volunteer time. In 2016, Rezidor gave over €1.2 million in cash and in-kind donations to international, and local charities. R E P ORT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACTION MONTH One of the annual highlights of Rezidor’s Think 2 01 6 Community pillar is Responsible Business (RB) Action Month. In 2016 we celebrated it for the thirteenth consecutive year. Held in September, RB Action Month sees Rezidor’s corporate offices and hotels around the globe positively touch local lives through organized activities, volunteering, and raising cash and in-kind donations. Our employees show real passion for serving guests Box Appeal in action in the Middle East every day. In September each year they show the same passion while serving our local communities. T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Just a Drop projects in Makueni County, Kenya. 3 3 During Responsible Business Action Month 2016, collecting, reprocessing, and distributing soap bars. Blu Planet helps water stressed communities employees from Radisson Blu hotels organized cleanHotels work with a local community partner who The cooperation of Radisson Blu Hotels and Resorts R E S P O NS I BLE up events at rivers and beaches, and took part in other processes the used soaps, distributes the soaps as with the international water charity Just a Drop brings initiatives to fight water scarcity. free hygiene or sells them on – sometimes back to the safe drinking water to water-stressed communities in hotel as VIP gifts. Soap for Hope™ thus transfers skills to Peru, Kenya and India. Soap for Hope™ the local community and improves the livelihood of the Did you know that 7 million children die per year due to local people involved. Radisson Blu Hotels and Resorts collect donations diseases that could have been prevented with proper through the towel reuse program. hand-washing? In partnership with global supplier Hand washing with soap is one of the most effective, Every 250 times a guest chooses to use their towel for Sealed Air, Radisson Blu hotels joined Soap for Hope™ and least expensive, ways to prevent diarrheal diseases a second night, Radisson Blu donates funds to Just a B U S I N ES S to bring free hygiene to communities in need. and pneumonia. Each year, the hotels and their local Drop to provide a child with safe drinking water for life. community partners estimate they will distribute 66 tons Recycling used hotel soap is not a new idea. What is new of soap, or free hygiene for about 45,000 people. For more information, go to www.justadrop.org is Soap for Hope’s local approach. Through an innovative but simple cold-press method that is easy to operate, International water charity Just a Drop helps R E P ORT Soap for Hope™ decentralizes and brings the initiative to communities to improve health and nutrition, provide communities that are located near partner hotels. food security and stimulate the community’s rise out of poverty. Especially the women and children are As part of the launch, more than 50 hotels across B L U P L A N E T D O N AT I O N S positively impacted as they no longer have to walk long Africa, the Middle-East and Asia Pacific started H E L P P R O V I D E distances to collect water. 2 01 6 8,300 C H I L D R E N W I T H S A F E To date, funds collected through Blu Planet have funded the construction of a sand dam, a water abstraction shallow well, a rock water-catchment, and two school water tanks, the donations collected via Blu D R I N K I N G WAT E R F O R L I F E Planet benefit over 8,300 people. T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Adding Color to Lives A bright future for refugee youth Park Inn by Radisson is a young hotel brand. Many Park The best long-term plans won a Bergner project for their The refugee crisis has had an impact across Europe Inn by Radisson hotels are located in city-centre locations city. Winning hotels for the 2016 campaign include Oslo, and thousands of young people have suddenly found where underprivileged youth live in the immediate Tallinn, Krakow and Johannesburg. Guided by Joel, local themselves in a new place, often after a long and surroundings. As part of “Adding Color to Lives”, the youth and Park Inn by Radisson employees designed and traumatizing journey. Every one of them has their own hotels build a long term relationship with local youth painted fabulous urban murals. hopes and dreams for a better life. As part of “Adding at risk groups to tap into new talent and create good Color to Lives” Park Inn by Radisson Leuven is working contacts with the local community. closely with local youth organizations and schools to offer a brighter future to young refugees. “Adding Color to Lives” focuses on marginalized youth, whose voices are rarely heard in society. They “During the project my thinking about the After arriving in Belgium as refugees, Hassan, Ajmal, 3 4 include refugees, orphans, school drop-outs and the and Zia were placed in a vocational school which economically disadvantaged. future has changed because I’ve experienced admits youngsters without papers and gives them something new, something different. I’ve specialized support and follow-up. They also took To launch “Adding Color to Lives” in September 2015, we opened up my outlook and the project has Dutch classes. R E S P O NS I BLE invited artist Joel Bergner to create and paint a series of allowed me to dream that I can become a pastry public murals. A recognized artist and social educator, chef in the future.” As part of their education, they took up traineeships Joel worked together with local disadvantaged youth at the hotel – all becoming talented members of the Ewelina, a young participant in the Krakow mural and hotel employees. The project generated a unique kitchen team. All three have since been offered full time collaboration and gave the young people a chance to jobs at the Park Inn by Radisson Leuven, where they express themselves through art. continue to develop and build their future. In 2016 Park Inn by Radisson hotels were tasked to come B U S I N ES S up with an “Adding Color to Lives” plan for their hotel to create a platform for their local community. The ideas articulated each hotel’s long-term ambition to support atrisk youth in their local communities, through sports and art projects, tailored traineeships or skills training courses R E P ORT at the hotel. 2 01 6 Celebration of the mural project with Park Inn Adding Color to Lives with Park Inn by Radisson Refugees at work in Park Inn by Radisson Leuven, Belgium by Radisson Sandton, South Africa Oslo Airport, Norway T H I N K C O M M U N I T Y COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT CELEBRATING EARTH HOUR 2016 During Earth Hour 2016, a total of 212 Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson hotels dimmed their lights to draw attention to the positive impact of global climate action. We joined thousands of households, businesses, and landmarks across the globe to celebrate the event. The majority of our hotels turned off non-essential lighting and electrical appliances for one hour to ‘shine a light on climate change’ – the official theme of Earth Hour 2016. The combined efforts of the hotels saved an 3 5 estimated 22,400 kWh of energy. That’s enough energy to charge 8.5 million mobile phones. R E S P O NS I BLE B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 Earth Hour in Park Inn by Radisson Novokuznetsk, Russia M I N I M I Z I N G E N V I R O N M E N TA L I M PAC T THINK PLANET 32% O F H O T E L E N E R G Y 39,000O F C O 2 O F F S E T T O N S 29% WAT E R S AV E D 3 6 I S R E N E WA B L E & T R E E S P L A N T E D R E S P O NS I BLE 85% O F A L L L I G H T S I N O U R H O T E L S A R E E C O F R I E N D LY 79% O F H O T E L S A R E 24% E N E R G Y S AV E D B U S I N ES S E C O L A B E L E D R E P ORT 2 01 6 T H I N K P L A N E T ENERGY As a pioneer of sustainability, Rezidor adopted the hotel industry’s first environmental policy in 1989. We followed with Energy efficiency the first comprehensive Responsible Business program in 2001. Since then we have gradually developed various Due to the nature of the hotel business, hotels consume environmental actions and launched Think Planet in 2012. Think Planet covers the environmental actions of the business a lot of energy in climate control, food service, the living including energy efficiency, carbon footprint reduction, water conservation, waste management and sustainable environment, and recreational facilities to provide our procurement. Our goal is to minimize Rezidor’s environmental footprint without compromising guest comfort. guests with the best service. However, we never stop reducing our use of energy. Think Planet was launched in 2012 as a campaign to reduce energy consumption by 25% over 5 years (2011 baseline). In order to guide our actions and initiatives, we developed five pillars for the energy3 7 saving part of Think Planet: 1. T hink Planet investments. We believe that investments are a key step in saving energy. R E S P O NS I BLE As well as investing in proven energy saving measures such as efficient boilers and pumps, we are also testing innovative technologies: for example, wireless guestroom controls. 2. LED lighting retrofit. LED lights use 95% less energy than conventional bulbs and have a lifespan that is 25% longer. This makes it an ideal technology to reduce energy consumption. We introduced a groupB U S I N ES S wide initiative to retrofit LED lights in all of our hotels. 3. Responsible renovation and construction. We want to operate buildings with the lowest possible energy and carbon footprint. At Rezidor, this is done based on the Think Planet principles in our standards and R E P ORT in close cooperation with property owners, builders, and architects. 4. Think Planet tools. Easy to implement energy saving tools which provide a quick return on investment – for example, motion and daylight sensors. 2 01 6 5. Think Planet habits. The involvement of all employees is essential to realize our Think Planet targets. We use continuous and creative communication to ensure that employees develop good energy use habits such as switching off appliances and lights when not in use. T H I N K P L A N E T ENERGY 2016 Energy saving results During 2016, Rezidor’s energy intensity reduced further to 83 kWh per occupied room. Energy per m2 was stabilized at 250 kWh. These gains have been achieved by optimizing the lighting, heating and cooling systems, focusing on energy efficiency in daily operations, and investing in new technologies. In weather-adjusted terms and considering hotels that have been in operation during the 5 years, this corresponds to a 17% saving in kWh per m2 and a 24% saving in kWh per occupied room. 3 8 R E S P O NS I BLE KWH PER M2 300 290 291 280 286 270 279 260 266 250 254 250 240 B U S I N ES S 230 220 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Engaging employees in Think Planet habits with Lumi Lumi, the Firefly, is the energetic Think Planet mascot who lights the vital energy-saving spark in our employees. R E P ORT KWH PER OCCUPIED ROOM A firefly is the ideal mascot for Think Planet: these little insects generate light 100% efficiently. To develop the energy 100 savings habits of our employees, the Think Planet employee engagement program includes: 95 97 • The Lumi quiz – by answering five energy related questions correctly, employees had a chance to win 94 an iPad each month. 2 01 6 90 90 89 • Lumi tips – every week Lumi gives the employees a tip on how to save energy or water, or reduce waste. 85 85 • Think Planet Solutions Game: an online game to help General Managers and hotel teams to identify the correct 83 Think Planet solutions. 80 • The Lumi Talks video competition where hotels send in their short videos showing how they are saving 75 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 energy in their hotel. T H I N K P L A N E T ENERGY Tromsø wins Think Planet Award St. Petersburg shines on Think Planet Radisson RED loves Tesla The Radisson Blu Hotel Tromsø has received the 2015 The Radisson Blu Royal Hotel St. Petersburg on Nevsky As part of its drive for technological innovation, Think Planet award for their stunning 25% reduction Prospect achieved a 33% energy saving in 5 years Radisson RED Brussels installed a Tesla Powerwall in energy use since the start of Think Planet. The by focusing on fine-tuning existing installations, by in the hotel lobby. The Tesla Powerwall (essentially 130 employees of the hotel were presented with Think focusing on preventive maintenance, installing new a beautifully designed battery), stores energy from Planet bicycles as a thank you for this impressive pumps and a full LED retrofit. 20 solar panels on the roof which is used to power the achievement. large video wall plus give energy to the hotel grid. Frankfurt saves 22% The energy savings were achieved through a Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt is an architectural comprehensive investment program which was carried landmark built in the form of massive disc. With more out during renovations of the hotel’s meeting and than 400 rooms and suites, it has enormous energy events space. The Think Planet investments focused needs, which have been reduced by 22% over the past 3 9 on technical installations such as a replacement of the 5 years. Efficiently built just over 10 years ago, the hotel windows on the M&E floor, upgrade of the Building achieved these impressive savings by optimizing the Management System and the new controls of pavement Air Handling Units, overhauling the cooling system and R E S P O NS I BLE heating (necessary in the Arctic circle). The investment installing LED façade lighting. was done in close cooperation with the owner of the property, DNB. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 Think Planet winner Radisson Blu Hotel Tromsø, Norway Energy efficiency at Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt, Germany T H I N K P L A N E T CARBON FOOTPRINT Rezidor’s scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions Hotel Carbon Footprint Measurements primarily result from energy consumption. Since In 2012, the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative 2006, Rezidor has calculated our carbon dioxide and (HCMI) was launched by the international Travel equivalent emissions. Rezidor’s group carbon footprint Partnership (ITP) and World Travel & Tourism Council per guest-night in 2016 amounts to 21.4 kg (WTTC), together with all major hospitality companies. of CO2-equivalent (CO2e), 16% lower than in 2011. Rezidor is an active member of the HCMI working group Our total scope 1 and scope 2 carbon footprint and has rolled out the methodology to all managed and amounts to 409,972 tons CO2e. leased hotels. HCMI is also the basis for our Meetings Minus Carbon program. CARBON OFFSETTING 40 Since it was first launched in 2013, the Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon initiative has offset 39,000 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) and planted an Treeplanting with ESCONET R E S P O NS I BLE additional 39,000 trees. in the Great Rift Valley, Kenya Club Carlson partners with Carbon Footprint Ltd to purchase carbon credits after each Club Carlson for Planners event. Effectively each ton of carbon generated is offset twice: once with the planting of a tree in Kenya’s Great Rift Valley, and either an investment in a Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) wind “ESCONET has been my main source of income for the last three years, offering me permanent B U S I N ES S energy project in India or a REDD Rainforest protection Renewable energy at Radisson Blu Hotels, Norway program in the Brazilian Amazon forest. In addition to employment. In the past I did odd jobs and offsetting CO2 emissions, the program protects water even fetched firewood from the forest to sell 100% renewable in Sofia, Bulgaria catchment areas, rehabilitates wildlife habitats, and reduces poverty by providing additional income in local so I could put food on the table for my family. Since 2016 Park Inn by Radisson Sofia is using communities. As my late husband suffered, I had a reliable only electricity produced entirely by renewable, R E P ORT environmentally friendly energy sources. The Agency source of money for his care. Today I am the of Sustainable Energy Development issued a certificate In Kenya, Meetings Minus Carbon’s local partner is family breadwinner. I continue to be a member on the basis of guarantees of origin. Even though the The Escarpment Environment Conservation Network of my church and provider for my family, while hotel’s energy is 100% green, the team continues to (ESCONET). ESCONET is working with the Great Rift Valley community to rehabilitate, conserve and protect also caring for my dairy cow which I will soon reduce the hotel’s energy consumption. 2 01 6 the natural ecosystem promotes the sustainable be milking. While I previously considered the maintenance of a clean, healthy environment. forest a source of firewood, I now consider it as ... and in Norway The 17 managed and leased Radisson Blu and the provider for my family.” Park Inn by Radisson hotels in Norway get 100% Wa chiru, a recently widowed mother of two daughters, certified green energy from hydropower. This amounts lives in the Valley and works on ESCONET projects to a total 65 GWh in 2016. T H I N K P L A N E T BIODIVERSITY AND URBAN AIR QUALITY 27 M O R E T H A N 2 HOTELS 4,000m O F H E R B G A R D E N S W I T H B E E H I V E S O R A L O C A L O N S I T E I N R E Z I D O R B E E K E E P E R P R O G R A M H O T E L S 41 R E S P O NS I BLE Think Planet biodiversity BEEER Think Planet Biodiversity Herb gardens When Jānis Šnikvalds approached the Radisson Blu Soon after the opening of the iconic Radisson Blu Hôtel Elizabete Hotel in Riga (Latvia) to ask if he could place 2 Février in Lome, Togo, the food & drink team has a couple of beehives on the hotel’s roof, General planted an organic garden. The space is used to grow Manager Gerhard Erasmus didn’t take much convincing. aromatic herbs and vegetables including lettuce, green And why not? In 2016 alone, seven bee species have onions, basil, thyme, and citronella. By growing their B U S I N ES S been added to the global endangered species list. own, the hotel can offer local, fresh, nutritious veggies guaranteed free of chemicals. In June, Jānis and his team placed 12 beehives on the hotel’s rooftop. After just six weeks, the hives were full. Just a few months later, fresh herbs and vegetables Each had managed to make 30 liters of honey! The were already served on the salad buffet. Every honey made the perfect welcome gift for hotel guests. restaurant in the hotel now has a magnificent basil R E P ORT But there was still honey left! flavor and the bartenders prepared a non-alcoholic mojito which uses basil instead of mint. After meeting with brewers from Madonas Craft Beer, Radisson Blu Elizabete’s very own honey beer Electric car charging in Tbilisi was born! We invite you to stop by at Radisson Blu In December 2016 the Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tbilisi 81 HOTELS HAVE A CHARGING 2 01 6 Elizabete for a drink and try our refreshing homemade opened an electric-car charging station. The hotel honey BEER! was the first business in Georgia to join an innovative STATION FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLES project by E-space which will promote electric vehicles Today we count 27 Rezidor hotels with beehives or a and build the necessary infrastructure in the country. local beekeeper program. Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel offers free hotel parking at the charging station. The initiative is part of the social campaign ‘More Oxygen to the City’. T H I N K P L A N E T WATER STEWARDSHIP 2016 Water consumption in direct operations Around 29% of Rezidor’s water consumption occurs in water-stressed areas (mainly in the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa). Because of this, we pay close attention to reducing the use of water in our operations. Between 2007 and 2016, Rezidor reduced water consumption by 29% (in liters per guest-night). By the end of 2016, our hotels’ average water consumption amounted to 329 liters per guest-night. LITERS PER GUEST-NIGHT 370 360 42 362 350 340 342 340 R E S P O NS I BLE 330 355 333 329 320 310 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Water stewardship Water initiatives A T O TA L O F B U S I N ES S 3 391,640m To address the challenge of managing global water As part of Think Planet, the Water initiative has been resources and providing everyone with access to specifically designed to help our hotels to further clean drinking water, the United Nations established reduce their water consumption. the CEO Water Mandate in 2007. This unique publicprivate initiative is designed to assist companies in the The action plan and toolkit we have developed includes WAT E R O R 1 5 7 O LY M P I C R E P ORT development, implementation, and disclosure of water tools and solutions for guest rooms, kitchens, pools, S W I M M I N G P O O L S WA S sustainability policies and practices. Rezidor signed landscaping, and technical plants. We install waterC O L L E C T E D F O R R E U S E the CEO Water Mandate in 2014, becoming the first saving technologies in areas where water consumption hospitality company to do so. is high, and engage our guests through initiatives such as our towel re-use program or by providing information 95% 2 01 6 Since Rezidor signed the mandate, we have centered on the reduced water footprint of our Super Breakfast our actions on the following six water stewardship at Radisson Blu. commitments: 1. Direct operations The Think Planet Water toolkit also includes three 2. Supply chain training movies, featuring our mascot Lumi, to train O F H O T E L S H AV E T O I L E T S W I T H 3. Collective action housekeeping, laundry, and kitchen employees. We M A X 6 L I T E R S 4. Public policy designed the Lumi performance board in order to help P E R F L U S H 5. Community engagement our employees understand the target and track their 6. Transparency performance with accuracy and credibility. T H I N K P L A N E T WATER STEWARDSHIP A T O TA L O F 54,689m3 O R 2 2 O LY M P I C S W I M M I N G P O O L S O F R A I N WAT E R C O L L E C T E D F O R R E U S E Radisson Blu Hotel & Convention Center Kigali, Rwanda 43 Hotels with OPL reduce energy and water and conference facilities that can host more than Collective Action – HWMI consumption by over 25% 5,000 people is housed on beautiful landscaped Global hotel groups, including Rezidor, have worked R E S P O NS I BLE Radisson Blu hotels around the world are doing their grounds. together to create the industry’s first coordinated and part to help conserve and protect the earth’s priceless consistent water measurement tool, called Hotel Water water supply through the Blu Planet initiative. As part of The combination of 100% grey water recycling and Measurement Initiative (HWMI). Blu Planet, Radisson Blu hotels are constantly looking rainwater capture on the roofs of the hotel and for new technologies and solutions which can reduce convention center provides enough water for toilet As chairman of the ITP, our President and CEO the environmental impact of their operations. flushing in the hotel and irrigation of the entire grounds. Wolfgang M. Neumann launched HWMI during World Water Week in Stockholm. The launch of the free HWMI With this in mind, the Diversey Care team approached These investments make the hotel 68% more water tool to the hotel industry at large is a major step forward B U S I N ES S Radisson Blu and asked them to cooperate on a efficient than the country baseline for a similar property, in the hotel industry’s stewardship of water. pilot project at the Dubai Deira Creek hotel in the as calculated in EDGE. UAE. The hotel agreed to test Diversey Care’s Clax HWMI makes it possible for any hotel to measure and Advanced system for their on-property laundry (OPL). Water harvesting in Doha, Qatar report on the water footprint of a hotel stay, meeting, Clax Advanced is a new low-temperature solution that The Radisson Blu, Doha is continuously working to or event. HWMI is free and easy to use, and will help maximizes efficiency in hotel laundries. become more environmentally sustainable. One of us achieve a shared baseline for our hotels around the R E P ORT the latest projects involves reclaiming water from our world. HWMI will allow Rezidor to measure our water The four-month test delivered fabulous results with laundry operations and using it to irrigate the landscape use in the same way as other hotel companies and will energy and water usage reduced by respectively 25% surrounding the hotel’s employee accommodation. generate common awareness about water usage in and 27%. After this first successful pilot, we will focus on tourism and travel. rolling out Clax Advanced to our 82 OPLs. The project started when hotel employees noticed 2 01 6 that the rooftop air conditioners for the laundry use a Through funding provided by Rezidor, the HWMI tool Radisson Blu Hotel and Convention Centre, spray water system to cool the condensers. The cooling is available online on the website of the Green Key Kigali, Rwanda, is 68% more water efficient water was drained onto the roof where it evaporated. ecolabel (www.greenkey.global). than the country baseline A landmark hotel and convention center, the Radisson Today that cooling water is collected from the roof, Blu Hotel & Convention Center Kigali, is also a filtered, and directed into four tanks with a total capacity shining star in Think Planet. The hotel with 292 rooms of 25,000 liters. T H I N K P L A N E T WASTE REDUCTION Waste is generated by many activities in our hotels including food preparation, consumption of prepackaged items, guest waste, and cleaning. Rezidor pro-actively seeks ways to reduce the residual waste which goes to landfill or incineration. WASTE REDUCTION INITIATIVES Fighting Food Waste Roughly one-third of the food produced in the world 44 for human consumption annually — approximately 1.3 billion tons — is lost or wasted. As consumers and employees in the hotel industry, we are already working to change this. 53% of our hotels are accurately R E S P O NS I BLE measuring food waste during preparation, from the plate or from spoilage. We have also rolled-out food waste reduction training through our network of area chefs. The training has already resulted in a reduction of 20% in waste-per-cover in selected locations. 200+ Radisson RED has a particular focus on aiming for zero food waste and has put an ‘inglorious vegetable soup’ 20% R E C YC L I N G R AT E H O T E L S H AV E WA S T E S O R T I N G F A C I L I T I E S on the menu. The Director of Kitchens, Uwe Micheel in Dubai is a Responsible Business hero. Next to being a well-known ambassador for sustainable seafood, he also became B U S I N ES S O N T H E H O U S E K E E P I N G T R O L L E Y S a proud sponsor of the #stopthewaste awareness R E P ORT campaign. The hotels offer guests 10% the bill if they finish all the delicious food on their plates at our restaurant Boulvar. 88% H O T E L S W I T H D E D I C AT E D 53 H O T E L S H AV E A N O R G A N I C 2 01 6 WA S T E S O R T I N G A R E A F O O D G R I N D E R T O P R O D U C E L I Q U I D O R G A N I C WA S T E T H I N K P L A N E T WASTE REDUCTION 97% waste recycling in Nairobi, Kenya hotel’s Responsible Business team found In the brand new Radisson Blu Nairobi, the team duly an organization which uses the plastic tops as a raw 1040 L I T E R S O F B I O D I E S E L P E R sorts all kinds of waste in key fractions. From there, the waste is collected by TAKA TAKA Solutions, an innovative local waste treatment company and recycled up to an impressive 97%. Taka Taka employs local Kenyans who, for example, make wine glasses out of old wine bottles. material which they recycle into products. Instead of paying for the tops, they will use the money they save to buy artificial limbs for people. The hotel donated 90 kgs of tops to the organization in 2016. Y E A R , O R M O R E T H A N 9,000 KM The half yearly detailed waste reporting shows that the Biodiesel is a combustible fuel made from vegetable oil or bulk of the waste is organic which is composted. The animal fat. As biodiesel is biodegradable and second largest fraction is plastics which are turned into for renewable, it emits less harmful greenhouse gasses when example fleece jackets and fencing poles. burnt as fuel. In 2016, the Radisson Blu, Kiev launched a 45 new campaign to recycle oil from the kitchen. The hotel E C O F R I E N D LY D R I V I N G Radisson Blu Kiev gets creative with bottle signed an agreement with a Ukrainian company which I N K I E V tops and cooking oil buys all the cooking oil from the hotel. Every three weeks, The Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev is a business hotel with large the hotel sends around 60 liters of used oil for recycling R E S P O NS I BLE conference and dining facilities. Each year employees and receives biodiesel in return. The fuel can be used in collect a large number of plastic water-bottle tops. The any vehicle with a diesel engine. B U S I N ES S R E P ORT 2 01 6 T H I N K P L A N E T ECO-LABELS An eco-label guarantees guests that Rezidor hotels operate in a Think Planet way. 79% of Rezidor hotels are currently eco-labelled. Our target is to have 100% of our hotels eco-labeled. All of the eco-labels we use are specific to the hotel industry and are verified through third-party, onsite audits as part of the certification process. Our biggest partner Green Key enjoys a global reputation. To date, more than 220 Rezidor hotels have received an eco-label from Green Key. 46 Green Key is one of the largest hospitality certifiers in the world. Since the first Green Key hotel in Denmark in 1994, the certification has been granted R E S P O NS I BLE to over 2,500 hotels and accommodation venues in 53 countries. Hotels with the Green Key eco-label comply with around 100 sustainability criteria covering lighting, energy consumption, waste management, and water usage. We work with Green Key, and encourage our hotels to C O R P O R AT E PA R T N E R S H I P be certified by them as they are recognized by: B U S I N ES S W I T H G R E E N K E Y S I N C E The United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island, United Arab Emirates 2009 Global Sustainable Tourism Council's (GSTC). To qualify for a Green Key eco-label, a property must for example comply with the following requirements: R E P ORT Have eco-friendly lighting in at least half the property Reduce energy and water consumption Treat all waste water 74 Recycle a maximum amount of waste. 282 E C O L A B E L L E D H O T E L S H O T E L S Next to Green Key, our hotels are also certified by leading national labels. In the UK our hotels are certified by the Green Tourism Business Scheme and in Ireland by the Green Hospitality Award. In Africa, eight Rezidor 2 01 6 W I T H T R I P A D V I S O R ’ S G R E E N L E A D E R L A B E L hotels have received the Green Leaf eco-label. T H I N K P L A N E T ECO-LABELS Green buildings in emerging markets with IFC EDGE In June Rezidor signed a unique cooperation agreement with the International Finance Corporation (a member of the World Bank) to promote green buildings in emerging markets. Rezidor became the first international hotel company which has committed to use IFC’s EDGE tool and certification. EDGE encourages efficient buildings by demonstrating the most cost-effective ways to reduce resource usage early in the design process. EDGE includes powerful 47 and free eco-modeling software which makes the business case for using less energy and water, and building with efficient materials. R E S P O NS I BLE The Radisson Blu Hotel Accra Airport in Ghana is the first hotel in Africa to receive the EDGE design certification. The hotel is part of a larger real estate development and has the CDC Group, the UK development finance institution, as a major investor. CDC played a key role in the certification. B U S I N ES S Actis, a leading investor in growth markets, and Mabani Holdings developed The Exchange, which houses the hotel. The Exchange site received EDGE certification as it utilizes 30% less water, 25% less energy, and 28% less embodied energy in the building. R E P ORT 2 01 6 Radisson Blu Hotel Accra Airport, Ghana T H I N K P L A N E T RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN As part of our Think Planet energy, water, and waste SUPPLIER TYPE SPEND BREAKDOWN BY SUPPLIER TYPE reduction programs, Rezidor works with sustainable % OF TOTAL NUMBER SUPPLIERS % OF TOTAL SPEND suppliers to provide integrated projects and solutions for our hotels. We are also committed to combating modern slavery in the supply chain, and encouraging our partners and the broader business community to take a stand against human trafficking and for human rights. ● Mature markets: 68% ● Local suppliers: 31.9% ● Emerging markets: 32% ● Regional Suppliers: 62.7% Key suppliers ● Corporate suppliers: 5,4% Suppliers such as Siemens Building Technologies, Johnson Controls International, Osram, Sprinx, 48 Intellihood, Grohe, Grundfoss, and Sealed Air provide the latest sustainable products to the Rezidor Hotel Group. At the same time, they focus on sustainable production methods and operations. R E S P O NS I BLE Responsible Food & Drink Supply Chain Supplier Code of Conduct In our Food and Drink operations, where a large Rezidor prefers to work with suppliers who demonstrate part of our carbon footprint originates, we work with their environmental, social, and ethical responsibility. responsible suppliers and apply sustainable purchasing The Supplier Code of Conduct is signed by all suppliers practices. Across the Group, 35% of our hotels serve on Group and Area levels which becomes part of the Fairtrade products and 48% serve organic food. supplier agreement. Going forward we also plan to roll out the Supplier Code of Conduct to hotel suppliers. B U S I N ES S Across the globe, supplies of more than 70% of the world’s commercial marine fish are either fully In 2016, The Rezidor Hotel Group has amended its exploited or over-fished. To help us source our seafood supplier code of conduct to include obligations for sustainably, procurement works closely with suppliers suppliers and the broader business community to take to ensure they do not supply our hotels with any a stand against human trafficking and modern slavery. R E P ORT threatened species on the Marine Stewardship Council This Supplier Code of Conduct supplements the Code (MSC) or World Wildlife Fund Red List. Our hotels also of Business Ethics. The new Supplier Code of Conduct use sustainable seafood tools to guide their choices. is available on www.rezidor.com. We estimate that 56% of all fish and seafood purchased by the Group is certified sustainable. We also purchase local ingredients where possible. This 2 01 6 has been a key part of initiatives such as Brain Food by Radisson Blu and Smart Food by Park Inn by Radisson. It’s also essential in the Radisson Blu Super Breakfast. T H I N K P L A N E T RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN Reporting and Compliance Monthly environmental statistics for managed and leased hotels are collected in the Think Planet section of our financial reporting and consolidation system. All hotels report their full Responsible Business performance in the yearly RB Status Report which contains 90 checkpoints on Think Planet, Think People, and Think Community. 85% Of hotels submitted an answer to the Status Report. Rezidor checks the environmental compliance of all hotels. No issues arose in 2016. The Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon reopened in 2016 after it has undergone a major € 40 million refurbishment, which included the removal of asbestos which had been found during the refit. 49 R E S P O NS I BLE Buying local in Tete, Mozambique Simukai Crafts is a non-governmental organization (NGO) which teaches B U S I N ES S sewing and business skills to women in rural Mozambique. Park Inn by Radisson Tete has supported Simukai by ordering products made by the women including table mats, runners, EcoVadis Silver award uniforms, and cushion covers for R E P ORT EcoVadis has awarded the Rezidor Hotel Group a Silver the pool bar. Simukai Crafts is also a supplier rating for our sustainable practices. EcoVadis regular visitor to the hotel’s monthly aims to improve the environmental and social practices arts and craft market. All guests enjoy of companies by leveraging the influence of global the excellent quality of the Sikumai supply chains. Each company is assessed through a products. 2 01 6 questionnaire which is customized to the size of the company, its industry sector, and countries of operation. The rating covers four areas: fair business practices, the environment, sustainable procurement, and labor practices and human rights. The overall EcoVadis score reflects the quality of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) management system. E C O L A B E L L E D H OT E L S AUSTRIA ETHIOPIA Dresden Radebeul • Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda • Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna • Radisson Blu Hotel, Addis Ababa • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius • Park Inn by Radisson Linz • Radisson Blu Fürst Leopold Hotel, Dessau • Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna FINLAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund LUXEMBOURG • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bremen • Park Inn by Radisson Luxembourg City BAHRAIN • Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu • The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki GREECE MALTA & Spa, Manama • Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Athens • Radisson Blu Resort Malta, St. Julian’s • Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Malta Golden Sands BELGIUM • Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku HUNGARY • Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport • Radisson Blu Aleksanteri Hotel, Helsinki • Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Resort & Spa MOLDOVA • Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp • Radisson Blu Grand Hotel Tammer, Tampere • Park Inn by Radisson Budapest • Radisson Blu Hotel Chisinau, Moldova • Park Inn by Radisson Antwerp • Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest • Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi FRANCE MOZAMBIQUE • Park Inn by Radisson Leuven • Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport ICELAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo 5 0 • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels • Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade • Radisson Blu Saga Hotel, Reykjavik • Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice • Radisson Blu 1919 Hotel, Reykjavik NETHERLANDS • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa • Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris • Park Inn by Radisson, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt • Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz IRELAND • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam • Radisson RED Hotel, Brussels • Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne • Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol R E S P O NS I BLE • Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris • Radisson Blu St. Helen's Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Noordwijk-aan-Zee BULGARIA • Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway • Park Inn by Radisson Sofia • Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port • Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick NORWAY • Radisson Blu Grand Hotel, Sofia • Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny • Park Inn by Radisson Stavanger • Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes • Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo CHINA • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Ajaccio Bay • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo • Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes • Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork • Park Inn by Radisson Trysil Mountain Resort • Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre CROATIA GEORGIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport Alna-Oslo • Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik • Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø B U S I N ES S Sun Gardens • Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi • Radisson Blu Park Hotel, Fornebu, Oslo • Radisson Blu Resort, Split ITALY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø GERMANY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Milan • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Bergen CZECH REPUBLIC • Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo • Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava • Park Inn by Radisson Weimar KAZAKHSTAN • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger • Park Inn Hotel Prague • Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg • Radisson Hotel, Astana • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo • Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague • Park Inn by Radisson Papenburg • Park Inn by Radisson Astana • Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand • Park Inn by Radisson Munich East • Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger R E P ORT DENMARK • Park Inn by Radisson Berlin City West KENYA • Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim • Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen • Park Inn by Radisson Dresden • Radisson Blu Hotel, Nairobi Upper Hill • Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Gardemoen • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen • Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund • Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense • Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart KUWAIT • Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus • Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck • Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait • Radisson Blu Resort, Trysil • Radisson Blu Limfjord Hotel, Aalborg • Park Inn by Radisson Göttingen • Symphony Style Hotel Kuwait • Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport • Radisson Blu Papirfabrikken Hotel, Silkeborg • Park Inn by Radisson Neumarkt • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alna-Oslo 2 01 6 • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg LATVIA EGYPT • Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Düsseldorf • Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga OMAN • Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir • Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden • Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson Muscat • Radisson Blu Hotel, Alexandria • Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck • Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residence Duqm • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus • Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga • Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat • Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sohar ESTONIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne LEBANON • Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe • Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut POLAND • Park Inn by Radisson Meriton Conference • Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin • Park Inn by Radisson Krakow & Spa Hotel Tallin • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock LITHUANIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, SzczecinRadisson Blu Hotel, • Radisson Blu Sky Hotel, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Düsseldorf • Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Wroclaw • Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn • Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt • Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius • Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw • Radisson Blu Park Hotel & Conference Centre, E C O L A B E L L E D H OT E L S • Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow SPAIN • Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina • Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado • Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island • Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw •R  adisson Blu Resort, Gran Canaria • Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah ROMANIA SWEDEN UNITED KINGDOM • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Residences, Bucharest •P  ark Inn by Radisson Uppsala • Park Inn by Radisson Hotel & Conference Centre • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest •P  ark Inn by Radisson Solna London Heathrow •P  ark Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad • Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West RUSSIA •P  ark Inn by Radisson Malmö • Park Inn by Radisson Thurrock • Park Inn by Radisson Ekaterinburg •P  ark Inn by Radisson Lund • Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg •R  adisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Park Inn by Radisson Northampton • Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiyskaya, St. Petersburg •R  adisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Telford • Park Inn by Radisson Poliarnie Zory, Murmansk •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Malmö • Park Inn by Radisson Bedford • Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, Moscow •R  adisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Harlow • Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg •R  adisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda • Park Inn by Radisson York 5 1 • Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod •R  adisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Cardiff City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Astrakhan •R  adisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg • Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough • Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor •R  adisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm • Park Inn by Radisson Belfast • Park Inn by Radisson Petrozavodsk •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Uppsala • Park Inn by Radisson Manchester City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Yaroslavl •R  adisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg • Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea R E S P O NS I BLE • Park Inn by Radisson Sochi City Centre • Park Inn by Radisson Aberdeen • Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovo Airport St. Petersburg SWITZERLAND • Park Inn by Radisson Glasgow City Centre • Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg •P  ark Inn by Radisson Lully • Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London • Radisson Royal Hotel, Moscow •P  ark Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport • Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Basel • Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds • Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad •R  adisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen • Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow • Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Sochi •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne • Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh • Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool • Radisson Blu Paradise Resort & Spa, Sochi • Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport, Stansted • Radisson Blu Hotel, Chelyabinsk TUNISIA • Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast B U S I N ES S • Radisson Resort, Zavidovo •R  adisson Blu Palace Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham • Radisson Blu Sheremetyevo Airport Hotel, Moscow •R  adisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Thalasso, Djerba • Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey • Park Inn by Radisson Nizhny Tagil •R  adisson Blu Resorts & Thalasso, Hammamet • Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham • Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff SAUDI ARABIA TURKEY • Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol • Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar •P  ark Inn by Radisson Istanbul Ataturk Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport • Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh •R  adisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul • G&V Royal Mile Hotel Edinburgh • Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Ankara R E P ORT • Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah •R  adisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul ZAMBIA • Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah •R  adisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme • Radisson Blu Hotel, Lusaka • Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Jeddah •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Pera SENEGAL •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Tuzla • Radisson Blu Hotel, Dakar Sea Plaza •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Sisli •R  adisson Blu Hotel Kayseri 2 01 6 SERBIA •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Ataköy • Radisson Blu Old Mill Hotel, Belgrade, Serbia UKRAINE SOUTH AFRICA •P  ark Inn by Radisson Donetsk • Park Inn by Radisson Sandton •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Kiev • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Foreshore •R  adisson Blu Resort, Bukovel • Park Inn by Radisson Cape Town Newlands •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Kyiv Podil • Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront, Cape Town • Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg UNITED ARAB EMIRATES • Radisson Blu Hotel, Port Elizabeth •P  ark Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island • Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg •R  adisson Blu Resort, Sharjah •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City •R  adisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek T H E U N 2 0 3 0 AG E N DA F O R S U S TA I N A B L E D E V E LO P M E N T UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS As a responsible leader in the industry, the Rezidor Hotel Group is conscious that our Responsible Business targets and actions need to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. No poverty Affordable and clean energy Climate action End poverty in all its forms everywhere Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Take urgent action to combat climate change and modern energy for all its impacts HUMAN RIGHTS COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT THINK PLANET ENERGY THINK+CHANGE 2020 VISION THINK PLANET CARBON FOOTPRINT Zero hunger Decent work and economic growth Life below water End hunger, achieve food security and improved Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture growth, full and productive employment and decent work marine resources for sustainable development for all FIGHTING FOOD WASTE SUSTAINABLE SEAFOOD 5 2 ORGANIC AND FAIRTRADE PRODUCTS EMPLOYMENT AND EMPLOYABILITY BLU PLANET HELPS WATER ADDING COLOR TO LIVES STRESSED COMMUNITIES A BRIGHT FUTURE FOR REFUGEE YOUTH Good health and well-being Life on land R E S P O NS I BLE Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Industry, innovation Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of for all at all ages and infrastructure terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and combat desertification, halt and reverse land FOOD SAFETY AWARENESS & ALLERGENS sustainable industrialization and foster innovation degradation and halt biodiversity loss SOAP FOR HOPE™ GREEN BUILDINGS IN EMERGING MARKETS THINK PLANET BIODIVERSITY THINK PLANET MEETINGS MINUS CARBON Quality education Reduced inequalities B U S I N ES S Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Reduce inequality within and among countriesll Peace, justice and strong LEARNING TOOLS ON AND OFFLINE THINK COMMUNITY institutions LEARNING AND TALENT-SPOTTING Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ACTION MONTH sustainable development, provide access to DISCOVERING TALENT OF UNDERPRIVILEGED EMPOWERING EMPLOYEES AND SOCIAL DIALOGUE justice for all and build effective, accountable YOUTH WITH THE YOUTH CAREER INITIATIVE and inclusive institutions at all levels R E P ORT BUSINESS ETHICS Gender equality Sustainable cities and communities ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION COMBATING MODERN SLAVERY Achieve gender equality and empower Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, all women and girls resilient and sustainable SAFETY & SECURITY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION SAFETY AND SECURITY 2 01 6 BALANCED LEADERSHIP TRIC=S: OUR GLOBAL SAFETY & SECURITY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION AWARD FORMULA FOR LOCAL HOTELS Partnerships for the goals Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable Clean water and sanitation Responsible consumption and development Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all production MEMBERSHIPS INCLUDING ITP, UN GC Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns AND UN CEO WATER MANDATE ECO-LABELLING THINK PLANET WATER RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN COLLECTIVE ACTION HWMI SOAP FOR HOPE™ BLU PLANET SUPPORT FOR JUST A DROP C O M P L I A N C E TA B L E UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT REZIDOR SYSTEMS AND PROCESSES HUMAN RIGHTS Principles 1: • Living & Leading Responsible Business Training • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Employee Handbook – It’s All About You • Human Rights Policy Principle 2: • Code of Business Ethics • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • My Rights @ Rezidor • Human Rights Policy • www.rezidorethics.com • Combating modern slavery toolkit • Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution LABOR Principle 3: • Human Resources Guidelines • Supplier Code of Conduct Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition • Employee Handbook • Employment Principles of the right to collective bargaining. • European Workers Councils Principle 4: • Code of Business Ethics • Human Rights Policy 5 3 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements • Combating modern slavery toolkit • Employment Principles Principle 5: • Code of Business Ethics • Employment Principles R E S P O NS I BLE Businesses should support • ECPAT Code of Conduct • Human Rights Policy the effective abolition of child labor. • Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 6: • Human Resources Guidelines • Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect • Employee Handbook • Social Networking Policy to employment and occupation. • Living & Leading Responsible Business training • Supplier Code of Conduct • Policy on Recruitment and Selection • Employment Principles • Transfer Policy • Human Rights Policy ENVIRONMENT B U S I N ES S Principle 7: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Environmental reporting and targets Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. • Rezidor Technical Standards Principle 8: • Responsible Business & Environment Policy • Living & Leading Responsible Business training Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Rezidor Technical Standards • Supplier Code of Conduct • Think Planet tools R E P ORT Principle 9: • Rezidor Technical Standards • Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion • Think Planet tools and guest-facing communication • Eco-labelled hotels of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI CORRUPTION 2 01 6 Principle 10: • Global Information Security Policy • Anti-Fraud Policy Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Code of Business Ethics • Internal Audit • Anti-bribery training • Supplier Code of Conduct S TA N DA R D D I S C LO S U R E S TA B L E GRI GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE OMISSIONS ASSURANCE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE OMISSIONS ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-1 1-2 G4-56 30 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Specific Standard Disclosures G4-3 3 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-4 3 Economic Performance G4-5 3 G4-DMA 1-2, AR p 10-16 AR p 61 G4-6 3 G4-EC1 5 AR p 61 G4-7 3 G4-EC2 5, 30, 36-45 G4-8 3 G4-EC4 30 G4-9 AR p 2 AR p 61 Market Presence G4-10 3, 26 G4-DMA 26 G4-11 26 data not data not 5 4 G4-EC6 N/A available available G4-12 48 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-13 AR p 3, 47 AR p 61 G4-DMA 1, 26, 29 AR p 61 G4-14 inside front cover G4-EC7 22-28, 35 R E S P O NS I BLE G4-15 15 G4-EC8 22-28, 35 G4-16 15 Procurement Practices IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-DMA 48-49 inside front cover G4-EC9 48 G4-17 AR p 61 AR p3, 10 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL inside front cover G4-18 Materials 12-13 G4-19 12-13 G4-DMA 44-45 B U S I N ES S G4-20 12-13 G4-EN1 44-45 G4-21 12-13 Energy G4-DMA 4-6 AR p 61 G4-22 3 3 G4-EN3 4-5, 38 AR p 61 G4-23 AR p 61 AR p2, 3, 47 G4-EN5 36-40 AR p 61 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-EN6 36-40 AR p 61 R E P ORT G4-24 12 G4-EN7 36-40 AR p 61 G4-25 12-13 Water G4-26 12-13 G4-DMA 4-6 AR p 61 G4-27 12-13 G4-EN8 4-5, 42-43 AR p 61 2 01 6 REPORT PROFILE Biodiversity G4-28 inside front cover G4-DMA 40-41 AR p 61 G4-29 inside front cover G4-EN11 8,41 AR p 61 Emissions G4-30 inside front cover G4-DMA 40 AR p 61 G4-31 back cover G4-EN15 40 AR p 61 G4-32 inside front cover G4-EN16 40 AR p 61 G4-33 inside front cover GOVERNANCE G4-EN18 40 AR p 61 G4-34 14 G4-EN19 6, 40 AR p 61 S TA N DA R D D I S C LO S U R E S TA B L E GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE OMISSIONS GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES PAGE OMISSIONS Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-SO1 31-35 G4-DMA 48-49, 57 Anti-corruption G4-EN32 48-49, 57 G4-DMA 30 CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT G4-SO4 30 WORK G4-SO5 30 G4-DMA 26 Public Policy G4-LA1 26 G4-SO6 30 Training and Education Compliance G4-DMA 22-25 G4-SO8 49 G4-LA9 17, 25 CATEGORY: SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY G4-LA10 23, 25 Customer Health and Safety G4-LA11 N/A data not available G4-DMA 19-21 G4-PR1 19-21 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 5 5 G4-DMA 27-28 Product and Service Labeling G4-LA12 N/A data not available G4-PR5 12 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 N/A data not available R E S P O NS I BLE Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA 30 G4-LA16 N/A data not available CATEGORY: SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA 18 G4-HR2 18, 25 Non-discrimination B U S I N ES S G4-HR3 30 Child Labor G4-HR5 18, 25, 57 Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 56-58 Security Practices R E P ORT G4-HR7 25 Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 57 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 57 2 01 6 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SOCIAL SOCIETY Local Communities G4-DMA 31-35 M O D E R N S L AV E R Y S TAT E M E N T REZIDOR MODERN SLAVERY STATEMENT 2016 aim is to combat and eliminate any form of modern in the Code of Business Ethics, its implications and ABOUT THE REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP slavery and operate free of slavery; exploitation of reporting processes. The training is mandatory for all The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic children; and forced, bonded and compulsory labor. employees and includes a reference to the Rezidor hotel companies in the world and a member of ethics platform. the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. The group has a Therefore, the Rezidor Hotel Group strives to achieve that: portfolio of more than 480 hotels in operation or Recognition under development with over 105,000 rooms. The Every employee has a worker contract Since 2010, Rezidor has been recognized as one of group employs more than 43,700 people across 80+ No employee is forced to work the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere countries. No employee is forced to hand over government Institute, an independent think tank and center of issued identification, passports, work permits research promoting best practices in corporate ethics or bank cards and governance. INTRODUCTION No employee is required to pay any worker 5 6 The Rezidor Hotel Group is a company committed fees to receive work Supplier Code of Conduct to maintaining a high standard of business ethics, No excessive deductions are made from This year, The Rezidor Hotel Group has amended its honesty and integrity, and with the following provides employees’ wages supplier code of conduct to include obligations for R E S P O NS I BLE an overview of our commitment to human rights and, in suppliers and the broader business community to take particular, to preventing modern slavery. These expectations include the practices of labor a stand against human trafficking and modern slavery. agencies and outsourced labor. This Supplier Code of Conduct supplements the Code The Rezidor Hotel Group acknowledges and respects of Business Ethics. the principles contained in the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, which are consistent with OUR BUSINESS AND SUPPLY CHAIN The Supplier Code of Conduct is signed by all suppliers Rezidor’s core values and commitment to be a force Team involvement in combating on Group and Area levels. Going forward, we also for good. Rezidor endeavors to conduct its business modern slavery initiative plan to roll out the Supplier Code of Conduct to hotel B U S I N ES S operations in a manner that seeks to promote and Various teams across the organization and geographies suppliers. enhance human rights within its sphere of influence. are involved in Rezidor’s anti-slavery initiatives. The This commitment is aligned with and supported by its strategy and follow up is coordinated by the corporate Responsible Business Policy Code of Business Ethics and the principles of the United Responsible Business department. The central Rezidor’s ambitious and award-winning Responsible Nations Global Compact, to which Rezidor is a signatory. Responsible Business team works closely together with Business program dates back to 2001. The Responsible the Procurement team and Human Resources, both Business program covers compliance with all applicable R E P ORT Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to the communities centrally and in our geographical areas. legislation regarding labor, health and safety, human in which we operate, through high quality services, rights and the environment, to operate free of slavery, economic growth and employment, environmental exploitation of people, forced, bonded and compulsory protection and community involvement. GUIDING DOCUMENTS: labor and strive to follow best practices in each of these PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES areas. 2 01 6 Our commitment to ethical excellence is our heartbeat, and we are recognized as a trusted global leader when Code of Business Ethics We endeavor to educate and facilitate for our employees it comes to being a responsible business. The Company’s internal Code of Business Ethics to make a conscious decision in favor of environmental, contains rules and guidelines, and serves as a reminder ethical and social issues every day in their private and of its policies and commitment to do what is right and work lives. COMMITMENT TO COMBAT ethical for all Rezidor employees. MODERN SLAVERY At the Rezidor Hotel Group, we operate to high The Code applies to every person who works for us standards of performance and advocate socially and and every one of our companies. It is distributed to environmentally sustainable business practices. Our all employees. Additionally, all employees are trained M O D E R N S L AV E R Y S TAT E M E N T Human Rights outsourced labor. This toolkit includes back-of-house beginning rolling out the responsible business supplier During 2014, Rezidor grouped key human rights and material to increase all employee awareness of modern questionnaire in the new procurement system. employment principles into two key documents. The slavery and support tools for the General Manager and Human Rights Policy covers Rezidor’s engagement on HR team of the hotels. The toolkit has been developed Risk Mapping in procurement system issues such as ethical business conduct, protection in multiple languages. It functions as guidance to Risk mapping has been completed to facilitate analysis of children’s’ rights, combating human trafficking and combat modern slavery and provides details on how to of supplier performance. The mapping is performed protection of the rights of employees. The Employment engage with employees, how to approach a recruitment weighting various criteria of spend, risk, impact and Principles covers Rezidor’s promises to its employees agent and what due diligence to conduct. The launch of likelihood of success. The Rezidor Hotel Group was part such as non-discrimination, freedom of association and the toolkit is done in three of the six geographical areas of the ITP supply chain working group to develop this development of talent from within. in Europe, Middle East & Africa. rating tool. The next phase of supplier due diligence is to perform a risk mapping analysis of the supply A mandatory webinar training and Q&A session Due diligence of Suppliers chain. First results of the implementation of the risk 5 7 was completed to inform all hotel Human Resource The Rezidor Hotel Group is committed to combating mapping tool into the corporate procurement system, teams, General Managers and Responsible Business modern slavery, educating employees and encouraging and analysis of the responsible business supplier Coordinators in all hotels. Both policies are made its partners and the broader business community to questionnaire, are expected in 2017. R E S P O NS I BLE available to all hotels and employees. take a stand against human trafficking. The policies complement the Code of Business Ethics All contracted Rezidor parties shall work within the TRAINING and clarify the principles by which we live and work in ethical framework of Rezidor, which places honesty Combating modern slavery training our hotels. and integrity as valued standards. In addition, we As part of the combating modern slavery toolkit, a expect our Suppliers to comply with the laws and training document specifically designed for Hotel HR regulations as well as its supplier agreements teams was rolled out to increase awareness on the DUE DILIGENCE OF OPERATIONS applicable to operations in the countries and topic of modern slavery. This training includes elements B U S I N ES S Audits jurisdictions where they conduct business, or deliver of recruitment and use of the toolkit. Every hotel undergoes an internal audit every two goods and/or services. years. Elements of the audit include controlling of Child protection and anti-trafficking background checks for all positions that are handling These principles are the foundation for the Supplier Protecting victims of human trafficking is important. cash as a part of their role or in other sensitive Code of Conduct and outline the minimum standards Under the leadership of Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, positions. The background check has to be done by an that Suppliers to Rezidor are expected to achieve. we take a public stand and work to prevent human R E P ORT external company. trafficking and the exploitation of women and children. The products, services and activities of our Suppliers Other elements include supplier contract approval, may impact Rezidor’s reputation, affecting our level of In 2004, Carlson Hotels Inc. joined and signed the work permits for employees of outsourced companies, trust with other stakeholders. It is, therefore, important ECPAT Code of Conduct on behalf of our companies. reference checks of other partners of the supplier that Rezidor Suppliers follow the Supplier Code of One of our core actions in support of the Code is 2 01 6 and background checks on outsourced employees in Conduct and request the same from their supply chain, to ensure all employees are trained in a special Accounting & Finance, Human Resources, Security, including third-party labor agencies. Child Protection module. This module is part of our IT, Front Office and Food & Drinks. The outsourced mandatory, classroom-based, Living Responsible company cannot sub-contract any activities delivered to Additional to the Supplier Code of Conduct, the Business training. The module includes various casethe hotel without written approval from Rezidor. nominated suppliers to Rezidor will be expected based scenarios and encourages discussion amongst to complete the responsible business supplier participants. Responsible Recruitment questionnaire. Results of the questionnaire are used In 2016, a toolkit was developed, in support of the for supplier assessment, evaluation and will be a hotels, to combat modern slavery in operations and discussion point for yearly meetings. We are at the M O D E R N S L AV E R Y S TAT E M E N T Violations of our supplier code of conduct AWARENESS-RAISING PROGRAMS Suppliers are expected to comply with the standards FURTHER STEPS Best practice in the industry of the supplier code of conduct and with all applicable The risk of modern slavery in our operations and in the The Rezidor Hotel group recognizes that combating laws and regulations. In cases where modern slavery, supply chain are constantly in motion. We will continue modern slavery is not only a business problem, but human trafficking, exploitation of children, or forced to combat modern slavery to minimize and manage the affects the entire hospitality industry. The Group is and compulsory labor is discovered in the supply chain, risks and develop better ways to increase visibility in a member of the International Tourism Partnership it needs to be reported to Rezidor without delay on a our operations and our supply chain. (ITP), which provides a voice for environmental and specific email address. social responsibility in the industry. In June 2015, In 2017 we anticipate: CEO Wolfgang M. Neumann became chairman of ITP. Rezidor encourages any stakeholder with concerns • Continuing development of tools available Together with ITP and its partners, we work toward about the Supplier Code of Conduct and its to our hotels to conduct risk evaluations 5 8 creating best practices on combating modern slavery implementation to discuss this directly with the Supplier. • Including and updating modern slavery elements and human trafficking. in existing manuals, contracts, standards of If the Supplier does not act or respond to the report operation and audits Rezidor ethics platform or concern and is not willing to work on correcting the • Creating a responsible recruitment framework R E S P O NS I BLE A cornerstone in the Code of Business Ethics issue, the Supplier can be subjected to disciplinary for our hotels implementation is www.rezidorethics.com, a website actions, including termination as a Rezidor Supplier • Continuing to fully implement supplier evaluation run by an independent third-party organization. and/or review by local authorities. However, best of our corporate and high-risk suppliers from Employees can use this site to find information on practice suggests trying to work with the Supplier a Responsible Business, Human Rights and our Code of Business Ethics and report concerns to improve their practice rather than dropping them preventing Modern Slavery perspective anonymously. Any employee with concerns or out of hand. Suppliers are requested to notify their questions about the Code is encouraged to raise these employees, and any subcontractors related to work directly with their supervisor or person of trust in the for Rezidor, that they may report serious or sensitive SIGNED BY BOARD B U S I N ES S hotel or regional organization. If this is not possible, concerns or a possible breach of the Supplier Code This annual statement of the full year 2016 and was the employee can report the issue online. The site and of Conduct. If Rezidor receives such a report, we will approved by the Board of the Rezidor Hotel Group. hotline are available in 11 languages for all employees, ask the Supplier to comment and, if necessary, we may outsourced employees and agency workers. request an improvement plan to correct the issue. R E P ORT Wolfgang M. Neumann President and CEO 2 01 6 THE REZIDOR HOTEL GROUP Avenue du Bourget 44 | B-1130 Brussels | Belgium Web: www.rezidor.com Twitter: @carlsonrezidor LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/2364 Instagram: www.instagram.com/rezidor_ourpromise RENU HANEGREEFS-SNEHI Vice President Corporate Communications, PR & Reputation Management renu.snehi@carlsonrezidor.com INGE HUIJBRECHTS Vice President, Responsible Business inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com
