SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO OUR WORLD THROUGH GLASS TECHNOLOGY NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 WELCOME TO OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 The NSG Group is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of glass and glazing products for the Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass sectors. With around 27,000 permanent employees, we have principal operations in 29 countries and sales in over 100. Our locations UK Romania Malaysia Italy Russia Sweden Netherlands France Hungary Canada Chile China Norway Poland Spain Czech Republic USA India Brazil Denmark Japan Belgium Austria Mexico Germany Argentina Finland Vietnam Cover picture Toyota Prius Plug-in hybrid that uses a concave rear window to improve airflow Credit: Toyota USA CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY President and CEO’s message 02 Approach to Sustainability 04 Targets 08 Approach to Reporting 09 BUSINESS Business Overview 10 Value Chain 11 Architectural 12 Automotive 14 Technical Glass 16 FOUNDATIONS Corporate Governance 18 Code of Ethics 19 Health and Safety 20 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Policies 22 Energy Usage 24 Air Emissions 26 Minimizing Waste 28 STAKEHOLDERS Customers 30 Shareholders 32 Employees 34 Communities 36 Suppliers 38 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 PRESIDENT AND CEO’S MESSAGE The challenges we face in managing the world’s limited resources have shaped our vision to make a difference to our world through glass technology, and our commitment to the sustainable development of the NSG Group. Glass production is an energy intensive process and yet the application of glass can offer society opportunities to mitigate climate change. Our businesses always endeavour to make a positive social and environmental contribution to the value chains in which we operate and we can only achieve our sustainability objectives by balancing the needs of all our stakeholders. The new sustainability targets discussed in this report emphasize the long term strategic Our VA strategy priorities for the NSG Group and the progress we have made towards their attainment. By managing the environmental impact of our activities, we are able to work in harmony underlines the with our communities and we will continue to challenge ourselves to improve our contribution our energy efficiency and resource management. This year we have continued to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions through improved utilization of our facilities and energy saving products and services initiatives. make to society and The health and safety of our employees, and of all our stakeholders, is fundamental to the environment.” our business. The annual ‘NSG Group Safety Day’ clearly demonstrates our commitment to this principle and as members of the UN Global Compact we support the advancement of all its principles. Our Code of Ethics, a natural extension to the UN Global compact, provide practical guidance on how we should conduct ourselves in our day-to-day business. Good corporate governance is a foundation for the sustainable development of the NSG Group. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines are defined to strengthen this purpose and to signify our support for the Principles of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Code. Working safely and ethically, we will continue to embed the principles of sustainability within the NSG Group and to make a positive contribution to our environment. Shigeki Mori Representative Executive Officer President and CEO 02 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY The NSG Group offers a wide range of value added (VA) products and services across our Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass businesses that can help mitigate climate change or improve safety. VA Strategy Our Long-term Strategic Vision to transform ourselves into a VA Glass Company is to engage with our customers to develop new and innovative products for our markets, and offer a greater proportion of VA products and services. The Group is also working closely with our customers to deliver products and services that support their own sustainability objectives and reduce the environmental impact throughout the product lifecycle. Our efforts are leading to significant and lasting contributions to energy conservation and to social and environmental sustainability. Good management of our people, our resources, our communities and our environment makes good business sense. Architectural Automotive Technical Glass VA products and services Glass for photovoltaics Solar control technology Battery technology Vacuum glazing HUD and camera systems Engine timing belts Digital Signage Lightweight glazing Anti-corrosion coatings Fire protection glass Aftermarket Glass Replacement LED print heads Social and Environmental Benefits 03 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Glass is playing an important role in society’s efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to mitigate the effects of climate change. We aim to be the global leader in innovative high-performance glass and glazing solutions, contributing to energy conservation and generation, while working safely and ethically. Our efficiency programs are continuing to deliver reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and waste production. We train and develop our people while respecting their human rights and keeping them safe from workplace injuries or occupational illness. We encourage our contractors and supply chain to take similar steps through the ongoing evaluation of our key suppliers’ sustainability practices. Risks associated with climate change are Outcome of Materiality Assessment an opportunity for the Employee Energy use & NSG Group to make a Employee Labour conditions and safety GHG emissions positive contribution to Human rights VA Supply chain our environment.” Concern to stakeholders products risk Landfill waste & services Anti corruption Employee and competetive retention behaviour Importance to business Our sustainability agenda is integral to decreasing our costs and increasing our market opportunities. Over the past year, we have continued our efforts in areas such as energy reduction and waste recycling, both of which can have a significant and swift impact on the business performance of the Group. Glass markets are extremely competitive around the world and it is imperative that we can meet the ever-increasing demands of customers. Shiro Kobayashi Director of Sustainability 04 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Materiality Supply chain risks and impacts, especially those related to the sustainability of raw material and the environmental and human For the purposes of this Report, we consider material information rights performance of suppliers, are important for NSG and our to be that which is of greatest interest to, and which has the customers. We assess key suppliers’ sustainability practices to potential to affect the perception of, those stakeholders who wish satisfy these concerns. to make informed decisions and judgments about the Company’s commitment to environmental, social and economic progress. The Our management approach NSG Group Sustainability Committee agreed on material issues We work with local communities and governments to ensure based on the Group’s key impacts and stakeholder feedback compliance and forward thinking. We do this directly and through throughout the year. These material issues have been combined our membership of trade associations, standards bodies and other into our Sustainability Targets. organizations. We also work to influence legislation, particularly in Financial issues are of the highest importance to stakeholders energy conservation and emission regulation. and are reported separately in our Annual Report. Financial health Glass making is an energy-intensive process. Significant energy remains a critical issue to NSG and cost reductions are vital to our is consumed in obtaining and melting the raw materials for strategy and everyday activities. the manufacture of glass. Despite this necessary resource Achievement of our medium-term management plan, MTP consumption, this energy can be quickly saved when our Phase 2, as described in pages 32 and 33 in this Report requires products are in use. Our products make a positive contribution to customer communication that improves our understanding of climate change efforts and to the quality of living and working needs and concerns. We have developed a commercial leadership environments. program to enhance the marketing and strategic skills of our We have communicated our Supplier Code of Conduct to commercial managers. our suppliers and have conducted evaluations to verify the Other leadership and development programs are ongoing to declarations we have received. minimize the risk of talent loss. Feedback from an employee Our products require raw materials that must be extracted engagement survey has led to improved learning and from the earth. We take our responsibility to protect the natural development plans and a healthy and motivated workforce. habitats of the affected regions seriously. People are the NSG Group’s most important asset. The Our Code of Ethics continues to reflect our values and principles, minimization of safety risks is important to all stakeholders and particularly the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership our management program is aimed at protecting the workforce. for actions and communicating with openness and involvement. Our reputation is integral to the success of the NSG Group. We The Code ensures we carry out these activities in a safe, are committed to demonstrating good corporate governance professional, legal and ethical manner, demonstrating corporate and ethical business practice to satisfy increasing shareholder social responsibility and promoting sustainability. Wherever and customer requirements. We will execute the MTP Phase 2 possible, the Code defines a fair and common sense approach in line with the Long-term Strategic Vision within our Corporate to doing business, with some elements dictated by strict legal Governance Guidelines announced in May 2015. Group policies on requirements. compliance and reporting of concerns have been updated to align Our Group policies and procedures detail the procedures everyone with these guidelines. Our Code of Ethics relaunched in March in the Group must follow to achieve sound governance, tight 2015 reflects our dedication to doing business the right way controls, risk management and adherence to legal, ethical and whilst minimizing regulatory and reputational risk. sustainable principles. Operational energy use and associated CO2 emissions have a significant environmental impact combined with cost, security and regulatory risks. Operational efficiency has always been a key business concern but is now of particular interest to government, investors and customers. Requirements from regulators and customers are providing opportunities for sustainable and innovative product design in a shift to value-added products. 05 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Environmental Human rights We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. Our Code of Ethics acknowledges internationally proclaimed All our operations are required to meet legislative standards as human rights, which are also reflected in our employment policies a minimum. We conduct regular environmental audits to achieve and standards, providing all employees with reassurances on how continuous improvement. they will be treated. Our Group Environmental Policy outlines our management of Our Equal Opportunity and Diversity Policy aims to prohibit current activity and the legacy of past and inherited liability. It discrimination based on race, color, creed, religion, age, gender, reinforces our commitment to using scientific principles to try to sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, predict and assess our impacts on the environment. political affiliation or any other status protected by law, for all employment-related decisions. We acknowledge that our activities affect the local and global environment but we take steps to minimize adverse effects, The most senior executive with responsibility for human rights including implementing systems to manage such impacts in a aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. controlled manner. Principal among these is our environmental Product responsibility management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for the vast majority of our glass manufacturing and automotive We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring manufacturing sites. they can be easily handled, fitted and used by our customers. Our product risk-review procedures are designed to identify risks and We are committed to reporting on our performance, both good provide advice to users on safe handling. We communicate risks on and bad. Environmental data is collected under the broad headings safety data sheets, labels and glazing and handling guidelines. of energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core environmental Every R&D project developing new products and processes is performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). required to have an Environmental Impact Assessment completed In addition, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an incident to highlight any positive or potentially negative implications. reporting system. The most senior executive with responsibility We aim for a cradle-to-cradle life cycle management approach, for environmental aspects is the Group Director of Sustainability. incorporating environmental health and protection into every step of the life cycle of our products. Society Our formal project management processes include thorough We believe we have a responsibility to be a good steward of the intellectual property searches, so our customers can be confident environment and a responsible corporate citizen. We work hard that new products and processes we develop can be used freely to minimize negative effects, such as pollution, noise and traffic. without fear of infringing third-party patents. The most senior We operate programs to assess and manage the impacts of our executives accountable for product responsibility are the heads of operations on communities in entry, operational and exit stages. the strategic business units (SBU). In addition to our business investments to sustain local operations, we also invest in the communities where we operate. We aim to help charities and other projects through cash donations, or through other resources, to benefit the community or tackle specific social issues. We also encourage our people to develop community relationships. This can take the form of matching contributions raised by employees or enabling individuals to contribute their time and effort in local projects. The most senior position with responsibility for society aspects is the Group Director of Sustainability. 06 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Labor practice Our management philosophy values people as the most important asset of our Group. Our HR strategy aims to ensure we have the right people and that we maximize our talent management around the world. Safety and quality underpin everything we do, with open communication central to our employment policies. We operate as an integrated international Group, with a multinational management and 80 percent of our employees working outside Japan. We reflect diversity in our workforce and believe that the range of nationalities, skills, qualifications and experience available in our many operations are a positive benefit to our business. Our management style is to put the best person in each job, regardless of nationality or region. To attract, motivate, develop and retain high-performing employees, our approach to rewards and retention includes market-based competitive pay and competitive benefit offerings for eligible NSG Safety and Environmental Awards 2016 employees. We have identified specific challenges in attracting and retaining The NSG Safety and Environmental Awards aim to talent, particularly in emerging markets, and we are putting increase awareness and reward individuals or teams for policies in place to address these. We work to create a culture outstanding EHS project initiatives. Many of the best ideas that allows employees the opportunity to work without fear of for environmental, health and safety initiatives come intimidation, reprisal or harassment. We have systems in place from employees. These include ways of reducing health to permit employees to raise any concerns in a confidential and and safety risks, minimizing pollution, saving energy and timely manner. The most senior executive with responsibility for reducing, recycling or reusing waste, water or raw materials. labor aspects is the Chief Human Resources Officer. Judging was undertaken by a panel of senior managers and EHS experts. Details of the 2016 winning projects can be We value the health and safety of all our employees above seen on pages 21 and 23. all other considerations. Our safety programs emphasize the importance of appropriate safe behavior and of individuals taking personal responsibility. We regard all injuries at work as unnecessary and avoidable. No matter how minor, each one must be reported and investigated. Details of our progress on safety performance are shown in the Health and Safety section of this Report. HR Programme Our management philosophy values people as the most important asset of our Group. Our HR strategy aims to ensure we have the right people and we maximise our talent management around the world. 07 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 TARGETS Target FY2018 targets Progress made in FY2016 Safety • Reduce Significant Injury Rate by 10 percent per year • The SIR at the end of FY2016 was 0.33 which • No fatality represents a 6 percent improvement. • There were no fatalities in the year. See page 20 for further details on the H&S programme. Waste • Reduce waste to landfill by 6kt (20 percent reduction NSG successfully exceeded the 50 percent on 2013) landfill waste reduction target by 2015 on a 2007 baseline in 2013. Our waste to landfill figure for 2015 was 23kt. This is a 14 percent reduction on 2014 and a 25 percent reduction on the 2013 baseline. See pages 28-29. Energy and CO2 • One percent year on year reduction in CO2 intensity In FY2016 we emitted 0.77 tCO2 /t equivalent reduction across glass manufacturing operations. This includes product. This represents a 1.5 percent at least 70 percent of the NSG Group operational CO2 improvement on FY2015. See pages 24 to 27. emissions by FY2018 Sustainable value • Increase proportion of value-added products in total • There has been a steady increase in the VA added products sales from approximately 1/3 to 1/2 in FY2020 ratio and it is now approximately 40 percent. • Demonstrate the added environmental or social benefit • Environmental and social benefits are of products demonstrated on pages 12 to 17. Responsible • Continue our commitment to communicate the Supplier • 60 percent of Key suppliers have now agreed sourcing and Code of Conduct to new suppliers and maintain the to SCoC or can demonstrate their own transportation ongoing agreement of current suppliers equivalent code. • Extend our program of supplier sustainability evaluation • 14 percent improvement achieved in 2016 by 20 percent per year • We continue to make good progress and • Continue to monitor suppliers that use materials with a have improved our compliance in this area by potentially high environmental impact ~8 percent in 2016 • Work with supply chain partners to innovate our • There has been strong progress during 2016 logistics arrangements to improve environmental with suppliers developing a number of projects impact of our products around the Group which have reduced CO2 emissions, some examples of which are reported in the Group Procurement Section of this report. See pages 27, 38-39 for further details Employees • Commitment to continue to measure employee • 150 action plans were created following the engagement. All areas to have 2014 Employee Survey 2014 Global employee survey. At the end of action plans, aiming for 90 percent progress in each of FY2016 global progress was at 81 percent these plans by the end of FY2016 completion rate. • Continue with performance management initiatives to • At the end of FY2016 95 percent of plan ensure that the appraisal process is maintained at the owners had attended this training. right standard. 100 percent of appraisal plan owners • 88 percent of employees covered by the L&D attend training to improve the discussion on employee Process had either an individual or a collective development by the end of FY2016 plan. • 75 percent of employees to have either a collective or • We achieved our milestone target of 50 individual employee personal development plan by the percent of commercial managers trained by end of FY2018 the end of FY2016 • Train 100 percent of commercial managers in the Commercial Leadership Program Ethics and • Relaunch Code of Ethics and maintain 100 percent • 75 percent completed by the end of March Compliance completion of briefing and training 2016 • Continue communication of relaunched Ethics & • Enhanced communication by offering a direct Compliance Hotline and reporting of all concerns link from the Group Intranet homepage • Identify, track and report meaningful Ethics & • Agreed to change focus from completion Compliance KPI metrics metrics to leading indicators. • Target was completed early in June 2016. • Reissue Governance and Leadership Culture HR Communications and ethics function to Assessment address areas of opportunity. 08 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY APPROACH TO REPORTING This Report forms part of our non-financial performance This Sustainability Report has been prepared using the the communications and reflects Group, regional and site-level Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the Report covers those Guidelines as a globally recognized framework for reporting on an businesses over which the NSG Group has management organization’s economic, social and environmental performance control. Data relating to the environmental performance of and responsiveness. Group operations covers 26 float and four rolled-glass sites. Joint venture sites where we do not have operational control are excluded. All Architectural, Automotive and Technical Glass downstream processing are also included in the reporting. Safety statistics shown cover our ‘workforce’ (employees and permanent contractors). Our environmental and social performance is of interest to our stakeholders and important to our business success and we have been reporting on these matters since 2002, in successive environmental, social activity or CSR reports. We published our first Sustainability Report in 2009, when we decided to widen our reporting to cover all aspects of sustainability. In June 2009, we published our Group Sustainability Policy, setting our sustainability agenda, and in December 2009 established the Group Sustainability Committee to direct, coordinate and monitor our efforts to improve our approach to sustainability. In 2010, the Board of Directors agreed specific sustainability targets for the Group. New targets are shown on page 8 of this Report, along with an account of our progress towards them. In 2012, Shiro Kobayashi was appointed as the Group’s Director of Sustainability. Clemens Miller, Chief Operating Officer, chairs the Sustainability Committee, which is leading our efforts to ensure that the principles of sustainable development are embedded in all of the Group’s activities. We will continue to report on our progress in our 2017 Sustainability Report, which will be published in early 2018. 09 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 BUSINESS OVERVIEW We operate in three business sectors: Architectural, supplying glass for the world’s buildings and for solar energy applications; Automotive, producing glass and glazing systems for vehicles worldwide; and Technical Glass, operating in the display, optical electronics and glass fiber sectors. *All figures for financial year ending 31 March 2016 Architectural Automotive Technical Glass A leader in float glass technology Supplying all major vehicle World leader in thin display glass and and coatings manufacturers and the after markets optical devices for electronics 40% 50% 10% Contribution to Group sales* Contribution to Group sales* Contribution to Group sales* Sales by region Sales by region Sales by sector Financial year 2016 Financial year 2016 Financial year 2016 Europe 35% Europe 44% Thin glass 42% and lenses Japan 27% Japan 18% Glass fiber 47% NA 15% NA 28% products ROW 23% ROW 10% Other 11% Main products Main products Main products • Thermal insulation glass • Solar control glass • Cover glass • Solar control glass • Glazing systems • Copier/printer lenses • Fire protection glazing • Laminated glass • Glass cord • Glass for solar energy • Toughened glass • Battery separators • Noise control glazing • Security glazing • Anti-corrosion coatings • Safety and security glazing • Lightweight glazing • Fine crystal Proportion of Group Proportion of Group Proportion of Group CO2 emissions CO2 emissions CO2 emissions 62 percent 33 percent 5 percent 10 BUSINESS VALUE CHAIN The NSG Group, working in partnership with its suppliers, aims to deliver products and services, through our manufacturing, processing and distribution operations, that benefits customers and supports the sustainability agendas of all our stakeholders. Research and Development Raw materials Glass Manufacture Supply chain Glass Processing Distribution and Wholesale Transmission belts Vehicles Buildings Energy Displays Storage Cosmetics Energy Replacement generation glazing Social and Environmental Benefits Health and CO2 Reduction Safety comfort The benefits from glass products can be enjoyed for a lifetime. When the product is no longer required and the glass is adequately segregated, it can be recycled an infinite number of times. 11 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 ARCHITECTURAL Our products are at the heart of modern architecture and play a beneficial role in addressing some of the major environmental challenges of buildings. On average, buildings account for around 50 percent of the energy consumed in developed economies. The correct choice of glass can help to reduce the capital outlay, running costs and associated carbon emissions of buildings. A study undertaken by TNO for Glass for Europe concluded that up to 170 million tonnes of CO2 could be saved annually by 2020 if all Europe’s buildings were fitted with solar control or low-e insulating glass units. Our products offer advanced functionalities including fire protection, noise attenuation,security, electro chromics, self-cleaning and electrical conductivity. Thermal insulation and solar control Our products play a vital role in addressing global building energy-efficiency challenges and reducing CO2 emissions. In cold climates, low-emissivity (low-e) coated glasses like Pilkington Energy Advantage™ reflect heat back into the building and reduce heat loss through the window, while allowing high levels of valuable free passive solar energy to heat buildings without significant loss in natural light. In hot climates, the reliance on air conditioning is mitigated through the use of advanced solar control coated glass that transmits the majority of the sun’s visible light into buildings, while reflecting up to 75 percent of the solar heat and reducing glare. Pilkington Spacia™, the world’s first commercially available vacuum glazing, offers the thermal performance of conventional double glazing but with the same thickness as single glazing. Pilkington Spacia™ Cool achieves a U-value of 0.9W/m2K and is commonly used in historic buildings and special applications. 12 BUSINESS Fire protection glass Pilkington fire-resistant glass is known for offering trusted transparent solutions all over the world for more than 30 years. Today’s range of products comprising Pilkington Pyrostop®, Pilkington Pyrodur® and Pilkington Pyroclear® are used in a variety of building, marine and rail transport applications. Independent fire tests of applications incorporating Pilkington fire-resistant glass have demonstrated our emphasis on safety and the remarkable long term reliability of our products. Environmental Product Declarations for Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® glasses have been verified according to international standards EN and UL. Glass for photovoltaics During its life cycle, a solar panel can generate over 15 times the energy used in its manufacture. NSG’s glass is an integral part of thin-film solar modules produced by leading companies in the solar energy industry. As a technology leader in glass coatings and low-iron compositions, our products are helping our customers to manufacture increasingly efficient modules. Our anti-reflective coatings help maximize solar energy transmittance and NSG TEC™, a Transparent Conductive Oxide (TCO), is part of the system that generates an electrical current. 13 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 AUTOMOTIVE Our advanced Automotive glazing is used to improve the safety, efficiency and comfort of the vehicles we drive. We are working across all our markets from cars to trains and tractors, to help customers develop new vehicles that are greener by design. Glass in vehicles offers more properties than simple transparency; consideration also needs to be given to acoustics, stiffness, weight, sealing, safety systems and solar control. We have also supplied glass for use in automotive photovoltaic roof systems to help reduce their reliance on conventional energy sources. Our vehicle-glazing can provide advanced solar control properties by absorbing or reflecting infra-red energy from the sun. Approximately 30 percent of the heat loading on a car’s interior comes through the windshield. Control of heat energy entering vehicles directly impacts air-conditioning usage leading to additional energy consumption and CO2 output. Windshield replacement provides an opportunity to improve the energy consumption of the vehicle by using Pilkington’s EZ-KOOL® or NSG Angelguard99 that reduce the heat loading on a vehicle’s interior and filter up to 99 percent of UV rays. Advanced glazing Advancements in vehicle technology are making glazing an integral part of protecting vehicle occupants and other road users. Cameras used in automatic emergency braking systems and HUD (Head-Up-Displays) for displaying critical driver information require a high level of component integration. The NSG Group is working closely with its partners to lead the change towards making our roads safer. The importance of environmentally friendly vehicles is growing as consumers are demanding ever more energy-efficient models. Lighter-weight designs are an essential part of reducing vehicle CO2 emissions and improving their energy efficiency. Our in-house developments for glass-shaping technology make it possible for vehicle manufacturers to reduce the mass of glass components by up to 25 percent. 14 BUSINESS Aftermarket glass replacement A vehicle’s windshield is an essential piece of safety equipment that we take for granted until it is damaged. Chipped or cracked windshields reduce visibility and can lead to loss of structural integrity over time. The NSG Group’s Automotive Glass Replacement (AGR) services provide an extensive range of OEM quality replacement glazings to auto glass replacement professionals throughout the world, ensuring consumer glazings can be replaced quickly and to the same standard as the original. Lightweight Rail The NSG Group is a leading manufacturer of glazing solutions for specialized transport vehicles including trucks, coaches, offroad, marine and lightweight rail vehicles. Our extensive R&D activities and vast experience in shaping techniques guarantee our ability to manufacture the largest and most complex windscreens. Quality and safety are vital for the driver and can require train windscreens to be impact-tested to a range of international standards using a 94-calibre air cannon. 15 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 TECHNICAL GLASS Our glass technologies are used to improve the energy efficiency and sustainability of products across a diverse range of market segments. Glass as a high-tech material offers many opportunities being light, strong, fire retardant, non-conductive and resistant to chemicals. Our patented products are used in transmission belts to improve fuel consumption, LED printers that use less energy to operate, and coatings to protect the longevity of our buildings and equipment. Our expertise in the manufacture of ultra-thin float glass is allowing the development of the next generation of touch-screen devices. Glass cord engine timing belts NGF, who produce the Group’s advanced glass cord technology, is enabling the automotive industry to develop the next generation of energy-efficient vehicles. The technology is primarily used in engine timing belts and Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) systems to reduce fuel consumption and improve CO2 emissions. NGF’s HTS (High Tensile Strength) glass cords significantly improve belt flexibility and stretch resistance. This advanced technology has been successfully incorporated into innovative ‘Belt in Oil’ systems that further improve engine refinement. The system delivers the quietness and more efficient running of a belt but with the durability of a conventional timing chain. Furthermore, the belt is capable of remaining in service for the life of the engine. 16 BUSINESS Display and touch panels We are a world-leading supplier of ultra-thin glass for small LCD applications. Our Ultra Fine Flat Glass (UFF) is produced in thicknesses as low as 0.3 to 1.1mm. These products are increasingly being used in the growing touch-panel market, particularly in mobile phones, tablets, computers and now expanding into use in buildings and vehicles. This technology helps reduce the need for additional peripheral equipment, allowing people to have a more natural interface with technology. Battery technology The NSG Group is leading the development of advanced glass materials for use as battery separators in the next generation of batteries that support society’s infrastructure and help to solve environmental issues. Absorbent Glass Mat (AGM) separators are used in a wide range of infrastructure applications including wind farms, data centers and communication stations. Polyethylene (PE) glass separators are often used for Idling Stop & Start(ISS) batteries in cars to improve their CO2 emissions and fuel economy. Our Super Glass Paper (SGP) technology with a 20μm thickness and &gt;85 percent porosity is supporting the development of the next generation of Lithium ion Batteries. Bacteria and Pollutant Detectors The NSG Group’s proprietary SELFOC® Lens Array (SLA®) technology is used extensively in scanner and printer heads for office equipment. The technology has been further developed to provide fluorescence detection that can be tuned to detect bacterial contaminations or pollution. The detectors are handheld so that environmental inspections can be performed away from the laboratory. The fluorescence detection can also be tuned for applications in bio chemistry or quality inspections on a production line. 17 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is a key element in the sustainability activities of the NSG Group. We aim to maintain high levels of accountability and transparency, The NSG Group is governed by its Board of Directors, which is disclosing business goals and guidelines that clearly demonstrate appointed by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders. a responsible management approach to all our stakeholders. The Board comprises three directors, concurrently serving as Executive Officers, and five External Directors including four NSG Group Corporate Governance Guidelines independent External Directors. The Board is chaired by an The NSG Group Corporate Governance Guidelines announced in independent External Director, Günter Zorn. In the fiscal year May 2015 support the Principles of the TSE Corporate Governance 2016, the Board of Directors met 12 times. The Board of Directors Code, which took effect on 1 June 2015. These Guidelines provide oversees the Group’s economic, social and environmental the basic principles and framework for the NSG Group to enhance performance and compliance with internal and internationally its corporate values in a sustainable way, on a medium to longagreed standards, including the Group Codes of Ethics and Values term basis, thus increasing the common value of the Group for our and Principles. various stakeholders, including our shareholders. The Nomination Committee decides the details of the agenda Under the corporate governance structure in the Guidelines items to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders including the balanced roles and membership of the Board concerning the appointment and removal of Directors. Chaired of Directors, the three committees of Nomination, Audit and by an independent External Director, Masatoshi Matsuzaki, the Compensation, and the independent External Directors and Committee consists of five members, including four independent Executive Officers, we aim to ensure the appropriate system of External Directors. check-and-balance and accountability. This enables management to make decisions in an effective, efficient and ethical manner, The Audit Committee, chaired by an independent External and maintain good relationships and address the needs of our Director, Toshikuni Yamazaki, comprises four independent stakeholders. External Directors. It conducts audits of the execution of duties by directors and Executive Officers and ensures that adequate Along with the Guidelines, we also published related policies such risk management processes are followed. It also decides the as the Policy on Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders, General details of agenda items to be submitted to the General Meeting Criteria to Select Candidates for Director, and Policy and Procedure of Shareholders concerning the appointment and removal of on Appointment of Executive Management. The NSG Group Accounting Auditors. Corporate Governance Guidelines document itself and the related policies are also available on our corporate website: http://www. The Compensation Committee makes decisions on compensation nsg.com/en/sustainability/corporategovernance/approach. These of individual directors and Executive Officers. The Committee is actions build on initiatives taken by the Group over the past few chaired by an independent External Director, Yasuyuki Kimoto, years to strengthen corporate governance and mark our progress and comprises five members, including four independent External towards the achievement of the advanced level of corporate Directors. governance. Risk management Three-committee system The scope of our operations introduces potential risks to our The Group adopts a three-committee structure and hence business activities, requiring effective risk management. These establishes the Board of Directors, Nomination Committee, Audit include risks of fluctuation in interest rates, foreign currency Committee, Compensation Committee and Executive Officer. exchange rates, credit ratings, energy prices, and business disruption. Our enterprise risk management process enables the We believe the adoption of the model has introduced additional impact and likelihood of key risks to be assessed in a standard safeguards for shareholders, increased transparency and format. The information is used to assess the cumulative enhanced corporate governance by separating the functions risk exposure of the Group and promote effective global risk of execution and oversight, with the role of the independent responses, thus strengthening our overall risk management External Directors strengthened. structure. (NB) We have one newly elected external director pursuant to a resolution of the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 24 March 2017, whose term of office has commenced from 1 April 2017. He does not fall into our criteria for independency, hence as from 1 April of this year our board of directors consists of five external directors (among them four being independent directors) and three directors concurrently appointed as executive officers. In relation to such new appointment, we do not envisage any plan on altering the current membership composition as regards any of nomination, compensation or audit committee. We continue to commit ourselves to ensure that the appropriate systems of check-and-balance and accountability be in place through the system of and as company with three committees governance structure 18 FOUNDATIONS CODE OF ETHICS Our Code of Ethics represents our behavioral commitment to the Group. Ethics and compliance Group Ethics and Compliance has partnered with Group Internal Audit to include both Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption [ABAC] and Our Code of Ethics was updated in 2015 to make it more relevant competition law minimum controls in any site audit. Relationships to the NSG Group. The Code was made available in all 19 Group with lobbyists are covered by the Group’s Anti-Bribery Antilanguages. Ethics Champions in every region were carefully Corruption [ABAC] program as it relates to third parties. Public selected to provide vital communications and promotion of the policy development and lobbying information is found in the Code at the local level. These Champions attended workshops Group’s Code of Ethics and on the website. to prepare them for these activities, with a special focus on supporting line managers in the understanding of the Code and Our ‘Reporting of Concerns’ policy has been updated to ensure facilitating the ensuing ethical discussions. Our line managers that all reported ethicsand compliance-related concerns are are responsible for promoting understanding of the revised Code brought to the attention of the Chief Ethics and Compliance and discussing issues and ethical behavior with their employees. Officer by requiring managers to submit concerns reported to Discussions on ethical dilemmas have been very engaging and them using a standard Ethics and Compliance report form. While have raised many relevant issues. employees are encouraged to speak to HR or line management first, the Group continues to allow employees to voice corporate Alan Graham continues in his role as Group Chief Ethics and governance issues through an externally provided updated Compliance Officer. His responsibilities include the development, Ethics and Compliance Hotline either by phone or through a implementation and maintenance of an integrated internal ethics web portal with anonymity where legally allowed. This hotline is and compliance management and control system, as well as the available in all Group languages and employees are also able to creation and review of relevant Group policies and procedures. ask ethicsand compliance-related questions through this web Group Ethics and Compliance regularly reports to the Audit and portal. Posters have been updated and distributed at all locations. Management Committees. A Group Concerns Investigation Procedure has been established The NSG Group does business in 36 percent of the countries that to ensure all relevant concerns are sufficiently and consistently scored at least 50 or higher in the 2015 Corruption Perceptions investigated. Index and has commercial agents in 20 percent of those countries. The Group’s Ethics and Compliance Hotline has been made NSG implemented a 3P Due Diligence system and is monitoring available to our commercial agents through the issuance of a over 2000 third parties that meet certain risk criteria. A Commercial Agents Compliance Manual. Information on how to notification process for new third parties was developed internally access the Ethics and Compliance Hotline will be made available with Group Procurement. The Group conducts a continuous on NSG’s external website and thus access will be extended to all. risk-based assessment to determine which employees face Since inception there have been 100 reported concerns managed risks related to bribery, corruption and competition laws. Over via the Ethics and Compliance Hotline case management system. 65 percent of the NSG Group’s floor workforce is required to FY16 experienced 43 allegations reported via the Ethics & complete annual compliance training, via a third-party vendor, Compliance Hotline and Manager’s Report Form. covering bribery/corruption, competition law and reporting unethical behaviour through the Group’s Ethics and Compliance Education Center. Additional reporting of concerns and fraud modules were added in FY2016. All are required to be familiar with the compliance program policies, manuals and procedures. 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Key compliance contacts have been identified in each SBU and Group function and are responsible for ensuring that the key FY13 roles in their area of responsibility are kept informed of program FY14 updates and are meeting the program requirements. Group Ethics and Compliance issues an ethics and compliance brief on a regular FY15 basis to senior managers and key compliance contacts. The Group’s communications team translates the brief into all Group FY16 languages and posts the publication onsite communications boards. 85 75 80 90 95 100 No of key role % of E&C training completed 19 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 HEALTH AND SAFETY Significant Injury Rate (SIR) Our safety programs emphasize the importance 1.5 of individuals taking personal responsibility for appropriate safe behavior, with managers taking 1.2 the lead through their commitment to key safety 0.9 leadership behaviors. 0.6 0.3 Safety organization and strategy The NSG Group Sustainability Director reports to the Chief Operating Officer. Monthly 0.0 safety updates are provided to the COO while more in-depth management reviews are completed every six months with the senior operations team comprising the heads of FY08 FY09 FY00 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 the four SBUs and the heads of the Group functions. These reviews were held in the UK in March 2016 and North America in September 2016. All injuries at work are regarded as avoidable. We require full reporting of all incidents, no matter how minor, and appropriate investigation to ensure we learn from all such events. The Group has a focus site approach Type of significant injury which provides additional support and more regular reviews for sites that have more than a defined number of significant injuries. Safety performance Safety improvement begins with a focused approach to the prevention of conditions and behaviors which lead to injuries. NSG drives proactive safety by Measuring Safety 4 Ways, which includes: Safety Improvement Plans (SIP) – reducing hazards and risks through planned improvements of conditions and behaviors that lead to incidents. Incidents of High Potential Severity (IHPS) – reviewing all incidents with a critical eye, asking what could have happened and could the incident have led to a serious injury or fatality; then taking preventative actions. Glass handling cuts 11% Key Safety Behaviors (KSB) – focus on how our employees complete tasks, working to Manual handling 7% reduce at-risk behaviors through frequent feedback. Slips, trips and falls 8% Significant Incident Rate (SIR) – The Significant Injury Rate (SIR) is our primary reactive Engineering 0% indicator. The SIR records injuries requiring medical treatment or the reallocation of duties Machinery 6% to allow an individual to continue working, expressed as a rate per 200,000 hours worked. Blade cuts 2% The Significant Injury Rate for the year to 31 March 2016 of 0.33 represents a 6 percent improvement in safety performance compared to FY2015 on a like-for-like basis. This is in line with the Group’s Medium-term-Plan, focusing on a year on year improvement. Significant injuries FY2015 FY2016 Glass handling cuts 17 11 We are committed to our high-risk reduction program and the safety tools we have in Manual handling 13 7 place. Slips, trips, falls 6 8 Following a fatal accident in FY15, all SBUs have implemented improvement plans which Engineering 8 0 include assessing where employees work where there is a risk of falling; identifying areas where the tasks can be eliminated; and completing actions where working at height is Machinery 3 6 required to prevent employees from falling. Finally, we have improved the type of PPE Blade cuts 4 2 employees wear in particular the requirement to wear helmets with a four-point harness. 20 FOUNDATIONS High-risk activities We continue to focus on the following high-risk activities, tracking projects related to: • Vehicle and pedestrian safety • Machinery safety: guarding, frequent access and isolation • Contractor control, including permits • Materials handling: moving glass, load security, grabs, trolleys and pallets NSG Group H&S Award Winner • Driving Moving safety to the next level The winner is a team from Rossford Float, USA for The safety strategy remains the same, with a focus on improving their ‘Dock Safety Gates Fork Truck and Pedestrian the effectiveness of our safety tools and programs. We believe Segregation’ project. that our employees and supervisors will make the difference in The winning project eliminates operator exposure moving safety to the next level through the following initiatives: to the risk zone at truck loading docks. It increases • Independent audits of our safety tools to drive a more communication between team members, resulting consistent approach, develop our safety skills and improve our in segregation of pedestrians and fork lift trucks by shared learning. These audits were cross regions and cross installation of swing gates. sites within a region for maximum impact. The judges’ decision was influenced by three significant • Further improve our level of proactive employee involvement aspects of the project. Firstly, the project addresses a as a means of continuing to change our safety culture. major risk activity. Secondly, it pays close attention to • Further develop our first-line supervisors to improve our practicality. Thirdly, the system was developed, tested overall level of safety leadership. and contributed to strongly by operators who use the equipment. NSG Safety Day The NSG Safety Day took place on 13 October 2016 and continued to be a successful global event. All sites organized health-related activities and employees were given the opportunity to improve their first aid, firefighting and emergency response skills. Senior managers attended sites to demonstrate their personal commitment and the opportunity was taken to celebrate safety success. NSG Group Safety Award The NSG Safety Award aims to increase awareness and reward individuals or teams for outstanding health and safety project initiatives. Many of the best ideas for reducing risks come H&S Award Commendation from employees. Judging was undertaken by a panel of senior managers and EHS experts. Automotive OE sites in Sagunto, Spain and Niles, USA, won a commendation for ‘Shop floor engagement by using safety videos’. These are independent but similar culturally important projects, which demonstrate excellent employee involvement in preparing video clips on Key Safe Behaviours and in showing and sharing them with the whole workforce. 21 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICIES We take our environmental responsibilities extremely seriously. We require all of our operations to meet local legal standards but apply our own corporate standards where these are stricter than the law. Our Environmental Policy Monitoring performance Our Group Environmental Policy defines our approach on Supplementing the routine monitoring of our business, we also environmental matters. In particular, it outlines our management maintain a number of central registers used to guide our strategic of both current activity and the legacy of past and inherited development and maintain a high level of corporate governance liability. It reinforces our commitment to using good scientific in the sustainability field. For example, a register of all furnaces, principles to try to predict and assess our impacts on the their associated permits, relevant legislation and abatement environment, both positive and negative. capabilities is maintained and used to support the assessment of any proposed changes in operation or design. We are in a strong position to help mitigate the effects of climate change by producing products that conserve energy in buildings To ensure a consistent and innovative approach, we operate a and vehicles. number of multidisciplinary design panels whose task is to ensure full assessment and review of proposed changes. Our stage Given the nature of our business, we acknowledge that our gate process ensures that an appropriate level of information activities will inevitably have an environmental impact, but we and resource is applied to an issue at set points within the have taken steps to minimize the adverse nature of any impact development of a project or proposal. This ensures the most and have put in place systems to try to ensure that we manage efficient use of our resources and encourages innovation. such impacts in a controlled manner. The use of many of our products will lead to positive environmental impacts. For glass-manufacturing plants we have defined our strategic approach to abatement in order to ensure that across the world Principal among the tools we use is our environmental we hold fast to our principles, even in parts of the world where management system, which is certified to ISO 14001 for the vast legislative controls are less well developed. majority of our glass manufacturing and processing sites. We are committed to reporting on our performance, both good Certification and bad. Environmental performance is monitored and reported We aim to certify our manufacturing facilities to the for manufacturing operations that are under the direct control of internationally recognized ISO 14001 environmental standard and the NSG Group. We continue to work with regulatory authorities now have 81 certified sites around the world, representing 70 worldwide on issues relating to historical industrial activity on and percent of our business by turnover. around Group premises. Our Automotive business was one of the first in the automotive Data collection industry to achieve a corporate certificate for environmental management. A single ISO 14001 certificate from TUV SUD Environmental and safety performance data is collected across Management Service GmbH covers group functions and the vast the Group using an online electronic data reporting system known majority of our Automotive plants worldwide. as Airsweb™. This database is multilingual and accessed over the corporate intranet by sites under NSG operational control, NSG’s Tampere and Ylojarvi plants in Finland achieved ISO 50001 allowing monthly updating of relevant information. certification of its energy management system for automotive glass processing in October 2015. This is in addition to our already Environmental data is collected under the broad headings of certified German and Italian glass-melting and processing sites. energy, emissions to air, water usage, recycling and waste. The data collected is based primarily on the core environmental performance indicator set of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition to the collection of environmental emissions and resource usage data, the Airsweb™ system also incorporates an incident reporting system. This allows the timely reporting and recording of incident data, both safety and environmental, as well as provision for tracking the progress or remedial actions and communication of learning points. 22 ENVIRONMENT Environmental Product Declarations An Environmental Product Declaration (EPD) is a verified and registered document that communicates transparent and comparable information about the life-cycle environmental impact of products. The German Institute of Building and Environment (IBU) awarded EPDs for Pilkington Profilit®, Pilkington Pyrostop® and Pilkington Pyrodur® fire-resistant glass, according to ISO 14025 and EN 15804. The Ecoprofile results allow architects and planners to access reliable environmental information and complete detailed sustainability assessments of buildings. 2016 NSG Environmental Award Winner Pilkington Deutschland AG now has the authorization to mark Profilit® and both fire-resistant product lines with the IBU logo in monolithic format or insulating glass. The declarations are IBU The winner of the NSG Group Environmental Award 2016 listed and can be ordered upon request. is the San Salvo Float team in Italy, supported by R&D Chemical Analysis Team in Lathom for Recovery of the 2016 NSG Environmental Awards Selenium containing dust from the waste gas treatment NSG aims to increase awareness and award individuals or teams plant of the SS1 float project. for outstanding environmental initiatives that achieve our The winning project resulted in the recovery of dust with policy objectives. It is recognised that many of the best ideas Selenium from the Electrostatic Precipitator into the come from engaging with employees. This year’s EHS award float process. The dust can now be safely recycled into was won by a team who found an innovative way to minimize the Privacy Glass manufacturing process with no adverse raw material consumption and convert a waste product into a effects on glass colour or quality, avoiding disposal of material for re-use. dust as a hazardous waste and reducing the usage of raw EcoVadis CSR Rating materials. EcoVadis operates an independent, external platform allowing companies to assess and benchmark their environmental and social performance on a global basis. The process assesses company policies, implemented procedures and published reports with regards to environmental, labor practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement issues. The assessment is conducted by CSR experts of EcoVadis on the basis of company answers to a survey which is dynamically adapted to country, sector and size, using scorecards covering 150 industry categories and 21 CSR criteria. The rating is based on supporting documentation, public and stakeholder (NGOs, trade unions, press) information. EcoVadis CSR rating NSG Group used this assessment tool to gain a picture of the Group’s CSR performance and understand areas for improvement. We were rated as Silver regarding our approach to CSR management. 23 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 ENERGY USAGE NSG Group energy usage We work continuously to minimize energy input Natural Gas TJ into all our processes, so that the usage of glass 40,000 contributes net benefit to sustainability. 30,000 Our energy usage For both environmental and financial reasons, we use natural gas as the fuel of choice 20,000 for glass melting. Furnaces are gradually being converted from heavy fuel oil to gas. Small quantities of diesel and LPG are used for space heating and back up generators. See the 10,000 graphs for consumption details. Initiatives to reduce energy usage 0 Energy Committee All initiatives are monitored by the Heads of SBUs and Group functions at six monthly 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy Committee meetings, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer. Energy management pilot plants Heavy Fuel Oil TJ The concept of the energy pilot plants is to make a step change reduction in energy 10,000 consumption by using energy more efficiently and effectively. Four pilot sites were launched in FY13 as phase 1 followed by seven phase 2 sites in FY15 and FY16. Five 8,000 further pilot sites were launched in Japan, Vietnam and Brazil this year. Together these 16 pilot sites cover 66 percent of the NSG Group’s energy spend. 6,000 Cross-functional pilot site teams are led locally by the plant manager, with proactive support from other Group functions, and extensive use is made of third party suppliers. 4,000 Over 300 projects are under evaluation or being implemented. 2,000 Operational energy-efficiency projects The Operational Cost Saving program aims to reduce all operational costs in the area 0 of prime and overhead costs. One of the largest prime costs for the Group is energy. To support the cost saving activities across sites, a deep analysis of all of the energy 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 projects within the OCS database is regularly completed. Multiple projects were identified for rapid dissemination in FY16 to deliver energy consumption and cost savings. Each manufacturing site within the Group had at least one active OCS energy project in FY16. Electricity TJ Led by Manufacturing Excellence and assisted by other Group functions, NSG sites 10,000 identified more than 100 energy-optimization opportunities, resulting in annual CO2 savings in excess of 30kt. 8,000 Major projects include furnace fuel combustion optimization, reducing electrical requirements of motors optimizing compressed air systems, energy sub metering, 6,000 energy efficient lighting, fuel switching, cogeneration processes, waste heat and energy recovery. 4,000 Energy metering is being used to develop projects, identify energy waste & manage 2,000 tariffs. Metering status surveys were completed in FY16. New metering has been installed as part of 3rd party funded projects and we have expanded usage of existing software to enhance basic metering capabilities. 0 A directory of potential novel technologies available across the glass industry is being 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 created, including recommendations for appropriate application at Group sites. The opportunity to disseminate existing ideas from the pilot plants, and gain benefits more widely across the Group is done by Sharepoint discussion boards and face to face energy workshops – Italy November 2014, Weiherhammer May 2015. A workshop was held during the Melting Training Course in October 2016. 45 participants from 14 countries met to generate ideas and disseminate team awareness of energy saving technologies and activities. Several new approaches were discovered. 24 ENVIRONMENT Management systems We have achieved ISO 50001certification across all operations in Germany, Italy, Finland, and most recently Automotive engineering. Investment in sub-metering hardware and software installations allows a high level of transparency in energy consumption and enables a sophisticated energy-planning process with improvement activities, target setting and frequent reviews to be established. Renewable on-site energy generation Aken plant wins national energy efficiency award and alternative fuels The use of a waste-derived biofuel oil instead of heavy fuel oil in a glass-melting furnace has cut CO2 emissions by 8kt per year. During its annual congress in Berlin, the German Energy Agency (Dena) held a ceremony to honor the 3 best Our Rossford technical center in North America produces about Energy efficiency projects in Germany, chosen by a high 7 percent of its own electricity with on-site photovoltaic ranked judging panel. generation. We have installed photovoltaic panels on the roof and former car parking areas of our German Weiherhammer plant. NSG Group’s automotive Aken plant in Germany was awarded 2nd place within this ceremony for an Partnership with suppliers energy saving project in buildings and production with We continue to partner with key suppliers to develop projects consumption measurement. The unique feature of the to reduce energy consumption in our manufacturing sites. Close project lies in its holistic approach, in which different collaboration with leaders in specific technologies is enabling us energy producers and consumers have been optimized to implement optimum solutions to specific energy management both within the energy-intensive core processes of challenges. Collaborative projects have also been implemented to autoglow production and in the production building. The address compressor inefficiency, to make better use of waste heat consistent use of a digital energy management system generated in our glass-making processes and to reduce peaks in permits the verification of the savings achieved and electricity demand. informs about additional optimization potentials. The €10,000 prize money for the 2nd place will be used to Innovation in cullet recycling improve the smart metering system. Our Watson Street plant continues to invest in plastic boxes to travel on floatliners with customer glass deliveries. The collected downstream processed cullet is diverted from landfill and, when re-melted, reduces energy consumption and raw material decomposition, saving 3,000 tonnes CO2 emissions per year. Employee energy efficiency awareness We have continued our efforts with an ongoing program of work across all sites to increase general energy awareness. This program involves a number of teams within the manufacturing organization with the objective of delivering significant improvements in the energy efficiency of our operations and includes a Group-wide database of energy-saving projects. Specialist energy management training seminar A specialist energy training event took place in November 2016. 19 European delegates across all businesses attended the As a result of the specialist training that took place externally facilitated five day program of seminars. They covered in November 2016, the delegates supported by numerous aspects of energy management and included a float Manufacturing Excellence have identified the following plant audit. Examination success was required for certification and energy management opportunities delegates were required to submit an energy audit of their site with an action plan for energy management projects within three • 58 new projects months of course completion. • More than 3GWh of energy saving potential • Approximately 1700 tonnes of CO2 emission reduction 25 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 AIR EMISSIONS Glass manufacture is an energy-intensive process, involving the melting of raw materials at high temperatures. Principal process emissions are to air due to the combustion of fuel and decomposition of carbonate raw materials. Emissions to air Pollution control plant Glass-melting furnaces produce various pollutants. The most significant of these are: at Maizuru sulfur oxides from refining agents and oil fuel contaminants; nitrogen oxides formed from the combustion air in the hot combustion process; particulate matter derived from the Example of a pollution control melting process; and carbon dioxide from both the raw material decomposition and the plant installed at the NSG combusted fuels. We are tackling these emissions with a range of primary and secondary furnace at Maizuru, Japan. The control techniques. Primary methods are designed to reduce pollutant formation at source electrostatic precipitator for dust and include techniques such as avoiding certain raw materials and heavy fuel oil types control is in the centre, with the that contribute to emissions. Other primary techniques include using special burners acid gas scrubber to the left and and operating the furnace in an energy-efficient manner. There is special focus in this the chimney base to the right. latter area as it will also reduce production costs. Secondary control involves employing abatement equipment to remove the emissions from the furnace waste gases before they are emitted through the chimney. Techniques such as acid scrubbers, electrostatic precipitators and selective catalytic reduction units are now widespread and are being installed at more sites around the world. 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Scope 1 CO2 /1,000 tonnes Scope 2 CO2 /1,000 tonnes NOX/10 tonnes SOX/10 tonnes 2013 2014 2015 Monitoring and reducing carbon emissions In 2015, the NSG Group was responsible for the emission of 4.0 million tonnes of CO2. This is a 1.6 percent reduction on the previous year due to many proactive operational cost saving initiatives described on pages 24 and 25. Our Scope 1 emissions were 3.0 million tonnes. These direct emissions occur from our furnaces and from fuel used in bending and toughening furnaces. In 2015, our measured Scope 2 indirect emissions were 1.0m tonnes of CO2 and our estimated Scope 3 emissions were 0.9 million tonnes CO2e. In the operation of our float plants, heavy oil to natural gas conversion has helped to reduce carbon emissions by around 50 percent over the past 40 years and a combination of design and operational innovations has made further progress. We aim to reduce CO2 emissions per tonne of equivalent product by 1 percent per year. until 2020. This target has been achieved year on year for the last three years. We are currently investigating the requirements of Science Based Targets. 26 ENVIRONMENT Recycled glass to improve efficiency and reduce emissions Glass for recycling is a valuable resource. Wherever quality allows, we recycle any glass off-cuts or cullet within our own glass-melting lines. Glass from our downstream operations and from our customers represents a potentially useful resource to us. We gain a double benefit from the use of such cullet: its use to make glass reduces the requirement for raw materials and avoids disposing of what would otherwise be a waste material and closes the recycling loop. Ten percent cullet use saves three percent furnace energy and leads to reductions in CO2 emissions. One of our sites has recently manufactured glass using 100 percent cullet. Cullet return projects are ongoing to try to minimize the need for virgin raw materials. Transport and Warehousing activities Landfill is the least favored disposal option. If glass is produced that cannot be remelted on-site, it is sent, where practicable, for external recycling. Transport and Warehousing Architectural business in Europe introduces lightweight activities account for 16 specialised trailers increasing payload: reduces number of percent of the NSG Group’s journeys, driven miles and CO2 emissions procurement spend across its Working with our lead suppliers across Europe, during late 2015 and all of 2016 the global operations. Focus is on Architectural Upstream SBU successfully introduced new lightweight “innenlader” or the provision of safe and on“floatliner” trailers in the UK, Poland, Italy, Germany and the Nordic region which enabled time service to our plants and an extra pack of glass to be carried in the truck on certain inter-plant routes as well as our customers by our selected selected customer deliveries; not all locations are able to accept these larger deliveries. suppliers as well as value for money. In addition, there is a In the UK, our carrier replaced the entire fleet of floatliner trailers with the new strong emphasis on improving lightweight versions. The positive impact of this new equipment on our upstream glass efficiency, reducing empty transportation activities during 2016 has been significant. driven miles and increasing the weight of product carried. All UK ARCH Upstream 2015 2016 % Change of these initiatives should also Volume (tonnes) 229,419 335,867 12% improve the Group’s impact on Kilometres 3,408,672 3,460,096 1.5% the environment by reducing Average distance (km) 291 279 4.3% the amount of CO2 emissions to the air. Fuel (litres) 1,358,207 1,190,425 14% CO2 emissions (tonnes) 3640 3178 14% Our transported volume in the UK upstream business actually increased by 12 percent during 2016 compared with 2015. However, the number of additional transport journeys required to move the volume was only up by 6 percent and driven kilometres increased by only 1.5 percent. CO2 emissions reduced by over 460 tonnes or 14 percent. In our Italian operations, 46 percent of deliveries were performed in the new “inloader” trailers reducing the number of truckloads required to transport the same volume of glass by 124 trucks, avoiding over 100,000 driven kilometres (4.4 percent reduction) by inloaders and reducing the amount of CO2 emissions by 140 tonnes, a reduction of 4.4 percent across the specialised fleet and a reduction of nearly 3 percent overall the glass transport activities. In Germany, our carriers have been phasing in the new lightweight innenlader equipment and the impact by the end of 2016 was a reduction of 130 tonnes in CO2 emissions. Over 10 percent of all loads were carried in the new lightweight trucks. Our Polish carrier has been able to carry 5.2 percent more glass per lightweight truck for our glass imports to our Downstream business in Poland, reducing the number of full truckloads required and emissions by 34 tonnes (5.2 percent) in 2016. 27 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 MINIMIZING WASTE NSG Group promotes the efficient use, reuse, recovery and recycling of glass and other materials involved in glass manufacture, processing, packaging, and delivery. NSG Group waste 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 Pilkington Architectural, UK, Glass for recycling won a commendation in the /1,000 tonnes 2016 NSG Group Environmental Waste for recycling /10 tonnes Award for glass grinding slurry Operational waste reclamation. to landfill/10 tonnes Hazardous waste The robust teamwork between /10 tonnes PA, R&D and Watson Street 2015 2014 site led to a solution to re-melt glass grinding slurry from PA operations. This avoids waste disposal at one end and the Recycling and waste composition same quantity of virgin raw The glass manufacturing process itself produces very little waste material. All trimmed material at the other. glass from the manufacturing processes is recycled back into the melting process. PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass. PVB trims from the edges of the laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. Our remaining waste to landfill consists mainly of waste glass, reject batch, general waste and glass-grinding sludge. The NSG Group succeeded in reducing the waste sent to landfill by 50 percent since 2007 and set a new Sustainability target to reduce this environmental impact again by 20 percent on 2013 by the end of FY2018 (see page 5). Another commendation award was won by R&D Float and Rolled Glass Technology, UK, supported by San Salvo, Italy for printed cullet recycling. This is a significant activity that enables us to recycle cullet with ceramic Waste Glass 25% Rejected Batch 23% ink at our own float operations Mixed general trash 21% Sludge from glass grinding 11% rather than sending cullet to Dust from filters and EP 5% Other 15% offsite recycling. The project enables printed cullet to be Grinding sludge added to darker tints in limited amounts with minimal glass This waste stream cannot be prevented but we have been actively seeking recycling colour changes. partners to divert this waste from landfill and provide a raw material for concrete products and other aggregate manufacturers. 28 ENVIRONMENT Float rejected raw material NSG Group water use In 2016, we continued to seek recycling opportunities for glass dust and rejected batch – Total water use Mm3 occasional off-specification raw material that often cannot be blended and dust collected by the pollution abatement equipment. Automated process monitoring and control 25 systems are being implemented to proactively reduce the number of reject batches at our Rossford plant and our plant in Ottawa is constructing a new batch plant to reduce batch 20 spillage. 15 Waste glass The sites producing the highest volumes of waste glass reviewed their cullet segregation 10 and recycling practices to find ways to increase the amount of cullet sent for recycling in float plants and to improve recycling. The Sungai Buloh plant in Malaysia implemented 5 recycling of all printed cullet and found a recycling partner for laminated waste glass. All sites are reviewing recycling opportunities for contaminated cullet and glass dust. 0 General waste Focus and support has been applied to the highest volume producers to further improve 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 general waste segregation and procurement have been actively involved in finding local recycling partners. Automotive glazing ingredients Source of NSG water withdrawal in 2015 In Automotive, all supplied glazing parts and their materials are registered in the global Mm3 IMDS (International Material Data System) to ensure we have complete visibility of ingredients, confirm material compliance and to identify opportunities for recycling. This 12 data is shared with our Automotive customers, to support their own material compliance and recycling efforts. 10 PVB is used to manufacture laminated glass. PVB trims from the edges of the laminated glass are returned to PVB suppliers to be recycled in their manufacturing processes. In 8 2016, around 2,000 tonnes of PVB trim was returned to our suppliers or other recyclers to be reused. 6 Water management 4 In glass-making, water is used for cooling, and most of our plants operate with closedloop systems and so only require top up. Water is also used for washing glass in plants but there the need is for very high purity, so water is treated and then reused. We seek to 2 minimize our water consumption by working with suppliers to recycle water and to install advanced water treatment facilities. This not only reduces the consumption of water 0 itself but also the chemicals used in the treatment of the water. Municipal Fresh Ground water Across the Group water consumption can vary considerably according to process water supply and product demands as well as water quality. Approximately 2 m3 are required to manufacture one tonne of float glass and approximately 90 liters are required to process each square meter of automotive product. We withdrew a total of 20.9 million cubic meters of water in 2016. Our Group risk assessment shows that our largest water consuming sites are located in countries that do not have water supply issues. Timber In Europe, much of our glass is transported on steel stillages without packaging, utilizing specialist ‘Floatliner’ vehicles. We use a significant quantity of wooden packaging in our operations and work with our suppliers to design reusable wooden packaging. Much of the timber we use comes from sustainable forestry. 29 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 CUSTOMERS We aim to be our customers’ preferred supplier for glass products and related services. Safety quality and service standards are key features in building Highest quality relationships with our industry customers and end consumers. Quality is a key feature in building successful relationships with Customer First our industry customers and end customers. It is also a key factor in Understanding our customers’ position and proposing solutions sustainability, because high quality can reduce waste throughout that work for them is critical for a VA Glass Company. The NSG the supply chain, while improving production efficiencies. Quality Group operates a leadership program for Sales and Commercial encompasses design, development, manufacture, delivery, management teams with the objective to equip our managers assembly and price of glass, as well as customer support. In the with the tools and skills to enable them to respond to changing NSG Group, the achievement of high quality is supported by the market demands. use of rigorous quality management systems and standards. In the Architectural Glass business, the Group has ISO 9000:2000 The Architectural team are progressing their ‘Customer First’ quality management certification in Europe, Japan, North America approach which goes beyond simply improving the quality of and South America. Our European Architectural Glass business has our products and services. The objective is complete customer been a leading player in the development of new glass product satisfaction that will only be achieved by defining what excellence standards for the European building industry. These standards means for each customer. Everyone across the organization has have provided a route for glass manufacturers to meet the become a part of the solution to provide our customers with European Construction Products Directive and apply to virtually consistently positive customer experiences before, during and after all NSG Group products used in buildings. their purchases across every point of contact in the NSG Group. Product responsibility We are committed to the safe use of our products, ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. We aim to provide customers with products and services that offer social, environmental and safety benefits. Our training and support helps our customers to identify and mitigate risks or to raise awareness of sustainability issues. We are committed to the safety of our products and to ensuring they can be effectively handled, fitted and used by our customers. This includes the safe handling of sheet glass or the correct fitment of windshields in vehicles to maintain their quality and strength. Product Development NSG Group is working closely with our customers to develop the next generation of automotive glazing that can help to improve the overall efficiency of vehicles. Lowering the weight of a vehicle will always have a positive impact on its efficiency but it can also bring compromises to other areas of the vehicle’s design such as noise, rigidity or cost. To introduce new technologies into a vehicle’s design requires a close technical partnership with the customer. Vehicles are designed to meet the needs for a range of end users so more than one solution is often required. For lightweight glazing, there are a number of technical strategies that are being developed that consider the glass thickness, glass composition, chemical toughening and the forming process used to produce the final product. This allows the design of the glazing to be tailored to meet the expectations of the vehicle’s target market. A recent example of this close customer relationship is Pilkington Brazil were recognized by Honda in South America for their support in the development and launch of the new Honda Civic. 30 STAKEHOLDERS Product innovation The NSG Group is a global leader in manufacturing excellence and innovation, notably in the areas of glass melting, glass forming by the float process, online coating and complex shaping technology, especially for automotive windshields and backlights. The Group invested nearly ¥1 billion in R&D in FY2017. The Group owns or controls approximately 4,000 patents and patent applications, predominantly in the fields of float glass production and processing, automotive glazing and also in the information technology field. It also has access under license to patents held by third parties. The Group is active in selective licensing of its patents and technology, in the areas of online coating, encapsulation (of automotive glazing) and rain sensors for automotive glazing. Opti-Aim™ ADAS Calibration Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) are technologies that are used to automate the process of driving, alerting the driver to dangers or avoiding collisions by bringing the vehicle to a complete halt in an emergency. They rely on inputs from multiple sensors including cameras and lasers that are often mounted behind the windscreen to give a clear view of the road ahead. When a windscreen is replaced, the ADAS sensors need to be removed from their brackets and unplugged from the car. After the windscreen is replaced and the sensors are reattached, the ADAS systems must be recalibrated to ensure the safe operation of the vehicle. This process can be complicated and it normally differs between vehicles. As these systems are becoming increasingly sophisticated, it is often not an activity that cannot be performed by the installer so the consumer must go elsewhere to have their vehicle calibrated. To solve this growing problem, Pilkington has developed Opti-Aim™, the first after-market glass calibration tool that allows windscreen installers to offer a full calibration service to their customers. The Opti-Aim™ system offers installers the option to perform both static and dynamic calibrations as required by each vehicle. Following the replacement of a vehicle’s windscreen, Opti-Aim™ is connected to the vehicle to make the process of recalibrating the ADAS systems simple and efficient. The tool communicates with the vehicle’s computer to recalibrate the sensors and ensure all the ADAS systems are operating as originally designed. 31 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 SHAREHOLDERS We aim to be our shareholders’ preferred long-term investment. We aim to keep our shareholders informed through a focused Medium-term Plan international investor relations program. This encompasses Based on our Long-term Strategic Vision, the Group launched the regular communications throughout the financial year, through Medium-term Plan (“MTP”) starting in FY2015. The key objectives meetings, publications, plant visits and our websites. of the MTP are: to achieve financial sustainability; and to start In communicating with our shareholders, investors, the financial the transformation into a VA Glass Company. The two financial community regulatory authorities and the media, our aim is to targets are Net financial debt / EBITDA of 3x and Return on report in a transparent, timely and accurate manner. Sales (ROS) of greater than 8 percent. The Group also envisions a Return on Equity (ROE) of greater than 10 percent as an image Our overriding objective is to provide as much information as to be achieved under the MTP. October 2016, in light of the MTP possible to help our shareholders and potential shareholders progress and changes in business environment, we announced understand our strategy and performance, to enable them to take the Medium-term Plan Phase 2. The Group positions a three-year investment decisions. period from FY2018 as MTP Phase 2 and initiates redoubled Annual and interim reports are produced in both Japanese and efforts to ensure the achievement of the targets. English and widely distributed to stakeholders who may have (1) Growth strategy under MTP Phase 2 an interest in our performance. These documents are also made available on our websites. The basic policies are to accelerate and to evolve the VA strategy to build a robust profit base for sustainable growth, and to review The CEO makes regular reports to the Board on investor relations each work process to develop a leaner business structure. and on specific discussions with major shareholders. The Board receives summaries of key research published on the Group. Specifically, during the MTP phase 2 period, the Group will Shareholders have an opportunity at the General Meeting implement the following four key measures. of Shareholders to ask questions of the Chairman and other  rive VA No.1 Strategy D members of the Board. Focus resources on VA shift in the areas with “high growth Our Investor Relations (IR) Policy reflects our aims to be open and potential” and “NSG’s core strength” to aim for a leading fair and to comply with corporate ethics. The NSG Group is listed market position. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) and we disclose information E  stablish Growth Drivers in line with the TSE ‘Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate Accelerate generation of new profitable growth with focus Information by Issuers of Listed Securities’. and selection. Where information does not fall under the category of timely  usiness culture Innovation B disclosure rules, our policy is to communicate it swiftly and Continue to optimize each work process towards leaner fairly, once it has been determined that the disclosure of such business structure. information is beneficial to investors.  nhancement of Global Management E Communicating our strategy Advance global management to achieve the Group’s optimization. In May 2014, we announced the Group’s Long-term Strategic (2) MTP Phase 2 – Financial Strategy Vision and Medium-term Plan (MTP). The information is available in both English and Japanese on our website. Believing it was necessary and appropriate for us to augment our shareholders’ equity through procuring equity funding so Long-term Strategic Vision that we could achieve a more stable financial base and establish We announced that our Long-term Strategic Vision is to transform financial sustainability sooner, the Company issued a total of the Group into a ‘VA Glass Company’. ‘VA’ comes from ‘value-added’ JPY 40 billion Class A shares through third-party allotment on 31 and our aim is to: March 2017 after the relevant proposals had been approved at the extraordinary general meeting of shareholders on 24 March • consolidate our trusted reputation as a glass specialist; 2017. About a half of the total proceeds of JPY 40 billion would • work closely with our customers in a range of global industries be invested to drive the VA No.1 Strategy and establish growth to deliver unique value through our products and services; and drivers under MTP Phase 2. The rest would be used to pay down • transform our float glass business, moving from a traditional debt and we expect this could expedite our actions under MTP business model towards one increasingly focused on VA. Phase 2 through initiating a virtuous cycle of a reduction in interest-bearing debt and further interest expense decrease. It is the intention of the Company to redeem the Class A Shares in cash. 32 STAKEHOLDERS Communicating our performance Distribution of We report our results on a quarterly basis. We hold half-year and year-end financial NSG Group shareholders results briefings for securities analysts and investors in Japan, with further (as at 30 September 2016) communications in the intervening quarters. The CEO, COO and CFO personally present and discuss financial results, charting our progress against our strategy and the future outlook for the Group. Supplementing this, the top management and IR team give background briefings to analysts and investors following the release of financial results. From time to time we arrange plant visits to enable analysts to see our operations at first hand. Over the past years, we have increased our focus on non-financial aspects of our performance relating to sustainability. This Sustainability Report is an important channel for communicating our progress. It is made available to shareholders in both English and Japanese versions, with additional information available on our website. Shareholder composition Majority of the shareholders as of end of September 2016 is individual investors based in Japan, the second largest shareholder is foreign companies and individuals. Nevertheless, Financial institutions 18.9% as an international group based in Japan, we have expanded our global IR effort to meet the requirements of shareholders and potential investors around the world. Most of our Securities companies 2.0% publications are produced in both Japanese and English. Details can be found on page 40 Other corporate entities 5.0% of this Report and on our website. We organize ‘road shows’ for analysts, investors and Foreign companies/individuals 16.7% potential investors outside Japan, when appropriate. Other individual investors 57.4% Treasury stock 0.0% NSG Group Executive Officers present at an investors announcement in February 2017 33 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 EMPLOYEES NSG Group employee We aim to be our employees preferred place distribution graph (as at 31 March 2016) to work. Our management philosophy values the health and safety of our employees above all other considerations and we aim to ensure that we provide a working environment that allows our people to reach their full potential and meet our customers’ expectations. Safety, Quality, Customer Focus, Sustainability and Ethical Leadership underpin everything we do, with the principles of trust, mutual respect and open communication being central to our Employment Policies. Diversity Our Code of Ethics reflects our Values and Principles and defines for all employees what is expected of them. It particularly emphasises safety, respecting human rights, taking personal ownership for actions and communicating with openness and involvement. Europe 43% The overriding basis of the Code is that we will carry out our business activities in a safe, Asia 32% professional, legal and ethical manner and in a way that demonstrates corporate social responsibility and sustainability. North America 14% South America 11% The Code acknowledges internationally proclaimed human rights and these are also reflected in our overall employment policies and standards and provide our employees with reassurance on how they will be treated. Our equal opportunity and diversity policy aims to Focus on the NSG Group: prohibit discrimination based on race, colour, creed, religion and beliefs, age, gender, sexual We have around 33,000 people working in orientation, national origin, disability, union membership, political affiliation, or any other 25 countries, speaking over 20 languages status protected by law. We are working hard to improve diversity in the NSG Group and plan a number of new Business / Area initiatives and projects in FY2017. / Location Group Permanent Male FTEs 25,186 For example, the NSG Group in Japan has made a diversity and inclusion declaration around the specific targets they would like to achieve in terms of increasing the number of female Permanent Female FTEs managers and disabled employees in the Japanese workforce. (18%) 4547 Total Permanent FTEs 29,733 Communication Temporary male FTEs 2399 In October 2016 the NSG Group appointed Mamoru Ohara as the NSG Groups’ Chief Temporary female FTEs Communications officer (CCO) (25%) 808 In this role Mamoru is responsible for corporate and internal communications reporting Total Temporary FTEs 3,207 directly to President and CEO Shigeki Mori. His main goal is to develop and execute an Total Male FTEs 27,585 integrated strategy for internal and external communication to build the NSG Group’s Total Female FTEs reputation, promote business and improve employee engagement (16%) 5355 Employee Engagement Total FTEs 32,940 We continue to use our Employee Pulse Survey model to measure sustainable engagement Full time Male employees 27,855 within the Group. In 2016, the survey covered all four regions, 10 countries and involved Full Time Female employees around 6,360 employees and achieved a response rate of 85 percent. The NSG Group Overall (16%) 5,344 Engagement Score was 72 percent. Part time Male employees 133 The concept of such a survey is to regularly check the pulse or heartbeat of engagement Part time Female employees within the Group. The tool features on-line collection; fewer and more focused questions (1%) 124 that link to the heart of engagement; quicker feedback of results and an on-line results; and Total 33,456.0 action planning tool for managers to use. Male Managers 2,572 This Model allows managers to quickly turn feedback into targeted actions to ensure that Female Managers high employee engagement remains a top priority. Electronic questionnaire completion and (12%) 343 the on-line results dashboard and action planning tool enables the Group to carry out ‘pulse’ Total Managers 2,915 employee surveys annually to pick up on engagement issues quickly and target appropriate action locally. 34 STAKEHOLDERS NSG Competency Model It has been two years since we In FY2017 the NSG Group revised its Competency Model to reflect participated in an employee the behaviours required for future business success and to help us survey and in that period we have move towards a VA culture and deliver the MTP. launched a number of initiatives As with the previous Model it is based on our Values, Principles and within R&D and around the Business Drivers and has the three cornerstones of People, Vision Lathom site as a whole. It is now and Results, which set out in practical terms what it means for time for another survey to enable every one of us in the way we should do our jobs to add value every the senior management team day and embed the behaviours that will be the foundation for our to get employees views again. future success. The Pulse Survey has several advantages over the traditional The new Competency Model places fresh emphasis on customer employee survey as results are focus, ethical behaviours, innovation and driving profitable growth. available much more quickly and Successful businesses know that the best results come from we can include a number of the engaging and inspiring others together with a leadership style that questions specific to R&D.” empowers and develops people, and these behaviours are reflected in the new People section. Mike Greenall Director, European Resource and Auto R&D Programmes The new Model was in development throughout 2015 and went through an extensive consultation process to ensure that it is relevant and practical. Following previous surveys we To ensure that the Model is owned and used by the business have worked hard to improve a series of briefings and promotions were carried out to launch areas around communication and the new Model. We will continue to have a number of initiatives site management; the results tell throughout FY2018 to encourage people to use the Model us how our employees now feel and the accompanying materials such as development guides, and what we still need to focus on 360 questionnaires, interactive exercises as well as assessment for continuous improvement.” centres and recruitment & selection support. Fu Jingyan HR Manager Guilin, China NSG Group Competency Model ty Quali Cust om y& Focu er afet cus sed S Fo n De tio cis va Ma ion no ge kin In han g C Res & ult ion s Vis NSG Group Values & or S t ra Passion f Principles te g i c T hin ce Excellen kin g p P e o ple E m De ow nt ia l ve er l op s& ue s Infl E ng ag es & Inspires others “Leaders are those who are able to engage and motivate our employees (People) and through them achieve short term performance (Results) and long term success (Vision)” 35 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 COMMUNITIES We aim to be a good neighbor, wherever we operate. We have around 27,000 permanent employees, with principal In addition to our business investments helping to sustain operations in 28 countries throughout Europe, Japan, North and local operations, we also invest in the communities in which South America, China and South and South East Asia. We do this we operate. We aim to help – through direct cash donations to in over 500 separate facilities worldwide — some large and some charities and other projects or through in-kind resources — to small. Each has an impact on the community in which it is based, improve the health of the community or tackle specific social by providing employment, investment and other benefits, but also issues. We operate programs that assess and manage the impacts having an impact on the environment. of our operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. The local communities throughout the world in which the NSG Group operates are the foundation of our business and the lives We also involve our staff in providing a lead in developing our of employees. Without a relationship of mutual benefit with these relationships with the communities in which we operate. This can communities, the Group as a whole could not sustain its operation. take the form of matching contributions raised by staff or allowing staff time to make personal contributions of time and effort in The effects of necessary investments on our communities local projects. are generally beneficial, bringing additional employment and economic benefits. For every investment we make, an impact In FY2015, we made contributions worth around ¥70 million to our assessment is conducted to ensure we understand and manage local communities. Our grants helped the arts, medicine, welfare, the likely effects on the community, the environment and the local job creation and urban renewal. economy. As a responsible and often prominent member of the communities in which we operate, we believe it is important to be involved actively by leveraging our core business and management resources to help to address local issues. Aims and objectives We want our operations to function in healthy, thriving communities and to be seen as a good neighbor to those communities. We know that if we want to operate effectively and to be able to expand or change when the time is right, we need the goodwill that comes from being an active supporter of the community. 36 STAKEHOLDERS Hurricane Matthew In October 2016 NSG announced that it would be collecting and purchasing goods for the victims of Hurricane Matthew. Several of the Laurinburg employees were directly affected by this hurricane. Pilkington Automotive India Vizag took an initiation to support the near by village people for a Medical health check up camp and distributed medicine to 200 members of the local community. Habitat For Humanity A group of volunteers from our Toledo plant in North America gave up a day to help out with a ‘Habitat for Humanity’ affordable housing project. The faith-based organization builds one or two homes in the County each year, using volunteer labor and sponsorship funding and contributions. The Lathom European Technical Centre hosted a site Pilkington Architectural Glass North America is a sponsor visit for primary school pupils as part of the Science, and contributed both windows and volunteer labor. Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Network initiative. They visited the exhibition area, watched a short video presentation and visited the chemical analysis laboratories. Go Green Vision On World Environment Day, our Vizag Automotive plant in India involved every team member in their “Go Green Vision” and planted 240 trees on the company premises 37 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 SUPPLIERS Achievement against target We aim to build strong mutually beneficial by end of 2016 relationships based on trust and co-operation, 550 500 2018 Target 2017 Target innovation and sustainability. 2016 Target 450 2016 Achievied We purchase materials, goods and services from over 20,000 suppliers worldwide. Our 400 2015 Target Supplier Code of Conduct and related evaluations help ensure that our suppliers understand 350 2015 Achievied and comply with our standards. 300 250 Our Supplier Code of Conduct 200 As part of our Sustainable Procurement Program, we operate the programs to ensure 150 compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. It outlines behaviours, processes and 100 procedures — in short, the standards we expect from our suppliers. Engagement with 50 suppliers may be via appropriate category account managers and the Procurement function 0 has the responsibility to ensure that suitable engagement arrangements are in place and 2015 2016 communicated. Our manufacturing processes use materials, products and services procured -2018 from a wide range of regional and global suppliers. Our suppliers are therefore crucial to the By the end of 2015 we have completed achievement of our sustainability objectives. To manufacture and supply superior quality an evaluation on over 280 companies of glass products to our customers, we aim to build strong relationships with suppliers that are which over half are fully compliant and a based on a framework of trust, co-operation and sustainability. further third meet our minimum criteria. The remainder have been prioritized for The wide range of issues addressed in the Code reflect the many and diverse activities in further development. which our suppliers are involved. Wherever possible, the Code defines a fair and common sense approach to doing business, while incorporating all relevant legal requirements. The content of the Code also takes into account our Values and Principles, particularly the Ranking supplier risk on the emphasis on safety, taking personal ownership for our actions and communicating with environment Progress openness and involvement. It is the responsibility of all of our suppliers to follow the principles 2015-2016 of this Code to ensure compliance with our requirements. 100% Insisting that our suppliers agree to adhere to our Code has influenced who we develop longer-term relationships with as part of our category strategies and who we do not. It 75% has also prioritized which suppliers we need to develop and improve further to ensure full 50% compliance. 25% Supplier Sustainability Evaluation We continue to make good progress in evaluating more of our suppliers using a combination of 0% internal resource and an external service provider. Water Treatment Chemicals Batch Materials Primary Batch Materials Secondary BP Sealants Extrusion & Encapsulation Fuel Oils Inks & Silver Pastes Interlayers Packaging Primers, Cleaners/Activators Surface Coating Technical Glass Waste Contractors In recent years we have implemented a program of identifying suppliers that have a potentially high impact on the environment (categorized as HEI). Our aim is to ensure that our suppliers minimize their potentially negative impacts and work positively on environmental initiatives. The scope covers 13 of our material categories which we now categorize as being of ‘High Environmental Impact’, including wooden packaging, batch materials, wasteNon-Compliance 2016 Compliance 2015 Compliance management contractors and chemicals. We expect that all suppliers in these categories have a recognized environmental certification such as ISO 14001 or equivalent. In the case of wooden packaging, paper and cardboard, we look for a recognized chain of custody (e.g. FSC or PEFC) in regard to the raw material supply. Conflict minerals The NSG Group supports the goals and objectives of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act’s Section 1502, which aims to prevent the use of conflict minerals that directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed groups in The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) or an adjoining country as defined in the Act. Identifying suppliers who provide materials that could potentially include these minerals is now a very important part of our procedures and due diligence continues to be completed via an online questionnaire. During FY2016 we implemented an ongoing program to update the data from these suppliers. 38 STAKEHOLDERS Anti-Bribery Anti-Corruption (ABAC) NSG and its subsidiaries do business with a range of persons and entities in the private sector including but not limited to agents, consultants, distributors, service providers, freight forwarders and customs clearance agents (collectively, “Third Parties”). NSG sometimes engages Third Parties to represent its interests or to interact on its behalf with Public Officials such as customs brokers, lawyers, lobbyists, standards committees, or other intermediary activities. Acting on behalf of NSG is not limited to those situations where the Third Party represents NSG as an attorney-in-fact. It also applies to those situations where they represent NSG’s interests whether or not they are interacting with public officials or other entities in the private sector. We continually review our suppliers in order to identify those suppliers considered to be high ABAC risk. The Group Ethics and Compliance carry out due diligence that includes a AGR Business In North America questionnaire and screening process. The Third Party may be screened against various lists Introduces New Van Fleet and including sanctions lists, watch lists, PEP (politically exposed persons’ lists) and checked for exposure in adverse media. Reduces CO2 Emissions. Van replacement strategy for our Automotive OE business in Japan increases long distance transport by rail Aftermarket business in North America is and ferry and reduced distances driven by road. switching to new smaller City Express vans Long distance road transport deliveries from our Automotive Glass processing plants in for deliveries to customers from our network Central Japan to customers in Iwate and Kyushu have been switched from direct road of Service Centres. The first 39 vehicles were deliveries to an intermodal mix of road/rail or road/ferry. These intermodal systems involve introduced during 2016 in what will be a project either the transfer of loaded rail containers from a road trailer onto a rail vehicle or the transfer which will extend over the next few years until of the road trailer onto a sea ferry for the long haul part of the journey. The impact is to reduce the majority of these deliveries will be made in the distance of these transport journeys actually driven over the road and the associated these smaller more fuel-efficient vans. CO2 emissions for the longest proportion of the distance. CO2 emissions savings equated to By changing the loading and glass-securing 267 tonnes in 2016 and this equates to a reduction of 49 percent for the transports involved. systems and methods in these new smaller Overall this represents a reduction of 2.9 percent in the totals CO2 emissions associated with vans, the actual load density per van load our transport for the OE business in Japan. These initiatives required new suppliers to be has not been sacrificed so there is a real sourced and introduced into our distribution operations. and tangible saving in emissions involved in transporting the same volume of glass. Working with suppliers to save energy We continue to work with key suppliers to develop projects to reduce energy and water In 2016, these new vans drove over 655,000 consumption in our manufacturing sites, utilizing their expertise in various technologies to miles saving 190 tonnes of CO2. This develop solutions to specific energy management challenges. represents a reduction in CO2 emissions of 2.25 percent over the entire fleet; the new vans Communication and co-operation so far introduced during 2016 represented In line with our Sustainability Policy, we communicate with and work constructively with just 10 percent of the fleet and operated for our suppliers and governments, regulatory agencies, the scientific community and other just six months. The expectation within four relevant stakeholders to develop and encourage business and community practices that make years is that the increased use of these new progress towards the common aim of sustainable development. smaller vans will eventually account for up to 60 percent of AGR’s van deliveries in North Transport CO2 Emission Reduction Projects America and an annual saving of around 1600 tonnes of CO2 can be achieved. Transport and Warehousing activities account for 16 percent of the NSG Group’s procurement spend across its global operations. Focus is on the provision of safe and on-time service to our plants and our customers by our selected suppliers as well as value for money. In addition, there is a strong emphasis on improving efficiency, reducing empty driven miles and increasing the weight of product carried. All of these initiatives should also improve the Group’s impact on the environment by reducing the amount of CO2 emissions to the air. During the last year, there have been many positive projects delivering environmental benefits and a selection of these is described below. See page 27 for carbon saving details about a lightweight trailer project in the Architectural European business. 39 NSG Group Sustainability Report 2016 FURTHER INFORMATION We produce a regular flow of publications intended to provide current and potential investors with as much information as possible about the group, the industries in which we operate and the organization, strategy, targets and progress of the group. Publications Company information Websites The range of these publications is shown (as at 31 March 2016) NSG Group corporate website below. (English) Company name: www.nsg.com Annual Report Nippon Sheet Glass Co., Ltd. In order to obtain a full understanding NSG Group corporate website Unified global brand: of the performance of the Group, this (Japanese) NSG Group document should be consulted. www.nsg.co.jp Head office: To Our Shareholders Commercial website 5-27, Mita 3-Chome, Minato-ku, (Architectural and Automotive) Published twice a year, in June and Tokyo 108-6321 Japan www.pilkington.com December, designed to keep shareholders Established: informed of progress against our strategy. Sustainability contact 22 November 1918 Editions in both English and Japanese. www.nsg.com/en/contact-us Paid-in capital: ¥116,449 million NSG Code of Ethics For information about our GRI index Produced for Group employees in all of the Total assets: ¥812,120 million visit languages in which the Group operates, http://www.nsg.com/en/sustainability Net sales: ¥629,172 million summarizing the main points of the /griindex (consolidated) Group’s Code of Ethics. Employees: 27,463 NSG Group companies: 219 Web: www.nsg.com 40
