Mr. António Guterres Secretary – General United Nations New York, NY10017. USA. Dear Mr. Secretary General, STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I am pleased to reiterate our commitment to the ten principles of the Global compacts, on Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption. I express our intent to implement the aforementioned into our day to day operation for our internal and external customers’ awareness and adherence to such. We aim to report annually the progress on the principles and ensure our culture, ethics and business strategy are in line with identified principles. Yours sincerely, Stuffman Ayo Managing Director/CEO UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse, Assessment, Policy and Goals ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is a leading developer of consumer and enterprise mobile value added services. VAS2Nets Technologies Limited is an ICT company located in and outside Nigeria with extensive experience in the development and delivery of mobile value added services, voice services, mobile financial services, enterprise solutions and broadcast services. The company is focused on providing total product and service solutions to our reputable client base of mobile operators, consumer brands and content providers. The management of the VAS2Nets fuse their interest in ensuring quality service delivery to customer and ensure there right is adequately protected in all our country of business. This is made achievable through close monitoring of weekly performance task and open communication channel for customer feedback to address all pressing issues. VAS2Nets Technologies Limited watch word for 2017 is customer loyalty, as a means to ensure customer satisfaction is met at all times towards enhancing their positive emotional experience and perceived value from service received. More so, the following medium was identified to prevent rights from violations; educating the employees on what is right, which is documented in the code of conduct, commitment to time and quality in ensuring customer satisfaction, never violates others right, speak politely and softly, shun use of vulgar words, standup for what is right and just, open communication in the work environment, among others. IMPLEMENTATION Human resources policy was reviewed in 2017 has been shared with staff, which will prompt employee awareness when and where there right has been violated. Organization risk assessment and hazard identified, caution and safety measure put in place We operate on well ventilated and conducive environment for our business operation Adequate provision of facility and tools needed to carry out work effectively Suggestion Box placed at the reception to receive complaint from employee and customers. Human Resource policy aligns with UNGC Human rights principle. There is periodic internal audit in line with ISO 9001:2008 ascertaining quality service and due process of work activity MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES No record of human right violation, litigation, and harassment of human right No slump or causality in the work environment Also, as a certified member of ISO 9001:2008, we have annual report that is always sent to ISO body annually before our certificate is renewed which centers on quality assurance in our processes and procedure which cut across Human resources operations, clients management and mode of operation among others. LABOUR PRINCIPLE Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to bargain Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child Labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESMENT, POLICY & GOALS VAS2Nets Technologies Limited operates an open management system which encourages regular feedback on our inputs, process, output, goals and evaluation to our external environments, which made it possible to sustain relationship with our customer and influence the business flow. Both internal and external customer has access to reach any officers for inquiry and set up a meeting to bargain out their concern. The company does not and has never practiced forced or compulsory labour. Rather we leverage on fellow feelings in our relationship with our internal and external customers. More so, the company ensures and enhances employees’ welfare through all medium available and sustainable. Many welfare plans has been put in place and this has help to reduce attrition rate. Management team support the notion that employees come first and staff is treated in utmost good faith, so as to get the best out of them. The company had been compliant to the national and international regulation to abolish child labor at the work environment. All staff falls within working age brackets. However, due to some college curriculum we engage college student on internship, to provide them with basic knowledge as required by their school curriculum, after their internship period, we do not retain them for any self-interest nor engage them on any continuous employment. More so, we have received honors from college and parents whose children has come into our organization for internship as we ensure they are well equip with required knowledge in line with the company mission to always give beyond expectation and ensure each intern maximum satisfaction in knowledge acquisition. There has not been any case of employment discrimination, either base on religion, cultural background, age, and gender identity by the company. Our employment standard has been set which is based on employee values. As a service firm, gender balance has been ensured and different ethnic group has been employed overtime in the company. This has help in promoting the business cultural values and work place ethics. IMPLEMENTATION Recruitment and selection is on merit system, as much as we encourage recommendation from internal and external customers, our HR policy has ensured that the best hands are being employed without favoritism. All employees are eligible and fall under the job workforce The company encourages team work through our team bonding activity and retreat There is weekly assessment of performance; this provides employees with adequate job knowledge and what is required of them and area of weakness to improve on. Fair and equitable reward system in compliance with statutory standard to all staff The company has also put in place insurance cover on staff against unforeseen incident All employees are ensured they participate in the Friday games, to promote cordial relationship among the staff Human Resources Policy complies with ILO and Nigeria Labour Law Our policy strongly supports freedom of association and joint consultation. MEASUREMENT: No employees have ever complain of denied benefit Every employee gets fair and equitable remuneration commensurate with their role, performance and qualification. There is no case of work place injury and slump of employee on duty. We have put in place employee satisfaction survey to solicit for information from all employees No discrimination on occupation and employment on the bases of age, gender and qualification Incessant sickness has reduced among employees as a result of welfare scheme put in place which has help to improve health status. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLE Principle 7: Business should support precautionary approach to the environmental challenge Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS As a technology firm the company has done a lot as a growing firm, to be environmentally friendly, responsible and assure value creation from mobile solution and technology development. Several initiatives have been taken to promote Health, Nutrition and Agricultural output. Through our Corporate social responsibility, our mobile health team comprises of medical doctors organize outreach to sensitize people about a particular health topic, and souvenirs are given to attendees to promote our CSR initiative. This program of recent has received support from some of our partners and media houses. One of the national media house aired the program, how the sensitization was done, from lectures to attendees’ assessment and what the audience benefit from the outreach. A recent outreach done on February 14, 2017 at a popular Lagos market call “Aswani” the outreach program was done on a market day which receive massive turn out by the market woman to listen to the health talk on Breast Cancer, after which over 400 women were examined via simple palpation methods. Two suspicion cases of breast cancer were observed and they were immediately referred to a General hospital with expected follow up by the mhealth team More service is being deployed to help foster nutritious value on daily meal and enlighten people on how some diets are harmful to health. Some of these services are available at an affordable commercial value to ensure everyone can subscribe to the service around the country. Also, there are services which have been deployed to farmers to help ensure they get commercial value from their farm produce, with quick access to fertilizer and access to market as at when required to sell their farm output. The company has been ensuring they are technological responsible in all spheres of the economy towards ensuring adequate satisfaction from use of all applicable devices IMPLEMENTATION Over 3, 000 farmers have been sensitized in the North, in using the available medium to them in meeting their farm operational needs. There is technology service which has made it possible for people to subscribe to get Nutrition and Health tips (pregnancy, hepatitis, hypertension, eye health, first aid, cancer, cholesterol, pelvic inflammatory disease, typhoid, malaria, STD, first aid, diabetes, blood sugar control, diarrhea, fertility for her, fertility for him, infants nutrition, children nutrition, adults nutrition, lactation, local sources of nutrients, weight loss, fibroids, labor tips, amenorrhea, exercise and fitness, general health, HIV/AIDS, healthy living, special needs for children, pregnancy nutrition, eat right, tuberculosis) at affordable rate MEASUREMENT The service was highly adopted by the farmers and their community leaders, as one which give them access to sell their farm produce and offer them access to get pesticides when required. Improving employee and community health through outreach program to patients at health center Mandatory orientation for new employees of Health, Safety and Environment. Periodic investigation and report review by Business Development Director on the outreach program Increase In subscription rate to the health and nutrition tips ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Business should work against corruption and bribery in all its form ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS. VAS2Nets Technologies limited view corruption as stigma which can make the company lose its value, customer loyalty, impede organization financial strength, credibility, and sustainability. VAS2Nets is committed to support the fight in the eradication of corrupt practices of all forms that exist in line of our business, so as to ensure zero tolerance to bribery, corruption and extortion from measures put in place to kick against corrupt practices. The company has made a clear means of payment to clients, which totally get rid of corruption as cash payments lure staff to corrupt practices. Cash transaction is not allowed by employees. IMPLEMENTATION The company has list of Vendors that supplies all office needs Due process in making order are strictly adhered to from approved vendors Process is in place from getting approval to making payments of any kind Proper due diligence is done to ensure that those that represent the company in all business meeting do not put in personal interest Expenses submitted by employees related to work are documented with attached evidence of payments There are checks and balances to ensure employees are anti-corruption committed, as all transaction record are kept and is controlled by Finance, Administration and HR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME External Auditor frequently checks our book of account to ensure every transaction has been done properly. There has been no reported case of fraud or misappropriation. There has been no such incident of reported cases of bribery, corruption and extortion. We are leveraging on current practices to ensure there is continuous success in this aspect. All receipt on transaction done is submitted to Admin and Finance department for assessment
