August 11, 2017 RE: United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress To all our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm Agility Fuel Solutions’ continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. This represents our third and fourth annual Communication on Progress (COP) in which we describe our actions to continue the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. This report covers the period from August 1, 2015 through July 31, 2017. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders by posting it to our corporate website. Sincerely Yours, Kathleen Ligocki Chief Executive Officer 1 1. Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility has a vested interest in human rights and workplace practices. We are supportive of the policies set forth by the UN Global Compact. We have a published code of conduct which is meaningful and embraced by our executive management. Agility places a contractual requirement on our suppliers to be compliant with social responsibility issues. Implementation Agility has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations in its facilities and facilities of critical suppliers: • We maintain an open-door policy for addressing employee concerns about their job, working conditions, or the treatment that they have received. Regular businessor employmentrelated concerns which do not require anonymity are directed to the employee’s immediate supervisor or to our Human Resources department. • We have implemented a whistle blower policy, and associated hotline and email, and communicated it to the entire organization through meetings, email blasts, postings in public areas, and posting on the corporate SharePoint site. This policy provides an outside reporting vehicle for individuals to raise concerns using the company’s whistleblower hotline and reassurance that good faith reports submitted by employees, temporary and/or contract workers will be protected from reprisals or retaliation. • We’ve published our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility through the following 15 general principles; Ethics, Leadership, Employees, Environment, Quality and Continuous Improvement, Suppliers and Business Associates, Customers, Specific Social Responsibilities, Health and Safety, Worker Rights, Child and Forced Labor, Freedom of Association, Discrimination, Environment, Ethical Conduct. A copy of our Corporate Social Responsibility policy is prominently displayed on our website and in each of our facilities. Procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Codes and the related Standards of Business Conduct and are reminded of the whistleblowing procedures annually. The internal guidance sets out examples of the types of wrongdoing which should be raised by employees, including non-compliance with legal obligations or a breach of human rights, and, also, identifies the key contact as the Vice President of Human Resources. We incorporated our standards for corporate social responsibility, and our core values that reflect that commitment, in our controlled Supplier Quality Manual and Supplier Code of Conduct Manual to 2 drive consistency throughout the supply chain, and have posted them on our website to communicate these positions broadly to all our stakeholders. Measurement of outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with the company’s aforementioned policies, including concerns raised by employees in partner and supplier organizations. 2. Labor Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals Equal opportunity means creating a work environment which allows all of our employees to fulfill their potential. We seek to foster a culture in which our employee-related decisions, whether it be hiring, training or promotion, are taken based solely on an individual’s ability and contribution to Agility’s success. This is irrespective of gender, age, ethnicity, disability, or sexual orientation. This is fully described in our Employee Handbook. Implementation As communicated in our Employee Handbook, Agility does not tolerate harassment or any behavior which creates a hostile, offensive, or intimidating environment for its employees. We make it clear that any breaches of this policy may lead to an investigation and when appropriate, dismissal. We encourage all employees to report any incidents of harassment forbidden by the policy and we provide the appropriate phone number and website address to take action. Agility’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires that our suppliers perform in a manner that is appropriate, as it applies to their ethical, legal, environmental, and social responsibilities. The Code covers labor relationships, employment practices, human rights, and ethical business principles. In addition, our executive management team has participated in training regarding unconscious bias as it relates to hiring and employment practices. Measurement of Outcomes Agility requires our suppliers and business partners to acknowledge and sign the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our goal is to increase the number of signatories to this Code of Conduct each year. Data on population diversity is reviewed periodically by our Human Resources Department and executive leadership team to aid in diversity planning and decision making. 3 3. Environmental Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Environmental responsibility is core to who we are and what we do: it is our stated corporate vision to accelerate the global adoption of clean fuels by creating world-class, innovative transportation solutions. We manufacture energy storage, conversion, and delivery systems that enable commercial vehicles like school buses, transit buses, trucks, and vocational vehicles to run on natural gas, propane, or hydrogen instead of diesel. These clean fuels reduce the carbon emissions and smog-causing emissions in the commercial transportation sector. In addition, Agility is passionately committed to providing a safe and healthy environment for its employees, contractors, visitors, or anyone who may be affected by our business operations, and to protecting the environment by managing our business in an environmentally sensitive and responsible manner. Implementation To achieve our goals, we have implemented a new environmental, health, and safety policy with standards that equal or exceed industry best practices. To ensure that we meet this objective, we are: • Developing policies, programs, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and drive continuous performance improvement. • Ensuring that employees are properly trained and provided with appropriate safety and emergency equipment. • Ensuring that all work activities are done safely by taking action to eliminate unsafe acts and conditions that endanger health, safety, or the environment. • Making safety and environmental factors a priority in all operating decisions. • Encouraging personal accountability and emphasizing standards compliance, policy conformity, and best practice advancement through training, coaching, and performance reviews. • Communicating and foster the expectation that everyone on Agility premises follow this policy and report any environmental, health, or safety concern to management. • Monitoring, measuring, and communicating our progress to all levels of the organization. • Using resources responsibly and efficiently. We implemented ISO14001 in our Salisbury, North Carolina facility in 2017, are already certified to this standard in our Raufoss, Norway facility, and are continuing the implementation of this standard throughout our organization. 4 Measurement of outcomes. We are fully compliant with all applicable environmental standards, statutes, and regulations. We measure and track aspects of our business that have environmental impacts, e.g. energy usage, and have implemented projects to reduce waste through recycling and reuse. For example, we have designed and implemented a reclamation system for used acetone solvent that results in recapture and recycling of 98% of used acetone and disposal of the remaining byproduct as nonhazardous solid waste. We are also continuously evaluating our use of disposable materials in our supply chain and are replacing such packaging where possible with reusable pallets and shipping racks. Environmental impact data will be reviewed annually on an ongoing basis. We estimate that there are over 35,000 vehicles in operation using Agility’s clean fuel solutions. We estimate that by running on cleaner fuels instead of diesel these vehicles avoided emitting over 634 thousand metric tonnes of CO2 in the year ended July 31, 2016 and over 700 thousand metric tonnes of CO2 in the twelve months ended July 31, 2017. 4. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Agility has published an internal Standard of Conduct. The Standard of Conduct has been made available to all employees upon hiring and will be reaffirmed each year. The Standard includes Agility’s clear opposition to all forms of bribery and corruption. Implementation Reporting procedures are in place to ensure that any suspicions of inappropriate conduct can be voiced. All employees are systematically made aware of the Standard of Conduct. We train employees from time to time to ensure that an ethical culture is developed within the company and integrated in our management systems. We also implement an anonymous hotline in each region we operate to facilitate reporting by all employees. Measurement of outcomes All concerns raised during the year were addressed in line with Agility’s Standard of Conduct, including concerns raised by employees in partner organizations, such as suppliers. We conduct comprehensive training of new employees and annually reconfirm that all employees are familiar with our Standard of Conduct. The responsibility and accountability for the implementation of the anti-corruption commitment rests with senior management. 5
