KOU FU PACKAGING CORPORATION Lot 4 & 5 Block 3 Phase 2 Mountview Industrial Complex Bancal, Carmona, Cavite 4116 Philippines Statement of Continued Support KOU FU PACKAGING CORPORATION hereby reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. In this our first Communication on Progress, we attempt to describe the actions we have taken so far to align our operations and strategies to the 10 Principles. We also express our commitment to share this information with our stakeholders through our regular communication channels. CARRYLL YU Chief Executive Officer Company Background Kou Fu Packaging Corporation specializes in customized designs and provides the needed printed materials, packaging products, marketing collaterals and displays to its various customers. The functionality of the designs protects the products from damages so that they reach the end customers in good condition, ensures ease of storage in warehouses and aesthetically prints the product information thereby increasing its marketability. As it aspires to expand its product offerings and sustain the quality of its products, it has kept up with the current trends in the industry and implemented a quality management system which has already acquired certification to international standards. It is also an active member in local printing and packaging associations. Currently, the company provides exclusive product lines to the following industries but not limited to: • Electronics • Automotive • Personal care • Entertainment • Publishing • Pharmaceutical • Advertising • Sports Our CSR Initiatives In April 2016, Kou Fu Packaging launched its CSR Programme through the deployment of the CSR Code of Conduct below: Our CSR Initiatives To show its care for the environment, Kou Fu Packaging has developed and implemented the Environmental Policy alongside the Quality Policy: Our CSR Initiatives The Health and Safety Policy expresses Kou Fu Packaging ’ s effort to provide a safe working place for all employees. Our CSR Initiatives Kou Fu Packaging has developed and implemented manuals , procedures and programmes to support the deployed policies on CSR, Environment, Health & Safety and Quality. Internal audits are carried out on these programmes annually to check their suitability and degree of implementation. Our CSR Initiatives Kou Fu Packaging has integrated UN Global Compact SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. Following are the statistics on the current gender distribution at Kou Fu Packaging: Level Male Female Top Management 1 Senior Management 1 3 Supervisors 5 10 Workers 100 123 Total 106 137 Percentage 43.6% 56.4%
