Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Message from the President Becoming an Environmental Engineering Company Contributing to the Sustainable Growth of Society Shinryo Corporation and Shinryo Group are promoting CSR activities to contribute to the sustainable growth of society through sincere execution of business activities considering the needs of society and mankind for the well being of the environment. Takeshi Kagami President, Representative Director Shinryo Corporation Approaching Our 60th Anniversary Masaru Kagami, founder of Shinryo Corporation, founded this business with a dream that he spoke of at the time of establishment, as a company able to be run by earnest engineers. He put all his love and ambition for engineering into this company. Shinryo Corporation began with this belief. We celebrated our 60th anniversary thanks to the work of our employees brought together to support our customers and carry forward the spirit of our founder. I would like to share my deepest gratitude to all of our stakeholders. We will continue to strive to be pioneers with in the sprit of our founder, both now and into the future, without ever taking our 60-year history for granted. Moreover, each and every person has given their utmost faith to pursuing our founding principles. This approach has earned the trust of our customers and I believe the ideal of our employees is determined by the value of Shinryo Corporation. In this report, we look back to share the 60-year history of Shinryo Corporation. The 60th anniversary is an opportunity for us to reorganize the Create a Freshening World management vision of Shinryo Corporation. Create a Freshening World is our belief as a company and a message to all of our stakeholders. To make this message even easier to understand, we have brought together our ideals as the brand promise of Shinryo Corporation. I hope everyone will be able to gain a greater understanding of Shinryo Corporation through this brand promise. Continual Growth through the Challenge of Creation This ﬁscal year furthered the measures of the 13th Three Year Plan (62nd-64th Term: October 2016 to September 2019) medium term plan. There are many challenges surrounding Shinryo Corporation today. This includes the future slowdown and shrinking trend in the Japanese construction market, responding to a lack of human resources in the construction industry, and the ﬁerce competition in overseas businesses. Amid this situation, the 13th Three Year Plan forecasts growth of Shinryo Group over the next ten years, and outlines initiatives to confront these challenges head on. The objectives we are aiming to achieve speciﬁcally in this three year vision deﬁnes an environment and vision that an engineering company with continual growth can achieve through the challenge of creation. The realization of this vision is found after overcoming our challenges. Therefore, the need to challenge is important. We are aiming to realize our vision through this challenge. Work style reform which will be described later, is one measure we are engaged to realize our vision. 1 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 “Create a Freshening World” Brand Promise We would like to provide a comfortable air quality appropriate for where we work, spend our time, and in the surrounding natural environment. We would like to create a rich and pleasant environment. We, Shinryo Corporation strive to realize an even more comfortable and pleasant lifestyle by providing optimal air quality around the world. As a means to this end, we strive to provide new value through fl exible thinking by heightening the technology we have cultivated up until now even further while sincerely responding to the customers. We will continue to strive to realize a “Freshening World” by pursuing to offer greater value. We will continue to strive to maintain an enthusiastic and productive workplace for diverse human resources. Energy Saving Eco-project in Headquarters Building We have been engaged in Shinryo Corporation Energy Saving Eco-project in our Headquarters Building (FY2012-2016) to renovate the headquarters building (Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo) built in 1970 into an energy saving building. The energy saving eco-project strives for ecological reform by using various energy saving technology seeking to achieve energy reduction targets of 40% energy savings, 50% in air conditioning and ventilation, 40% in the building overall, and a 37% reduction target for CO2 emissions (compared to levels in FY2009). As a result of continuous energy saving measures and improvement in operations, we have been able to reach our targets one year earlier than planned with operation starting in the fourth year after the revision. The eﬀort put towards energy savings is an eﬀort furthering our environmental contribution. We provide an overview and report our results of the project in Feature 1. Environment, Quality, Health and Safety Initiatives This yearʼs report includes detailed activities for environmental initiatives (ISO14001 Environmental Management System) and quality initiatives (ISO9001 Quality Management System). Since acquiring the Environmental Management System certiﬁcation in 2001, we are continuing basic environmentallyfriendly activities including reducing the amount of CO2 emissions and engaging in asbestos measures to appropriately process industrial waste and recycle of ﬂuorocarbons. We are also publishing information about on-site health and safety, which have been a primary focus since the founding of Shinryo Corporation. This report also provides information about Group-wide initiatives to prevent labor accidents according to Shinryo Corporation No Work Without Safety No Company Without Safety basic health and safety policy. Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 2 Message from the President First Step Toward Work Style Reform The ideal work style reform for Shinryo Corporation aim to correct long working hours and realize a work-life balance. In this ﬁscal year, we have begun its work style reform to realize this ideal. We have appointed an executive in charge of work style reform in April 2016 and ﬁrst started implementing “no overtime days” policy. We are promoting the eﬀort to return home without working overtime, once a week by selecting a construction site the promotion model case for no overtime days. This will extend not only at our oﬃces but all of our sites. I believe a transformation in the awareness of executives and general managers about work styles is necessary, and we are holding classes conducted by external lecturers. In addition, we have put together and are implementing various initiatives such as a system to support the physical and mental health of employees and promotion of diversity to work style reform. To All of Our Stakeholders Shinryo Corporation has declared itʼs participation in the United Nations Global Compact in FY2014. In exercising Social Responsibilities on the international stage, we will promote CSR activities in relation to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in respect to human rights, treatment of labor, environment considerations and the prevention of corruption. As an environmentally focused engineering company, we will continue contributing to the conservation of the global environment and sustainable development of society through the earning of trust from the international community through our openness and sincerity, and by voluntarily and actively responding to the ever changing demands of society. The CSR activities of Shinryo Corporation as it celebrates its 60th anniversary are not only to fulﬁll our social responsibilities but also to link medium-term plans. We are also promoting activities to further the values of our organization. We will continue to work to reﬂect the feedback we receive from everyone in our businesses. In this respect I ask for your ongoing support and guidance to continue in the future. ○Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In September 2014, Shinryo Corporation signed as a participant in the United Nations Global Compact set by the United Nations. Shinryo Corporation will promote business following the Ten Principles in four areas in the United Nations Global Compact. For Shinryo Corporation that make effort in providing technologies overseas, participation in the United Nations Global Compact is not just agreeing with the cause but participating in the International Global Compact is an expression of wanting to grow into a company trusted by the international community. Our desire is to make our management vison of “Create a Freshening World” to activities that are directed toward the world. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact ● Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ● Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ● Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ● Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ○Participation in the GCNJ Environmental Management Conference We are participating in the Environmental Management Conference of the GCNJ*, which is a local United Nations Global Compact network. This conference provides resources such as classes by experts and introductions of environmental management examples from participating companies related to the challenges directly faced in corporate business activities. We are learning the latest information and knowledge through this conference to expand activities of Shinryo Corporation to environmental management. *Global Compact Network Japan 3 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Table of Contents Message from the President ……………………………………… 1 CSR Management Table of Contents / Editorial policy ……………………………… 4 Vision, Statement & Management Plan / Shinryo Corporation CSR Statement / 60 Years of Shinryo Corporation CSR Promotion System ……………………………………………… 19 CSR Priority Subjects and Basic Themes / 60 Years of Shinryo Corporation Aiming to Create PDCA of CSR Activities ……………………………………………… 20 a Freshening World ………………………………………………… 5 Activity Results of Shinryo Corporation ………………………… 21 Feature CSR Activity Topics Feature 1 Corporate Governance ……………………………………………… 23 Energy Saving Eco-project in Headquarters Building ………… 7 Fair Operating Practices …………………………………………… 25 Feature 2 Environmental Initiatives …………………………………………… 27 Business Activity Highlights ………………………………………… 11 Consumer Initiatives ………………………………………………… 31 Human Rights / Labor Practices …………………………………… 33 Training and Development of Human Resources …………… 37 Corporate Profile Community Involvement and Development …………………… 39 Corporate Information / Business Field / Business Performance Trends ……………………………………… 13 Organization …………………………………………………………… 14 Group Companies Shinryo Group Network …………………………………………… 15 CSR Activities of Group Companies ……………………………… 41 Construction Track Record ………………………………………… 17 ○Editorial policy ○Reference The intent of this report is to enable all our stakeholders ● ISO26000 to deepen the understanding of Shinryo Corporations CSR ● GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) (corporate social responsibility) activities. Sustainability Reporting Guideline 4th Edition (G4) ○Target period ○Publication date Centering on FY2016 (October 1, 2015 to September 30, Current Japanese Report: December, 2016 2016), including some periods before and after. Next Japanese Report: December, 2017 (scheduled) ○Scope of report ○Division responsible for publication and CSR activities of Shinryo Corporation and Shinryo Group contact point companies are reported. CSR Promotion Division, SHINRYO CORPORATION TEL +81-3-3357-2151 (Main) Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 4 60 Years of Shinryo Corporation 60 Years of Shinryo Corporation Aiming to Create a Freshening World Shinryo Corporation will celebrate its 60th anniversary since its founding in 1956. This section introduces milestones throughout those 60 years as well as our history with eﬀorts in human resource development and in technology which was cultivated toward our management vision “Create a Freshening World”. 1969-1977 Strengthening of the Division Organization System 1956-1968 and Expansion to New Business Domains 1969 ● Opened the Fukuoka Office 1972 ● Received the first order for Founding and Rapid Evolution 1970 ● Completed the new district heating and cooling 1956 ● Established our 1961 ● Opened the Nagoya Office headquarters building systems at the Senri New headquarters at 45 1964 ● Established the ● Established the industry’s Town Chuo District Center Shibanishikubo Tomoecho, Construction Division and first research center for air ● Received an order for Minato-ku, Tokyo and Equipment Division conditioning technology district heating and cooling founded our company with 1965 ● Developed Japan’s first ● Opened the Nuclear Power systems from the Shinjuku 5 million yen in capital “3-pipe Air-conditioning Plant Department, and Fukutoshin District ● Received first order for System” and installed it entered the field of energy ● Opened the Sapporo Office cooling equipment work in head office of Nippon plant for nuclear power use 1973 ● Opened the Tokyo from Kaori cafe and Fudosan Bank 1971 ● Opened the Chugoku Metropolitan Area restaurant 1966 ● Opened the Hiroshima Branch Facilities Department and 1957 ● Received an order for ShinOffice 1972 ● Received the first order for established a system for Otemachi Building, one of ● Completed construction full-fledged overseas work handling large-scale projects the largest building in Japan of Training dormitory “Kofu at the Vietnam Cho Ray such as urban planning and at that time. Established the Dormitory” Hospital urban redevelopment foundation of our company 1967 ● Opened the Sendai Office 1975 ● Opened the Tohoku Branch ● Received an order for 1968 ● Deployed three engineers 1976 ● Received the first order equipment construction in for American inspections for aquarium equipment the full plant operation at ● Introduced skyscraper renovations of the Izu Mito Fuji Tsushinki Manufacturing building application/ Natural Aquarium (currently Kawasaki plant refrigerator computer Izu Mito Sea Paradise) 1958 ● Opened the Osaka Oﬃce control at the World Trade 1977 ● Opened the Maizuru Plant 1960 ● Moved our Headquarters Center Building ● Received an order for the to its current location (2-4 initial construction of the Yotsuya, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo) Kwun Tong Hong Kong Cho-Ray Hospital (Vietnam) Subway Line Belief of our Founder “I established this business with a dream for a Shin-Otemachi building company able to be run by earnest engineers. I have Senri New Town Chuo District Center Shinjuku Fukutoshin District (District put all of my love and (District Heating and Cooling Systems) Heating and Cooling Systems) ambition for engineering into this company.” ○History Cultivating Technology ○History Cultivating Technology and People and People Initial Meeting to Establish Shinryo The First Members training at the Corporation Takamatsu Dormitory 1970 Completed the new headquarters building in Yotsuya, Shinjuku-ku. This accelerated our Company Philosophy independence as an organization. This company philosophy expresses the 1969 Strengthened the life philosophy and business philosophy organization of eight corporate which was the belief of our founder, divisions. Each division took Chairperson Masaru Kagami (deceased). responsibility, which was for the Shinryo Corporation was established purpose of teaching young employees. in order to embody this philosophy in the business world. These three principles serve as the roots of Shinryo Corporation, and they are the foundation 1970 Established the industry’s for all thinking, decision-making and first research center (Osaki, action of executives and employees. Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo) 5 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 1998-Present Challenge for Business Expansion and System Maintenance 1988-1997 1998 ● Acquired ISO 9000s 2008 ● Registered the Research certification and Development Center New Mission and ● Began development of as a Certified Environmental Restructuring of numerical fluid analysis Survey and Odor technology using super Measurement Services 1978-1987 Core Businesses computers 2009 ● Renovated headquarters 1990 ● Opened a Research and ● Received order from building (Energy Saving EcoEvolution of Japanese Development Center in Okinawa Churaumi project in headquarters Tsukuba Academic Town Aquarium building) Business and Expansion 2001 Acquired ISO 14001 2010 ● Established the Control ● Established a local ● of Overseas Business company (SHINRYO certification & Instrument Engineering (PHILIPPINES) COMPANY, ● Established a local company Division 1978 ● Opened the Hong Kong INC.) in the Philippines (SHINRYO SINGAPORE PTE 2012 ● Commemorated for longBranch as a base for ● Received order from LTD.) in Singapore time certification of overseas expansion The Landmark Tower ● Received orders for district environmental management 1979 ● Established the Yokohama heating and cooling system system Overseas Department 1992 ● Opened the Technical plant in Marunouchi District ● Opened the Working and positioned overseas Supervision Department 2002 ● Received order for Sharp Drawing Center expansion as a major ● Developed the Space and Safety Supervision Corporation Kameyama pillar of our business Department Factory Scanning System using 3D ● Acquired Level 1 ● Passing of Founder and 2003 ● Released 3D-CAD “S-CAD” technology Plumbing Registration Chairperson Masaru working drawing CAD for 2014 ● Opened the CSR Promotion from the Ministry of Kagami construction equipment Division and Compliance Construction (currently 1994 ● Established a local 2005 ● Opened Middle East (Dubai) Promotion Division the Ministry of Land, company (PT. SHINRYO Branch ● Introduced the overseas Infrastructure, Transport INDONESIA) in Indonesia 2007 ● Established a local company practical dispatch system and Tourism) 1995 ● Received an order (SHINRYO VIETNAM and overseas short term ● Developed NAIAS sludge for the first overseas CORPORATION) in Vietnam training system for new atmospheric flotation district cooling system ● Opened the Abu Dhabi employees concentrator plant at Kuala Lumpur Branch 2015 ● Began on-site training for 1982 ● Established a local International Airport engineers from overseas company (SHINRYO (HONG KONG) LTD.) in Hong Kong 1983 ● Opened the Singapore Branch ● Established a local company (SHINRYO (MALAYSIA) SDN. BHD.) in Malaysia 1986 ● Established a local company (Thai Shinryo Sharp Corporation Kameyama Factory The Venetian Macao Resort (Macau) Limited) in Thailand 1987 ● Established a local company (TAIWAN SHINRYO CO., LTD.) in Taiwan Petronas Penapisan (Melaka) Sdn Bhd THE LANDMARK TOWER Cogeneration Plant (Malaysia) YOKOHAMA ○History Cultivating ○History Cultivating Technology and People Tokyo Dome Technology and People 1990 Opening of the Research and Development 2006 Moved Kofu Dormitory to Yokohama Center The Hong Kong and Shanghai 1992 Passing of Founder Utilized as a facility to conduct all education in addition to new employee Banking Corporation Limited, and Chairperson Masaru training HSBC Main Building (Hong Kagami Kong) Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 6 Feature 1 Energy Saving Eco-project in Headquarters Building Shinryo Corporation has brought together technologies and know-how cultivated over the years to renovate its headquarters building completed in 1970 into a structure with both energy savings and comfort. We have continually improved operations even after renovation and achieved the energy saving target one year ahead of the plan. Social Demand The major trend in Japan has been scrap and build, which properly renovating of the building is high. In addition, rebuild buildings in short term. This approach has large reducing energy consumption for operating the building to environmental load as large amount of waste is generated realize low carbon society is in demand. when rebuilding. As such, demand of long-term use through Overview Over 40 years has passed since the construction of energy saving awareness in employees working at the headquarters building and equipment has aged and had low headquarters building were problems. In response, this energy efficiency. In addition, the comfort level during the project aimed to realize both energy saving and comfort CoolBiz efforts in the summer season had worsened with through implementing air conditioning system that improve insufficient dehumidification and temperature irregularity. energy efficiency and comfort and configuring software that Furthermore, the amount of energy consumption could promote employees working in the headquarters building not be seen numerically and many aspects for increasing to conduct energy saving and be aware of comfortability. Achievements Energy savings ／ Comfort fifth year of renovation. However, we were able to achieve Achieved a target reduction rate Hardware ／ Software these targets and begin operation in our fourth year, one one year earlier than planned year ahead of the plan, as a result of continual efforts to Our first plan aimed to achieve a 40% reduction rate in improve operations. our primary energy consumption and 37% reduction of CO2 emissions (compared to FY2009 levels) by FY2016, Energy savings ／ Comfort Succeeded in both energy savings and comfort Hardware ／ Software ○Primary energy consumption Achieved ■Targets Primary energy consumption [GJ/year] final targets ■Performance In a survey of employees working in the headquarters 15,000 one year building, 70% said the workplace was more comfortable early 42.5% reduction than before the renovations. These upgrades were able 33% reduction 34% reduction 37% reduction 10,000 to provide both energy savings and comfort. We also improved efficient use of space by using a non-territorial 0 office in some areas. In addition, this increased productivity Before First year Second year Third year Fourth year Fifth year renovations FY 2009 after renovations after renovations after renovations after renovations after renovations FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 by adopting mobile extensions to cellular phones to (2009.4-2010.3) (2012.4-2013.3) (2013.4-2014.3) (2014.4-2015.3) (2015.4-2016.3) (2016.4-2017.3) eliminate wasteful operations such as answering phones when someone is away from their desk. ○CO2 emissions ■Targets CO2 emissions [t/year] ■Performance 700 Achieved final targets 600 one year early 42.2% reduction 500 32% reduction 33% reduction 36% reduction 400 0 Before First year Second year Third year Fourth year Fifth year renovations after renovations after renovations after renovations after renovations after renovations FY 2009 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 FY 2016 (2009.4-2010.3) (2012.4-2013.3) (2013.4-2014.3) (2014.4-2015.3) (2015.4-2016.3) (2016.4-2017.3) Workplace before renovations Workplace after renovations 7 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Main Technology Implemented Energy savings ／ Comfort Energy savings ／ Comfort Heat Source Systems Packing Using Natural Air conditioning system able to Energy and Highly Eﬃcient equipment Hardware ／ Software control each zone independently Hardware ／ Software We planned the heat source system considering effective We implemented an air conditioning system to control the use of natural energy and adopting highly efficient, amount of air volume according to the heat load of each equipment. We are implementing solar cooling systems zone. We are reducing the power for convoy one of heat by as equipment to effectively use natural energy to use controlling the variations in air volume. We also eliminated solar heat energy for heating and cooling. This is a system temperature variations in workspace which occurred due to create hot water using solar hot water panels. In the to the single duct system before the renovations with the summer, hot water is supplied to the solar heat recovery control of each zone. chilled / hot water(gene-link) systems to generate cold water for cooling. In the winter, the hot water is used for variable air volume system heating through a heat exchanger for heating. In addition, we are using the waste heat of the cogeneration system Workplace together with the solar heat. Exhaust air Solar hot water panels Collects solar heat to generate hot Heat generation Heat generation water at roughly 65°C to 85°C. High Low Supply airr Floor air outlet with slide Air conditioner damper control Energy savings ／ Comfort Operational management system to support comfort and energy saving Hardware ／ Software We developed Smart Eco Office Controller (SEOC) system that is able to operate with fine precision to the intent of the Solar Gene-link Heat exchanger for heating employees. Employees can inform whether it is too hot or Uses hot water produced from Uses hot water generated by cold from their own computer. For example, if an employee thermal heat in the summer to solar heat in the winter to generate cold water. generate hot water. indicates they are “cool” or “very cool”, the temperature set Used for cooling Used for heating for the air conditioner is lowered and run for a set period of time (10 to 20 minutes). We Energy savings ／ Comfort are also visualized the amount Dehumidiﬁcation and cooling Hardware ／ Software of energy used in each zone separate air-conditioning system as an awareness measure The dynamic ice storage system -“The Jiyu Sekkei” toward energy savings in our developed by Shinryo Corporation is used to dehumidify employees. This has been outdoor air realizing comfortable working environment. effective in promoting better awareness of energy savings by comparing zones with other Computer and tablet screen Outdoor air zones. image Moist Energy savings ／ Comfort Dehumidification Hot Cooling High eﬃciency lighting system Hardware ／ Software (removing latent heat) (removing sensible hear) Heat generation We use LEDs and other High efficiency lighting systems. Dry Cool We effectively use daylight and control brightness per zone using lighting sensor to reduce the use of electricity for lighting. In addition, lighting is automatically turned off after Overview of dehumidification and cooling separate air conditioning gradual lighting adjustment using human sensor to realize system energy saving. Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 8 Feature 1 Initiatives in Installation Energy savings ／ Comfort We prefabricated some parts of the new installation piping Labor Saving in Installation Through Hardware ／ Software by using 3D laser scanner and the 3D-MAPS system to 3D 3D Measurement Technology measuring and positioning system. Installation Flow 1 2 3 4 Measure the inside of the Revise the working drawings by Produce the new installation Automatically identify the machine room using a 3D laser comparing the 3D coordinate piping according to the working position to install those parts scanner. data and the working drawings drawings at the plant. Attach from the working drawing by (3D-CAD) created from RFID tags* to all parts that are reading the RFID tags. Install blueprints. produced. the parts based on the position *RFID tag: tag can be that reads and indicated by 3D-MAPS. written information without direct contact. *Illustration of laser beam on the photograph. Energy savings ／ Comfort points of danger when bringing in these parts based on the More Eﬃcient Operations Through Hardware ／ Software animations. On the day to arrange the equipment, we were the Use of BIM able to perform installation with only a basic check, which Shinryo Corporation uses the 3D-CAD “S-CAD” software it allowed for safe and efficient work. developed independently to create designs, working drawings, and 3D models, and then built a Building Information Modeling (BIM) model. This allows us to check a completed image in advance and eliminate any rework after the installation. In addition, we created animations from the vehicle guidance of heat source equipment to install on the roof to procedures such as suspending parts from cranes, Prior confirmation of completed Simulation for arranging assembly, and movement. We were able to confirm the image equipment Chronological Order of Project This project began with an Environmentally Energy Saving Idea Competition that every corporate division and branch could participate. Planning/ Verification/ Construction design continuation ○June 2009 ○November 2009 ○November 2010 ○September 2011 Environmentally Energy Project launch Construction began Completion Saving Idea Competition Hereafter, we conducted verification and ongoing energy-saving measures Idea Competition Project meeting Demolition work began Green wall installation Issue of drawings Solar cooling system High-efficiency air cooling turbo installation heat pump chiller installation 9 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Initiatives to Improve Operation Energy savings ／ Comfort air blown from the air conditioner by installing dividers to Organization surround desks and other areas where air outlets were not Hardware ／ Software installed. As a result, the temperature of air blown from the We established the Energy Management Committee and floor air outlets around windows increased, improving the strived to verify the energy-saving effect and continually indoor thermal environment. improve the operation to reduce our primary energy consumption by 40%. Energy savings ／ Comfort Installation of Task Lighting Hardware ／ Software ○Organizational Chart Energy Management Committee We had problems with shadows above desks due to the (Regular monthly meetings) layout of lighting equipment and fixtures. We then change Operation Working Group Cx* Working Group from a general lighting system to a task and ambient Gathers user feedback and Analyzes and evaluates operational requests, increases awareness about performance and proposes ways lighting system for the purpose of improving the lack of operation methods, and proposes to enhance performance environmental improvements light above desks in some areas and reducing electricity *Cx (Commissioning): Process to confirm used for lighting. Energy saving management and improve performance of building promoter on each floor / equipment The total lighting system had controlled light with a light in each department setting value at 500 to 700lx. However, the ambient light setting value operates at 350lx for the task and ambient Energy savings ／ Comfort lighting system. Task lighting was also able to adjust Enlightenment Activities brightness as necessary for each person at their desk. As Hardware ／ Software a result, we were able to reduce power consumption of We shared our results from our monthly energy consumption lighting by approximately 14%. (entire building, by application, etc.), energy reduction rate ranking for each floor, and explanations of our energy saving systems on the internal message board. This helped Results of Major Initiatives heighten awareness about the energy savings of employees. Initiatives Effectiveness Improvement of operation Energy savings ／ Comfort methods for heat source System COP: 1.36 → 1.44 Improving Thermal Environment through system Addition of Dividers Under Raised Floors Hardware ／ Software Transition to double pane 5°C increase in window surface windows temperature in winter After renovation of the Position dividers were installed building, low-temperature Renovations to air Energy for air conditioning: 30% Air flow Air-conditioning conditioners for server rooms reduction air was blown from the floor Installation of LED lighting Lighting power: 30% to 40% reduction vents around windows in the harsh winter seasons, Installation of highly efficient Lighting power: 20% to 40% reduction Hf lighting worsening the indoor thermal ON/OFF control of each light environment. Therefore, we Lighting power: 60% to 70% reduction fixture installed dividers under the Strengthening of heat insulation raised floors. We reduced Heat transfer rate: 1.61 → 0.81 W/m2k for exterior walls the amount of floor space 15°C reduction in window surface Green wall (bitter melons) that touched slabs for warm Dividers after renovation Added dividers temperature in summer VOICE Katsunori Ide Deputy General Manager Energy Management Committee Leader Technical Supervision Department, Technical Supervision Division We have introduced a wide range of energy-saving technology to our headquarters building, but I think operation in-line with the usage behavior is required to gain the greatest energy-saving benefits. For this reason, we are always working to improve the operation while engaging in measures for improvement plans through the analysis of the operational performance as well as enlightenment activities for energy saving. We had been releasing our targets externally and the energy-saving awareness of our employees was high at the time. By each person engaging in energy-saving activities, we were able to achieve our reduction one year ahead of schedule. We can utilize the knowledge we have gained for this project in the future to generate further energy savings at the buildings our company is doing work. This will contribute to realizing a low-carbon society. Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 10 Feature 2 Business Activity Highlights Shinryo Corporation would like to contribute to society through its business activities. Business Activity Highlights introduce CSR activities conducted through our primary businesses in this ﬁscal year. United Arab Emirates Overseas District Cooling Plant for the New Abu Dhabi Project International Airport Terminal This plant is to supply thermal energy to the new Midfield Building Official name: District Cooling Plant I Stage and II Stage overview Construction for Abu Dhabi International Airport Expansion Terminal Complex airport terminal built to handle the Open: January 12, 2016 (Date of opening ceremony) growing number of travelers using the airport in Abu Dhabi Total floor area: Approx. 12,261 m2 in the United Arab Emirates. Building application: District Cooling Plant The plant provides a supply of 55,000USRT with 18 Primary heat source equipment: Turbo chillers (2,500USRT X 18 units) and stratified cold water tanks chillers and two thermal storage tanks. Shinryo Corporation Thermal tanks (25,000 tons X 2 units) was involved in engineering, resource procurement, construction, and commissioning. This plant was equipment. comparable to the large scale construction of the biggest We were able to bring the work to completion without district heating and cooling systems in Japan built in the any incidents in spite of broad challenges from a harsh Shinjuku District of Tokyo up until now which Shinryo work environment with temperatures over 50°C in the Corporation also took part in. summer as well as cultural and language barriers brought We reduce the amount of cold water delivered by about by a multinational and multicultural workforce. connecting two chillers in series which use cold water that The number of travelers using the Abu Dhabi International has a difference in temperature between 14°C to 9°C in Airport is expected to double over the next ten years. the upstream refrigerators 9°C to 4°C in the downstream Plans to expand the airport in a manner able to handle this chillers. demand are already underway. This project is only part of Furthermore, every saving is made through controlling the whole. The construction of the new Midfield Terminal the variable water volume. We also provided maintenance, Complex is set to be completed by the end of 2017. security and energy management as well as greater Shinryo Corporation hopes to utilize the vast experience operational efficiency by aggregating cool water supply and confidence it has gained in future projects. New Abu Dhabi International Airport Terminal District Cooling Plant 11 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Miyagi Reconstruction Since the Great East Japan S-PAL Sendai Earthquake East Hall Construction of the S-PAL Sendai East Hall started construction as planned even damage was done to the Sendai Terminal Building during the Great East Japan Earthquake. The East Hall had its grand opening in 2016 S-PAL Sendai East Hall – five years after the disaster – as a symbol for the local revitalization of the Tohoku Entrance. Shinryo Corporation was in charge of the environmental Buildingg Official name: S-PAL Sendai East Hall overvieww Opened: March 18, 2016 control service work in the S-PAL Sendai East Hall. We Total floor area: 39,700 m2 integrated heat source water systems and refrigeration water Building application: Commercial complex cooling systems for energy saving. Moreover, the system realized waste reduction and greater efficiency in pipe work city and people meet with stores arranged from north to by adopting piping machined in plants for approximately south. This complex brought people together from not only 95% of the air conditioning piping during the installation. Miyagi Prefecture but also every other region of Tohoku. This was also a very long project with a three-year This shopping center earned praise from both Sendai and construction period. We promoted better use of time all of Tohoku as a symbol of the reconstruction of Tohoku. outside of work by striving to have employees finish their Shinryo Corporation is proud and filled with joy to have work early without any overtime because there was no played a small part in this construction toward revitalization work on-site for the first half of construction. after the disaster. The reconstruction of Tohoku has still S-PAL Sendai lays between the east-west walkway that only reached the halfway point. We hope to continue our connects the West Exit and East Exit of Sendai Station. The efforts in a way able to contribute to this revitalization plan was founded in a concept for a new metropolis where through our businesses in the future. Tokyo drainage slope confirmation tools, and other technologies developed by Shinryo Corporation for hanging chilled Technology Tri-Seven Roppongi beams and installation checks. Buildingg Official name: Tri-Seven Roppongi overvieww Open: August 2016 Tri-Seven Roppongi is a construction project moving Total floor area: 31,416 m2 forward as a new landmark positioned in the heart of three Building application: Office, stores, ad parking commercial and cultural icons; Tokyo Midtown, Roppongi Hills, and The National Art Center. Tri-Seven Roppongi This building with two basement floors and fourteen stories is separated into lower (B2 to 3F, parking, and stores) and upper (4F to 14F, offices, and roof) floors. The baseisolation layer is designed between lower and upper floors and a standard European active chilled beam systems are being implemented for the offices. This will be the first largescale building in Japan to implement roughly 2,200 units. Shinryo Corporation was in charge of the environmental and automatic control service work. We realized efficient installation by adopting 3D-MAPS (3D measurement system), 3D-MAPS laser radiation Supplementing laser radiation *Illustration of laser beam on the photograph. with specialized prisms Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 12 Corporate Profile Corporate Information Business Performance Trends Company Name SHINRYO CORPORATION ○Orders received Headquarters Address 2-4, Yotsuya, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo ■ Consolidated ■ Non-Consolidated Telephone +81-3-3357-2151 (Main) [Million yen] Date of Establishment February 23, 1956 250,901 250,000 234,795 238,630 242,093 President, Representative Director Takeshi Kagami Number of Employees 2,066 people (non-consolidated) 200,000 192,150 188,035 (As of the end of September, 2016) 5,034 people (including Group companies) 171,430 178,320 Capital 3.5 billion yen 153,273 150,000 100,000 Business Field 50,000 ○Design and construction of various building services Environmental control service work 0 air conditioning and mechanical ventilation system / industrial FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 air conditioning and mechanical ventilation system / constant temperature and constant humidity system / environmental reliability testing system / clean room system / bio-clean room system / dry room system / ice storage system ○Net sales Plumbing, drainage and sanitary service work ■ Consolidated ■ Non-Consolidated water supply system / hot water supply system / gas supply system / soil and waste drainage system / kitchen equipment [Million yen] system 250,000 236,891 224,652 Automatic control service work 203,008 209,301 automatic control system / building management system / 200,000 175,780 172,046 industrial automation system 157,840 156,872 158,000 Fire ﬁghting service work 150,000 automatic ﬁre alarm system / smoke purge and smoke extraction system / evacuation guidance system / indoor and 100,000 outdoor ﬁre hydrant system, sprinkler system, carbon dioxide ﬁreﬁghting system and other types of ﬁre extinguishing system 50,000 Electric service work power reception and transformer system / main and sub main 0 power distribution system / lighting and small power system / FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 extra low voltage system / lightning protection system / power generation system Urban utility service work district heating and cooling system / waste transportation ○Ordinary profit system / energy supply systems ■ Consolidated ■ Non-Consolidated Information management service work [Million yen] various control and management systems for utility plant facilities, industrial production facilities, building facilities and etc. 14,000 13,296 12,262 13,108 12,400 Cogeneration service work 12,000 11,274 11,150 power generation system / heat recovery system 10,000 Power plant service work ventilation and air-conditioning system for nuclear power plants, 8,000 7,750 6,845 thermal power plants and fuel cycle related facilities and R&D 6,000 5,404 centers / special ﬁltering system / waste treatment system 4,000 3,789 Environmental sanitation and hygiene service work potable water distribution system / sewage collection and 2,000 1,236 disposal system / greywater recycling system / sewage treatment system / industrial waste water treatment system / 0 waste treatment and dust collection system FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Industrial production service work pharmaceutical and food plant facility / petroleum-related facility / other plant facility Refrigeration service work ○Net assets freezing and refrigerating system / ultra-low temperature and ■ Consolidated ■ Non-Consolidated high accuracy temperature control system [Million yen] 124,068 127,280 Special service work 120,000 116,180 115,000 114,913 112,246 110,834 110,834 solar energy utilization facility / aquarium facility / aquaculture 100,322 103,117 facility / swimming pool system / bio-hazard facility / air quality 100,000 92,147 control system / weather simulation facility / snow making facility 80,000 ○Design and construction of building 60,000 clean room / plant building / interior ﬁnishing work / associated construction work for building services / general building facility 40,000 20,000 ○Sales of air conditioning equipment air conditioner and other heating and cooling product / fan and 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 blower / sanitary ware / other product related to air conditioning and ventilation 13 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Organization General Affairs Marketing Department Supervision Division Public Relations Department Administrative Accounting and Division Finance Department Information Systems Department International Administrative International & Accounting Department Management Division Procurement Department Technical Supervision Department Technical Safety Supervision Supervision Division Department Research and Development Center Gunma office, Tochigi office, Kanto branch Tokyo Metropolitan Tsukuba office, Kawaguchi office, office Area Division Nagano office, Kofu office Chiba branch office Urban Environment Niigata office Division Osaka branch Air Conditioning office Equipment Division Board of Directors General Meeting Vice President Nagoya office, Kobe office Rokkasho Center, Tokai Center, President of Shareholders Nuclear Power Wakasa Center, Yokohama Center, Plant Division Takahama Plant Electric & Instrument Division Board of HONG KONG Branch, MACAU Branch, Hong Kong Audit Division DUBAI Branch, ABU DHABI Branch, Regional Office MAURITIUS Branch Corporate Auditors KL ENGINEERING CENTER, Singapore SINGAPORE Branch, Regional Office CAMBODIA Branch Hakodate sub-branch office, Corporate Strategy Hokkaido Branch Asahikawa sub-branch office Aomori office, Iwate office, Akita office, Yamagata office, Tohoku Branch and Planning Division Fukushima office Marunouchi Branch Yokohama Branch CSR Promotion Kanazawa office, Fukui office Hokuriku Branch Gifu office, Shizuoka office, Nagoya Branch Division Hamamatsu office, Numazu office Keiji branch Shiga sub-branch office Compliance office Kobe branch Osaka Branch office Promotion Division Tenri sub-branch office, Wakayama sub-branch office Sanin sub-branch office Okayama office, Chugoku Branch Mizushima sub-branch office Yamaguchi office Matsuyama sub-branch office Shikoku Branch Kumamoto office, Nagasaki sub-branch office, Kyushu Branch Kagoshima sub-branch office, Okinawa office Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 14 Corporate Profile Shinryo Group Network Shinryo Group Network is delivering a wide range of products and services to our customers. Some of the products and services Shinryo Corporation provides from sites throughout Japan are peopleand environmentally-friendly air conditioning and water-supply and drainage sanitation, and electrical equipment, assured production environments that realize leading-edge products, urbanand locally-friendly district heating and cooling systems, safe and secure plant equipment technology, and total information systems to support maintenance management and energy savings. Shinryo Corporation is also delivering refreshingness to the world even overseas with particular focus on Asia and the Middle East. SHINRYO CORPORATION ● HONG KONG Regional Office ● HONG KONG Branch ● MACAU Branch ● DUBAI Branch ● ABU DHABI Branch ● MAURITIUS Branch ● SINGAPORE Regional Office ● KL ENGINEERING CENTER ● SINGAPORE Branch ● CAMBODIA Branch ● INDIA Liaison Office ● MEXICO Liaison Office Japanese Group Companies Shinryo Technical Service Corporation Akita Castle Hotel Co., Ltd. Main Environmental control service work, plumbing, Main Hotel businesses, hospital and welfare businesses Businesses drainage and sanitary service work, renovations, Businesses (in-patient meal services, food services for welfare yearly maintenance of buildings, maintenance facilities, and restaurants in hospitals), and office management, equipment diagnostics and and tenant lease service maintenance, acquisition, sale, leasing, mediation and management of real estate Global Staff Co., Ltd. Human resource deployment and introduction Shiroguchi Co., Ltd. Main Businesses services, business outsourcing services, Main Plumbing, drainage and sanitary service work, e-commerce, and media businesses Businesses environmental control service work, fire fighting service equipment consulting, design, installation, SYSPRO CORPORATION renewal, and maintenance management Main Development of 3D CAD and FM systems, IT Businesses network configuration services, 3D model input, Daiei Denki Co., Ltd. BIM implementation support services, CAD Main Design, installation, contracting, and maintenance education, and software sales Businesses management of electric equipment, firefighting equipment, electric communications, etc LE PRO CORPORATION Main Creation of designs and work drawing for Shinryo Kogyo LTD. Businesses construction of building equipment as well as Main Sales, design, installation, after-care services of cumulative quantity tables, creation of 3D models Businesses sewage processing devices, VOC dissipation from three-dimensional laser scanning, and measurement chambers, and public pump environmental measurement as well as trail run equipment as well as industrial machine equipment adjustment operations 15 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Domestic Overseas Network Network 65 bases 24 bases Overseas Group Companies SHINRYO（HONG KONG）LTD. THAI SHINRYO LTD. MYANMAR BRANCH Address Unit 3708, 37/F, Skyline Tower, 39 Wang Kwong Address Room 305, 2nd Floor, Building 15, MICT Park, Road, Kowloon Bay, Hong Kong Hlaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar SHINRYO（HONG KONG）LTD. MACAU BRANCH SHINRYO（MALAYSIA）SDN. BHD. Address 6B, 6/F, Chong Fok Commercial Centre, 1287 Address Unit 24.02, 24th Floor, Menara KH, Jalan Sultan Avenida da Amizade, Macau Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia SHINRYO TECHNICAL SERVICES LTD. SHINRYO SINGAPORE PTE, LTD. Address Unit 1805, Wang Lung Industrial Building, 11 Lung Address 6 Shenton Way, #15-08 DUE Downtown 2, Tak Street, Tsuen Wan, N.T., Hong Kong Singapore 068809 TAIWAN SHINRYO CO., LTD. PT.SHINRYO INDONESIA Address 10F No.28, Jinjou St., Jungshan Chiu，Taipei, Taiwan, Address Graha Pratama， 10th Floor, JL. MT. Haryono kav． 15 104 R.O.C． Jakarta 12810，Indonesia SHINRYO（PHILIPPINES）CO., INC. SHINRYO VIETNAM CORPORATION Address Rm.404-406 One Corporate Plaza, 845 A.Arnaiz Address 3/F., Saigon Prime Office Building 107-109-111 Ave., Makati City Manila 1200, Philippines Nguyen Dinh Chieu Street, Ward 6 District 3, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam THAI SHINRYO LTD. SHINRYO VIETNAM CORPORATION HANOI BRANCH Address Green Tower，7th Floor，3656/18-19 Rama 4 Road， Address 4/F., Lac Hong Office Building No.85 Le Van Luong Klongton，Klongtoey Bangkok 10110，Thailand Street, Nhan Chinh Ward, Thanh Xuan District, Hanoi City, Vietnam Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 16 Corporate Profile Construction Track Record “Buildings Are a Living Thing” If we take a glance inside the walls of a building, we will see systems from air conditioning ducts and pipes to electric wires running back and forth and up and down everywhere. These systems provide the air, water, and electricity to be comfort with energy savings to each room in the building. “Buildings Are a Living Thing” Shinryo Corporation is tasked with designing and creating buildings to breathe. Domestic Toranomon Hills Palace Hotel Tokyo・Palace THE LANDMARK TOWER Dai Nagoya Building NAKANOSHIMA FESTIVAL (Minato-ku, Tokyo) Building YOKOHAMA (Nagoya City, Aichi TOWER (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) (Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture) (Osaka City, Osaka) Prefecture) Tokyo Sky Tree® District DHC Otemachi District, Marunouchi 1-chome District DHC Minato Mirai 21 Central District DHC (Sumida-ku, Tokyo) (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) (Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture) 17 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Hiroshima University Hospital Okinawa Institute of Science SUNTORY WORLD RESEARCH Clinic Building and Technology Graduate CENTER (Hiroshima City, Hiroshima University (Soraku-gun, Kyoto) Yakult Central Institute for Microbiological Prefecture) (Kunigami District, Okinawa Research, Basic Research Building Prefecture) (Kunitachi City, Tokyo) SENDAI UMINO-MORI AQUARIUM SAPPORO RACE COURSE STANLEY ELECTRIC CO., LTD. (Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture) (Sapporo City, Hokkaido) Hatano Factory Building No. 1 *Photograph of aquarium「INOCHI KIRAMEKU UMI」 (Hadano City, Kanagawa Prefecture) Overseas Kanto Glico Co., Ltd. Kitamoto Factory (Kitamoto City, Saitama Prefecture) Marina Bay Sands Complex The Mass Transit Railway Corporation (Singapore) (Hong Kong) Honda Motor Co., Ltd., Wako Building (Wako City, Saitama Prefecture) Petronas Penapisan (Melaka) Sdn Bhd THAI KYOWA BIOTECHNOLOGIES Cogeneration Plant (Malaysia) CO., LTD. (Thailand) Changi International Airport The Venetian Macao Resort Discovery Garden DCS* Plant Terminal 3 (Singapore) (Macau) (Dubai) Sharp Corporation Kameyama Factory “Courtesy of Civil Aviation *DCS: District Cooling System (Kameyama City, Mie Prefecture) Authority of Singapore” Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 18 CSR Management Vision, Statement & Management Plan Shinryo Corporation is engaged Contribution to development of a sustainable society in business activities which follow our management vision Management vision “Create a Freshening World”. Create a Freshening World Management vision is what Shinryo Corporation continues to CSR Statement strive for and activities based on it will lead to contribution toward Basic CSR Prioritized CSR Basic CSR sustainable development of the society. Medium and long-term Community Comm munity Organizzational O Organizational governance govern nance business management plan involvem ment and involvement d development develo dev opment (Three year plan) ronme ent Environment Fa Fair prac airr practices Single year business plan operating o perat Consumer Labor issues Human practices rights Shinryo Corporation CSR Statement Shinryo Corporation CSR Statement that includes responsibilities together with business continuity and medium and long-term business management gives growth. Furthermore, this statement is newly formulated details contained in the medium and long-term business based on changes in the generational / societal management plan (three year plan). It is a statement that backgrounds, and it is a policy for execution strategy. we see it necessary to achieve in order to fulfill social We, Shinryo Corporation, based on our management vision, declare following three initiatives to evolve into an environment creation company. 1 2 3 We will provide high quality, We will expand these We will engage in creation of a resource saving, energy saving technologies globally and foundation of all business production through new engage in solving social activities that is managed highly operation model that makes challenges, of preventing global transparently and having a full use of leading edge warming and safe, secure and business climate that is easy to methods, and our own unique effective use of energy. work in. one stop service that achieves most suitable and comfortable life cycle management. CSR Promotion System With the aim of achieving “Create CSR Committee Chairperson (executive in charge of CSR) a Freshening World” based on Coordination our management vision, the CSR Corporate Divisions, Branches CSR Promotion Division Committee was established with Group Companies and Administrative sections CSR executive chairman an executive in charge of CSR as CSR executive chairman ・Creation and notiﬁcation of CSR Basic Plan General managers or deputy general managers at Chairperson as shown in the diagram Group Company President Corporate Divisions, Branches, Administrative sections ・PDCA of CSR activities ・Creation and dissemination on the right. of reports We promote activities together Corporate Divisions, Branches ・Report to the CSR Committee Group Companies and Administrative sections with the CSR executives selected from CSR executives CSR executives each section and group companies ・Create the CSR action plan proposal ・Create the CSR action plan proposal ・Report activities to CSR Promotion Division ・Report activities to CSR Promotion Division with the CSR Promotion Division at ・Reﬂection of stakeholder opinions the center. ・Other 19 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 CSR Management CSR Priority Subjects and Basic Themes CSR Priority Subjects: Provision of new values to the society 1 Build BIM + supply chain 2 Life cycle management 3 Initiatives in energy 4 Global expansion operation model (LCM) services conservation technologies and ● Improving human basis for low carbonization technologies ● Promote 3D-CAD ● Provide our own LCM the expansion of overseas ● Build a construction supply services which combine BIM, ● Develop and provide energy business chain by modularization and commissioning, CFD and FM related technologies and low innovation in procurement and technologies carbonization technologies delivery process ● Provide optimization and area ● Increase efficiency of energy network technology construction, reduction of to both suppliers and construction resource and customers environmental impact CSR Basic Themes 1 Compliance initiatives 2 Initiatives to insure business 3 Environment conservation 4 Implementation of training and continuity during emergency and social investing human resources development ● Compliance training opportunities, and implement ● Rebuild BCP (including review ● Initiatives to reduce CO2 in ● Business information continuity of crisis management measure construction ● Promote use of consultation management and personal regulation) ● Support environment information protection service “Helpline” ● Response to emergencies that conservation activities ● Upgrade training system for ● Build PDCA for the include partner companies employees and partners Compliance Promotion System ● Provide emergency supplies to ● Promote CSR procurement surrounding communities 5 Initiatives in work-life 6 Initiatives in diversity 7 Participation in and 8 Participation in the balance on-site development of the international agreed scheme ● Introduce rehiring system ● Extend the period of working community ● Achieve efficiency by ● The United Nations Global reorganization of operation hour reduction system for ● Introduce volunteer leave Compact model childcare ● Contribute to the community ● Caring Company Scheme ● Reduce on-site workloads by through concluding disaster (Hong Kong) upgrading logistics support prevention agreements ● Improve effectiveness of the with local jurisdictions and holiday system community PDCA of CSR Activities Plan CSR Basic Plan ・Build BIM + supply chain ・Life cycle management ・Initiatives in energy conservation ・Global expansion Priority operation model (LCM) services technologies and low Subjects carbonization technologies ・Compliance initiatives ・Initiatives to insure business ・Environment conservation ・Implementation of training and Basic continuity during emergency and social investing human resources development Themes ・Initiatives in work-life ・Initiatives in diversity ・Participation in and ・Participation in the balance on-site development of the community international agreed scheme Do Activities of all employees Feedback to improve Act degree of satisfaction Announcement of activities to stakeholders publicly, such as through Shinryo Corporation CSR Report Shareholders Clients Employees ステークホルダーの意見 Stakeholder opinions Check and families (satisfaction （満足度調査） survey) Partner Survey evaluation companies Local Government organizations Students communities organizations Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 20 CSR Management Activity Results of Shinryo Corporation CSR initiatives are set based on “provision of new value to the society” and “fundamental theme and corporate governance”. Comparison with ISO26000 core subjects Initiatives Fair Community Organizational Human Labor Consumer governance rights practices Environment operating issues involvement and Priority subjects: Provision of new values to the society practices development Rationalization of construction utilizing 3DCAD ● ● ● Build BIM + supply chain (S-CAD) 1 operation model ● ● ● Building of a new “operation model” Life cycle management ● ● ● 2 (LCM) services Improvement of LCM service system R&D and utilization of energy-related and low ● ● carbon technology Initiatives in energy conservation technologies R&D and utilization of air quality improving ● ● 3 and low carbonization technology technologies Nuclear power: Initiatives in waste treatment, ● ● decommissioning and decontamination Building of human infrastructure toward ● ● ● 4 Global expansion expansion of overseas business Basic themes and corporate governance ● ● ● ● ● ● ● − Corporate governance Internal control, operating audit ● ● Compliance education ● ● “Helpline” consultation service ● ● Responding to antisocial forces 1 Compliance initiatives ● ● CSR procurement ● ● Information security management Initiatives to insure ● ● 2 business continuity during Formulation and promotion of BCP emergency ● ● Environment management system ● Visualization of CO2 reduction on-site Environment conservation ● ● 3 Reduction of vehicle exhaust gas emission and social investing Proper handling and treatment of asbestos and ● ● ● hazardous substances Promotion of measures for improving on-site ● Implementation of training skills and administrative skills 4 and human resources ● ● development Dissemination of trouble information ● ● Streamlining by operation model reform ● ● Reduction of on-site work by logistics support Initiatives in work-life 5 Improvement of effectiveness of various ● balance on-site vacation systems ● “Online Mental Support” Measures to support the success of female ● employees Promotion of systems to encourage active ● participation of senior employees 6 Initiatives in diversity ● Employment of people with disabilities Participation in and ● 7 development of the Relationships with local communities community ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Participation in the The United Nations Global Compact 8 international agreed ● ● ● ● ● ● ● scheme Caring Company Scheme 21 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 CSR Management ＜Degree of achievement of initiatives through self-evaluation＞ ○: Initiatives implemented that produced results △: Initiatives implemented that need even higher results ×: Initiatives not executed *FY2016 (October 1, 2015 September 30, 2016) Degree of Reference Initiatives in FY2016 Achievements of FY2016 achievement page Expansion for centralized creation of BIM data and building Promotion of operation model building through the effective use of BIM of new operation models through effective utilization of data ○ the BIM data Continuous strengthening of the LCM service system that Promotion of stronger service systems integrating technology such as integrates Group companies commissioning, CFD, and FM ○ Feature 1 7-10 Continuous promotion of development / sales / Sales promotion of formaldehyde removal system and tobacco odor installation of various energy conservation technology and removal devices ○ low carbon technology Continuous promotion of technical and personal exchanges Start of technical education for technology of the second engineer group of with local companies 10 people from SHINRYO (PHILIPPINES) COMPANY, INC. in Japan ○ 36, 38 Continuous review of internal control systems Continued operation of internal control systems ○ 23 ・Formulation of measures for overseas guidelines and introduction of compliance education for all executives and employees (100%) in overseas ・Formulation and expansion of overseas support branches and overseas local companies. compliance guidelines ・Start of operations with the Guidelines for Anticorruption Overseas ・Creation of a collection of compliance cases ・Implementation of e-learning on compliance ○ 25-26 ・Implementation of e-Learning related to compliance ・Ongoing implementation of Antimonopoly Act training ・Continuous implementation of Antimonopoly Act training ・Start of compliance liaison conference activities of Group companies in Japan Continuous implementation of information security ・Implementation of information security audits for our bases and on-site education and verification of its effects ・Revision of Management Rules of Corporate Information ○ 24 ・Reorganization and strengthening of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Formulation of BCP, and implementation of drills structure ○ 24 ・Introduction of comprehensive BCP drills ・Continuous operation of environmental management ・Continuous operation of environmental management system ISO14001 system ISO14001 ・16% reduction of CO2 emissions compared to FY2015 ・5% increase in CO2 emission reduction compared with ・Adoption rate of environmentally friendly vehicles as company vehicles: FY2015 22% ・Adoption rate of environmentally friendly vehicles as ・Continuous implementation of proper removal, management, and treatment △ 27-30 company vehicles: 20% (100% implementation) ・Continuous implementation of proper removal, ・Expansion of ecological conservation activities and the Environmental management, and treatment in accordance with the law Renaissance Activities enlightenment program (100% implementation) Formulation of education plans by department based ・Planning and expansion of education distinct to each division on company-wide education plans to promote effective ・Start of elective external seminars for mid to higher level employees ○ 37-38 education at divisions and branches Start of logistical support for on-site operations through the Technical Feature 1 Promote the reduction of on-site work by logistics support Supervision Department and Safety Supervision Department ○ 7-10 ・Start of work style reform (elimination of long working hours and Continuation of promotion activities to improve the usage ratio of various leave systems realization of work-life balance) ○ 33-34 ・Introduction of no overtime days at each on-site (extracting site models) ・Start of operations with work-life balance programs (come-back system and transfer system to accompany spouse) ・Revision of human resource policies for active participation of senior Examination and implementation of systems to encourage employees the efforts of all employees, including female and the ・Introduction of education for active participation of female employees ○ 35-36 elderly, and measures to cultivate a corporate culture (management career training and career design training for female employees) ・Continued implementation of training in Japan for active participation of employees at overseas local companies ・Continued communication of information through in-house magazine, etc. ・Examination and implementation of activities involving ・Expansion of volunteer activities unique to corporate divisions and biodiversity ・Examination and promotion of implementation of people branches ○ 39-40 ・Continued implementation of deployment of instructors to universities involved with regions unique to divisions and branches ・Strengthen initiatives to participate in Global Compact New participation in Global Compact Network Japan’s environmental Network Japan and CBCC meetings management conference ○ 3 ・Examination of participation in new frameworks Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 22 CSR Activity Topics Based on our CSR Statement, we are engaged in fostering high transparency in management and a Corporate corporate climate that facilitates work, which are the foundation for all business activities. We have Governance also prepared a corporate governance structure and internal control mechanisms to secure transparency in management and to conduct prompt decision-making. In addition, we are striving to build a system that enable us to fulfill our corporate responsibility even during crisis by thoroughly implementing measures at all times. Corporate Governance System The Board of Directors deliberates submitted agenda compliance and the efficacy and efficiency of systems, items based on agenda and reporting criteria stipulated by organizations, and work activities. In addition, from 2013, agenda items and by Board of Directors rules set forth in it has performed audits of not only domestic and overseas the Companies Act. The Management Council deliberates workplaces but also of construction sites. on important matters concerning company management, in The Compliance Committee seeks to enforce and addition to proposals submitted to the Board of Directors. improve awareness of legal compliance in conjunction The Executive Officers communicates reports on the with corporate ethics in collaboration with Committee and status of work execution by executives and resolutions supervisors in each division and Group company, while also of the Management Council, and performs prior hearings conducting policy decision-making and corrective guidance on opinions concerning matters for deliberation by with regard to consultations and information received the Management Council. The Audit Division verifies through the Helpline consultation service. ○Corporate governance system General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Coordination Auditing Appointment/Dismissal Independent Auditors Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Executive Officer Financial Auditing Auditing Discussion and Reporting Appointment/Supervision [Business Execution System] President CSR Committee Management Council Compliance Committee Audit Division Board of Executive Officers Risk Management Committee Corporate Divisions, Branches, Administrative Sections, Group Companies Internal Control Since the construction of the internal control system is to fully secure compliance and enhance consistency and mandated by the Companies Act, Shinryo Corporation has efficiency in work execution. performed reviews of the system as necessary, and works Overview of Shinryo Corporation’s basic policy on internal control system (excerpted from resolutions of the Board of Directors) 1. Systems to ensure that the execution of duties of executives and employees of the Group conforms to laws, regulations, and the Articles of Incorporation 2. Systems concerning the preservation and management of information pertaining to the execution of duties of directors 3. Rules and other systems concerning management of the risk of loss in the Group 4. Systems to ensure the efficient execution of duties of directors in the Group 5. Systems to ensure reasonable work in the Group composed of our company and Group companies 6. Matters concerning the employees in cases of auditors requesting the appointment of employees to assist the duties of auditors 7. Systems by which executives and employees of the Group or those that received the report to inform to auditors, and other systems concerning reporting to auditors 8. Systems to otherwise ensure the effective conduct of audits by auditors 23 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Corporate Governance Risk Management Reorganization and Strengthening of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Structure Risk Management Committee Shinryo Corporation formulated the Business Continuity Shinryo Corporation is extracting vital risks such as Plan (BCP) in July 2016 and revised the Crisis Management technological and contractual risks in large-scale jobs Measures Regulations based on our response to the which have the potential to greatly affect management and Great East Japan Earthquake and Kumamoto earthquakes. periodically holds Risk Management Committee meetings The revisions reworked measures such as strengthening to debate measures to respond to these risks. our business continuity structure in emergencies and introducing periodic drills. Information Security Management System Introduction of Comprehensive BCP Drills Shinryo Corporation strives to appropriately manage the Shinryo Corporation introduced comprehensive BCP drills information of our customers and partners. In July 2016, we in September 2016 that assume an earthquake that directly revised our Management Rules for Corporate Information hits the Tokyo. The Disaster Prevention Office is chaired by to renew our internal rules related to information security the President and conducts evacuation drills for people in the management which is growing ever more complicated. In building and drills to confirm the safety of our employees. addition, we are introducing security audits for our primary We were able to confirm a practical initial response during business offices and on-site offices while actively working disasters from gathering in awareness building such as raising awareness about the information to directing the latest security incidents and measures to prevent them and response of each organization periodic employee education. from the Countermeasure Office. We revise and improve the BCP by implementing Strengthening of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Structure ongoing training. Drills of the Disaster Prevention Office Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Basic Policies of Shinryo Corporation Introduction of Training to Secure BCP System 1. Immediately provide support by prioritizing the safety of We are now holding periodic drills to secure our BCP structure. executives and employees. 2. Sustain ongoing operation of corporate functions by recovering company facilities as soon as possible. ○Main Periodic Drills and Educational Content 3. Cooperate with the recovery of sites currently under Drills and educational content Targeted groups construction or completed properties as support toward Drills to conﬁrm the respond and collaboration Disaster Prevention the business continuity activities of our customers. systems between sites in the event of a disaster Office members 4. Introduce support to recovering infrastructure and Drills for employees to report whether they are All executives and support for residence aﬀected by the disaster as much safe with the safety conﬁrmation system employees as possible as a member of the local community. Drills to conﬁrm response in the event of a Fire Brigade disaster ○Organizational Structure During Disasters Prepared Emergency Response Headquarters Construction Sites In addition to distributing disaster response bags to all of Headquarters Project our employees, we put in place our response for business Disaster Prevention Office Corporate Division Manager ・Disaster Prevention continuity that includes the preparation of a disaster stockpile, Chairperson: President Administrative Office Installation Group Office members: Section ・Information Gathering Group installation of emergency generators at our headquarters Chairperson of ・Rescue Group Administrative Division ・Headquarters Building building, redundancy of communications lines (distribution of Fire Brigade Chairperson of Technical Recovery Group emergency satellite telephones to each company base and use Supervision Division ・Information Systems Group Chairperson of Marketing Headquarters ・Stranded Employee of Internet connection), and implementation of cloud servers. Supervision Division Recovery Organization Support Group General Manager of Accounting and Finance Department Research and ・Research and General Manager of Information Development Center Development Center Response to the Kumamoto Earthquakes Systems Department Disaster Prevention Group Shinryo Corporation immediately launched the Disaster Secretariat head: Head of General Prevention Office at our headquarters when the Kumamoto Affairs Department Corporate Divisions Outside Construction earthquakes struck in April 2016. This office confirmed Secretariat: Headquarters/Branches Sites Secretariat Members the safety of our employees and their families, surveyed Division Disaster Prevention Office Project Manager Division Chairperson: the damage incurred by our customers, and handled General Manager of Corporate Division Outside Headquarters, Branch the reconstruction. In addition, a total of 10,000 people Division Secretariat: Secretariat Members engaged in support for the business continuity of our customers through the cooperation of our employees and Fire Brigade Corporate Division/ everyone at our partner companies. Branch Employees Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 24 CSR Activity Topics The aim of Shinryo Group is to realize sincere, fair, Fair and appropriate management, and to fulfill the social responsibilities placed upon the Group’s. Operating As a company aiming to “Create a Freshening World”, we participate in corporate ethics and Practices legal compliance and work so that we will gain the support of all of our stakeholders. Comprehensive Compliance Shinryo Group believes comprehensive compliance is the most important issue in management. All of our Shinryo Group Code of Business Conduct executives and employees of the Group are practicing Code of Business Conduct 1 Pursue customer satisfaction by standing in customers’ positions. legal compliance, which is at the heart of the Company Code of Business Conduct 2 Philosophy to “Be fair and straightforward” in our actions. Pursue management efficiency for the sake of shareholders. Code of Business Conduct 3 Create energetic and comfortable workplaces that staff can Compliance Promotion System show their families how proud they are of their Company. Code of Business Conduct 4 Together with our business partners, thoroughly comply with We are building a Compliance Promotion System that corporate ethics, laws, and regulations and conduct fair, encompasses our Group companies. We work to practice transparent, and open. Code of Business Conduct 5 compliance unified as a Group with Shinryo Corporation Constantly pursue how we should be as a member of a Compliance Committee and Compliance Promotion healthy society. Division at our core. Code of Business Conduct 6 As a global enterprise, contribute to the societal development of related countries. ○Compliance Promotion System diagram Decision-making Body Board of Directors Compliance Guidelines Reporting President Shinryo Group Compliance Guidelines are the basic Management Council principles all of the executives and employees of Shinryo Corrections/Orders Reporting Group must adhere to. These guidelines are founded in our Company Philosophy, Code of Business Conduct, and Compliance promotion function Coordination Coordination Standards of Conduct, and we have defined the Specific Compliance Related Auditing Compliance Items for the Code of Committee Divisions Function Business Conduct and Standards of Corrections/Orders Reporting General Affairs Audit Compliance Department Conduct, which are our evaluation Division Promotion Division Accounting and criteria in conducting our day-toFinance day business. In addition, Shinryo Education Pursuit of Various Reporting and Department Measures Guidance and Support Consultations Corporation and all of the executives International Administrative and employees of Group companies Corporate Divisions, Branches, & Accounting have taken the guideline education and Auditing Administrative Sections, “Shinryo Group Group companies have committed to compliance. Compliance Guidelines” Compliance Supervisors Establishment of the “Helpline” Consultation Service We have a Helpline compliance consultation service Shinryo Group Code of Business Conduct installed with the objective of preventing legal violations or We, the excecutives and employees of Shinryo Group, have inappropriateness as well as quickly discovering and correcting basic and common awareness of corporate ethics and signs of these issues. We are working to make it widely known compliance in accordance with Shinryo Group’s company by all persons participating in the work of Shinryo Corporation. philosophy and this Code of Business Conduct and Standards of Conduct, and positively practice compliance Initiative to Complete Compliance to the Antimonopoly Act in our daily business with a strong sense of belonging to the company. Shinryo Corporation received a cease and desist order from the Japan Fair Trade Commission on October 9, 2015 related 25 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Fair Operating Practices to the collusive bidding of facilities construction of the Explanations in Shinryo Compliance News Hokuriku Shinkansen train and was ordered on June 23, 2016 We distribute Shinryo Compliance News by email regularly to suspend operations for 30 days from the Ministry of Land, to all executives and employees. Survey is conducted in Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism on Shinryo Corporation each issue to enable executives and employees to easily gravely and seriously accepted the case and all executives express their opinions or consult about compliance. and employees will be fully committed to implement specific preventative measures and reinforce legal compliance. Shinryo Group Compliance Liaison Conference Ongoing implementation of Antimonopoly Act training Shinryo Group companies in Japan periodically hold Shinryo We convened Antimonopoly Act Training in January 2016 Group Compliance Liaison Conference. We exchange for all of our employees in markting positions in Japan. information such as the initiatives to improve systems at We are deepening the penetration and understanding of each company in order comprehensive compliance to the Antimonopoly Act by to align the awareness of continuing to hold this training every year. compliance throughout the Group. We also aim Ten Articles for Compliance to the Antimonopoly Act to coordinate plans and When fully revising Shinryo Group Compliance Guidelines, implementation of group we have gathered ten principles we should take note wide compliance education. Shinryo Group Compliance Liaison conference of in our daily operations to thoroughly comply to the Antimonopoly Act, and we regularly check compliance of Compliance related support of overseas branches / these principles. local companies Creation of Explanations on Related Laws and Regulations booklet Formulation of Overseas Guidelines We created the Explanations on Related Laws and We formulated the Compliance Guidelines (Global Version) Regulations (Antimonopoly Act, Construction Industry Law, for executives and employees in overseas local companies. etc.) as a separate booklet to Shinryo Group Compliance We are defining basic mandatory principles to promote Guidelines, and this booklet is used in education as a business activities suitable to different cultures and customs practical guide systematically gathering together the based on compliance to each type of international rule Antimonopoly Act and related laws that are distributed which includes compliance to the laws primarily to all executives and employees of Shinryo and regulations in each country and Corporation and sales persons of Group companies. region as well as human rights. Moreover, all of our executives and employees of overseas branches and Implementation of Various Compliance Education overseas local companies have taken Shinryo Corporation continues to hold various compliance our compliance education and vowed to education. We implement a wide-range of education and adhere to this compliance as of August Compliance Guidelines development from education held by the Compliance 2016. (Global Version) Committee to curriculum unique to each department, and we work hard in business while all executives and Start of Operations with the Guidelines for Anti-corruption Overseas employees always keep compliance in mind. Shinryo Corporation formulated and began operations under the Guidelines for Anti-corruption Overseas in ○Targeted Groups and Content of FY2016 Compliance Education October 2016. These guidelines clarify compliance items Targeted groups Content and the compliance system related to government officials All executives and employees Compliance e-learning when conducting business overseas. These guidelines also All executives and employees Thorough confirmation of Antimonopoly Act include countermeasures tailored to the circumstances Marketers in Japan Antimonopoly Act training of each country and region in addition to anti-corruption New employees Secondary new employee education in FY2015 concepts common to each country. New employees 2016 preliminary education of new employees Persons receiving promotions Compliance education matched to grade Responding to antisocial forces “Never yield to intimidation made by antisocial forces are working for informational awareness to employees by and resolutely face and eliminate them in a courageous revising our Requirements for Responding to Antisocial manner.” Shinryo Corporation complies with this stance in Forces that gathered response manuals and policies from our Code of Business Conduct and Standards of Conduct, countries in November 2015. and makes it a part of our internal control. Moreover, we Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 26 CSR Activity Topics Shinryo Corporation has acquired the Environmental Management System ISO14001 certification in May Environmental 2001. We are striving to respond appropriately to the environment by conducting activities such as Initiatives energy-saving proposals through business, reduction of CO2 emissions, asbestos measures, disposal of industrial waste, recycling, and retrieving of fluorocarbons. Environmental Management System ISO14001 Basic Philosophy and Basic Policies Toward the Environment ○Basic Philosophy SHINRYO CORPORATION, as a company connected to the environment, has been practicing environmental preservation through building equipment, based on our mission of “Create a Freshening World”. We shall continue to take aggressive actions to reduce environmental impact through corporate activities, and contribute to the preservation of the global environment into the future. ○Environmental Policy As a company which provides building equipment, as well as contributing to society, SHINRYO CORPORATION shall conduct the following and widely disclose this to the general public, in order to harmonize with a rich-green global environment and contribute to the construction of a recycling oriented society. 1. We shall establish and manage an environmental management system, in order to promote environmental preservation activities. 2. We shall accurately ascertain the impact of our business activities on the environment, and implement continuous improvements of the environmental management system, striving for pollution prevention. 3. We shall comply with all laws, ordinances, and regulations related to the environmental aspect, and observe the requirements of environmental agreements we have agreed upon. 4. We shall establish environmental targets and objectives within the scope of our technical and economic capabilities, and shall periodically revise them through our environmental preservation activities. 5. We shall take action focusing on the following items, through our environmental preservation activities. ● Promotion of activities for productivity improvements during construction, in order to minimize the emission of greenhouse gases. ● Expansion of activities in consideration of the environment, in order to contribute to the minimization of greenhouse gas emissions at the time of use. ● Promotion of the 3R*s of construction by-products, striving for environmental preservation during construction. 6. As well as widely disseminating the environmental policy to all personnel who are engaged in the business activities or our company, we shall promote improvements in the consciousness of all personnel concerning environmental preservation, through the implementation of environmental education and awareness activities. *Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle Promotion System VOICE Shinryo Corporation minimizes its impact on the Kimio Senda environment from the process of handling air, water, heat, Executive Vice President and energy, and it has been engaged in activities that aim In Charge of the Environmental to create a comfortable environment with the mission to Activities “Create a Freshening World,” which the company has had Shinryo Corporation is a company inseparable from the environment since its founding. as it is in business to provide We are actively working to reduce our global environments. We have poured environmental impact based on this basic environmental our strengths into environments for people, high-precision conservation philosophy. environments for production equipment, and even developed technology to remove harmful substances to provide healthy ○Environmental Management System environments. We have been aiming to hold the environment dear with our utmost passion since long ago. Executive In Charge of Shinryo Corporation has put its full force into (1) care toward Environmental Activities environmental savings, (2) reduction of the environmental burden by improving productivity at each stage of construction, Environmental Promotion Committee and (3) the 3Rs as an environmental management system. I Management Supervisor of EMS Office believe fully complying with laws and regulations such as the Construction Recycling Law and the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, and of course reducing Administrative Section the waste and energy consumption during construction as well as dramatically improving productivity effectively reduces the burden on the environment. Each Corporate Environmental initiatives do not produce immediate results. Division and Branch Efforts need to accumulate for 10, 20, and even 50 years. I think we are all working every day to make sure we pass down a healthy world to the next generation as a company. 27 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Environmental Initiatives Initiatives to Reduce CO2 Emissions and Save Resources We are promoting the following initiatives to reduce CO2 Environmental Communication Project emissions and save resources. We have visualized CO2 emission reduction on-site since 2008. We convert and express the amount of CO2 Sales and Design Operations emission reductions on-sites by the CO2 emissions for each Shinryo Corporation is actively offering proposals for energy household. saving systems and equipment to customers by obtaining characteristics of this equipment such as air flow and ○Visualization of CO2 Reductions energy consumption with CFD*. Furthermore, we strive to on-sites indicates 100 households support energy savings and reduce CO2 emissions through visualization technology for the energy consumption of 963 households FY2010 (5,172t-CO2) equipment systems as well. 554 households FY2011 (2,974t-CO2) 607 households FY2012 (3,262t-CO2) 1,111 households (5,964t-CO2) FY2013 Proposals for energy saving technology through CFD 1,084 households *CFD: computational fluid dynamics (5,819t-CO2) FY2014 Installation Operations 964 households FY2015 (5,176t-CO2) We are striving to reduce CO2 emissions through use of BIM, improvement of construction methods and improving 809 households FY2016 (4,346t-CO2) productivity at construction sites. We are also actively engaging in 3R to reduce waste, promote recycling, and 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 use environmentally-friendly materials, construction Households methods, and planning and implementation of installation Amount of CO2 emissions from households: 5,370kg-CO2 / household per year management. Source: Carbon Dioxide Emissions from Households (FY2013), Japan Center for Climate Change Actions Installation of Online Conference Systems We introduced online conference systems throughout the company in June 2014 following the TV Conference System in 2008. With an Internet connection and a computer, tablet Equipment transport Transport of valves in reusable boxes terminal, or smartphone, employees can have meetings while looking at one another’s expressions and sharing materials no matter where they are in the world. Online conference systems are spearheading greater capabilities in meetings between people in charge of each location and on-site solutions. We are reducing the CO2 emissions, Investigating fit using BIM with each Marking using a tablet computer for costs, and time required for company installation operations travel and business trips through the use of this ICT technology. Online meeting Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 28 FY2016 Environmental Targets and Activity Results Our activity results between October 2015 to September 2016 are outlined below. Responsible Environmental target Activity content Item Target Achievement operation Reduction of greenhouse Reduction of CO2 emissions during Rate of proposals Design Over 50% 56.2% gases through environmentallyoperations through design proposals for for CO2 reductions operations friendly design new buildings and renovation CO2 reduction rate Over 30% 29.5% Reduction of CO2 emissions on-site 90kg-CO2/ 73.4kg-CO2/ Promotion of activities to Installation and (implementation of activities to improve CO2 reduction unit million yen or million yen or improve productivity on-site manufacturing productivity) more more operations Recycling rate of Promotion of 3Rs on-site Promote recycling of industrial waste Over 80% 78.4% industrial waste Asbestos Removal Initiatives Shinryo Corporation have appointed a person in charge Asbestos Health Check-ups of asbestos management at each corporate division and branch, hold regular meetings with these representatives, We thoroughly implement asbestos health check-ups for and have formulated guidelines to standardize asbestos employees who have been exposed to asbestos or who removal operations in our company after establishing the have handled or removed asbestos in the past. Ordinance on Prevention of Health Impairment Due to Asbestos. Implementation of Asbestos Patrols We have launched a database for when we receive orders for construction to remove asbestos, and conduct We are periodically conducting asbestos patrols on-site centralized management of analysis results and asbestos through the Safety Supervision Department, Technical construction cycle operation records. Supervision Department, and persons in charge of asbestos Shinryo Corporation is working with its full force to management. stop the spread of asbestos into the atmosphere while We are confirming whether we are in full compliance preventing health hazards to our employees and other with the law by checking both documents filed with workers related to removal operations by utilizing the government bodies and outsourcing contracts for industrial asbestos construction cycle. waste. Sharing and Utilization of Asbestos Removal Operation Examples We are sharing and utilizing information throughout the entire company by submitting removal examples as reports from on-site employees in charge of asbestos removal operations in conferences for persons in charge of asbestos Confirmation of plans and submitted Confirmation of protective equipment documents and operational status management. Confirmation of notices and on-site Workers wearing protective equipment measures Removal example Expansion to Partner Companies Health and Safety Council consisting from partner companies holds classes related to asbestos in labor and safety training Asbestos training and special education for materials workers. 29 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Environmental Initiatives Ecological Conservation Activities Enlightenment Program “the Environmental Renaissance Activities” Shinryo Corporation is conducting the Environmental Renaissance Activities enlightenment program for the Introduction of Activity Report purpose of improving employee awareness about the Crayﬁsh Extermination Activities/Special Rescue Animal importance of ecological conservation. Public Tour (Kanagawa Prefecture Natural Environment The program aims to improve motivation toward the Conservation Center) understanding and ongoing activities for ecological Hirohide Kikunaga conservation by supplying book coupons to employees Chief Designer, Nuclear Power Plant Division I participated in an extermination initiative to have fun and conducting activities related to ecological conservation catch crayﬁsh, which are a non-native species. I came to and environmental education as well as supplementing the understand the diﬃcultly of purchase of books related to the environment. rejuvenating the ecological system once it is destroyed. Moreover, these activities have become a matching gift I also took a special public system to donate the equivalent book coupon costs that are tour of protected wildlife hurt supplied over one year to international environment NGOs. by the lifestyles of mankind. I realized the importance to properly learning about ○Environmental Renaissance Activities System wildlife. Catching crayfish Ecological conservation Shinryo activities through Wild Birdwatching (Yatsu-Higata Nature Observation non-profit organizations Corporation Center) (4) Donation (Sum of (1) Participation money equivalent to in conservation book coupons supplied Naoyuki Okada activities of employees to employees) Senior Chief Administrator, Accounting and Finance Department CSR International I participated in the Wild Birdwatching in Yatsu-Higata Promotion environmental Narashino City, Chiba with my family. I came to understand (2) Activity report submission Division NGO the importance of Yutsu-Higata, which is a marsh registered through employees in the Ramsar Convention. I grew to become more aware of an environment where (3) Supply (book coupons) humans and birds co-exist. There were bird handcrafts held by the NPO and I learned about nature while having fun ○Organizations Employees have Participated (Example) with my children. Host organization Activity Handcrafted tern Kawasaki City, Kanagawa Kawasaki Tamagawa Riverside and Mudflat Environment Research Institute Life Observation Tenoike Monthly Themed Observation Event Shinjuku-ku Environmental Studies Emerging Cicada Observation (Kasumigaura Nature and History Association) and Information Center Ikuhiro Yamada Kanagawa Prefecture Natural Crayfish Extermination Activities Senior Chief Researcher, Research and Development Center Environment Conservation Center I feel I don t have many opportunities to interact with nature Kanagawa Prefecture Natural Special Rescue Animal Public Environment Conservation Center Tour in my daily life so I participated in the observation event of Satoyama around Tenoike in Hyogo Diamina Fritillary Butterfly Mt. Takamaru (Hachikogen) Kise of Tsukuba City, Ibaraki Preservation Association Summer Butterfly Watching Prefecture. Experts even Youngsters’ Science Festival provided explanations and I 2015 “Learning the Importance Japan Science Foundation, etc. was able to have a profound of Natural Preservation Through Butterflies” experience. I would like to participate in the cleaning Presentations About the Natural activities of Satoyama as well. New Revitalized Environment Environment of North Tajima of Tajima Region Action Plan “How do we protect the natural Walking observation Promotion Council environment from dear to small plant life?” Emerging Cicada Observation (Shinjuku-ku Environment Control Section, “Butterfly Observation Walk” in Environmental Studies and Information Center) Environment Department Kakogawa City, Hyogo Kakogawa City, Hyogo Prefecture Shigeo Morioka Certified Non-profit Organization General Manager, Accounting and Finance Department Tenoike Monthly Themed for Nature Conservation and History Observation Event We observed cicada during the stage of emergence as we Transmission of Shishitsuka Satoyama moved through Shinjuku Let’s Research Fossil Leaves of Ibaraki Nature Museum Central Park. We were able to Trees see the emerging cicada and Little Tern Project Little Tern Nest Building Activity other insects that we don t Yatsu-Higata Nature Observation usually notice in our daily lives. Wild Birdwatching Center I talked with my family about Yokohama Nature Sanctuary “Everyone Birdwatching (Wild how my view of the world Tomo-no-Kai (Bird Watching Team) Birdwatching in the Forest)” around me changed by having more awareness of nature. Picture journal of emerging cicada Yokohama Nature Sanctuary Charcoal Making Experience Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 30 CSR Activity Topics Shinryo Corporation acquired the Quality Management System ISO9001 and is striving to Consumer improve quality in order to satisfy our customers. In addition, on-site safety and health management Initiatives at Shinryo Corporation is addressed in the basic health and safety policy that we have had since our founding. Quality Management System ISO9001 quality demands are met. We respond to customer Quality Policy needs from start of construction to after handing over Provide quality earning trust from our customers with to customers through proper execution of “Construction all our effort. Cycle.” Furthermore, in construction technology, we educate construction standards and trouble examples Shinryo Corporation has acquired Quality Management and appropriate assignment of certified staff to ensure System ISO9001 certification at each corporate division and construction quality. branch in Japan. We have been continuing to ensure quality and improve customer satisfaction through incorporating Shinryo Forum quality management system and continually improving sales, design, and construction management process. Shinryo Forum consists from comprehensive forum and We will continue striving to enhance our quality seminar. Comprehensive forum connect every section and management system to accurately respond to customer regional offices including overseas with TV conference needs and provide high-quality equipment and services. system and offer place of exchange and sharing information for technology, design, and sales staff. The seminar is a discussion meeting for the Initiatives in Quality Management purpose of improving special Shinryo Corporation places “Construction Cycle” as the technologies and sharing core of quality management system and is engaged in information between the quality management at each construction site. employees. In FY2016, two “Construction Cycle” is a system that identify and takes comprehensive forum and measures related to construction quality through discussion seminar was held to increase technological capability. Shinryo Forum before start of construction, inspection during each stage of construction and after completion that confirms Health and Safety Initiatives Health and Safety Policy 2016 Health and Safety Slogan Safety First for our Prosperity Strengthen safety patrol and specify the factor of danger and hazard, then let's prevent the serious accident Shinryo Corporation has prioritized safety above all else based on the basic health and safety policy we have held since our founding. All employees have been working in Shinryo Corporation is working to prevent accidents by health and safety activities to prevent labor accidents. We formulating a Company-wide Safety and Health Campaign believe there is a need for even greater health and safety to Policy each year. In the 2016 Company-wide Safety and resolve problems such as a lack in skilled workers, increase Health Campaign Policy, employees and workers improved of lower experienced workers, and aging workers to handle their sense of danger. We emphasize that identifying danger the increased workload and lack of workers in the future factors latent at construction sites and having the ability due to projects from the disaster reconstruction operations to build measures against those danger factors are the first and the Tokyo Olympics. steps to preventing labor accidents. 31 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Consumer Initiatives Cooperation with Partner Companies (Health and Safety Council) Since 1971, we have been improving safety awareness with safety awareness of the entire construction site through the Health and Safety Council, which brings together the operational guidance from superiorly qualified persons. headquarters and each branch with our partner companies, In our safety experience education, we are improving by (1) conducting education about health and safety, awareness of safety as “allowing absolutely no accidents (2) researching and implementing measures against causes on my site” while aiming to improve a sense of danger. of accidents, (3) offering education and guidance through patrols, and (4) raising awareness in public relations related to labor laws and other health and safety matters. VOICE We hold training with themes from safety management of Mitsuo Kobayashi employees, relevant laws and regulations and compliance General Manager measures to prevention of human error and accidents in our Safety Supervision Department, labor safety training that brings together 200 participants Technical Supervision Division from partner companies every year. This training is held Shinryo Corporation proceeds with construction work through daily with the cooperation of the Safety Supervision Department confirmation and execution by all of Shinryo Corporation. of our employees with safety as We are also conducting education in various aspects of the top priority under the basic health and safety policy slogan “no health and safety with the Safety Supervision Department work without safety no company without safety” that we have of Shinryo Corporation as the teachers. We are also held since our founding. In FY2016, we set the reduction of providing cooperative activities to offer follow-up after serious accidents as our highest goal and strove as a unified company to prevent accidents from crashes and falls as well the certification is acquired. In addition, we are improving as electrocution. As a result of repeatedly implementing comprehensive efforts from full inspections on every site for full understanding of accidents and preventing any recurrence to on-site safety patrols with the cooperation of the Health and Safety Council which unifies our partner companies as well as education to improve of labor management, we have been able to eliminate serious accidents and reduce accidents requiring four or more days off one-third compared to the previous year as of the end of September. We will continue to strive to improve health and safety without letting our guard down even including all partner companies for zero on-site accidents. Health and safety promotion Health and Safety Council monthly competition patrol (Hosted by Health and Safety Council) CSR Procurement Guidelines Shinryo Corporation pursues CSR initiatives through CSR Procurement Guidelines and have asked over 500 cooperation and coordination with its business partners, companies to cooperate in complying with the guidelines. especially partner companies. We have established Shinryo Shinryo CSR Procurement Guidelines 1. Fair and sound corporate activities We ask that companies engage in fair and sound business activities without unfair competition or actions that obstruct free competition. 2. Quality, safety, and business continuity We ask that you comply with laws and regulations concerning management of hazardous substances and product safety, and strive to ensure the health and safety of product users and consumers. We also ask that you engage voluntarily in initiatives for business continuity planning. 3. Consideration of human rights, labor, and occupational health and safety We ask that you respect basic human rights and pursue business activities that take the working environment and occupational health and safety into consideration. 4. Consideration of the environment We ask that you steadily implement environment conservation including biodiversity, and environmental management to undertake business activities with the global environment taken into account. 5. Legal compliance We ask that you comply with the laws and regulations of all nations and regions, as well as international treaties and social norms, and conduct business activities founded on corporate ethics. 6. Management of information We ask that you enact measures against threats to computer networks, while also appropriately managing and protecting confidential information concerning business and personal information, to avoid leaks or improper / illegal use. Please also strive to prevent leaks of confidential information belonging to customers and third parties. Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 32 CSR Activity Topics Human As a global company, Shinryo Corporation respects human rights in all countries. We have also set Rights / “Create energetic and comfortable workplaces that staff can show their families how proud they are Labor of their company” as part of our Code of Business Conduct, and engage in a variety of activities. Practices Work Style Reform management and urgent response, we are practicing no Awareness of Work Style Reform overtime days while reforming the model for each site. Long working hours is a major issue in the construction industry, which is a labor-intensive industry. Shinryo Education of Work Style Awareness Innovation Corporation began work style reform to resolve long working hours in April 2016. We revised all of our We held the Challenge for work style reform as operational processes with our executives in charge of Management Strategy class lead by Yoshie Komuro (Work work style reform at the core. These revisions aimed Life Balance Co., Ltd.) for executives and general managers to realize a highly productive work style, correct labor in September 2016. This class taught currently needed practices that normalize long working hours, and realize a strategy is to solve long working hours and an aging society work-life balance. with fewer children, which are issues faced by society in As we approach efficient work styles, Shinryo Corporation Japan. In addition, executives and needs to sustain and further improve the technological general managers learned these capabilities it has cultivated over the last 60 years. We innovations aim for an attractive continue to human resource education together with workplace building which diverse diversity initiatives with the objective of realizing a workplace people can work can exert their that actively utilizes diverse human resources. strength through short and efficient working hours and working locations regardless of whether a man or Introduction of a No Overtime Day woman. Yoshie Komuro Shinryo Corporation has introduced a no overtime day every Wednesday at all of our branches and offices and 93 construction sites throughout Japan selected as model sites VOICE as the first step toward work style reform since April 2016. Yasunori Abe We are also working to reach 100% Managing Executive Officer In implementation of no overtime Charge of Work Style Reform days as a target in our operations There are two types of work style by transferring work to another reform for Shinryo Corporation; day when it cannot be done on (1) correcting long working hours Wednesday. and (2) realizing a work-life While actually adjusting the balance. Long working hours are schedule throughout entire a big problem in the construction industry. I believe we would not be able to respond to the construction site only through changes of society in the near future if we ignored this major Shinryo Corporation is difficult No overtime day promotion issue. Therefore, we need to reform each and every aspect due to operations such as process poster toward realizing this goal in order to resolve this problem. These work style reform started in FY2016. We also set and started executing no overtime days once a week. We will Initiatives on Model Sites begin work style reform and operations in FY2017 to create what I hope will be an attractive workplace for each person ● Gain understanding and work together by consulting about no overtime days with customers and on-site and also improve productivity as a company. workers ● Reduce daily one-hour on-site meetings to 20 minutes through proceeding in a more efficient manner ● Share schedule data to adjust days or acquire days off when no overtime days cannot be implemented 33 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Human Rights / Labor Practices Initiatives for Work-Life Balance Formulation of Work-Life Balance Support Programs Acquisition of Various Leave We are formulating policies for employees to actively use in We have introduced a leave acquisition promotion system, the long term so they can care for family, give birth, and raise which includes project leave, anniversary leave, and refresh children as well as work to increase their motivation to work. leave, to build a working environment that leave can be taken easily while also supporting the physical and mental Transfer System to Accompany Spouse health of employees. This system allows employees to transfer when an employed spouse has been transferred and they want to keep work at a Shinryo Corporation office and if a place at that office is available. Come-back System This system allows regular employees who have worked at Shinryo Corporation for more than three years and resigned to (1) raise children, (2) care for family, or (3) transfer Employees qualified for Refresh Leave (FY2016 commendations for 30 years of service) with a spouse to return to work within five years of their resignation as a general rule. Physical and Mental Health of Employees Health Management Mental Health Introduction of Health Consultation Office Implementation of Stress Checks We have set up daily care by resident nurses and a We implement stress checks in FY2016 for all our consultation office once a week by an industry doctor at executives and employees have taken stress checks since the clinic in our headquarters. We are also building an they were implemented in FY2016 to build an easy to environment for employees work environment, promote awareness about stress, and to work with peace of mind maintain mental health after revisions to a portion of the by introducing a 24-hour Industrial Safety and Health Law were enacted. health consultation service We are improving the workplace in addition to providing where employees can consult opportunities to take and receive advice from mental health with experts about physical experts such as industry doctors for employees who feel and mental health concerns Health consultation with a nurse at the stressed and would like to talk with a physician. headquarters clinic by phone or by email. Participation in Walking Campaign We have participated in the Walking Campaign held by the Kankogyo Health Insurance Society since 2009. Participants work to overcome a lack of exercise daily and better their health with the goal of 10,000 steps each day. ○Campaign Participation Rate and Achievement Rate for Stress diagnosis More than 10,000 Steps 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 Consultation with Industry Mental Health Professionals Spring Fall Spring Fall Spring We started once a month consultations with industry Participation Rate 98.9% 99.0% 98.8% 98.6% 98.1% doctors who are mental health professionals at our headquarters clinic from April 2016. Achievement Rate 65.5% 65.3% 68.3% 68.4% 66.7% Implementation of Mental Health Education No Smoking Initiatives We conduct “mental health education,” centered on We are subsidizing the full treatment for employees who management positions, with the aim of management, stop smoking for three or more months from when they start maintenance, and improvement of employees’ minds and the no smoking treatment. Six employees have had success bodies. A total of 60 employees, including new managers, in quitting smoking in this initiative which began in 2015. took this education in FY2016. Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 34 Initiatives for Diversity A corporate climate that allows diverse human resources specific image of life in the future from social insurance from senior employees, female employees, or employees policies after retirement to methods to manage money in who are caring for family to multinational employees to later years through an expert perspective by bringing in actively participate is indispensable. Shinryo Corporation is labor and social security attorneys and financial planners furthering enhanced policies and the introduction of flexible to explain human resource policies such as pensions and working forms to drive skills and promote the ongoing restructuring policies after retirement. work of diverse human resources. Actively Participation of Female Employees Actively Participation of Senior Employees Shinryo Corporation aims for a stronger organization by Provision of a Motivating and Active Workplace securing diverse human resources, and we strive to build Shinryo Corporation is promoting the creation of systems environments female employees can continue working and environments to allow active participation based on without stress and promote the active participation of skill to have senior employees who have supported the female employees. company up until now to continue their efforts. In FY2014, motivation and an evaluation matching that motivation was Informational Disclosure Based on the Law to established through the institutionalization of “Temporary S” Promote Women in the Workplace to administrate important operations. In October 2015, the We are disclosing information and action plans through system was also added to systems for not only technical avenues on the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare employees but also sales, office, and research development database to promote women in the workplace based on staff. Moreover, we have also established a system to the Law to Promote Women in the Workplace. allow work at our Group companies up to the age of 70 in addition to reemployment of people up to the age of 65. ○Shinryo Group Major Consolidated Performance Figures We have also revised the salary and bonuses of the Ratio of female employees １６． ２％ policy in April 2016 to be in line with the current skills and Ratio of female employees in management positions ２． ３％ job of the individual regardless of their position before retirement to give them even greater presence and work with a sense of responsibility. Publishing of Independent Conduct Plan for Female Employees Participation on the Keidanren ○Temporary System Matched to Capabilities We published our “independent conduct plan related Category Requirement Job examples to executive and management appointment of female Persons who able to employees” on the Keidanren Japan Business Federation On-site project manager sufficiently contribute who represents the website. to accomplishments company of the company by Temporary S Overseas local company executing their role as president or vice an employee responsible president for important corporate Quantitative goals Advanced professor operations ● Aim of two times the number of female managers by Persons with vast On-site project manager 2020 experience and superior for large-scale sites or expert skills who are able sites with a high degree ● Strengthen employment of female employees by aiming Temporary I to execute their role as of technical difficulty for twice the number of female employees in all within an employee responsible Managers of very five years and quadruple the number within ten years for operations with a difficult projects high degree of difficult Persons who are able to On-site project manager Qualitative goals execute operations as an Temporary II Persons who are ● Establishment of an employee friendly environment by employee responsible for responsible for projects introducing a telecommuting system and a system to operations extend period of prescribed reduction of working hours Temporary III Persons other than above Persons other than above ● Implementation of group training such as career development and leadership improvement targeting all Holding of Life Plan Seminars female employees and promotion of awareness reform We are periodically holding life plan seminars every year ● Expand awareness of systems and initiatives to empower female employees and efforts to create a corporate for 50 and 59 year old employees so they may continue culture to promote the active participation of female working from a long-term perspective by recognizing the employees work style and life design after retirement from an early period. These seminars bring a curriculum able to give a 35 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Human Rights / Labor Practices Diversity Education for Management Actively Participation of Foreign Nationals We held the Management Seminar for Female Employee Education for 32 managers that have female employees An item within Shinryo Corporation’s Company Philosophy, as subordinates in September 2016. This seminar aimed “Have leadership, irrespective of education or age” has to teach specific management methods (career paths, been translated into English for application overseas, with support for both work and life events, etc.) to education the addition of “nationality” to “education” and “age.” This female employees. Students learned the current state Company Philosophy forms the basis for action at each and problems of our company, education through these of our overseas sites, as in Japan. We believe that making problems, and methods use of a broad range of human resources, crossing the for management of female boundaries of nationality and ethnicity, is necessary for us employees through this to develop as a global company. seminar. We also created a message of encouragement for subordinates at the end Company Philosophy of the seminar. ● Be fair and straightforward Seminar for management ● Do your best with all your effort ● Have leadership, irrespective of education, age, or nationality. VOICE Yasumoto Asaka Manager 2nd Engineer Group from the Philippines Visit Japan First Sales Department, Tokyo Metropolitan The lack of human resources in the construction industry Area Division will be a grave problem in the future. As one measure to One of my employees has a three-year old child and is working a reduced respond to this problem, Shinryo Corporation has been work shift. However, my staff and I work conducting practical education in Japan for engineers every day by talking with everyone in from overseas since 2015. In FY2016, ten engineers from my section freely about the work style and methodology SHINRYO (PHILIPPINES) COMPANY, INC. visited Japan. We which will realize the full potential of a staff member who has aim to increase the number of colleagues working together a limited amount of time. Shinryo Corporation still does not in Japan and overseas through this initiative. have many working mothers right now. As a manager, I would like to build an environment where women can be motivated to work while supporting education methods. Career Design Education for Female Employees We held the Career Design Seminar for Female Employees Engineers from SHINRYO (PHILIPPINES) COMPANY, INC. who visited Japan for 24 female employees in September 2016. This seminar was held with the purpose to heightening awareness to motivate female employees to continue working and teach Local Overseas Staff Japan Invitation Program methods to achieve a work-life balance. This became an We have held manager training for managers local overseas opportunity for female employees to once again think companies as part of our initiative toward globalization about their work style and of Shinryo Group. This training was held over four days in career goals for the next five June 2016 with the participation of 19 managers from nine to ten years by reflecting on countries. In addition to tours of our headquarters and themselves through lectures Research and Development Center, we held management and discussions between training that included our Japan managers. participants. Seminar for female employees Training participants Group work Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 36 CSR Activity Topics Training and At Shinryo Corporation, people are considered to be our most valuable asset since our establishment. Development The techniques, knowledge and experience that all our employees have are indeed our management of Human resources. We have put in place a wide-range of education programs to bring out the highest level of skill from our employees and we are advancing the Resources development of human resources so that executives and employees of any age can work with flexible creativity always with a strong challenging spirit. Implementation of a Wide-variety of Training ○Main FY2016 Training by Department Development Training System Position Educational overview Company-wide Training (Required Training) ・Participating in construction review meetings of site the employee is not in charge of Shinryo Corporation position various group training and Technical role ・Manufacturer new product study session internal testing as mandatory education for each level ・Education to prevent recurrence of trouble through education materials with case studies of issues and year of employment with the objective of recognizing Study session of industry trends and strategic the role of employees and increasing knowledge and Market role management methods technology. In addition, we held mid-level technical Administrative Presentation session for business role by level role employee training. We are aiming to strengthen our on-site Symposium beyond class and role for noncapabilities by program teaching the expertise of on-site Common management employees project managers and practical methods of on-site budget management. New Employee Training and Education ○Group training by level and year Extensive training curriculum New employee Assessment of Chief promotion Senior Chief administration Managerial position Advanced test Over the one-year of new employee training and education, Promotion we have prepared the perfect curriculum for each technical and administrative employee to build a foundation enabling training training and education degree of achievement training promotion training promotion training them to work with confidence right after assignment. Training for ○New employee training and education for FY2016 20th year after joining April May August September October November December January February March Mid-level technical Construction drawing training employee training and education (engineering) Practical on-site training and education Company-Wide Training (Elective Training) Primary training Overseas Practical sales / We implement training to take by selecting external and education short term management training and training system education (administrative) seminars based on official responsibilities / position for mid to higher level employees with the purpose of increasing Training and education Secondary by executives training awareness and skill. and education Employees who participated in the training aimed to gain the knowledge and skills required as management. Training Dormitory Kofu Dormitory These participants have praised the training with feedback The overall training and education at Kofu Dormitory for that includes success in learning how to think from a approximately one year is an ongoing tradition at Shinryo management perspective, learning things they hope to Corporation since its founding. As a place of human resource use in figure-based plans in the division they are in charge, development, employees who enter the company at the and once again recognized how unique the construction same year able to build bonds by living and learning together. industry is through the interaction with the people in other industries who participated. Training by Department We plan and implement practical training systematically as “training by department” by the departments and are linked to “company-wide training” to increase education effect. Kofu Dormitory Communication space 37 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Training and Development of Human Resources New Employees Overseas Short Term Training System Shinryo Group-wide New Employee Training We dispatch all of our new employees several people at a Shinryo Group is holding new employee training together time to overseas construction sites. Our employees stay for with all Group companies in Japan. Shinryo Group has one-week in the local area to deepen their understanding companies in a wide range of industries from human of working and living overseas by experiencing these sites resource deployment and system development to hotels in first hand, and we train our human resources to have a addition to the construction industry. Participants conduct global mindset and a desire to work overseas. discussions around the theme of “What can be done toward business expansion through cooperation that goes beyond the barriers of the business category” to bring forth ideas freely and learn the importance of supporting one another as a Group. Group-wide training at the Research On-site training in Vietnam Meeting with local staff in Vietnam and Development Center Overseas Training System VOICE Shinryo Corporation pioneered overseas business in Yukari Sakai the industry in 1972, opened branches and overseas New Employee (Short-term On-site Training Participant at Thai Shinryo local companies focusing on Asia / Middle East, and Limited) has expanded those businesses. In recent years, we are The training at the cogeneration plant in establishing various educational programs to train many Thailand was large in both construction human resources able to be actively participate globally. applications as well as scale and filled with surprises. I struggled at Overseas practical dispatch system the beginning because all of the communication with the This system is for employees who have worked for the local staff was in English. But, thanks to the greatly patient company between four and eight years that have firstexplanations using pictures and other means, I become accustomed to conversations by the end of the training. I hand experience in Japan. Employees selected publicly was also able to succeed in my goal of actively learning both experience the entire construction cycle on-site at overseas technologies for the future and language by gaining a clear sites over one to three years. image of working overseas through this training. Five people participated in 2015 and three people are planning to participate in 2016. The youthful abilities targeted by the overseas business is trained through practical means. Shogo Tabata, Tohoku Branch Engineer (PT. SHINRYO INDONESIA practical overseas dispatch) Children Visiting Day We held “Children Visiting Day 2016” at the headquarters see their “father’s” desk, that the CAD operations looked building in August 2016. A total of 90 children and difficult, and that it was fun to exchange business cards. members of their families participated from throughout Japan. This is the sixth time this initiative has been held since the first event in 2011 for employees to work with pride by understading the work of “fathers” and “mothers” to their families. The children visited each workplace as a work introduction stamp rally, which deepened their understanding of each division’s role while experiencing the atmosphere of the workplace first hand. The children Experience operating CAD Business card exchange with employees shared their thoughts saying that they were happy to Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 38 CSR Activity Topics Community Shinryo Corporation actively implements and promotes activities to demonstrate the importance Involvement of community and culture as a company that contributes to the sustainable growth of society. and We believe that steadily accumulating small, closeat-hand activities is important in engaging with local communities. Development Relationship with Society Instructor Activities with Universities Bringing In High School Internships Shinryo Corporation has accepted the opportunity for In December 2015, we brought in 10th grade students living employees to be part-time instructors in under-graduate environment system interns (work experience) from Fujisawa and graduate programs. Employees are in charge of Koka High School in Kanagawa at our Yokohama Branch. The classes such as building service and machines as well as internships were involved in activities over three days such engineering systems. We believe in contributing to the as experience-oriented learning of on-site operations and growth of technology and the industry by engaging in the hands-on creation of design plans to satisfy the requirements education of students who will lead the next generation. of customers in addition to tours of facilities from the heat source machine room and the roof cooling tower at sites to ○FY2016 Class district heating and cooling Name of University Classes taught systems. We hope this Tokyo University of Science Advanced Ventilation Systems young generation of students Meijo University Building Service Engineering 2 learning civil engineering Waseda University Environmental Building Services Drawing were able to deepen their Kumamoto University Studies on Building Services Planning understanding and interest Tsukuba University of Specialized Courses in System in the construction industry Technology Engineering through this internship. Hands-on design planning Tsukuba University of Eco Environmental Systems Technology Hosting of Let’s Tour Technology to Design Air Open office We held a open office for female students who are VOICE interested in the science and engineering field at the Kenichi Tagami Research and Development Center in August 2016. A total Deputy General Manager of 21 female students participated. The Open Office was Design Department, sponsored by the Science and Engineering Challenge (RikoNagoya Branch chare) that is promoted by the Gender Equality Bureau I taught 137 students in Building Service Engineering Cabinet Office. The Open Office was planned to play a role 2, which is a required subject in communicating the fun of science and engineering work Class environment in the Faculty of Science and and help students consider their future studies and work. Technology, Department This is the second year the Open Office was held. of Architecture at Meijo University. I was passionate about In addition to explaining technology developed by female teaching a class that mixed things not written in the text employees of Shinryo Corporation, etc., the participants books by utilized the real experience and knowledge I have tried operating testing devices. Furthermore, our female gained over the last 30 years with focus on a practical level employees talked about the reasons they chose science related to building service. I brought in a curriculum that of course covered modern energy-saving technology that plays and engineering field and what is attractive about the work a role in preventing global warming today, but also allowed at the tea time after the tour. The participants shared their students to actually learn equipment design operations by impressions saying that this moving them with their own hands rather than just listening was an event to help them to a lecture. Students are serious and enthusiastic, sometimes think about their future surprising me with unexpected question. The class progressed and that they were able to in a very fun way with positive students. I think the students talk freely with the female learned the importance of building service through my class. I employees and now have a hope to cultivate engineers who can take on the challenges of the world and would like to keep teaching. clearer image of the work. Shinryo Corporation open office 39 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Community Involvement and Development Connections with Local Communities with the cooperation of our partner companies. Yotsuya Volunteer Clean-up Activities (Headquarters) Agreeing to a request from the 2-chome, Yotsuya, Volunteer Clean-up Activities Around Nojima Park Shinjuku-ku community youth group, we have continued (Yokohama Branch) to participate in a “clean-up activities” in Yotsuya once a month every year since 2004. The number of employees During the vacation in May 2016, we deepened our for staffing alternates monthly and, together with the friendship by having a barbecue for our family gathering youth group and community, we walk and pick up litter with the employees and families of partner companies held such as cigarette butts and empty cans on the sidewalks by the Yokohama Branch Occupational Health and Safety and shrubbery around 2-chome, Yotsuya. In addition, new Council at Nojima Park in Yokohama City. We conducted employees even participate in this activity as trainees in volunteer clean-up activities around the park where we April every year. We will continue this activity in the future held the event after fun such as games. This family event, to show our gratitude to the Yotsuya community who which is held periodically every year, is the second time supports us and to remain conscious of ourselves as a since last year that we have conducted volunteer cleancompany coexisting with the environment. up activities. This year, 113 participants came together for the activity in green ware Cooperation with the Fill Yotsuya with Flowers and further enhanced their Campaign (Headquarters) awareness of environmental This campaign sets up planters with seedlings raised by third conservation while grade students at the Shinjuku Yotsuya Elementary School. generating a filling of unity. We have been cooperating with the Fill Yotsuya with Flowers Volunteer clean-up activity Campaign initiative to fill the Yotsuya District with flowers Clean-up Activities Along Hirose River since FY2011. This has become (Tohoku Branch) a wonderful opportunity to enjoy the flowers and interact We held clean-up activities along Hirose River which flows with the children who visit through Sendai City in October 2015. We have held these to water the flowers on their clean-up activities together with an outdoor party, which is way home from school. Planters placed at the headquarters a regular event of the Tohoku Branch. Roughly 30 employees entrance and their families walked and picked up trash along the five kilometer road to the site for the outdoor party. Volunteer Clean-up Activities Around Takamatsu Warehouses (Air Conditioning Equipment Division) We are conducting clean-up activities around our warehouse in Takamatsu, Nerima-ku, Tokyo after our morning meeting every Wednesday. This activity began as a way of showing our appreciation to everyone in the local community each day as our warehouse is located in a residential area. We have been doing this for eight years Clean-up Activities and Outdoor Party Along Hirose River Support for Culture and the Arts Shinryo Corporation engage in support for culture and Kanazawa / Osaka Symphony Orchestra / Osaka Philharmonic Orchestra / Kanagawa Philharmonic Orchestra / Kansai the arts, through supporting memberships, sponsor ships. Philharmonic Orchestra / The Kyushu Symphony Orchestra / In FY2016, we were registered as supporting members Sapporo Symphony Orchestra / New National Theatre, Tokyo for the following music-related organizations. We were / New Japan Philharmonic / Sendai Philharmonic Orchestra / Central Aichi Symphony Orchestra / Tokyo Symphony Orchestra also a special sponsor of the Volks Operwien 2016 Japan / Tokyo Metropolitan Symphony Orchestra / Tokyo Nikikai Performance in May 2016. Through these support activities, Opera Foundation / Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra / Nagoya we hope we can contribute even a little to the growth of Philharmonic Orchestra / The Japan Opera Foundation / Japan Century Symphony Orchestra / Japan Philharmonic Orchestra beautiful and rich culture / art. / Japan Performing Arts Foundation / Hiroshima Symphony Orchestra / Yomiuri Nippon Symphony Orchestra ,Tokyo / La Folle Journee au Japon Music Festival 2016 List of music-related organizations for which Shinryo Corporation is registered as a supporting member NHK Symphony Orchestra, Tokyo / Orchestra Ensemble Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 40 Group Companies CSR Activities of Group Companies Shinryo Group is actively expanding CSR activities at each Group company in Japan and overseas. We are fulﬁlling our responsibility to society in many forms from initiatives to solve social issues in our main businesses to contributing to communities through volunteer and charity eﬀorts. Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load Diversity Initiatives Shinryo Technical Energy-saving Improvement Proposals in Service Global Staff Actively Utilize Global Staﬀ Renovations We are actively proposing energy-saving improvements to We participated in the 19th Global Human Resource Job Fair our customers to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. We for foreign exchange students who hope to work in Japan in strive to be able to provide June 2016. We registered 10 optimal proposals that include participants as dispatch staff. equipment downsizing and These staff are widely active in replacements to highly activities such as interpretation efficient devices based on the for foreign nationals visiting energy data of our customers Renovations for Japan and customer service at energy-saving accumulated through chillers and department stores. Global Human Resource Job Fair maintenance operations. pumps Reduction of Environmental Load through Risk Management Initiatives Daiei Denki Photovoltaic Power Generation Systems We actively work to install Photovoltaic power generation system Shiroguchi Prepared Emergency Response that contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. We have been able to reduce CO2 by roughly 30,000 tons in FY2016 by installing We are working to prepare photovoltaic power generation a contact network, secure system that produce a total of engineers, and enhance stockpiles 358,0000 m2 between FY2010 by quickly continuing corporate to FY2016. This is equivalent to functions in an emergency the amount of CO2 absorbed by so that we may support the roughly 2.15 million Japanese recovery of the supply and Disaster stockpile cedar trees. drainage systems of customers. Large-scale photovoltaic power generation systems SYSPRO Strengthening of Information Security Systems Akita Castle Hotel Food Waste Reduction Activities As BIM becomes more prevalent, We are sponsoring the “ku-be we are reviewing our internal Time” advocated by Akita City. standards for information security This effort is striving to reduce policies and strengthening our food waste with an activity systems based on requirements to enjoy all of the delicious for advanced security measures Akita City food you have in the first 30 garbage from customers. We are also reduction image Implementation of Information Security minutes and last 10 minutes character “Ecoaenhancing security education Education of banquets. chan” event POP for our employees. Disaster Reconstruction Initiatives Initiatives to Improve Labor Practices Ongoing Initiatives for Reconstruction After Secure Operation Safety Through the Use of 3D Shinryo Kogyo LE PRO the Great East Japan Earthquake Laser Measurement Five years have passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake. We are using 3D models through 3D laser measurements that it We are continually participating has created to survey the local area before starting renovations. in constructing and renovating This technology has contributed pump stations to secure a to securing the safety of workers lifeline and establish torrential and reducing tentative design rain measures centered materials by simplifying the local upon Miyagi Prefecture as surveys for work in high places we transition from urgent that had conventionally required Disaster recovery construction of reconstruction efforts to Yuriage rainwater pump station in scaffolding. Natori City, Miyagi Prefecture 3D model using 3D laser permanent measures. measurements 41 Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 Group Companies Overseas Initiatives SHINRYO HONG Volunteers Supporting People with Hearing Participation in International District SHINRYO MALAYSIA KONG Impairments Cooling System Forum We participated as volunteers We participated in an in the Holiday Farm Day Trip international district cooling held by the Welfare Association system forum held in Singapore of the Deaf in April 2016. Six in May 2016. We learned and of our employees participated exchanged opinions about and interacted with children the latest district cooling who have disabilities through a technology that is expected Sweet-making experience volunteers Participation in International District sweet-making experience. as energy-saving technology in Cooling System Forum Southeast Asia. STS Hong Kong Participation in Charity Race Active Participation of Female SHINRYO SINGAPORE In December 2015, we Managers participated in the Team We are actively promoting Challenge 36, which is the the appointment of female largest charity race held by employees as managers at the Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs Shinryo Singapore. Last year, Association of Hong Kong. The two new female employees participation fees are used joined the management team. Employees participating in Team to support the education of Challenge 36 We now have four female Promotion ceremony of new female disadvantaged children. managers leading each managers department. (Left: Tracy; Right: Karen) Implementation of Comprehensive TAIWAN SHINRYO Compliance SHINRYO INDONESIA Participation in Japantown Festival We implemented compliance education from May to June We participated as a CSR 2016. We are deepening the sponsor for the Festival for the comprehensive understanding purpose of revitalizing Little employees by translating Tokyo Block-M. the English Shinryo Group We started with clean-up Guidelines to Chinese for activities in the town the day Compliance education education. before the festival and enjoyed Japantown Festival the interaction with the local community by carrying the SHINRYO PHILIPPINES Education for Young Engineers mikoshi shrines while wearing We are working to educate happi coats. proficient human resources by continually introducing technical Participated in the 3rd Tree Planting in SHINRYO VIETNAM education once in every Hanoi, Vietnam two month for the purpose We participated in tree planting of increasing skills of young activities in the Ba Vì National engineers in air conditioning Park in West Hanoi City, Duct design education for young design and construction engineers which was held by the AEON engineering. Environmental Foundation. The employees who participated Active Participation of Female Employees on gave their impressions Thai Shinryo Participation in Hanoi tree planting Construction Sites that included their pride in activities Female employees who being able to contribute in make up about 10% of our environmental conservation no staff actively participate in a matter how small. wide-range of positions on construction sites with mostly men. Two of our female On-site safety activities of employees conduct operations female safety such as on-site patrols and risk officers prediction activities as safety officers (in charge of safety management). Shinryo Corporation CSR Report 2016 42 SHINRYO CORPORATION 2-4, Yotsuya, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8510, Japan +81-3-3357-2151 (Main) https://www.shinryo.com/ Published in December, 2016
