COP report 2016 United Nations Global Compact Contents Introduction Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 The principles of UN Global Compact .............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview: Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework..................................................................................... 4 Human rights.................................................................................................................................................................................. 6 Supporting people in need................................................................................................................................................... 8 Employees......................................................................................................................................................................................10 A unique identity, culture and leadership will differentiate us...........................................................................12 Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................14 KK Wind Solutions is a dedicated greentech Environment Feature story: Game changing monitoring technology........................................................................................16 company in the renewable energy industry – and At the same time, we are continuously assessing as such, sustainability is the core of our company. and improving the environmental impacts of our Feature story: Ready for Industry 4.0 revolution......................................................................................................18 operations. We do this through a product lifetime This Progress Report gives you an overview of our efforts, including overall focus areas and approach to development, continuous waste concrete activities as well as our results for the reduction in our supply chain and innovative past year and goals for the coming period. logistics solutions that are both better for the environment and for our customers. Making wind even more competitive Developing and manufacturing solutions for the With our strategy work and the growth we have wind industry, the most positive impact we have set out for in a developing market, including on sustainability is obtained through our own and taking in new customers, we remain committed our customers’ solutions. to and focused on our corporate social responsibility – both when it comes to human Our core competencies and solutions contribute rights, employees and the environment. to sustainable energy production, and together with the rest of the wind industry we are continuously innovating to lower the cost of wind energy making it even more competitive compared to fossil fuels. Part of this work involve close cooperation with universities and industry partners. Furthermore, we aim to be an Industry 4.0 frontrunner introducing automation and intelligent manufacturing in our production. Kind regards, This report also serves as our annual communication on progress in sustainability, as required by the Tommy G. Jespersen United Nations Global Compact. Chief Executive Officer 2 HUMAN RIGHTS The principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) The UNGC outlines ten principles that companies should engage in in order to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Human rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 UNGC Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework Our ambition is to continuously develop and enhance our sustainability actions. To ensure our corporate social responsibility efforts are captured and well explained, we have concentrated our communication on progress around the following three reoccurring themes: Human rights, Employees and Environment. Human rights Employees Environment We are committed to the It is our goal to maintain a As part of the renewable enerprotection of human rights and culture that encourages and gy industry, we aim at maximissupport the United Nations supports the development of ing our positive impact on the universal declaration of human our employees. Furthermore, environment, not only through rights and the International we are dedicated to ensuring the products we develop, but Labour Organization’s a safe and healthy working also through our actions aimed declaration on fundamental environment that meets high at managing the business in an principles and rights at work. ethical standards. ever more responsible manner. Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas By regularly conducting risk We aim to build a highly skilled We direct our attention to assessments of our suppliers workforce with engaged improving our products and in compliance with our Code of employees whose contribution operations across the entire Conduct, we have ensured an is meaningful and appreciated. product lifecycle and the supeffective integration with the Our approach includes ply chain. This includes taking CSR policies. Also, we have structured introduction appropriate actions to reduce integrated appropriate sustainschemes, extensive training energy consumption, minimise ability measures and our Code and consistent follow-up on waste, and increase the share of Conduct in screening and performance. Furthermore our of waste that is recycled. assessing new suppliers and Employee Engagement Survey in finding accessible areas of is a way for us to focus on what During 2016, we succeeded improvement. motivates and engages our in recycling 77% of our waste employees in the daily work. compared to 73% in 2015. We experience and expect Furthermore, we reduced future growth in our service In addition, we have intensified our electricity consumption business where we persistently our health and safety proceby 4.1% and our heating focus on safety and human dures, including improved reconsumption by 8%. Going rights, both in regards to our porting of ‘near misses’ and the forward we aim at keeping this own and collaboration partintroduction of new initiatives high level of recycled waste ners’ employees. to stimulate stronger prevenalong with maintaining a low tative safety awareness in all level of energy consumption. employees. 4 CSR FRAMEWORK Revising and reinforcing our Code of Conduct We are committed to the protection of human rights and support the United Nations universal declaration of human rights and the International Labour Organization’s declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. High risk Medium risk Low risk Very low risk Status Our Code of Conduct covers the following: We continuously work to ensure that we have the Out of current scope Signature of Signature of Signature of right measures and assessment in place when • Legal compliance KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions it comes to ensuring respect for human rights • Human and labour rights No action this year Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct in our operations. We realise that it requires • Health and safety continuous training and integration of our Further investigation Self Assessment • Business ethics processes to achieve this implementation. For that reason, we focus first of all on our employees • Environment Supplier Visit and our suppliers. We expect our suppliers to respect their Figure illustrating four different supplier categories that require different actions and levels of attention. employees’ human rights and provide them with A significant part of our CSR footprint comes decent working conditions. Therefore, we require from our supply chain, and we are committed that our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct. to ensure that our suppliers uphold the same standards as we put forward. Consequently, all To ensure our standards will be met, we have expectations towards suppliers within this area made a risk assessment of our suppliers in are part not only of our Code of Conduct, but are regards to compliance with the Code of Conduct also included in all contracts with new and integrated CSR-measures and our Code of suppliers. We have initiated a program to secure During 2016 we have ensured that all suppliers in This way all medium to high risk suppliers will Conduct in the screening and assessment of new commitment from suppliers to our Code of the medium or high risk categories sign our Code automatically be assessed and prioritized on suppliers. Conduct in which we recognise the importance of Conduct or prove that they live up to the same ethical matters in the same way as quality is of clear communication of expectations and high standards. assessed and prioritized. The Code of Conduct cooperation with suppliers. has been integrated as an appendix to our Progress We have visited suppliers currently in the contract template. As part of the continued efforts we have All existing suppliers are continuously being high risk category. New suppliers delivering evaluated and revised our Code of Conduct to rated through a number of risk parameters. These components in the low to high risk category New objectives further emphasise the importance of safe parameters have helped to prioritize the efforts have also signed our Code of Conduct or proven New objectives for 2017 is to perform or plan for working conditions and sound processes in our in screening our supplier base. The parameters similar standards during own programs, audits physical assessment or audit including the 10 operations. We also expect our suppliers and are based on the 10 principles from UN Global or self-assessments. We have integrated the principles at all non-European first tier suppliers their sub-suppliers to follow and ensure the Compact and include human rights, environment, principles for ethical sourcing into the KK Wind doing direct manufacturing for KK Wind Solutions. standards. labour rights and anti-corruption. Solution assessment and audit tool. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Supporting people in need We support various causes throughout the year. Among others, we support a Children’s home in Poland on a continuous basis. In addition to this, we have provided financial support for Team Rynkeby and for Danmarks Indsamlingen as well as for the establishment of a hospital in the local region of our headquarters. Tommy G. Jespersen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Continued focus on health and safety It is our goal to maintain a culture that encourages and supports the development of our employees. Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment that meets high ethical standards. Status New objectives In the past year, we have maintained the In the coming year, we will continue our effort OHSAS18001 certification. This certification to embed a strong safety awareness mindset ensures our commitment to continuous amongst employees, with the aim of achieving implementation and improvement of the way zero accidents throughout the whole company. we manage our health and safety systems. As a concrete action, each manager must However, we see a need for increasing our focus conduct one safety walk every second month and on creating safety awareness as part of our immediate corrective actions for any near-miss corporate culture and behaviour. must be performed within one day. Also, we are going to evaluate the effect of a mobile platform Progress used by our technicians to provide input related In the previous year, KK Wind Solution A/S’ target to accident prevention. was to have maximum absence of 4.5% for blue collars and 2.5% for white collars, and no working Hence, we continue to focus on both health and accidents requiring statutory reporting. However, safety issues across all departments. employee absence was reported at 7.17% for blue collars and 2.19% for white collars, while unfortunately 4.3 working accidents per 1 million work hours were registered. We continuously use risk analyses to prevent further accidents. 10 EMPLOYEES A unique identity, culture and leadership will differentiate us Unique PURPOSE With the launch of KK Wind Solutions’ strategy for 2014-2017, the management team communicated a clearly defined direction for the company supported by concrete strategic targets and actions. Implementing this strategy, we have for the past year focused especially on creating a unique identity, unique culture and a unique leadership. VISION Put into a new framework, these parameters will help us achieve our goals towards our vision Enable a Wind Powered Future. MISSION Unique Unique It takes a strong differentiation factor to create The Wind Power Wizards culture is a culture of a sustainable business. Therefore, we have Breaking Boundaries to Exceed Expectations. IDENTITY LEADERSHIP developed a framework that builds on and However, we don’t break boundaries for the reinforces our uniqueness. The framework, fun of it. We break boundaries to exceed the which we call the KK Business Model Diamond expectations of wind energy. In order to exceed, is founded on the DNA of KK Wind Solutions and we listen to our customers before we innovate our aspirations. It is meant to set the direction of and integrate our solutions with them. the company and inspire the work and behaviour of the entire organisation. Our ambitious culture depends on dedicated leadership. Our unique leadership is defined by The four cornerstones of the Business Model the fact that we wish to empower all employees Diamond are going to drive and accelerate our to lead transformation. We expect all our strategic actions. And as we sincerely want to employees to show leadership in their work when make a difference to society, we have as our they engage with our customers and create and unique purpose to make Wind Power Impact. deliver new solutions. Unique Making wind power impact on an everyday basis CULTURE is our way of living our vision Enable a Wind Powered Future. But it doesn’t come by itself. It requires a certain approach to the work we do; we work in an agile manner with high integrity and responsibility. With this approach, we pride ourselves of making solutions close to magic, hence we’ve adopted our nickname Wind Power We believe that working by this framework and involving Wizards as our unique corporate identity. our employees actively will enable us to achieve our vision to the benefit of a more sustainable future. Tommy G. Jespersen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 12 EMPLOYEES Lower energy consumption and increased recycling As part of the renewable energy industry, we aim at maximising our positive impact on the environment, not only through the products we develop but also through our actions aimed at managing the business in an ever more responsible manner. Status Our production facilities are certified according to New objectives the international environmental standard KK Wind Solutions remains committed to ISO14001, which ensures systematic further reducing the environmental impact of organisation and documentation of internal the company’s operations. We will continue environmental procedures. to investigate how we can replace leadacid batteries with a more environmentally For wind to be a viable alternative to traditional friendly type and we will aim at keeping energy fossil fuels, it has to be competitive. At KK Wind consumption at the same low level as in 2016. Solutions, we contribute to advancing the wind industry by continuously improving our products New products are expected to be added to the and working with product development that portfolio, however, the target for recyclable waste contributes to the optimisation of renewable remains at the current level. energy. Furthermore, we are working in partnership to extend the lifetime expectancy of wind turbines. Progress In the past year, our focus has been on continuing to reduce the environmental impact by reducing 77% energy consumption for heating by 8.0% and electricity by 4.1%, and by increasing the share of waste that is recycled to 77%. To achieve that, we have monitored and adjusted the heating consumption and reduced the electricity consumption where possible. To further raise the awareness of environmental issues, more information about environmental practices and behaviours has been added to the We have exceeded our target by introduction process for the new employees. recycling 77% of our waste 14 ENVIRONMENT Feature story: Game changing monitoring technology KK Wind Solutions has developed, tested and patented a new technology for monitoring converters, -a technology which has the potential of becoming a big game changer in terms of lowering the cost of wind energy to the benefit of a more sustainable future. Power electronics converters are known to This is especially important within offshore be a major contributor to down time for wind operation, where unscheduled turbine turbines. However, with KK Wind Solutions’ new maintenance represents a critical matter with technology, the converter monitoring unit (CMU), its complicated logistics and limited weather the wind industry faces new opportunities for windows. obtaining high predictability on emerging failures. The CMU is developed by KK Wind Solutions in The CMU is a measurement device that can cooperation with Aalborg University. A technology monitor the state of health of the IGBTs (Power cooperation agreement between KK Wind Modules) in a wind turbine converter. This new Solutions, Aalborg University and DONG Wind technology enables a higher degree of conditionEnergy is going to ensure that the technology is based maintenance instead of corrective brought successfully to the market. maintenance, which will lower the operational expenses. Our expectations for the CMU’s future impact on the industry are extremely high. We believe there is a big potential in the CMU technology – and that it could significantly reduce some of the expensive failures known on wind turbines today, thus contribute to lowering cost of wind power in the future. René Balle, CTO/CCO, KK Wind Solutions 16 ENVIRONMENT Feature story: Ready for Industry 4.0 revolution With new automation in the production, KK Wind Solutions has taken the first steps into Industry 4.0 also known as the fourth industrial revolution. KK Wind Solutions’ first robotic manufacturing “It is our ambition to invent intelligent and facility, installed summer 2016 in Szczcecin, smart solutions which are able to perform selfPoland, is part of a strategy of staying ahead of monitoring action – thus enabling a much higher the game by ensuring both high quality and high degree of predictive maintenance for higher traceability at competitive prices. reliability. We also want our customers to be able to go online and check which phase the ordered The robot line will be used to manufacture product is in – from sourcing to production to electrical panels for wind turbines and the next delivery just like we know it from online ordering phase of a robot line is already underway with the of BtC products. More transparency. Simple as newest technology for combined man-machine that,” says Thomas R. Olsen, Head of Global cooperation. All with the aim of continued Supply Chain. innovation within lean manufacturing for costs to be reduced and for all partners involved in the Industry 4.0 means acceleration production process to access latest data at any In the very near future, the industry 4.0 will also time and from anywhere. become part of the design workflow at KK Wind Solutions. Creating customer convenience Not only will the introduction of automation to “Basically, when customers send us a parts list, the workflow bring down the need for manual we will be able to import the information into work and enable higher output and increased software, which very quickly transforms the data quality, industry 4.0 will also result in new ways to something we can use for our design thus of cooperating in the entire value chain with it will shorten the design phase considerably,” increased value creation for customers. With Thomas R. Olsen says. industry 4.0 technology, KK Wind Solutions furthermore aims at turning big data into smart Even though KK is working on a three-year plan, information for the benefit of the customers. this is not a process that will eventually stop. “Industry 4.0 – the new industrial revolution creates new business models based on disruption. It is a very natural development, but it involves a transformation dilemma. Things move so fast that people have a hard time adapting to the new methods. However, if we do not take the lead, someone else will.” Thomas R. Olsen, Head of Global Supply Chain, KK Wind Solutions 18 ENVIRONMENT HQ KK Wind Solutions A/S Bøgildvej 3 DK-7430 Ikast Phone +45 96 92 43 00 E-mail main@kkwindsolutions.com Web www.kkwindsolutions.com About KK Wind Solutions Building on more than 35 years of experience in electrical systems for wind, KK Wind Solutions’ capabilities span development of state-of-the-art technologies, high quality lean manufacturing, cost-efficient supply chain solutions and flexible service of turbines. 02/2017-EN ©2017 KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CONTENT MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S.
