KPN Integrated Annual Report 2016 Connected Connected to toKPNthe the future futureReport 2016 Integrated Annual KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Connected to the future Supervisory Board Read more on page 18 and go “The connected cow Connected to the future to our online report for more information and video stories: becomes a happy cow” www.kpn.com/annualreport Virtual reality, remote health diagnostics, motion-based street lighting and selfdriving cars. We’re seeing things today that are changing our lives towards an ever-more connected future. We make life more free, fun and easy by connecting people. It is our passion to “Add unprecedented virtual dimensions to provide safe, reliable and future-proof the real world” networks and services, enabling people to be connected anytime, anywhere, whilst at the same time creating a more prosperous and cleaner world. With this Integrated Annual Report we look back at the past year. It helps us to understand the present, but also to look “The future of learning will look forward into the future. We can’t predict very different from today” the future, but we can imagine it, based on technological developments and views from internal and external experts. With these insights we can prepare the next generation of products and services for you. 1 1 KPN Annual Report 2016 Contents About this report Mission Financial Statements Transparency in financial, operational F irst place in the Sustainability Performance of the Dutch and CSR performance Association of Investors for Sustainable Development Connected to the future 1 Consolidated Financial Statements 89 (VBDO) in the services sector. Corporate Financial Statements 166 We have prepared this Integrated Annual Report, in line with the Other Information 174 International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated KPN at a glance Reporting (IR) framework. For the CSR information included Our approach to reporting in 2016 in this report we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Introduction by the CEO 4 Appendices Standards Option Comprehensive. In anticipation of national In 2015 we reported on 30 material topics. For 2016 we Our main achievements 6 implementation of the EU Directive Non-Financial Reporting, improved focus and this resulted in a ‘Core & More’ approach. Review of the year 2016 8 Appendix 1: 182 we have considered the key elements of this Directive. We already The report is built around our nine highly material topics Our purpose 10 Alternative performance measures address most of the elements to be in compliance with the new (the Core). Additional information about other topics is available Our organization and the value we create 14 Appendix 2: 186 Directive. For more information on our reporting see Appendix 3. in appendices to this report or published online (the More). Our strategy 16 Overview of CSR targets and achievements Connected to the future 18 Appendix 3: 190 KPN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow Scope, reporting process and materiality Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency determination for CSR information Benchmark. Our ambition is to maintain a leading position Group performance Appendix 4: 200 in these benchmarks. This way, we keep improving our Glossary of terms performance by comparing it with that of peers. An overview Material items 20 Appendix 5: 206 of KPN’s performance in different indices during 2016: Customer loyalty 22 KPN Business Model P osition 3 in the DJSI World Index and included for the fifth Quality and reliability of networks 24 year in a row EMEA 2016 WINNER Innovation and investments 26 I ncluded in CDP’s Climate A List Economic value 28 Digital appendices P osition 9 in the Transparency Benchmark (TB) Privacy & Security 40 F irst place in the Transparency International Netherlands Environmental performance 44 For an overview of our social and environmental index TRAC Impact of products and services 48 figures, GRI index, risks and countermeasures, Compliance & Risk 52 supply chain and tax strategy and policy, please see www.kpn.com/annualreport Our organization and suppliers The topics that matter most to KPN and our stakeholders Sustainable employment 58 Sustainable suppliers 60 Corporate governance 62 Composition of the Boards 66 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report 72 Customer loyalty Quality and reliability Innovation and Economic value Privacy & Security Remuneration and organizational development report 78 of networks investments Environmental Impact of products Compliance & Risk Remuneration performance and services 2 3 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Introduction by the CEO Supervisory Board Introduction by the CEO Helping the Netherlands move forward through innovation success quickly and smartly via innovation. By joining forces we are accelerating the development of ideas and applications that are of genuine benefit to our customers. For example, “The translation of the #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities for KPN and the we invested in startups like SecurityMatters and EclecticIQ, Netherlands confirms that CO₂ emissions in In 2016, we succeeded in taking further steps towards our ultimate aim of becoming the companies that supply cybersecurity services that add value the Netherlands can be reduced by nearly best service provider in the Netherlands. This entails not only striving for excellent products to KPN and our customers. Other key partners for KPN include our suppliers and content providers. 40% by 2030 compared to 2015 thanks to and services, but also by helping society move in a sustainable direction. We continued the ICT applications” upward trend operationally, commercially and financially. Enormous potential of ICT The translation of the #SMARTer2030 research into Read more about this topic at page 48 opportunities for KPN and the Netherlands confirms that Customer satisfaction rose to a new all-time high; in 2016 we service is growing too. This enables customers to store their CO₂ emissions in the Netherlands can be reduced by nearly again showed we are successful at making life more free, fun own data, either in a KPN data center or in the public cloud. 40% by 2030 compared to 2015 thanks to ICT solutions. and easy. We have potential to improve customer satisfaction We are thereby responding to the data growth that is set We see enormous potential in applying ICT in eHealth, levels even more. In line with the positive trends we evolved to continue in the years ahead. Additionally, we continued to transport and infrastructure, smart buildings and smart our strategy from ‘strengthen, simplify and grow’ to ‘simplify, simplify our Business portfolio in 2016. cities, as well as in The New Way of Living and Working, in grow and innovate’. Major technological changes will help us which KPN aims to take a pioneering role. That’s why we are to supply even better products and services to consumers, On course financially converting several KPN offices into modern hubs that put SMEs, corporates, government, organizations and the Dutch Our good operating and commercial performance in 2016 the new way of working into practice. The findings of the society as a whole. Furthermore, research shows that ICT is supported the basis for improving financial results compared #SMARTer2030 report dovetail perfectly with the Sustainable a crucial factor in making our society more sustainable. For to 2015. The stringent cost focus in all the segments and Development Goals of the United Nations, which regard ICT me, it is extremely important that we contribute towards the the ongoing simplification of our organization, systems and as a driver for a better, more sustainable world. KPN’s efforts development of our planet in such a way that it remains a fine product portfolio contributed to this too. A structurally lower to achieve those targets are recognized by the Dow Jones place for our children and grandchildren. To implement our spend level amounted to EUR 460 million run-rate savings by Sustainability Index, in which we have been included for the strategy faster we launched a new, functional organization at the end of 2016 in comparison with 2013. In February, we also fifth consecutive year and this time as the world’s third most the beginning of 2016. Thanks to a flatter, simpler organizational completed the sale of our Belgian subsidiary BASE Company. sustainable telecoms company. Additionally, our inclusion in structure we have increased our commercial agility and we are CDP's Climate A List confirms that we have performed well in focusing our efforts directly on the quality of our service and Innovative network technologies the area of energy consumption and CO₂ reduction targets. on results. Investing in fiber and upgrading the fixed network ensures We have now been on the CDP list for six consecutive years, that our infrastructure remains best-in-class. Thanks to so we can justifiably call ourselves a world climate leader. Consumer market continues to grow 78% FttH/FttC coverage, at the end of 2016 75% of Dutch These listings confirm in particular that we have successfully The number of customers in the consumer market grew households had download speeds of at least 100 Mbps. integrated our sustainability policy in our business operations. yet again. Subscriber numbers for our interactive television Download speeds of 400 Mbps are available with the new service broke through the two million barrier, giving us a technology VPlus. We are also continuing to optimize our Improving online security is another element of that policy which market share of 30%. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) our 4G network, for instance with carrier aggregation and small is a top priority for KPN. We monitor our ICT infrastructure yardstick for customer satisfaction rose further to +10 cells that increase the data capacity and speed of 4G at places and that of our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week, (Consumer Market) in 2016. Since we introduced quad play where a lot of people gather, such as stations and city centers. 365 days a year. KPN aims to stay in the vanguard, not only three years ago, more than one million households choose Earlier than planned, we have completed the roll-out of our by providing secure networks and systems, but also through a combination of our fixed and mobile services. Improved LoRa network and as a result the Netherlands became the continuous innovation. We have made our security policy propositions in the consumer market helped our mobile first country in the world with a nationwide LoRa network for and guidelines accessible to everyone. subscriber numbers increase by 92 thousand this year Internet of Things (IoT) applications. Furthermore, we are also alone. KPN endorses the importance of total transparency preparing for 5G, the new generation mobile Internet that will As TEAMKPN we help the Netherlands progress by introducing new mobile combination subscriptions be indispensable for its numerous technological applications Leading the way with timely innovations is one of our Eelco Blok CEO that comply with the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. and will have a huge impact on our everyday lives. These strengths, from the perspective of both our customers and include connected cars and remote healthcare, for which of our employees, and also in organizational and financial Strengthening the Business segment ultra-fast response times are crucial. We also simplified our terms. Every day KPN employees work hard and join forces Just as in 2015 the Business segment remained challenging fixed core network to match the growth in Internet and TV, to realize our ambitions. The employee engagement survey in a competitive domain. By making The New Way of Living to improve stability and improve costs and energy efficiency. demonstrates that their willingness to go the extra mile and Working possible for an increasing number of businesses, is much higher than average. With dedicated, intrinsically and by introducing cloud, hosting and security services, we The power of collaboration motivated employees in a flexible organization we aspire to are gradually establishing our top market position as an ICT We can realize our innovative ambitions only if we collaborate offer an even better customer experience, resulting in greater player. The extra investments we are making for that purpose more intensively with other companies and organizations by customer loyalty and pro-actively addressing needs in society. are slowly but surely bearing fruit. The number of customers entering into new partnerships. Our investment fund KPN I am convinced that this will give us more commercial agility, with multi-play services (combination of fixed, mobile and ICT Ventures is affiliated to COSTA, a platform on which 10 top increased sales and profitability and create greater value for Watch Eelco share his views: services) is increasing and our new Managed Hybrid Cloud Dutch companies share their experiences to achieve lasting all our stakeholders. www.kpn.com/annualreport 4 5 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Our main achievements Supervisory Board Our main achievements Customer satisfaction Converged services Continued strong performance Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands Households in fixed-mobile bundles Postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles Our continued upward trend operationally, commercially and financially is reflected in our main achievements below, a mix of financial and non-financial key figures and three-year trend. In line with our strategic focus areas, we give an overall impression of our performance in three financial, three customer-related and three operational key figures. These indicators 2014 494 k 2015 813 k 2016 1,077 k also represent our highly material items Economic value, Customer loyalty, Quality and 2014 701 k 2015 1,172 k 2016 1,583 k reliability of networks, Environmental performance and Impact of products and services. 2014 2015 2016 -3 3 6 Multi-play seats in SME 2016 316 k EBITDA Capital expenditure 1 Reputation 2015 58 k Adjusted EBITDA 1,2 In millions of EUR In millions of EUR Adjusted EBITDA margin The Netherlands 1,2 RepTrak pulse score 2014 23 k Realized run-rate savings Simplification program 4 In millions of EUR ~460 2014 2,417 2015 2,419 2016 2,428 2014 37.4% 2015 38.6% 2016 40.0% ~280 2016 ~460 ~140 2015 ~280 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 1,239 1,300 1,193 69.7 69.2 69.5 2014 ~140 Free Cash Flow 1 4 Cumulative savings since the end of 2013. Read more on page 30. In millions of EUR Energy consumption In petajoule Households with > 100 Mbps coverage Energy consumed by KPN E  stimated energy consumption avoided by KPN customers3 2016 75% 2015 68% 2014 2015 2016 2014 3.503 2015 3.481 2016 3.382 -151 698 741 2014 1.662 2015 1.701 2016 1.817 1 Based on continuing operations. 3 Estimated avoided energy consumption by customers from the use of our 2 EBITDA adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. ICT solutions compared with KPN own energy consumption. These numbers 2014 50% Reconciliations for 2015 and 2016 to be found in Appendix 1. have been restated for 2014 and 2015, read more on page 48 and 51. 6 7 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Review of the year 2016 Supervisory Board Review of the year What we did in 2016 ... January February March April May June KPN started to issue NFC-enabled K PN completed sale of BASE KPN enhanced customer support by  PN announced that the KPN ToZ K K  PN’s Simplification program won K  PN completed rollout of first SIM cards to support the expansion Company realizing a book gain of extending LiveChat to 24/7 coverage office in Rotterdam will become the ‘Business Transformation of the Year’ nationwide LoRa network in the world of mobile payments starting with EUR 369 million KPN took strategy to the next level new headquarters Award for the Internet of Things the Rabo Wallet K PN deployed next generation small by adding ‘innovate’ to ‘grow’ and  PN released MyBee app enabling K K  PN introduced new Managed Hybrid K  PN won a large contract to migrate iBasis partnered with Cubic Telecom cells ‘simplify’ young children to safely take their first Cloud proposition the City of Amsterdam to KPN’s to enable ‘next gen’ roaming for S ignificant reduction of CO₂ emissions steps online Managed Hybrid Cloud connected cars and future Internet of possible with smart ICT solutions says K  PN acquired remaining 87.5% stake K  PN declared capital repayment of Things services #SMARTer2030 report in RoutIT, obtaining full ownership EUR 28ct per share July August September October November December KPN received Digitenne license until K  PN and Fox Sports reached an KPN launched new mobile  PN reached the one million K K  PN won European tender as ICT K  PN’s innovation to reduce energy 2030 agreement regarding distribution subscriptions that include EU roaming households milestone for its partner for partnership Talking Traffic wastage in Aalsmeer data center won Partnership between the Dutch of live football as part of premium bundles converged fixed-mobile products K  PN selected as cloud service Sustainable Data Center Award Rijksmuseum and KPN was prolonged K  PN announced eurobond and tender Nationwide outage on fixed internet K  PN again world leader in CDP provider for Dutch education and K  PN trialled new Internet of Things by three more years offer services resolved after six hours climate change benchmark research institutions technology LTE-M, resulting in lower energy use and lower prices 8 9 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Our purpose Supervisory Board Our purpose We make life more free, fun and easy by Our services for Dutch society and 2G/3G networks in previous years. With our LoRa (Long connecting people Accessing the Internet from a tablet, paying with a smartphone, consulting a doctor remotely or working online. Range Low Power) network we are enabling energy-efficient connections that will permanently connect people and devices to the Internet and each other. Our services are the beating Documents, photos and videos are now mostly stored in the heart of the Netherlands. We enable the country’s digital pulse. KPN is a company that really puts its customers first. We believe it is great to work for cloud, not on a hard drive anymore. These things are easily Vital sectors such as transport, healthcare, education, the a company that is at the heart of society and drives and enables technological progress taken for granted and we can no longer do without them. police and defense force depend on our infrastructure and our The world is increasingly mobile and digital. Technology is networks. We want to be there for everyone. Also those for everyone. Connecting people and making their lives more free, fun and easy has been advancing at a rapid pace. KPN helps make the necessary for whom contact with the outside world is not a given. our drive and we will continue to do so. We were there when the very first telephone poles connections. We have added fiber and 4G to our existing fixed were erected 130 years ago, enabling connection. Ever since, we have worked hard to meet the current and future needs of our customers and society, which also means connecting things. Adapting new developments, building and managing innovative fixed and mobile networks and IT platforms help fulfill those needs. Simplify, Grow and Innovate Our stakeholder approach In the past years we invested ahead of the curve to build bestOn top of our own assessments of the role and value in-class networks and innovated to bring Dutch households of ICT for society, our continuous dialogue with our Consumer Business and businesses great products and leading quality of service. stakeholders gives us greater insight into social trends Dedicated to offering KPN’s KPN offers its business and needs. It also enables us to exchange ideas about the retail customers a broad customers (small, mediumThe coming years will see exponential growth of connected topics we think KPN can make an important difference range of services in the sized, large enterprises) a devices and surging data traffic. To stay ahead, we evolved for Dutch society. Our key stakeholders include retail areas of communication, complete portfolio of services our strategy in 2016 to the next level with the pillars Simplify and business customers, employees, investors, suppliers, information, entertainment from fixed and mobile Grow Innovate. We formulated clear goals on every pillar government, regulators and community organizations. and commercial services telephony and Internet (for more information see page 16 – Strategy table) that help The opinion of our stakeholders is taken into account in our through single play and to a range of end-to-end us on our journey to become the best service provider in the strategic decision making. Read more about our different multi-play offerings. The solutions in infrastructure, Netherlands and deliver value to our stakeholders. stakeholders in our stakeholder overview in Appendix 9. offered services include fixed workspace management, and mobile telephony, mobile cloud, security, data network data, Internet and TV. and data center services. Innovate Grow Network, Wholesale iBasis Operations & IT Provides connectivity Through iBasis, KPN is a Responsible for KPN’s solutions to KPN’s fixed and leading player in the operational activities for mobile wholesale partners international wholesale Simplify the Dutch networks (both via KPN’s fixed, fiber and voice market in terms of fixed and mobile) and ICT mobile networks. minutes carried. iBasis offers infrastructure for services a comprehensive portfolio provided to KPN’s consumer, of voice termination and business and wholesale data services for many of customers. the world’s largest fixed and Strengthen mobile operators, as well as The evolution of our strategy towards voice-over-broadband. Simplify – Grow – Innovate 10 11 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Our purpose Supervisory Board Our purpose Our Greenprint In our Greenprint we also articulate our intended customer to provide practical guidance. The approach is based on experience and what we expect from all colleagues to realize placing ourselves in the shoes of a KPN customer and To stay successful in the future, we sometimes have to reconsider that ambition. We have introduced a process of reverse being aware of each individual employee’s influence on why we exist and why we are important to Dutch society. Last thinking, taking the customer’s experience as the starting point, the customer’s experience in any KPN department. year we engaged our employees in a process to establish our so-called ‘Greenprint’. On that Greenprint, we formulated our ‘why’, as summarized in the graphic below. I find it I feel I’m pleasantly Desired customer experience easy connected I feel free surprised Make it Solve it Exceed Optimal staff behavior & interaction simple Empathize together expectations I can do I can be I experience I am Who? How? Optimal working environment it myself freedom developing Enable Coach and give Create space Develop Optimal leadership people direction and trust talent Why? What? Becoming the best service provider Another way is to inspire management to discuss customer centricity in their teams and help them find interventions that Good customer service starts with motivated employees who fit the needs of these teams to maximize the impact. In 2016, want to go the extra mile and we see the customer as the 32% of the business teams started with these KPN eXperience starting point for all our actions and decisions. KPN needs sessions. employees with passion and expertise and who are willing to work together to get the very best results. To promote So far, we are making good progress since loyalty of KPN this culture, a team of KPN eXperience coaches activate real customers is at an all-time high and we managed to improve conversations about this theme in the business. We also our reputation benchmark position (for more information see selected more than 200 KPN eXperience ambassadors who page 22 chapter Customer loyalty). Nevertheless, we are guide their teams towards a better customer experience. focused to keep on improving ourselves. Digital transformation One of the major challenges we face and act upon is digitalization. In this day and age we believe KPN can only become the best service provider by delivering an excellent We make life more We are the green We connect everyone We do this with digital customer experience. From a customer, workforce and free, fun and easy by connection and everything the best people, innovation perspective, digitalization is a must-win battle. Therefore three challenges are crucial for us, as included in connecting people in an innovative, service, products the graphic on the left. Besides working hard to be simple, reliable and and networks We bring people closer to the best service provider sustainable way Digitization changes the lives and expectations of our loved ones, we connect in the Netherlands, we are We want our people to customers and employees. This requires the next level of everyone and everything, pioneers in sustainability. provide our customers with digital and data savviness. Our organization is therefore we make work and business We have been using green We offer user-friendly the best service, products transforming into a digital organization. In the coming years easier and we make sure electricity for a while and technology solutions and networks. These are our KPN employees will become even more digital and data savvy people stay connected, have been 100% climate and content that inspires. colleagues in the back office, and predict and act on customer needs more proactively. In that wherever they are. neutral since 2015. We believe With our reliable networks customer service, our stores, sense we will be the digital enablers that make the life of our that by investing in ICT and data centers we take web care, engineers, IT staff, Keep up with the Customer centric Shorten delivery customers more free, fun and easy. technology today, we create care of fast and stable account management, all of rapidly changing thinking and a time and bring a more prosperous and connections at home, whom make the difference. customer needs digital and data innovation to cleaner world tomorrow. at work, while commuting savvy workforce customers and in case of emergency. 12 13 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Our organization and Supervisory Board the value we create Our organization and the value we create KPN in Dutch society Input Activities and Output Outcomes Our valuable assets: KPN provides integrated access services: The value KPN creates: KPN connects its customers anytime, LoRa network anywhere. By doing so, we create value Housing and have an impact on many areas of and hosting society. We continuously build and Service engineer improve our networks and services to Fiber to street offer the best connectivity and solutions. Skilled employees cabinets Connected anytime, anywhere, see p. 24 We are bundling our fixed, mobile and IT propositions: telephony, TV, Internet and IT services for households and businesses. Furthermore, we are expanding fiber penetration Fiber installment Upgraded fixed and our network of antennas for increased capacity and network download speeds. We do this with our suppliers, who deliver Business solutions the technical equipment and green electricity to run our network. Employees play a vital role, since their skills are indispensable for responding to customer needs and questions. Financial resources Innovation through 24/7 digitization, see p. 26 Call center On this page we have visualized our organization to emphasize our impact on Dutch society. On the left we show what capitals (input) we need to develop and offer our products and services (activities and output). On the right we show the value we Consultancy create (outcomes). These outcomes are linked to our material topics, which we report on page 20 and refer to chapters with Cloud services more detail on the value created and shared. Key partnerships and Accessible, affordable and We are the green connection customer insights scalable healthcare, see p. 48 We consider every day as an opportunity to do better. Also when it comes to tackling climate change, we are on the right track in setting the standard for transitioning to sustainable growth. KPN is the green connection and ranked among the most sustainable telecommunications companies in the world. We seek Shop to connect everybody and everything in an innovative, simple, reliable, secure and sustainable manner. In doing so, we strive to Access continuously use less and cleaner energy and help our customers Network and customer also in Lower-carbon society, reduce their own energy use. equipment remote see p. 44 areas Society needs to step up investments in ICT if we want to safeguard the quality of life we enjoy today. In the next 15 years, The New Way the world is expected to invest around USD 90 trillion, or USD of Living 6 trillion a year in infrastructure, according to the New Climate and Working Economy. That means we have a historic opportunity today to Consumer build the infrastructure of tomorrow. This enables the reduction services of the use of natural resources, building of smart cities and Mobile licenses Safe and secure access for communities ensures a successful transition to sustainable economic growth. Mobile and businesses, see p. 40 At KPN, we believe that by investing in ICT technology today, Classmate connects we create a future that is more free, fun and easy. chronically ill children Green energy Profitable business resulting in sustainable shareholder returns, see p. 28 14 15 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Our Strategy Supervisory Board Our strategy Simplify Grow Innovate Our market position Our strategy is based on our market position, technology and developments in the world We continuously look at the world around us to analyze trends and changing needs. Over the around us. In 2016 we evolved our strategy to the next level to further strengthen our company. past year, we saw the following developments as being most relevant, considering our role in In the table below we present our strategic choices per pillar: Simplify – Grow – Innovate and society as a leading supplier of ICT services. per business area. Further strengthening our company Important trends T  here is an increased awareness of societal changes such as C  ustomer behavior is changing towards digital life. Simplify Grow Innovate the aging population and global challenges from poverty to T  he Netherlands has a high quality digital infrastructure and climate change and the role of ICT to address the challenges. this is the foundation, enabler and driver of innovations in T  he macro-economy of the Netherlands is stabilizing and the every sector of the emerging digital economy. Digital & simple service Converged telco Excellent Dutch IT market is growing. Commercial and delivery & IT services user experience Flexible & simplified Best-in-class secured Applying innovative Operational networks and operating model integrated network technologies Value management Invested ahead How we act on our strengths How we want to improve Financial Leancost structure & predictable cash generation of the curve L  everaging our integrated services to provide attractive S implifying our portfolio to make it more transparent for our Value creation combinations of fixed, mobile and IT for our customers. customers, offering a smaller variety in products and services. M  aintaining developed and advanced telecommunications S implifying our IT systems and processes to further improve networks in the Netherlands to provide high quality service, the quality of the customer experience and reduce costs. These nine strategic choices are embedded in our organization and create value for all other stakeholders, both in combination including critical communication. C ontinuing simplification of our organization to allow us to and separately. Our six strategic priorities translate into KPN’s medium-term ambitions for the coming two to four years: L  everaging our leading position in telecom services to grow respond faster to changing market conditions. market share in IT, innovating to add cloud-based services D igitizing our operations and the way we provide services, Strategic priorities What we will do Our output in 2016 and grow our customer base. putting our customers central in design and implementation. B  uilding on our strong competences in network and cyber Accelerate upand cross-sell in  ontinue successful bundling strategy C NPS NL increased to +6 security to protect our customers’ data. 1 bundles High value for customers via best-in-class products and services More than 1 million households with fixed-mobile packages  sing a lean operating model to drive a structurally lower U Improve customer loyalty Migrations to integrated solutions in Business cost base. K  eep our highly skilled and motivated employees engaged. Grow in TV and IT services  eliver best-in-class IPTV services through D H  ighly appreciated IPTV service with NPS of +17 2 differentiated functionalities and leading network Scale up successful new service introductions and Reached 2 million IPTV customers in 2016 Introduced Managed Hybrid Cloud invest in growth companies Finalize business transformation S trengthen business market portfolio and S trong improvement NPS How we seize opportunities How we face our challenges 3 customer relationships Implement customer satisfaction programs Growth integrated solutions (KPN ÉÉN) Increased order intake in LE & Corporate by 14% in 2016 Highly sustainable business for KPN and our Introduced successful services for the healthcare R  esponding to the increasing demand for data and network D ifferentiating ourselves from competition through customers sector access by developing new ways to communicate, collaborate innovative products and integrated services and by providing and consume media. the best customer service. Finalize build of flexible and F urther automation and virtualization of networks E  nergy efficiency of our networks improved by 33%  eveloping and testing innovative, scalable solutions that D C ontinuously investing in our capabilities and putting cyber 4 simplified integrated network and operating model and reduce our environmental footprint Stay climate leader CDP award and DJSI World inclusion address social challenges arising from trends like climate security at the core of our business, to keep our networks First wave of Simplification program completed: Further quality improvements to lead to > ~EUR 460 million run-rate savings vs. end-2013 change, urbanization and the aging population. safe from information security threats. EUR 300 million in simplification savings in 2017-2019 M  onitoring technological developments in infrastructure, F inding the right balance between network investments software and virtual networks to improve the efficiency of our in anticipation of new technologies and possibilities for Ensure best customer experience C  ontinue change programs and digital  ompleted rollout of nationwide LoRa network C operations or implement new services. monetizing these. 5 and engaged employees by deploying innovative technologies transformation Further strengthen core network and fixed and High FttH/FttC coverage 78% allows KPN to deliver next generation access to majority of  ollaborating with a diverse range of service providers and C S taying on top of disruptive technologies and business and increasing fiber penetration connecting to startup companies, to enhance our capabilities models by continuously monitoring new developments mobile network capacity Dutch households Continued hybrid access rollout in Business and About 500 teams of employees joined the to innovate. and cooperating or co-creating with selected providers of selected Consumer areas KPN eXperience ‘over-the-top’ services. Optimize financial framework and S olid financial profile  rowing Free Cash Flow G 6 grow dividend Sustainable shareholder returns EUR 1.2 billion capital repayment Regular dividend growth 16 17 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Connected to the future Supervisory Board Connected to the future How we prepare for the future Jan Kees de Jager CFO KPN plays a role in shaping the technological progress of Dutch society. That’s why we “Our solid financial think about – and act on – the possibilities of the future. While we cannot predict the future position allows us to with any certainty, we can imagine what it could look like and to a certain extent foresee invest in innovation, how it might unfold. partner with agile and innovative startups and stay on the forefront In a future characterized by robotics, nanotechnology, integrate outside applications. In that sense, adding skilled of new technological biotechnology and artificial intelligence, new technologies people to our business is becoming more important. This developments” will enrich and certainly change our lives. The question is thinking is powered by our innovation initiatives KPN New how we adapt to that. Business, KPN Ventures and KPN Technology Labs. Three major developments have fundamentally changed While new technologies can lead to great progress for society, our industry in the past decades: the introduction of mobile there will also be downsides. What are the side effects of phones, the Internet and digitization. Digitization in particular always being connected? What will happen to the eight-hour is continuing to drive rapid change across various sectors. work day? How do we protect privacy and data security? In addition, consumer needs have shifted. There is a desire And what will happen to education as we know it? Read and for simpler products and services, anytime and anywhere. see more about these questions in this Integrated Annual The major changes that are currently taking place in society Report and in the videos online. Frank van der Post CCO and business require a high level of systematic future-oriented thinking. KPN is proactive and does not just react to the developments and disruptions that we are facing. In the past “We see a growing demand five years this new way of thinking has become part of our business approach. for a new way of connecting: exchanging information We are benefitting from our simplification program and the directly in a production integration of our fixed and mobile networks. This has led to a more powerful core network that is ready for the increasing environment with KPN as a demand for online data services. It allows us to connect with trusted and reliable connector” others, such as IoT companies, and to enrich our partnerships, like the mobile experience we offer Fox Sports subscribers. One of our strengths is that our technical ‘intelligence’, e.g. on IPTV services, is stored in the cloud and not in a set-top box. This simplifies the upgrade process, gives us a competitive edge and reduces the environmental footprint of our customers. And as our fiber roll-out and fixed network upgrade progress we are providing fast, stable and secure access to Joost Farwerck COO the digital world and creating a solid platform on which sectors such as healthcare can further enhance their services. “Last year we identified an Partnerships are essential for us. It’s about how we can develop increasing demand for low-power new products and services quickly. A good example is our network technology for Internet IoT Academy, where we innovate with startup companies on ways to use the Internet of Things. It is very helpful that there of Things applications. In less is a large population of early adopters in the Netherlands than a year KPN has implemented where we can easily test new services, to speed up the time a nationwide LoRa network that to market. allows us to satisfy this market This outside-in approach defines the new way of working In our online Integrated Annual Report we elaborate on future demand” at KPN. More than ever we are looking ahead and seeking developments. In 14 videos we present the views of our colleagues and external experts on 12 technologies that are on our radar. ways to innovate. To a large extent, innovation for us means a smarter organization of our network and processes to Please visit www.kpn.com/annualreport 18 19 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Material items Supervisory Board Material items What matters most to our stakeholders and KPN Privacy & Security Keeping data private, safe and secure At KPN, we pro-actively search for opportunities that utilize the full potential of ICT to support Made KPN’s security policies and several tools for security professionals open source in a free iPad society in addressing its shortand long-term needs and challenges. We annually investigate app including the Common Vulnerability Scoring System and Potential Harm of Security Incidents calculator. and discuss what matters most to our stakeholders, and to us. This chapter presents the core Launched children’s app MyBee, enabling 2to 6-year-olds to safely take their first steps online. information on the nine topics we judged to be highly material in 2016, while the rest of this report Successful test completed on innovative high security Quantum Key Distribution (QKD) link between The Hague and Rotterdam data centers. provides more information about each topic. The majority of the highly material items contribute Read more on page 40 to bringing the Netherlands onto a sustainable path. We are committed to the global priorities and aspirations of the UN, as set in its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. Environmental performance Customer loyalty Climate leader Involving our customers in improving their experience Total energy consumption reduced by 20% since 2010 despite strong growth in data communications NPS NL improves to 6 (2015: 3). volumes. Major NPS improvement on Business: -3 (2015: -10). KPN again recognized as one of the top 10 most sustainable telcos worldwide in the Dow Jones KPN wins the industry-adjusted ranking award for reputation awarded by the Reputation Institute. Sustainability Index. Named ICT-infrastructure supplier of the year by Computable. KPN pronounced ‘Global Climate leader’ for the sixth consecutive year by CDP. KPN declared Sponsor of the Year for the third time in six years at the SponsorRingen awards. KPN wins Sustainable Data Center award from DatacenterDynamics EMEA for our sustainable Read more on page 22 solution for reducing the energy of backup power supplies in our data centers. Read more on page 44 Quality and reliability of networks Impact of products and services Continuous investment in high-quality and reliable networks Offering ICT solutions for 21st century challenges Simplified our fixed core network to match the growth in Internet and TV, to improve stability and Customers saved more than 146,000 tons CO₂e emissions and EUR 60 million using our services in 2016. improve costs and energy efficiency. IPTV content is now for a large part recorded and stored locally, New automated external defibrillators (AEDs) in the Netherlands are monitored 24/7 via LoRa and which prevents traffic to central locations. M2M connectivity. It is our ambition to connect all registered AEDs to ensure that they are in place Lab test proved constant speed of more than 1 Gb/s on 4G due to stacking frequencies. and work when needed. Started rollout of voice over LTE. Launched KPN Messenger to securely exchange information in the healthcare sector. Rollout of small cells to live up to customer expectations with regards to 4G quality. One Planet Thinking study by Ecofys showed the positive impact of telecom services outweighs the > 78% FttC/FttH coverage. negative impact of the telecom infrastructure 180 times for CO₂ emissions, 50 times for particulate Read more on page 24 matter and 280 times for fossil depletion. Read more on page 48 Innovation and investments Compliance & Risk Giving people today what they need tomorrow Safeguarding value Completed the rollout of the world’s first nationwide LoRa network for Internet of Things applications. Completely revised and simplified, principle-based KPN Code of Conduct, including KPN Corporate KPN’s scale of corporate startup collaboration awarded top 10 ranking in European Corporate Startup Social Responsibility. Star. New compliance and integrity e-learning Spot On rolled out to all KPN employees. Improved iTV app and introduced Managed Hybrid Cloud. New and extended ISO certifications for Business: ISO 9001:2015, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2012, Read more on page 26 ISO 20000-1:2011, ISO 14001:2004, NEN7510. KPN ranked first in Transparency International Netherlands’ list of anti-corruption programs, transparency and country-by-country reporting. Read more on page 52 Economic value Remuneration Stabilizing financial performance and a solid financial position Fair rewards for all Adjusted EBITDA stabilized, supported by cost savings related to Simplification program. Remuneration reflects operational performance. Growing Free Cash Flow. Solid collective labor agreement in place with a considerate social policy. Announced second wave of the Simplification program for the coming three years from 2017 to 2019 Read more on page 78 having successfully completed the first wave in 2016. Further optimized our debt portfolio via a successful bond tender and new bond issue. Read more on page 28 20 21 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Customer loyalty Supervisory Board Customer loyalty Involving customers to improve services. We do so by applying ‘closed loop feedback’ (CLF) i.e. As in previous years, the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds arranged their experience ask customers about their satisfaction after their interaction with call centers, retail shops or engineers in the field and act on their feedback. events for socially isolated people at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. We also organized the annual KPN Mooiste Contact Dinners with our charity partners. These Christmas dinners were attended by over 700 guests and hosted by over Customer loyalty is built on the quality of our products and services, customer satisfaction We closely monitor our customers’ satisfaction and loyalty 400 KPN volunteers. and the value we deliver to society. A good reputation attracts and retains customers, through NPS. In Consumer the NPS improved slightly in 2016 after a big increase in 2014 and 2015. We saw the biggest We continued to work with the National Foundation for the employees and business partners. The extent to which people recommend us is a good increase in NPS in Business. By conducting research among Elderly on the Zilverlijn project, which tackles loneliness among indicator of how well we are doing. our freelancer and independent contractor customers, we got elderly people. Each week, KPN volunteers call around 200 a better insight into their needs and wishes. Especially the elderly people for a friendly chat. We facilitate the connection. NPS of our freelance customers increased from -12 to -4 in 2016, due to a higher appreciation of service drivers. Billing A new initiative was started with the Heart Foundation KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 is still an important point for improvement. Several initiatives (Hartstichting) in 2016. KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds provided 9 10 have started in Business to streamline this process. With funding and KPN volunteers to support the Heart Foundation NPS Consumer Mobile the use of new software we are now better able to bundle in setting up live group sessions as well as an online platform invoices and deliver custom administrative solutions to a for youngsters between 12-18 years of age with a congenital NPS Consumer Residential 9 10 number of large enterprise customers. Combining the teams of billing, collections, and disputes has resulted in a more agile heart disease to connect to the world around them. NPS Business -10 -3 organization. Now, the whole Bill-2-Cash process is managed from one team. We expect to see more positive results from this in 2017. KPN main sponsor of Dutch speed skating (KNSB) We have sponsored the Royal Dutch Skating Association (KNSB) since 2010. Sponsoring the national team and related NPS NL 3 6 In 2016, we successfully implemented phase two of creating activities helps strengthen our connection with Dutch society. In 2016, we extended our partnership with the KNSB until a single-user identity for all our services (initiated based on July 2018, the year that the Winter Olympics will take place in customer research). The first phase was implemented in 2015 Pyeongchang, South Korea. Reputation experiences of moving in together, which we used for context and allowed customers to log in to all their fixed services with to map the relevance of KPN at this life-changing moment. the same user name and password. In 2016, we successfully TEAMKPN Sports Fund In 2016, we moved up eight places to number 14 in the extended this to mobile services. In 2017, we will work on With the support of the TEAMKPN Sports Fund, the Dutch Reputation Institute’s ranking of the 30 largest companies In 2016, we extended our installation services to customers’ further integration in our systems to provide one uniform national men’s water polo team reached the eighth-finals of in the Netherlands. We also received an award from the homes. We included a WiFi check in the installation process, customer experience, across our products and services. the 2016 European Championships. In 2016, we also supported Reputation Institute for having the highest industry-adjusted so that we can improve the signal ‘on the spot’ if necessary. We the national women’s softball team and the men’s curling team. ranking in 2016. Our annual reputation (69.5) in 2016 is very also improved our online service tools for existing customers The national women’s softball team ended fourth in the World high compared with the industry average in the Telecom so they can easily get advice on how to increase their in-home Sponsorship Championship. The national Olympics committee NOC*NSF sector. Compared with the European Telco Industry in 2016, we Internet speed (kpn.com/snelheid) and improve their WiFi has added women’s softball and men’s water polo to the top are currently among the top five. connectivity (kpn.com/wifi). We improved online and We connect people, through quality products and services, sports programs for 2017. call center support to solve (InHome) problems (kpn.com/ and through sponsorship too. Supporting sport, cultural We are seeing continued growth in our consumer customer storing). In 2016, we saw a 27% drop in customer calls about events and charity initiatives in the Netherlands is our way KPN main sponsor of Rijksmuseum base. Customer loyalty is at an all-time high. The most in-home connectivity issues. of creating additional value for Dutch society. Besides our In 2016, we renewed our partnership with the Rijksmuseum impactful drivers on reputation and supportive behavior financial contributions, our technology and employees make for three years. Our ICT services support the Rijksmuseum towards KPN include: good value for money, high quality We invested in better coverage of the network, which resulted this possible. in its ambition to be the ultimate, state-of-the-art cultural products, meeting customer needs, and being open and in fewer dropped calls. We also ensured connectivity at busy institute in the Netherlands and abroad. We sponsored transparent. events and festivals by temporarily increasing our network KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds an open day for the public to view the museum’s two new capacity and placing extra antennas. We continued to invest The KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds connects people in need of Rembrandt acquisitions, ‘Maarten’ and ‘Oopjen’. We will livein the stability of our networks. If a failure occurs, we now keep social contact, such as the elderly or chronically ill children, stream the restoration of these two paintings so the public Customer loyalty customers updated about the timing and duration of outages with the use of our technology and the help of our employees. can follow the progress. or repairs by email, text messages, online and social media. In 2016, our employees volunteered 1,855 times for various To remain attractive to existing and new customers, we Customers really appreciate this and we receive fewer queries. projects with our charity partners. KlasseContact connects continued to simplify our products and processes in 2016 For small and medium-sized enterprises, we introduced chronically ill children to their classrooms and school friends. and focused on providing an excellent customer experience. the SME Sales & Service Desk. Here, customers experiencing It is run in partnership with the educational organization We improved various customer journeys using a humantechnical issues are connected to a multi-skilled service EDventure. In 2016, 505 children used the KPN Classmate centered design approach, involving customers in identifying employee with a high first-time solving rate. digital device. A successful communication campaign in 2016 and realizing improvements. For example, we invited for our KlasseContact program improved the awareness of companies we partner with to help us map Customer Journeys Customer feedback KPN’s social initiatives. and validated the outcome with representatives from Large To become the best ICT service provider, we continuously Enterprises. We also asked young couples to share their seek our customers’ feedback to improve our products and 22 23 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Q  uality and reliability Supervisory Board of network Quality and reliability of networks Continuous investment in high Best-in-class networks to meet customer used in a number of IoT pilots. These include tracking devices quality and reliable networks demands in cars, sensors that lead drivers to empty parking spaces in Rotterdam, sensors that automate street lighting and sensors in litter bins at Schiphol airport to improve cleaners’ efficiency and productivity. We worked with Rabobank to develop a new The Internet is an essential part of people’s daily lives in the Netherlands and they depend payment service using mobile phones and applied the same on our infrastructure to keep them connected, whether it’s to work, shop or to socialize. technology to allow our employees access to KPN buildings. This could be extended to control access to our street We constantly work to improve our technical performance and enhance the quality, capacity cabinets. By replacing physical cards with phone access and reliability of our fixed and mobile networks. we could realize substantial cost savings. Quality Capacity Reliability KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 Simplifying and securing our network Retail consumers: 55% best fixed network, Retail consumers: 54% best fixed network, We switched off and decommissioned old equipment to 50% best mobile network 47% best mobile network simplify the network and improve efficiency. In 2016, this % of the Netherlands that agree that KPN has the best Business: 79% best fixed network and Business: 79% best fixed network and saved 34.9 GWh in energy. However, we also have to migrate ICT Infrastructures 71% best mobile network 68% best mobile network Strong our customers to the new systems, which can lead to service disruptions. % of households with access to at least 100 Mb connection 68% 75% In 2016, there were 22 large outages affecting more than 100,000 customers or smaller outages taking relatively long Weighted downtime reduction (compared to last year YTD) -61% 55% 1 Fast to resolve. In September 2016, there was one large outage that impacted around 73% of our consumer customers with fixed voice and Internet services country-wide. As a result of root-cause analysis, we have improved our procedures to In 2016, we again improved the coverage, quality and speed of the video quality to the access speeds users encounter on resolve similar problems faster and aim to prevent such an our fixed and mobile networks. This resulted in approximately different devices and in different locations. In 2017, we are Secure outage from happening again. 75% coverage of Dutch households with access to speeds going to roll out visual voicemail where messages are listed of at least 100 Mbps. This is below our target of 85% because including who they are from, so customers can determine the we changed the FttC roll out in order to better respond to sequence in which they listen to their messages. Dilemma customer demands. The average 4G download speed was 51 Mbps by the end of 2016. More than speed, however, we focused on We measure consumer quality perception by the percentage Our customers want continuous and reliable access to voice enhancing the quality of our 4G LTE connections, especially of Dutch consumers who rate our network as the best in the and data services. Sometimes we have to weigh the cost voice quality. We erected new masts to increase capacity and Netherlands. In 2016, an impressive 79% and 68% of business of delivering this against the social benefits, especially in less than 0.2% of all calls were dropped in the mobile network. consumers rated KPN as best fixed and as best mobile remote areas with only a limited number of users. A dilemma We continued to roll out fiber in our fixed network and 78% of network respectively, both above our target of 60%. Among we face here is where to invest: do we improve the already Dutch households are now connected to FttC/FttH. retail consumers 54% rated our fixed network and 47% our considerable bandwidth in a populous urban area where mobile network as the best. We face heavy competition on the we will definitely reach many customers or do we invest in a mobile market, however the percentage of mobile consumers remote area where bandwidth is still below our standards, Best-in-class networks rating KPN as the best network is considerably higher than but the number of people who will benefit from it is relatively our mobile market share, this indicates that there are mobile low. Sometimes we choose to test a new technology in a As long as the quality of the connection stays the same, it consumers who rate KPN higher than their own service remote area, thus combining an economical impulse with doesn’t matter whether our customers access our voice and provider. Due to the fact that a large number of people have social demands from sectors like transport, healthcare, utilities data services via a high-speed broadband connection or using no opinion on this matter, we chose to discontinue this KPI. and agriculture. 4G on a smartphone. In 2016, we integrated our fixed and mobile customer authentication platforms. This will enable We also sometimes face opposition to our plans to erect a our customers to seamlessly switch between WiFi and 4G New technologies Also, we installed the LoRa (low power; long range) network new mast or install underground cabling. This makes it hard access to make calls and be online on their phones. outdoors, making the Netherlands the first country in the for us to meet the demand for more and better connectivity. In 2016, we activated voice over LTE (VoLTE) on our 4G data world with nationwide coverage for Internet of Things (IoT) We continue to work with local municipalities and residents We can develop and roll-out new products and services faster network, using the same high-speed infrastructure for both applications. South Korea announced only a few days later to find ways to resolve this. and easier by using network virtualization and a software data and phone calls. Voice calls are transmitted in ‘packages’ that they also have nationwide LoRa coverage. We equipped defined network. We are expanding our high-definition IPTV in the same way as emails and other data. Calls are connected hundreds of existing mobile transmission towers with LoRa offering with our mobile Interactive TV service, which matches quicker and the sound quality is better. antennas which are able to connect millions of devices to the Internet. Being the first means there were some initial start-up 1 In 2016, we had 55% more downtime than in 2015, mainly due to the outage of one specific system, which caused a delay in getting our technical issues. Most have been ironed out and LoRa is currently being experts on site in time. 24 25 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Innovation and investments Supervisory Board Innovation and investments Giving people today what they Nurturing new ideas Dilemma need tomorrow In 2016, we were named one of Europe’s top 10 Corporate Startup Stars by UK innovation charity NESTA and the EU Commission’s As KPN, we believe in open innovation and made the choice to work with startups and other parties. It requires trust and Startup Europe Partnership. This was the first year we featured sharing. This gives us a lot of benefits, but there is also a The fast pace at which technology evolves, requires a different approach to unlock its full on this list of startup-friendly corporates. It acknowledges our downside to open innovation. The choice we have to make potential. It’s important to KPN to continuously apply proven technologies in existing and commitment to partnering with startups and the steps we have is between working together and develop new products and taken to make it easier to do business with entrepreneurial young services a lot faster and with the right expertise, or develop new products and services to fulfill changing customer needs. We do this in-house and by companies, for example by adjusting our procurement terms and by ourselves. Working together also means we have to share partnering with up-and-coming startups to turn promising ideas into commercial products conditions and letting them use our facilities. the revenues. If we develop by ourselves, the earnings are completely for us, but it also means that the innovation takes and services that will improve people’s lives. With RDM Makerspace we also initiated the IoT Academy, much more time, facing the risk of entering the market too late, where we collaborate with other companies and developers which also lowers the revenues. on ways to apply and secure the Internet of Things. The IoT We are seeing shifts in customer demand that require in our new headquarters in Rotterdam and will roll it out as a Academy’s workshops and hackathons are open to all changes in products and services. The first way in which we business service for customers. interested parties, from large corporates to startups. are responding to this is by innovating within our existing portfolio. In 2016, we focused on improving our iTV app. There are three steps to develop new business products. We also introduced Managed Hybrid Cloud in response to a First we have to find the right technologies. One way to Innovations in 2016 specific demand from the Business segment for simple hybrid identify promising ideas is to host regular startup events. cloud solutions. KPN Managed Hybrid Cloud allows customers Our last event in September 2016 attracted around 300 In 2016, we introduced a number of innovations. Some to leverage their IT infrastructure when digitizing their startups, underlining the importance KPN places on nurturing innovations are developed in collaboration with partners. operations. The hybrid cloud combines the benefits of a virtual innovation. Secondly, we qualify the value the product or The most important innovations of 2016 are: private cloud (reliability and security) with those of a public service will create for our customers. The third step is to cloud (scalability and flexibility). incubate the idea, preferably with our partners and customers, Internet of Things: KPN was first in the world to roll out and bring it to market as quickly as possible. a nationwide LoRa network. We activated LoRa in various We also respond to changing customer needs by partnering sectors, such as infrastructure, industry, transportation, smart with others. The KPN New Business department helps startups cities and soon also consumers. Over 300 developers have bring new ideas to fruition and the KPN Venture fund invests KPN Ventures been trained in LoRa technology at the IoT Academy. in startups to accelerate innovation. We are already seeing the mutual benefits of this collaboration: we benefit and learn from KPN Ventures is an external investment fund set up in 2015. C yber Security: In 2016, we partnered with proven the speed at which startups can innovate, while they benefit It focuses on stimulating outside-in innovation, building technology partners and innovative startups to expand the from our brand name and marketing power. partner­ships with startups and scale-ups, and creating value security portfolio for large companies, Dutch governmental for customers and shareholders. In 2016, the KPN Ventures institutions and especially for small businesses. We KPN New Business and KPN Ventures were set up in 2015. The team became fully operational and executed four direct introduced new products including Security Monitoring New Business team now has a liaison manager who connects investments in startups, one indirect startup participation & Analytics and Vulnerability Management, invested in our business with startups. We also set up a new department and two indirect (fund-in-fund) investments. It invested in threat intelligence as well as securing the Internet of Things, to ‘search, qualify and incubate’ new ideas. The areas we threat intelligence platform provider EclecticIQ, optical time and helped customers transition safely to the cloud. focus on in particular are the Internet of Things, smart home distribution company OPNT, tool tracking company Viloc applications, ehealth, smart cities, near-field communication and industrial cyber­security monitoring solution provider S mart City: Following the success of initial pilots that (NFC) services that enable contactless payments, cloud services, SecurityMatters. KPN Ventures also partnered with the used our LoRa network for smart city applications, we are data analytics and cyber security. Read more in our chapter Cottonwood European Technology Fund, which invests in developing a professional solution for municipalities to use on Impact of products and services on p. 48, where we have early-stage science-based ventures, and KEEN Venture in their own cities. KPN’s Smart City consultants work with also explained how these innovations link to the Sustainable Partners, a new Anglo-Dutch venture capital fund, focusing municipalities to analyze available data, identify what they Development Goals (SDGs). on growth-stage investment in European technology firms. need and determine how smart applications will benefit In 2016, the fund doubled to an amount of EUR 70 million, their city. We implemented our first municipality contract in because we sold our stake in Jasper Wireless (US technology 2016. Pilots with smart street lighting have shown impressive KPN New Business company) to Cisco. The proceeds of the sale have been results: energy and cost savings of up to 80%. added to the reserves of our investment fund KPN Ventures. We believe in open innovation and we work closely with This increases our ability to invest in young technology S martOV: We are implementing the NFC (near-field startups to develop creative ideas quickly. For example, it took companies that make the Netherlands smarter, safer and more communication) technology for SmartOV, using mobile “In 2016, KPN was named as one of us less than three months time to market to introduce Smart sustainable. phones to access public transport. Europe’s top 10 Corporate Startup Stars Building, an app developed by a partner that shows where by UK innovation charity NESTA and there are free desks and meeting rooms in a flexible office R abowallet: Together with Rabobank, we developed a environment. This makes it easier to manage the available customer-friendly, secure way to make payments with an the EU Commission’s Startup Europe space and predict peak occupancy times. We will use the app Android phone based on our NFC SIM card. Partnership” 26 27 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board Economic value Stabilizing financial performance 2,419 -238 69 2,428 and a solid financial position 78 82 18 KPN’s financial performance has stabilized, supported by cost savings and good commercial performance in Consumer while challenges remain in the Business segment. Continued capacity upgrades of the fixed, mobile and core networks supported an excellent customer experience. KPN’s financial position is solid and a bond tender and new bond issues further optimized KPN’s debt portfolio. Financial performance segments & impairments) at Network, Operations & IT were EUR 52 Adjusted Adjusted Cost of goods Personnel IT/TI Other operating Adjusted million lower y-on-y in 2016 when adjusted for restructuring EBITDA 2015 Revenues & services expenses expenses EBITDA 2016 Note: All KPN Group figures presented are based on KPN’s continuing and incidentals. The reduction was mainly driven by lower operations and do not include the financial results of BASE Company, unless stated otherwise. IT/TI, housing and personnel costs. The rationalization of IT platforms, finalization of some large innovation programs and Consumer further efficiencies due to improved business processes drove Adjusted revenues in Consumer increased by 1.4% y-on-y the reduction. Appendix 1 to this Integrated Annual Report includes KPN’s Financial income and expenses in 2016 due to good results in both residential and mobile. adjusted analysis, which explains the bridge between the Net finance expenses increased by EUR 312 million in 2016 Residential revenues grew by 2.5% driven by an increasing iBasis reported and adjusted results per segment. to EUR 417 million. This was mainly due to the EUR 184 number of RGUs, higher ARPU per household and price Adjusted revenues at iBasis decreased by 5.8% y-on-y in 2016. million book gain on the sale of part of its stake in Telefónica adjustments. Mobile service revenue growth (1.6%) was driven On the full year, the currency effect was near nil. The adjusted Revenues and other income Deutschland in Q4 2015, EUR 160 million additional finance by high value base growth. Excluding the positive impact EBITDA margin in 2016 of 2.7% was somewhat higher y-on-y Adjusted Group revenues and other income were 3.4% (EUR expenses related to the bond tender in Q3 2016 and EUR 36 of tax benefits of EUR 14 million in 2016 and EUR 26 million (2015: 2.5%). 238 million) lower y-on-y in 2016. Growing revenues in million lower dividend received on KPN’s stake in Telefónica in 2015, mobile service revenues increased by 2.6%. Growth in Consumer were driven by the positive impact of base growth Deutschland in 2016 compared to 2015, partly offset by EUR mobile service revenues was partly offset by lower revenues For information on financial and operational performance per and price adjustments. This was offset by declining revenues 82 million lower interest costs on its senior bonds as a result related to hardware sales. segment, read more in Note 3 of the Financial Statements. in Business, mainly driven by the impact of repricing and of a lower gross debt level. Adjusted EBITDA increased by 4.6% y-on-y, driven by higher migrations to integrated IP-based services, rationalization revenues and lower operating expenses. Consequently, the and mobile price pressure. Income taxes adjusted EBITDA margin grew to 60.3% (2015: 58.4%). Financial performance (continuing operations) The positive impact of incidentals in 2016 (EUR 26 million) was In 2016, KPN recognized a tax expense of EUR 96 million due to the release of revenue-related provisions in Wholesale. (2015: EUR 81 million). The effective tax rate for KPN’s Business Revenues EBITDA EBITDA margin In 2015, the negative impact of incidentals (EUR 10 million) continuing operations for 2016 is 20.6% (2015: 13.4%, mainly Adjusted revenues in Business declined by 7.6% y-on-y in 2016 in millions of EUR in millions of EUR The Netherlands related to revenue-related provisions and deferred revenues due to reversals related to previous years and recognition due to lower revenues from traditional telco services as a at Business. of liquidation losses in 2015). Also, KPN continues to qualify result of migrations to integrated solutions and rationalization, as an innovative company and therefore benefits from the and price pressure in predominantly Large Enterprise & EBITDA innovation box tax regime, a facility under Dutch corporate Corporate mobile services, partly offset by growth in multi-play revenues and new services. Read more on page 35. 6,806 2,429 39.7% Adjusted Group EBITDA stabilized in 2016 with a slight increase of 0.4% (EUR 9 million) y-on-y. This was mainly driven by the income tax law whereby profits attributable to innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. Adjusted EBITDA decreased by 8.8% y-on-y in 2016 driven positive impact from cost savings related to the Simplification by lower revenues, partly offset by costs reductions through program, such as a reduction in own and external personnel. The effective tax rate (continuing operations) is expected Simplification. Indirect costs in Business were 5.1% lower 2015: 7,008 2015: 2,324 2015: 37.3% EBITDA was impacted by restructuring costs for EUR 45 million to be approximately 21% in 2017-2018. See Note 9 of the compared to last year. This resulted in an adjusted EBITDA (2015: EUR 100 million). The net positive impact of incidentals Consolidated Financial Statements for further information margin of 60.0% (2015: 60.8%). was EUR 46 million (2015: EUR 5 million). on KPN’s tax position. Adjusted revenues Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA Wholesale in millions of EUR in millions of EUR margin The Netherlands The adjusted EBITDA margin for the Netherlands increased to Net profit Adjusted revenues in Wholesale grew by 1.0% y-on-y in 2016 40.0% (2015: 38.6%), supported by a rigorous cost focus in all Net profit for 2016 was EUR 800 million (including discontinued mainly driven by the take-up of VULA and WBA in fixed. areas of the business. operations). The profit for 2016 from continuing operations Adjusted EBITDA increased by 2.4% y-on-y resulting in a was EUR 370 million. The decrease (EUR 154 million) compared 1%-point higher adjusted EBITDA margin compared to last year (2015: 68.2%). 6,780 2,428 40.0% Operating profit Group operating profit (EBIT) increased by EUR 176 million to to 2015 was driven by EUR 312 million higher net finance expenses in 2016, which offset the EUR 176 million increase EUR 884 million due to EUR 105 million higher EBITDA and in operating profit. The profit for 2016 from discontinued Network, Operations & IT EUR 71 million lower depreciation and amortization charges. operations (EUR 430 million) consisted mainly of the result Operating expenses (excluding depreciation, amortization 2015: 7,018 2015: 2,419 2015: 38.6% on the sale of BASE Company (EUR 369 million). 28 29 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board Economic value Capex of KPN’s stake in TEFD in Q4 2015 (EUR 805 million). Tax Cash taxes (in millions of EUR) Capex decreased to EUR 1,193 million in 2016 compared with At the end of 2016, net debt to EBITDA was 2.8x (2015: KPN’s corporate tax department (CTD) is responsible EUR 1,300 million in 2015 due to structurally lower network 2.5x). The average coupon on KPN’s senior bonds was 4.1% for KPN’s overall tax position and optimal use of subsidy VAT: Wage tax: 670 (52%) 448 (35%) investments, following a period of elevated investment compared to 5.1% at the end of 2015. opportunities. KPN adheres to its tax strategy and policy 614 (50%) 425 (35%) levels, and lower customer drive Capex. Capital intensity is (see www.kpn.com/taxstrategy). In line with this strategy still relatively high due to investment programs in network and policy, our Tax Control Framework (TCF) is continuously Total tax1: capacity and Simplification. In fixed, investments in fiber Capital allocation and shareholder monitored and optimized. A cornerstone of the TCF is our Social security: 1,288 (100%) 1,221 (100%) connections to homes, streets, mobile sites and business parks remuneration long-lasting covenant with the Dutch tax authorities to self110 (9%) drove the FttH/FttC penetration to 78% at the end of 2016, assess and transparently discuss KPN’s current and potential 110 (10%) Other: with 75% coverage of households with access to speeds of Over the last years, KPN has invested significantly in its future tax issues. This covenant is based on mutual trust and 6 (0%) at least 100 Mbps. In mobile, we invested to increase available network infrastructure, products and customers, resulting transparency. Dividend Tax: 5 (0%) download speeds via carrier aggregation with 1800 MHz. in high quality fixed and mobile networks and improved 54 (4%) 2016 customer satisfaction ratings across all segments. KPN will In 2016, the following main developments and projects were 67 (5%) 2015 continue to focus on improving the customer experience relevant to KPN from a tax perspective: the divestment of Simplification program successful by further investing in capacity, reliability and stability of BASE Company, the innovation box related to 2016, the EUR 1 Excluding Income Tax refund of EUR 50 million net its integrated network. KPN generates FCF (after capital 1.0 billion bond tender, the EUR 1.2 billion capital repayment (2015: EUR 18 million) KPN finalized the first wave of the Simplification program expenditures), which forms the basis for its policy related to shareholders, various M&A transactions and investments in Q4 2016, realizing Opex and Capex run-rate savings of to regular dividends. through KPN Ventures. KPN made further steps to redesign approximately EUR 460 million and 2,072 FTE reductions its VAT control and automation of tax compliance and since the end of 2013. The savings are primarily realized KPN intends to provide a sustainable and growing regular furthermore advised HR to manage changes in legislation The following Tax KPIs apply for 2016: through simplification and rationalization of IT processes dividend in line with its FCF growth profile. KPN intends to pay which, if not properly handled, will result in an increased and systems, network infrastructure and customer processes. a dividend per share of EUR 10ct in respect of 2016. An interim liability for KPN for wage tax and social security in respect of The reconciliation between KPN’s Effective Tax Rate (ETR) and Examples are the migration of fixed KPN customers to a dividend of EUR 3.3ct per share was paid in August 2016. In hiring of tentative self-employed persons. KPN also organized the Cash Tax Rate (CTR) mainly relates to the use of tax losses new integrated order management IT platform and the respect of 2017, a dividend per share of EUR 11ct is intended. a round table dialogue with stakeholders, including NGOs, on and a refund (carry back). The EBIT tax rate is lower than the decommissioning of legacy IT systems. the topic “tax in the boardroom”. statutory rate mainly due to innovation box tax regime. KPN remains committed to an investment-grade credit profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and Forward looking Free Cash Flow financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder Due to available losses in the Netherlands, KPN expects to pay Eff. tax rate remuneration. Any additional shareholder remuneration on top limited amounts of income tax for the coming years. Based on (ETR) 20.6% Free Cash Flow (FCF) for 2016 was EUR 43 million higher of the regular dividend could for example be in the form of a current projections, KPN expects to fully utilize its realized and in 2015: 13.4% y-on-y at EUR 741 million. Excluding the EUR 110 million dividend, share buyback or capital repayment. unrealized losses well within the expiration limits. dividend received from Telefónica Deutschland, FCF for 2016 was EUR 631 million, EUR 79 million higher y-on-y. On May 20, 2016, KPN received a dividend from its stake in The increase was mainly driven by EUR 105 million higher reported EBITDA, EUR 107 million lower Capex, Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 110 million for 2015, which KPN distributed to KPN shareholders as an additional interim “Giuseppe van der Helm, Tax Justice Normalized EUR 32 million less taxes paid and EUR 25 million lower cash dividend (EUR 2.5ct per share) on May 27, 2016. On June NL, on KPN’s tax policy: ‘At all times, we ETR 21.6% interest paid. This was partly offset by EUR 151 million 30, 2016, KPN distributed approximately EUR 1.2 billion in the EBIT in 2015: 20.6% Cash tax rate more impact from change in working capital and EUR 24 form of a capital repayment to its shareholders of EUR 28ct respect the spirit of the law’. With this tax rate 23.2% (CTR) -10.7% in 2015: in 2015: million more impact from change in provisions. Excluding per ordinary share. The distribution was related to the cash powerful sentence KPN is a frontrunner” 23.7% -3.0% the one-off cash optimization actions of EUR 52 million proceeds from the sale of BASE Company in February 2016 and the Telefónica Deutschland (TEFD) dividend, 2016 and the sale of 150 million shares in Telefónica Deutschland in FCF would have been EUR 683 million, up 24% y-on-y. November 2015. Tax overview for continuing operations per country: Solid financial position Outlook 2017 Profit before Corporate Other tax tax excl. Corporate Income cash flow Property Net debt to EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA in line with 2016; In millions of Total Operating associates and Income Effective Tax cash mainly VAT Plant and Employees EUR or FTE revenues profit joint ventures Tax expense tax rate flow & Payroll Equipment end of year Net debt amounted to EUR 6.8 billion at the end of 2016, Capex ~EUR 1.15 billion; EUR 0.3 billion higher compared to the end of 2015. The increase Free Cash Flow (excluding TEFD dividend) growing NL 6,298 911 499 -92 18% 51 1,281 5,949 13,265 in net debt was mainly driven by the EUR 1.2 billion capital compared to 2016 FCF, after adjusting for the impact of cash repayment in June 2016, dividend payments and the bond optimization actions, of EUR 683 million; US 500 -19 -20 -3 -15% 7 20 209 tender executed in September 2016, partly offset by the net Additional cash flow via expected dividend from 15.5% stake Other 8 -8 -12 -1 -8% -1 56 proceeds from the sale of BASE Company in February 2016 in Telefónica Deutschland. and regular FCF generation. Also, the net debt position at Total 2016 6,806 884 467 -96 20.6% 50 1,288 5,969 13,530 Total 2015 7,008 708 603 -81 13.4% 18 1,221 6,001 14,078 the end of 2015 included the proceeds from the sale of part 30 31 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board Economic value Highlights of our progress on the key strategy priorities as set out on page 16 1 KPN proven market leader in fixed-mobile bundling 3 KPN set up new company for its colocation data centers In the consumer market, KPN’s strategy is focused on delivering leading services centered In response to market demand, KPN moved the data centers in Aalsmeer, Almere, Eindhoven, around households and the ongoing convergence of fixed and mobile services. Combined with Groningen, Oude Meer (Schiphol) and Rotterdam into a separate company within the KPN an excellent customer experience this resulted in continued growth in bundled services and Group. NLDC is the new name of KPN’s colocation services. NLDC positions itself as a Dutch high-value customers. data center company that aims to become the best data center supplier in colocation. Read more on page 34 Read more on page 36 1 Strong market positions 4 KPN’s CSR strategy recognized with CDP award and DJSI World inclusion KPN succeeded in maintaining its strong market positions. The continued growth in postpaid KPN was included in CDP’s Climate A list, leading the corporate response to climate change, customer base combined with a stabilized postpaid ARPU throughout 2016 resulted in an and was included in Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fifth consecutive year. increase of our mobile market share to 42% (2015: 41%) in an overall declining market. KPN's Read more on page 3 broadband market share remains strong despite a slight decrease from 41% at the end of 2015 to 40% at the end of 2016. Read more on page 34 2 Innovative IPTV platform drives TV growth 4 Wholesale KPN’s strategic focus on continued innovation and improvement of customer experience In 2016, KPN completed the phase out of the legacy ATM network for its wholesale customers. IPTV resulted in continued strong growth of IPTV customers. Near the end of 2016, KPN surpassed the threshold of 2 million IPTV customers. In 2016, KPN announced a broader set of television The migration of wholesale customers from regulated ULL (Unbundled Local Loop) services to commercially agreed VULA (Virtual Unbundled Access) and WBA (Wholesale Broadband channels, added its internet security service to all bundled packages and executed a 4K TV pilot. Access) services remains ongoing. In addition, KPN introduced HD for its OTT TV service, Play. by KPN. Read more on page 36 Read more on page 34 Increased 100 Mbps speed availability to 75% of households 2 Expansion in new services 5 The selective FttH rollout is being combined with the rollout of fiber to the street cabinets, reaching a FttH/FttC coverage of 78% at the end of 2016. This resulted in 75% coverage of Dutch KPN is continuously looking to expand scale and capabilities for new services related to our ICT households with access to speeds of at least 100 Mbps (2015: 68%). We changed the FttC roll infrastructure. The digitalization of companies provides an opportunity to support our IT growth out in order to better respond to customer demands. KPN continuously works on innovation on smart buildings and smart cities. In the cloud computing market, KPN’s strategy is to grow and upgrades of its integrated network. The continued capacity upgrades of its fixed and mobile both organically and through acquisitions. With the acquisitions of Redbee and Fortytwo, KPN network are aimed at an excellent network service experience for KPN’s customers. Customer expanded its portfolio and strengthened its position on cloud, managed hosting and IT-Security. satisfaction improved across all segments in 2016. Read more on page 35 Read more on page 37 3 Migrations to integrated solutions 5 Focus of simplification shifting to customer experience KPN is expanding its capabilities in the business market by building on its strong position in An important achievement that demonstrated the simplification of KPN’s operating model access and connectivity with a focus on growing share in the Dutch IT market. The strategic was the realization of three integrated order management IT platforms. The migration of the focus on offering multi-play seats provides opportunities for KPN’s reorganized sales force to majority of our mobile consumer and all of our fixed consumer KPN customers were successfully upand cross-sell additional (IT) services to customers. However, KPN still faces the challenges completed in 2016 without noticeable effects for our customers. of repricing and migration of customers away from traditional single play services to IP-based Read more on page 37 services, rationalization and price pressure in wireless in the LE & Corporate segment. Read more on page 35 32 33 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board Consumer Business KPN’s value focus was reflected in changes to its fixed KPN proven market leader in fixed-mobile bundling Migrations to integrated solutions UWV, the Employee Insurance Agency of the Dutch state, and mobile propositions implemented in 2016. The new In all segments of the business market, KPN is migrating entered into a renewed contract for KPN Workplace Services. propositions included an enrichment of bundles, such as an fixed-mobile postpaid customers customers to integrated solutions and new technologies. Aiming for a highly standardized workplace environment internet security package for fixed customers, EU roaming households in fixed-mobile bundles This presents upand cross-sell opportunities, but also results (Saas), resulting in maximum stability and flexibility for the within the bundle for new mobile subscribers and live in lower revenues from traditional services. Revenues are also years to come. Dutch football at improved conditions. Also, a broader set of impacted by rationalization and price pressure in predominantly television channels was introduced, internet security services Large Enterprises (LE) & Corporate mobile services. were added to all bundled packages and KPN introduced full Number of SME multi play seats HD for its OTT TV service, Play. by KPN. Strengthening portfolio and infrastructure KPN is building on its strong position in access and connectivity KPN continued to focus on the high-value segment of the to grow in the Dutch IT market and has improved its market market via its leading KPN brand. New propositions were also introduced for the Telfort brand, aligning FttH and copper pricing and targeting fixed-mobile convergence. 1,077 k 1,583 k position via selective acquisitions (such as Redbee and Fortytwo in 2016). In 2016, KPN invested in SecurityMatters, a provider of advanced cyber security solutions, as part of its strategy to grow 2015: 813k 2015: 1,172k in digital security services. KPN recently strengthened its security Bundled KPN’s focus on fixed-mobile bundling resulted in an increased penetration of households (broadband customers) in fixedservices portfolio by acquiring DearBytes. Read more in Note 28 of the Financial Statements. 316 k ¹ 2015: 58k mobile bundles to 37% at the end of 2016 (2015: 29%) and an Strong market positions KPN launched Managed Hybrid Cloud, a solution that flexibly 1 Including 201 thousand multi play seats from RoutIT increase in postpaid customers in fixed-mobile bundles to 43% combines KPN’s award winning datacenters with integrated (2015: 33%). This was further supported by the introduction of Mobile market share Broadband market share solutions of leading international third party IT companies. With fixed-mobile benefits for XS4ALL customers at the end of 2016. KPN ÉÉN, KPN provides business customers with a single point Business revenue growth drivers of contact and presents them with increased overview of all their Strong operational performance services through a single invoice service. Customers can compose FY‘16 % of total adjusted adjusted KPN’s net adds in broadband of 45 thousand and IPTV of 126 their own service package more easily, which simplifies the y-on-y revenues thousand in 2016 were driven by growth in the high-value Customer Journey and rationalizes the business market portfolio. growth KPN brand. Bundled residential services resulted in a growing number of RGUs per household (2.16 vs. 2.07 in 2015). ARPU Order intake improving Business total -7.6% per household increased to EUR 41 (2015: EUR 39), mainly driven by the growing RGUs per household and the price increase implemented on July 1, 2016. 42% 40% In 2016, KPN successfully signed up several new large customers and extending or expanding existing contracts. A number of these multi-year contracts are centered around KPN's innovative Single play wireless -13% 23% 1 2015: 41% 2015: 41% Mainly and IT driven solutions. Over 15,000 employees of the City of Traditional fixed -19% 17% 2 SME Furthermore, KPN continued to grow its mobile customer base Amsterdam work with IT solutions hosted and supported by with 92 thousand postpaid net adds, which was entirely driven KPN. Most of these applications will be managed via KPN’s Multi play 27% 5,2% 3 by the high-value KPN brand. The positive effect on ARPU Managed Hybrid Cloud solution. By doing so, KPN continues to Mainly LE & Network & IT services -10% 22% 4 from the shift to our high-value brand was offset by the lower Innovative IPTV platform drives TV growth support the City of Amsterdam in its IT modernization. tax benefits in 2016 compared to 2015. The committed part of Corporate Customized solutions -1.2% 24% 5 ARPU increased by 4% to 84%, among other factors due to the Number of ITV customers Market share TV For the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Environmental introduction of new propositions that include EU roaming. affairs, KPN, together with its partners, created Talking Traffic, New services 18% 5,0% 6 enabling intelligent solutions providing road users with realtime traffic information. 1. Single play wireless decreased due to the impact of repricing, lower roaming fees and the migration to multi play and customized Segment contribution to KPN Group revenues Segment contribution to KPN Group revenues solutions. 2. Traditional fixed-only services continued to be impacted by rationalization and the ongoing migration towards VoIP and 2,003 k 30% multi play. 3. Multi play revenues growth was driven by KPN’s integrated service KPN ÉÉN in the SME segment. 2015: 1,877k 2015: 29% 4. Revenues from Network & IT services continued to decline, mainly due to price pressure on Network services and lower hardware sales this year. 5. Revenues from Customized solutions declined following the shift to standardized solutions for which less customized work is needed 6. Higher cloud revenues contributed to growth of revenues from New services. KPN KPN Consumer Business 34 35 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board Wholesale Network, Operations & IT Wholesale provides connectivity solutions to KPN’s fixed KPN to set up new company for its colocation data centers Core network KPN obtained Digitenne license until 2030 and mobile wholesale partners via KPN’s fixed and mobile As per January 1, 2017, KPN brought six of its data centers, KPN continuously innovates and upgrades capacity of its KPN obtained the new license for digital ether television networks. As per January 1, 2016, KPN concentrated its mobile focused on offering colocation services, into a new company, best-in-class integrated network and ICT infrastructure. (Digitenne) until February 1, 2030 from the Radio and fixed wholesale activities into one operating segment as named NLDC, with its own identity within the KPN group. To ensure best customer experience we continuously work communications Agency (Agentschap Telecom) for free. part of the new functional structure of the company. By doing so, KPN expects to be able to better capitalize to strengthen our core network and mobile network capacity. The continuity for hundreds of thousands of customers is on the growth opportunities in the market for colocation, The fixed core network (FCN) has been upgraded and guaranteed. The former license expired January 31, 2017. Wholesale fixed where ‘carrier and cloud neutral’ are key decision criteria for connected to 161 Metro Core locations, thereby bringing In 2016, KPN completed the phase out of the legacy ATM customers. The datacenter business will become part of KPN’s services closer to the customer, which improves stability How our services reach our customers network for its wholesale customers. The migration of operating segment Wholesale. of the connection and provides an excellent customer wholesale customers from regulated ULL (Unbundled experience. In total, approximately 2.5 million connections Local Loop) services to commercially agreed VULA (Virtual Wholesale mobile Wholesale lines were successfully migrated. KPN Service platforms OTT Services Unbundled Local Access) and WBA (Wholesale Broadband customers Services Access) services remains ongoing enabling providers to Within the extensive program Life Cycle Management, KPN updage broadband speed to their end customers. shuts down outdated networks to ensure greater simplicity Voice IT IPTV and significant cost savings. In this context KPN, as one of the Wholesale mobile first incumbents in Europe, shut down the ATM network in Wholesale mobile data increased 27% and offsets the decrease April 2016. in wholesale call volumes (minutes) of 12%. In the second half of 2016 average data usage by Wholesale customers Access network increased even 56%. 778 k 1,001 k The high coverage of FttH/FttC (78%) within KPN’s network Core & Transport 4 Core allows KPN to deliver next generation access to the majority locations NL-ix of Dutch households. 75% of Dutch households have access to 2015: 817k 2015: 1,029k NL-ix, which is a subsidiary of Wholesale, provides peering, speeds of at least 100 Mbps (2015: 68%). The high number of transport and transit activities. Peering is a service that fiber connections running to Dutch homes, streets, mobile sites enables low-latency international exchange of mutual internet and business parks puts KPN in an excellent position to benefit 161 Metro locations Core traffic via peering sessions at minimal costs. Compared to from the latest network technologies. KPN continued to rollout public internet, peering improves performance and minimizes carrier aggregation and made VoLTE services available to an page load times through stable, uncongested and short increased number of customers. paths, eliminating third party network routing hops and dependencies, reliable delivery (zero packet loss) and low Rationalization order management IT platforms latency (roundtrip delay). NL-ix has considerably grown its In 2016 KPN rationalized the order management IT peering activities in 2016. platforms for consumer customers. The KPN branded mobile Area consumers and all of our fixed consumer KPN customers were POP/SC NL-ix (together with AMS-ix) has been named by Deloitte as a successfully migrated to new IT platforms. The migration Access mainport for Internet traffic more than the Port of Rotterdam of mobile wholesale customers has started and next year and Schiphol are for containers and passengers respectively. both mobile business market customers and mobile Telfort The NL-ix peering VLAN is shared and distributed over the customers will be added. NL-ix infrastructure. Members can peer with each other from each of the connected data centers (more than 100, located For Telfort consumer customers, the CRM processes, delivery across 12 countries). and portfolio for copper and fiber customers were combined on the same IT platform in order to reduce complexity for both customers and employees. Segment contribution to KPN Group revenues Before December 1, 2016, all customers were migrated and as of December 2016, the old systems will be decommissioned, all to be finished by the end of January 2017. IT application rationalization program Over 200 systems have been phased out since the start of this IT rationalization program, however approximately 100 new systems were introduced, making the progress somewhat slower than planned. KPN Wholesale 36 37 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Economic value Supervisory Board iBasis Regulation affects our business iBasis, a wholly-owned KPN company, supports carriers and Average revenues Number of minutes KPN is subject to sector specific regulation and enforcement ‘zero rating’) that is not included in the EU regulation or in the other operators by offering seamless connectivity for voice, per minute in billions thereof by regulatory authorities, such as the ‘Autoriteit BEREC guidelines. It remains to be seen whether the national data and Internet of Things services. in cents of EUR Consument en Markt’ (ACM) in the Netherlands. As described legislation in this respect will be considered valid by courts. in the chapter ‘Risk Management & Compliance’, KPN’s Risk Changing market dynamics Management and Control System is designed to minimize the Market analysis decisions In 2016, iBasis continued to build its customer base in risk of non-compliance with regulations. The decision related to the markets for unbundled access international LTE data traffic, securing a number of new key customers. Based on carried minutes, iBasis is now one of 4.1 20.9 European developments; the Digital Single Market strategy to copper and FttH networks entered into force on January 1, 2016. On these markets (virtual) access obligations, tariff the top three providers of LTE Roaming, with traffic to an Regulation of the electronic communications markets is largely regulation (partly by safety caps based on the 2011 tariff increasing number of LTE networks around the world, from based on European legislation. The European Union’s roaming levels) and margin squeeze tests were imposed. For other approximately 40 in 2016 to over 400 in 2017. 2015: 4.3 2015: 21.4 and open Internet access regulations are directly applicable markets, ACM published draft decisions in 2016, including in all member states. The application of the regulation of proposals to maintain regulation for KPN on the wholesale iBasis gained voice market share in 2016, however the ongoing operators with significant market power is done nationally, market for two and more simultaneous calls. decline in the wholesale voice carrier market resulted in but under coordination of the European Commission. This pressure on revenues while traffic volumes were flat. still affects KPN in some fixed markets and on fixed and mobile Spectrum licenses call termination services. Licensing regimes for frequencies The 2100 MHz licenses were extended in 2016 for a period Changing market dynamics affecting iBasis in the first half are based on national law. Increasingly, due to the development of four years (fee EUR 23.6 million). The license for Digital of 2016 resulted in a goodwill impairment of EUR 45 million. of the markets and our services, also other regulation (such Terrestrial Television (DVB-T) til February 1, 2030 was Read more in Note 11 of the Financial Statements. as privacy law and content-related law) has an impact, awarded to KPN at no cost. but this regulation has a broader scope than electronic In April 2016, iBasis sold its SMS business, including customer communications services and is not described here. Act on Financial Supervision and vendor relationships, demonstrating the increased focus In 2016, the major part of proposals for regulatory reforms The Dutch Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that ‘all-in’ telephone on emerging 4G services such as LTE roaming and Voice over were presented by the European Commission, including a subscriptions that include a monthly payment for a mobile LTE (VoLTE). full review of the regulation of the electronic communications handset are a form of consumer credit, thus ruled by the market. The proposals may be amended during the process Act on Financial Supervision (Wft). Providers have tried to After being the first to facilitate a VoLTE roaming call in 2015, towards approval. New rules are not expected to become come to a code of conduct, but when that failed, a 2-step iBasis further enhanced its ability to support VoLTE in 2016 effective within the next three years. implementation of the rules has been agreed upon with the by working with other KPN companies. This collaboration regulator (AFM). As of January 1, 2017 all KPN’s marketing expanded the roaming 4G connections by 125 to 325 total International roaming on mobile networks communication on handset-credit complies with the Act. The connections. In 2017, iBasis will begin to offer VoLTE Roaming As of April 30, 2016, the new tariff regulation became effective. remaining set of measures will be effective from May 1, 2017. in collaboration with other KPN entities. National retail tariffs must be applied for roaming within the This relates i.e. to 1) a separate credit-contract, 2) a check on EU/EEA. Surcharges not exceeding regulated wholesale rates income and financial obligations for credits above EUR 250 In 2016, iBasis won the Global Carrier Awards for best voice are allowed until June 15, 2017 and prohibited after this date. and 3) registration with the Bureau on Credit Registration service innovation – mature markets. Only for traffic exceeding defined ‘fair use’ criteria, or after (BKR) for credits above EUR 250. KPN does not charge any approval of the National Regulatory Authority when national interest for these propositions, when including handset-credit, Providing analytics-based services tariffs are not sustainable with ‘roam-like-at-home’, surcharges and has already since September 2016 made a clear split iBasis offers operators a range of advanced analytical tools will be allowed. The applicable fair use criteria and methods between the monthly fees for the subscription and for the called InVision, which enable customers to actively manage to assess whether tariffs are sustainable were published handset. All sales people (in shops, call centers and indirect service quality, identify revenue opportunities and better serve on December 15, 2016, and the underlying wholesale tariffs channels) will be trained and tested on their knowledge of their subscribers. were set in January 2017. Additional guidance for smooth these specific rules, thus ensuring that credits are contracted implementation by operators from BEREC, e.g. on preventing responsibly and the customer’s interest is put first. Enabling ‘Next Gen’ digital services fraud and abuse, is expected early 2017. iBasis provides customized solutions to enable Communication Segment contribution to KPN Group revenues Services Providers to deliver Internet of Things services. As an Net neutrality example, iBasis was selected to implement an LTE Roaming Also s of April 30, 2016, the regulation on open Internet access solution that uses iBasis’ global LTE footprint, hosted Diameter became effective, aimed at replacing national net neutrality rules Signaling service and custom development to enable ‘Next with fully harmonized European rules. The Body of European Gen’ 4G/LTE connectivity for connected cars throughout Regulators for Electronic Communications (BEREC) provided Europe. further guidance for applying these rules by August 30, 2016. The EU rules are detailed and provide for obligations in relation to the openness of the Internet (‘no blocking, not throttling, no undue prioritization’, etc.) as well as for obligations in relation to transparency on the actual quality of Internet services that customers experience (e.g. broadband speeds). In the KPN Netherlands the amended national legislation that entered into iBasis force still includes a general ban on tariff differentiation (including 38 39 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Privacy & Security Supervisory Board Privacy & Security Keeping data private, safe and secure Enhancing digital security In 2016, 16,088 viruses were detected based on information from reliable notifiers. In 96% of cases the KPN Abuse team could act on the information within eight hours, significantly As more and more devices are connected to the Internet and ever more data is exchanged, higher than 2015 (72%) and just below our 98% target. there is a need to create a more secure digital environment where people can safely work, We intend to improve on this in 2017 by automating more processes to detect malware earlier and thereby lower the socialize and shop. We want everyone to enjoy the benefits of connectivity without having number of reported infections. We joined forces with other to worry about being hacked or have their privacy violated. Internet and hosting providers to rapidly share information about possible infections via the Abuse Information Exchange. This joint approach speeds up alerts and has contributed to KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 a decline in the overall infection rate of our customers. % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 73% 70% If we detect a customer’s connection is infected with malware, we isolate the connection and put it into ‘quarantine’. This allows the customer to continue accessing the Internet, but % of customers helped (within 8 hours) who were unintentionally infected by malware 72% 96% stops the infection spreading through our network while we work together to address the problem. Quantum computing KPN takes various precautions to keep its customers and KPN security strategy networks safe and to protect people’s privacy. In addition to To secure digital information in quantum computers in the securing our own networks, systems and products, we provide In 2012, KPN wrote a security strategy and plan together future we tested a quantum encryption link in our network people and businesses with the tools they need to protect with TNO. This plan ran from 2012-2015, and at the end of for the first time in 2016. We applied an end-to-end quantum theirs. We safeguard personal information and provide 2015 we assessed and updated the strategy. The updated key distribution (QKD) test between two data centers in tools that help young children use the Internet safely. We strategy and plan will run from 2016-2019. It covers our vision, Rotterdam and The Hague. This is one part of our quantum work with our suppliers to ensure they design products with mission, key objectives and action plan. One of the key areas research activities. We are also introducing longer key lengths security in mind. for 2016 is to secure KPN’s email system to protect customers for encryption algorithms currently in use, and are engaged in from fraudulent email. Another key area is to develop threat developments around post-quantum cryptography. KPN takes intelligence capabilities. We have initiated activities on each of part in the EU high-level Steering Committee in Quantum Our security approach the ten strategic areas of the plan. Technologies, which is part of the EU Flagship Program. Keeping our systems safe demands continuous vigilance and rapid adaptability, especially since we must counter attacks Calculating the value of security Privacy that are increasingly sophisticated. Our security model is based on the security lifecycle approach: prevent, detect, In 2016, our security team developed the KPN CISO app. This The proliferation of devices collecting data makes it imperative respond and verify. KPN has a strategy and a policy team for app has four elements: KPN’s security policy, a tool to calculate that people’s personal information is kept safe. Our customers prevention, a REDteam of ethical hackers to proactively detect, the Potential Harm Of Security Incidents (PHOSI), the expect this of us and it is a responsibility we take very a Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) to respond Common Vulnerability Scoring System tool (CVSS), and the seriously. In 2016, 70% of customers said they believe their and a team of Senior Security Officers to verify and implement European Cyber Security Perspectives report. The app is free information is safe with KPN. This is slightly lower than last security measures. The SOC (security operations center) and was one of the top 15 downloads of free business apps in year and just below our target. The reason is that fewer people and CERT monitor our systems and networks 24/7 and June 2016. saw KPN as their main telecom provider and customers provide rapid response to resolve any vulnerabilities detected. of other operators gave KPN a lower ranking. Continuous By publishing KPN’s security approach and policies we believe communication remains very important for us; we focus on In 2016, we made our security policy available as open source we contribute to a higher level of security, continuity and explaining how and reassuring that the customer is in control in an app we developed: the KPN CISO app. We believe privacy, both within KPN and for society as a whole. Being of their own data. transparency and collaboration will ultimately make systems transparent about our approach, and asking for feedback, even more secure, inspired by Kerckhoff’s principle that a gives us further opportunity to improve. We also want to cryptosystem should be secure even if everything about the help and inspire security professionals to enable their own system, except the key, is public knowledge. businesses to thrive securely. Creating a secure digital environment for our customers 40 41 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Privacy & Security Supervisory Board Privacy & Security In 2016, we expanded our privacy department to deal with Following an investigation by the Dutch Data Protection Dilemma “We believe transparency and collaboration the rising number of requests for information from inside Authority in 2016, we amended the way we collect and will ultimately make systems even more and outside our organization, as well as queries from the process data about the viewing habits of interactive digital KPN has access to information about its customers: the TV business and customers about how we can and do use data. TV customers. We revised our privacy statement to make it shows they watch, websites they visit, when and how often secure, inspired by Kerckhoff’s principle that Many of these requests in 2016 related to how we interpret clearer to customers how KPN uses different types of data. they are online. This information has commercial value for our a cryptosystem should be secure even if the rules and regulations. Customers can find information We also modified our systems to only process viewing data own business and for third parties. But we have made it very online regarding their rights under data protection laws, such for technical reasons and reduced the time we store this data. clear that we will always protect our customers’ privacy and will everything about the system, except the key, as the right to access, rectify and object to processing of their The Dutch Data Protection Authority has confirmed that all not use or share their data for business purposes without their is public knowledge.” personal information. Privacy requests are likely to increase infringements of the Dutch Personal Data Protection Act have explicit permission. However, sometimes we have to weigh even more with the rise of connected devices to the Internet of been resolved. privacy considerations against other factors. For example, Things and big data initiatives. when a mobile device exploded during use, we decided the safety of other users was paramount and disclosed the contact The Dutch government uses national electronic identity Internet safety details of customers with the same device to our marketing systems such as DigiD in digital communication with department so they could warn them of the danger. civilians and businesses. With the further digitization of KPN focuses on two areas: helping children use the Internet these processes, new electronic identity systems developed safely and protecting customers from cyber threats. A study Sometimes copyright holders ask us to provide information by the private sector are being considered as well. KPN is by Delft University of Technology, in which KPN is involved, identifying customers suspected of illegally downloading collaborating in the development of such a system. However, shows the Netherlands is one of the top-ranking countries their material. The copyright holders are exercising their civil there are ongoing public discussions about the legal grounds when it comes to botnet mitigation. As an Internet service right to identify suspected perpetrators. For such cases, we for these systems. provider, our proactive approach plays a very important role have published a self-regulatory policy online, which outlines in this. The high ranking of the Netherlands is supported by the process and responsibilities of all the parties involved. initiatives to collectively exchange malware information via We assess each case individually to determine if a manifestly Telecommunication Act the Abuse Information Exchange and through funding and unlawful situation has occurred. We also involve the customer expertise. in the process. In 2016, there were 27 copyright disputes. We respect our customers’ right to privacy. At the same In most instances the customer and copyright holder came time, we are legally obliged to disclose certain information Another element of our privacy and security approach is to to an agreement. In two cases KPN provided the requested to national investigation agencies. This is part of our license make our digital services safe for children. Tools and initiatives information. to operate. We must facilitate this in our infrastructure and are in place to help keep children safe from inappropriate cooperate with law enforcement agencies as specified in the content, both on the Internet and on TV. Telecommunication Act. We treat this obligation with the utmost care and responsibility. A liaison office is available In 2016, we released an iPad app for children under the age 24/7 to facilitate interaction with law enforcement for all KPN of six that provides safe access to positive age-appropriate brands. We assess incoming warrants and check on various content. The app builds on KPN’s MyBee safe desktop aspects to filter out any uncertainty. If we note a deviation, browser. It was developed in response to research by the we reject the warrant, inform the agency involved and follow European ICT Coalition that shows children are accessing the relevant procedures. In 2016, a mismatch was found in 1.3% of Internet from mobile devices at an increasingly younger age. the warrants received. The app has been downloaded over 10,000 times since its launch in April. In 2016, 99.3% of the interception orders concerned telephone numbers, 0.3% regarded email addresses and in 0.4% of the October is the European Cyber Security Month. The Dutch cases we were ordered to intercept IP addresses. initiative in 2016 was Alert Online. As one of the main partners of Alert Online, KPN CISO organized a hacking training together with Hack in The Class (HiTC) and helped with the Privacy regulation development of the instruction material. KPN CISO also invited SANS Institute to provide a training in programming. Privacy regulations are being tightened and we set up an internal team in 2016 to prepare for the new Europe-wide data To raise awareness of the need for businesses to invest in protection laws (GDPR), which will be in place in 2018. These internet security we initiated the Veilig Zaken doen campaign. laws are much stricter about the way companies process data We are developing affordable security products for small and use and store customer information. Under GDPR, for businesses to protect their networks. Free virus protection example, the onus will be on KPN to prove our contractors is included as standard in all our fixed and mobile phone can keep data safe. All new products must safeguard users’ subscriptions. privacy by design. We are developing a tool for identifying and assessing privacy risks throughout the development life cycle of a product, program or system. 42 43 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Environmental performance Supervisory Board Environmental performance Climate leader Our approach to become a circular company In 2016, our environmental program led to a saving of EUR 3 million, mainly due to energy reduction activities in our networks and fuel reduction of our leased cars. According to the CDP, we are a world leader when it comes to corporate action on climate change. Since the Paris Agreement of December 2015, this has become increasingly important to KPN. IN OUT KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 KPN Devices % Reduction of energy consumption KPN Group compared with 2010 18% 20% Production Collection and Absolute car fuel savings compared with 2010 37% 39% processing Data centers: more energy efficient compared to 2010 (PUE) 13% 15% KPN Network Collecting customer equipment (KPN specified) 62% 74% Environmental strategy equipment will be part of our circular program in 2017. KPN Offices In 2017, we will work towards a manifest with some of our Our environmental efforts are focused on reducing our major suppliers. This manifest will describe how suppliers can environmental footprint even though the volume of our help to make KPN's products and processes more circular. ICT services is growing exponentially. As the result of our considerable efforts to use less energy and reduce carbon emissions, KPN has been climate neutral since 2015. Moreover, Climate neutral since 2015 it’s our ambition to migrate towards circular operations and services. With our products and services we help our KPN was once again climate neutral in 2016 for its own customers reduce their own environmental footprint. We operations. We use 100% green electricity generated by local believe ICT is key to realize the international climate goals wind farms and biomass plants. This accounts for 85% of our and unlock a better future for our planet and its people. energy consumption. CO₂ emissions from our vehicle fleet (11%) and gas consumption (4%) are compensated with Gold Standard projects and forest compensation projects. Less than Making KPN more circular 1% of our usage is caused by fuel consumption of emergency power equipment. Since 2014, we have measured and reported To reduce the material impact of our services, we want all the CO₂e (equivalent) emissions in our supply chain. In 2016, the new equipment in our networks and data centers, and we reduced these emissions by 12% compared to 2014. 50% of Reduce the use of virgin materials Extend: Use products longer and better Cycle: High-end second life of products all devices and products built to KPN specifications, to be this reduction is due to selection biomass with low emissions Virtualization Lifespan extension and materials close to 100% circular by 2025. This means all the materials in the chain and corresponding Scope 3 conversion factors. Dematerialization Rates of utilization Reuse will be reused or recycled, either by us or by partners in If we would have used these specific factors in 2014 and Reused products Recycling the value chain. This is in line with the Dutch government’s 2015 our CAT3 emissions would have been 40,5kTon in 2014 Recycled/biobased materials Landfill ambition to reduce raw material use by 50% by 2030. To become more circular we will use less equipment, increase the longevity of our products and wherever possible switch to “KPN is committed to the principles more sustainable materials. We collect customer equipment of a circular economy, which to be able to reuse and recycle it. Although we improved our Supporting Goal: 0% landfill and 0% incineration collection from 62% to 74%, we did not completely reach our emphasize recycling and longer actions of non-organic materials target to collect 80%. Improving collection rates of customer product lifespans” 44 45 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Environmental performance Supervisory Board Environmental performance and 34.4 kTon in 2015 and our total scope 3 reduction in Data centers Car fuels Dilemmas 2016 compared to base year would have been 6%. Following discussions with several suppliers to reduce CO₂e emissions in Although our data centers are quite energy efficient, we were From 2025 onwards, we aim to only lease fossil-free cars. In the KPN is committed to the principles of a circular economy, our supply chain, our main warehouse will be powered by its still able to improve our performance. In total, energy efficiency meantime, we will reduce the maximum CO₂ emissions of our which emphasize recycling and longer product lifespans. own wind turbine from 2017. has improved by 15% compared to 2010 and 35% compared vehicles by switching to car models with cleaner engines that But technology is advancing so fast that older modems and to the start of our energy efficiency program in 2005. The emit less particulate matter. We exceeded our 2016 target to phones must be frequently substituted by newer ones. For additional energy savings are due to improved cooling methods reduce car fuels for our leased cars by 38% compared to 2010. customers to keep enjoying the best quality user experience, Energy efficiency improvement and power supply. By using more air from outside for cooling We realized 39% reduction. In 2017, as part of a wider human they will require upgraded, multifunctional devices. This instead of water we reduced both energy and water consumption. resources initiative, we intend to expand our mobility plan to creates a dilemma between satisfying our customers with the Although we have no CO₂e emissions in our operations, Our data center in Aalsmeer was awarded Sustainable Data all employees. We encourage them to be more sustainable in latest, most modern technology, or extending the lifespan of we still focus on energy reduction, particularly electricity, Center of the year by DatacenterDynamics EMEA for reducing all transport-related areas, for example by using our own smart existing devices. given that KPN is responsible for 0.8% of the Netherlands’ the energy use of the backup power supplies. work solutions to commute less. total electricity use. We have ambitious goals to reduce our When customers choose new mobile devices, they are total energy consumption, even though the volume of our To realize negative CO₂ emissions we are exploring ways primarily attracted to popular brands that have a marketing data communication networks rose by 47% in 2016 and we to reuse waste heat. We reached an agreement with the Car fuel consumption clout, but do not always deliver the best quality batteries or implemented the new LoRa network. In 2016, our ongoing municipality of Aalsmeer in 2016 to explore the possibilities. Car In fuel consumption petajoules provide new cables with every new release. We have to choose energy reduction programs once again lowered energy use in We will start with heating a local school and a swimming pool In petajoules between customer demand and sustainable products. Besides our operations. Our total energy reduction since 2010 is 20% using warm air from our data center. 0.6 offering sustainable options like the Fairphone, we also work (3% compared to 2015). This is in line with our target and is with international lobby groups, such as the GSMA, ITU and mostly due to savings programs in our networks and data centers. For 2017, we aim to reduce our Power Usage Efficiency (PUE) 0.5 GeSI, to try to influence equipment suppliers to make their by 15.5% compared to 2010. As our energy efficiency is already devices more sustainable and easier to recycle too. 0.4 very high, we have to involve our neighbors for further energy Networks reduction, although these improvements do not always reduce 0.3 the PUE. For example, exchanging heat with neighbors (of Ambition for 2030 The majority (75%) of our electricity use is in our fixed and the data centers) reduces energy use in total, but might 0.2 mobile networks. By removing or replacing old equipment influence the PUE negatively as KPN uses some extra energy 0.59 0.57 0.54 0.47 0.40 0.37 0.35 0.34 We have extended our existing environmental performance with energy-efficient models and improving cooling, we saved to exchange the heat. Also, a major part of our data center 0.1 targets until 2030. Our new targets should not only be 34.9 GWh in 2016, which is 6% of our energy consumption. services is related to colocation, but the way our customers fill 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ambitious, but make a real and science-based contribution This more than compensates for the additional energy use due the space they rent with ICT equipment influences KPN’s PUE. to international climate change goals, particularly on global to the network expansions. Since 2010, data communication Data centers used for hosting services can be more energy warming. To improve our target setting we worked with volumes through our networks increased by 692%, yet electricity efficient because we can influence the ICT ourselves and External recognition Ecofys (One Planet Thinking method) and KPMG (True Value consumption in the networks is 13% lower. influence the PUE. method). Ecofys investigated how close KPN's network stays KPN is recognized as a global leader for its actions and within the Earth’s ecological boundaries. We committed to strategies in response to climate change and has been have targets that are science based certified. Networks Networks energy consumption Datacenter Data centers energy consumption awarded a position on the CDP’s ‘Climate A List’. CDP aims In petajoules petajoules In petajoules petajoules to disclose information on the policies and performance of In addition to remaining climate neutral until at least 2050 to 2.5 0.6 organizations with respect to climate change, in order to realize the Paris Agreement, we aim to become climate neutral 1,141% 29% 31% enable stakeholders and investors to take this into account without compensation by 2030 and to reduce KPN’s absolute 2.0 0.5 26% when taking (investment) decisions. The ‘Climate A List’, energy consumption by 55% in 2030 compared to the 2010 which features 193 companies from around the world, is CDP baseline. This includes decreasing energy consumption in our 1.5 2.37 2.29 2.22 2.15 2.09 2.08 2.05 1.98 0.4 19% 20% 17% produced by the CDP at the request of 827 investors with networks with 60% compared to 2010 and switching to 100% 1.0 439% 692% 0.3 assets under management of USD 100 trillion. CO₂ neutral cars from 2025. 263% 11% 0.5 159% 0.2 Thousands of companies submit annual climate disclosures We aim to reduce the Scope 3 emissions by 20% in 2025 and 27% 79% 0.49 0.51 0.52 0.52 0.52 0.53 0.53 0.54 to the CDP for independent assessment against its scoring by 50% in 2040 compared to 2014. We will start with energy0 0.1 methodology. KPN is among the 9% of corporations related services, downstream transportation and downstream 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 participating in the CDP’s climate change program that have leased assets, where our influence is largest. Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) Electricity consumption in petajoules (PJ) been awarded a position on the Climate A List. Growth datavolume (GB/s) compared with 2010 Growth electricity consumption ICT equipment customers compared with 2010 Furthermore, at our annual meeting with stakeholders, Figures and methodology: in this chapter, we describe the way we we discussed the potential role KPN could play in the improve our environmental performance our ambitions. Detailed figures of “Our environmental efforts are focused Netherlands’ move to a circular economy. our targets and results are shown in the highlights and laid down in Appendix 2, Overview of CSR targets and achievements. Our environmental on reducing our environmental footprint figures for energy consumption, emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3), carbon intensity and other environmental figures can be found in Appendix 7, despite exponential growth of our data Environmental figures. Calculation methods are explained in Appendix3, Scope, reporting process and materiality determination. communication and ICT services” 46 47 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Impact of product and services Supervisory Board Impact of product and services Offering ICT solution for 21st century is directly related to IT, such as setting up and managing challenges online workspaces for healthcare professionals and developing remote care services. Healthcare providers (hospitals, general practitioners, We believe that if policymakers, businesses, and consumers can embrace ICT transformation, pharmacists, etc.) use KPN’s ZorgCloud to work and exchange we will be in a better position to achieve a low-carbon future and also realize important information in a secure digital environment. It makes it quicker and easier to transfer care and consult on a diagnosis. Our economic and social objectives. We are convinced that economic growth can go hand in system processed more than 700,000 medical records daily hand with the interests of the planet. Together we can create a sustainable world. in 2016 – during the course of 2016, traffic doubled to around ICT drives good work and economic growth 500.000 messages. The next stop for us is to open up the ZorgCloud to patients as well as medical staff. We are working Businesses are engines for work and economic growth. on improving the compatibility of different medical systems to New technological developments, such as cloud computing, make it even easier to share information. We are participating big data and artificial intelligence, will create new work KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 in several pilot projects to develop a secure online identity for and economic growth for our customers. According to the patients to protect their medical data, as patient confidentiality #SMARTer2030 report for the Netherlands, ICT solutions # of elderly facilitated to live independently n/a 11,317 is essential. with sustainability benefits can deliver a total of EUR 74 billion in economic benefits in 2030. Of this, EUR 12 billion will be 12,245 In September 2016, we launched ZorgMessenger, a mobile generated in the ICT sector. For example, sensors in office # of ill people facilitated with self-measurement solutions n/a app that allows doctors to chat securely with patients and colleagues. About a third of doctors admit to having used equipment could show when parts have to be serviced or repaired. This would improve efficiency by cutting back on 39% 33% Growth in products that make the New Way WhatsApp for this purpose in absence of secure alternatives. preventative maintenance and reduce the use of materials of Living and Working possible c/w 2014 c/w 2015 By the end of 2016, the ZorgMessenger app had 1,715 users. for spares, which can be ordered or 3D-printed as needed. Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group’s own use (energy reduction effect of KPN products/services for customers) 49% 54% General practitioners use KPN’s remote monitoring service to diagnose cardiac failure, helping over 12,245 patients. In 2016, we developed an accredited online training course to teach Leveraging on these technological developments KPN has introduced an era of a New Way of Living and Working (NWLW). Within KPN this allows for a result-oriented way of GPs and their assistants how to get the best results from our working, with more focus on responsibility, entrepreneurship healthcare products, for example when doing a remote ECG scan. and discipline. This requires changes in the management of human resources. For example, performance is measured In 2017, we will collaborate with partners to expand our based on results rather than presence. We linked this to the diagnostics services. Together with them, we will work on new SDG Decent Work and Economic Growth. As a result, we also software for the cardiac diagnostics devices to continuously see an effect in the community due to a different use of our monitor heart rhythm, rather than at intervals, and make provided resources., which we linked to the SDG Sustainable 24-hour ECG scans. We will also carry out a pilot with the Cities and Communities. KPN provides the products and KPN supports the SDGs University of Amsterdam to monitor patients after heart services that enable businesses to adopt a NWLW. surgery at home instead of in hospital. Our products and services contribute to the realization of Our products and services enable our customers to conduct the Paris Agreement and the United Nations’ Sustainable Digital solutions for better healthcare Wearables such as smartwatches and fitness devices could their business more effectively and efficiently. One of our CSR Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030. KPN focuses on the change the way doctors monitor their patients’ health. Keeping targets is to increase our internal use of NWLW products and five SDGs that we can impact most with our products and The world’s population is ageing, making the response to track of patients remotely would require fewer appointments, services, but we also see these products and services as a key services: good health and well-being; decent work and the changing healthcare needs of society a key factor in the saving time and money and improving the quality of care. way to scale our impact. Another CSR target is therefore to economic growth; industry, innovation and infrastructure; achievement of this SDG. In the Netherlands, 14% of GDP Proposed legislation to put patients in control of their own increase the uptake of these products and services throughout sustainable cities and communities; and climate action. in 2015 was spent on healthcare, but the sector still faces medical records will further improve the secure exchange of the Netherlands. You can find more information on the goals and our activities significant challenges. The growing group of senior citizens medical data in the Netherlands. on corporate.kpn.com/globalgoals. is creating an increasing demand for care, while the number We believe better insight into the effects of these products of healthcare professionals continues to decline. In addition, and services will help grow internal and external use, and The numbers in the graphics refer to the official SDG numbering and do not the general patient demand for self-reliance is growing, with therefore KPN initiated a first ‘True Value’ study into the depict KPN’s ranking. people wanting fewer and shorter stays in hospital and to broader contributions to society and the SDGs. In this live longer at home. Therefore, efficiency and productivity in “KPN is collaborating with various study, we tried to identify, measure and monetize the wider care need to increase and new, affordable and secure ways of partners on solutions that will make environmental, social and economic impacts of NWLW at KPN delivering care need to be developed. the Netherlands in 2015. The findings show part of the results cities greener, smarter, safer and of the NWLW approach as applied in our own organization. Key in tackling these challenges are the new possibilities that more energy efficient.” technology offers. KPN offers end-to-end IT solutions for the healthcare sector. Around a quarter of our healthcare business 48 49 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Impact of product and services Supervisory Board Impact of product and services Environmental impact: their own energy consumption and CO2e emissions by using For our business, the environmental impact of NWLW is our services. By using our cloud services, video conferencing relatively low compared to its social impact. In studies like this, and audio conferencing, for example, our business customers the fact that people don’t use the office every day can cause can meet and collaborate online, cutting back on the need for a considerable positive impact. In the case of KPN this effect office space and the need to commute, which in turn lowers is small because KPN’s own operations are climate neutral. traffic and therefore energy consumption, CO2e emissions and The main factors investigated in the study are greenhouse particulate matter. gas emissions and avoided resource & energy use. NWLW led to greenhouse gas savings of around 9 ktons in 2015. By 2020, we want our IT services to help our customers save New technologies for smart cities Innovation for future-proof ICT as much energy as KPN consumes itself. We measure this Social impact: infrastructure ‘avoided’ energy consumption by calculating the impact on our NWLW significantly reduces commuting, resulting in reduced With more people moving to cities, urban systems need to consumer and business customers of specific products and time spent on travelling for employees: 48 million avoided grow and adapt in a sustainable way. Again, technology plays a There is an exponential growth in data traffic and demand for services such as KPN Workspace and digital TV modems. kilometers spent on commuting in 2015, equal to 1.3 million key part, especially through IoT solutions. KPN is collaborating online services as the opportunities open up for society and The calculations are based on measured data, available hours. This time can be spent in the pursuit of employees’ with various partners on solutions that will make cities greener, businesses to thrive. As a facilitator of this change, KPN has a statistics, recognized studies and expert judgments. In other personal and social ambitions, including spending smarter, safer and more energy efficient. This includes motionresponsibility to ensure our infrastructure can cope with the 2016, we did not meet our target of avoided energy use by more time at home. For society, avoided air pollution and controlled street lighting, bins that indicate when they need additional demands placed on it, and to help our customers customers. We improved the calculation method, using more road accidents also provide benefits for employees and local emptying and parking spaces that signal to drivers when they and society adapt. accurate statistics for our calculation of avoided emissions communities, and lead to reducing societal healthcare costs. are vacant. and energy consumption by our customers. During the update We invest in innovation, which will be crucial to address we also corrected an error in the calculation. The method The study shows that the biggest effect is visible in prevented The first smart city pilots in Rotterdam have shown that the UN’s global priorities for a better world. ICT can help to has been verified by Ecofys. This resulted in more accurate negative social impacts, in particular reduced travel time. motion-sensed lighting can lead to energy and cost savings improve logistics for more efficient transportation, and make figures for 2014, 2015 and 2016. The 2014 and 2015 figures The social impact appears to be much higher than the of up to 80%. Smart underground bins help to cut traffic buildings more energy efficient. Through our investments in of Teleworking are restated due to correction of an error and environmental impact. We find this an interesting outcome, congestion as fewer collection trucks are needed and fewer low-carbon ICT infrastructure and services, we help to make an updated model (see Appendix 3). In 2015 we reported for because environmental aspects usually get more attention roads are blocked as they empty the bins. This is more this possible. 2014 2,283 PJ (65%), with the correction, it would have been in traditional CSR approaches. We aim to build on this insight efficient and means fewer working hours, less CO2e and less 1,934 PJ (55%); for 2015 we reported 2,531 PJ (73%); with the by looking into ways to further enhance the social impact air pollution. Smart parking tools aim to make cities more We continually invest in a stronger, more robust infrastructure correction, it would have been 2,149 PJ (62%). In 2016, we created by the NWLW. attractive by reducing distance driven to search for empty that can cope with this explosive growth of data traffic avoided energy use by customers equal to 54% of KPN Group’s parking spaces, which could also reduce fuel consumption and online services. This includes providing 75% of Dutch own energy use. In 2014 and 2015 this was 47% and 49% Directions for the future: and air pollution. households with the possibility of at least 100 Mbps internet (including improved calculation method). Using these services The study also considers the impact of NWLW on the connections and expanding our mobile reach. helped our customers save over EUR 60 million of energy professional development of KPN’s employees, creating costs. We adjusted our ambition for 2020 to realize savings economic value for society. There is not yet a standardized By the end of 2020, global networks should be able to connect equal to >80% of KPN Group’s energy use, based on our new way to measure and monetize the professional development more than 50 billion things and facilitate a data connection services using IoT and LoRa. The first IoT and LoRa solutions of employees. We pioneered a proxy for this and the initial speed of more than 1 Gbps via our mobile networks. we implemented in 2015 show great potential, yet the volumes results show that this economic impact is potentially need to grow to make significant impact. significant. Given the availability of the data and used The calculations are explained in Appendix 3,Scope, reporting process and assumptions the sensitivity of this value is relatively high. materiality determination, and the numbers per service can be found in We intend to continue to further develop the approach to Appendix 7, Environmental figures. measure the economic impact. Dilemma KPN does not yet target consumers in the healthcare market directly. Our products and services are aimed at healthcare providers. The trend towards more privately-funded, homeThe potential of ICT to reduce based care offers opportunities to provide certain services environmental impact directly to consumers, such as home-based monitoring, but puts us in direct competition with our existing healthcare customers. ICT has a significant role to play in activities to combat climate change and its global impact. According to the Global While we can and do deliver end-to-end solutions for the e-Sustainability Initiative’s #SMARTer2030 report on the healthcare sector, we partner with other companies to develop Netherlands, ICT could contribute to a saving of 74 million tons new ideas. Sometimes we must take a backseat on projects of CO2e and 5.6 billion liters of fuel in the Netherlands by 2030. rather than a leading role, even though we have customer-facing As KPN’s own operations are climate neutral, all our services experience and technical know-how, because the project’s social are low-carbon services. Moreover, our customers can reduce impact is greater than the revenue it could generate for KPN. 50 51 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Compliance & Risk Supervisory Board Compliance & Risk Safeguarding value T  he Business Control Framework (BCF) contains all corporate policies and guidelines that are mandatory for all of KPN’s customer services and increasing NPS. We aim to limit the number of interruptions in our networks, services and segments and entities. systems as much as possible. We implement strict policies to W  histleblower: KPN requires all employees and encourages keep our customer data private, safe and secure. external parties to (anonymously) report any (suspicion Financial risks: We strive for the right balance between Effective risk management is a key success factor for realizing the strategic objectives as it of) misconduct by KPN employees. During 2016, our a prudent financing policy, sufficient investments in provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss. For this reason, KPN whistleblower policy was updated to reflect the changes in the business and fair shareholder remuneration. KPN is the Dutch Whistleblower Act, incorporating the so-called committed to an investment-grade credit profile. Read more has implemented an Internal Risk Management and Control System (‘the control system’). House for Whistleblowers, where employees can also in Note 26 and 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. This system is based on relevant criteria as set forth by the Committee Of Sponsoring externally report suspicion of misconduct. Compliance risks: we are committed to full compliance with A  nnually, we measure the state of Compliance and Integrity relevant laws and regulations and have a zero tolerance Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Key components of the control system as perceived by our employees and report results as well as approach to bribery and corruption, fraud and all other forms are discussed in more detail below. plans for improvement to top and senior management. of (illegal) misconduct. Financial reporting risks: we have effective control frameworks in place to minimize the risk of material Effective risk management and internal control is a continuous (risk appetite) in the pursuit of strategic objectives. 2. Objective and strategy setting misstatements and errors in our financial statements. process involving several steps. A strong risk culture and Management assesses the main risks that could hinder the control environment forms an important foundation of the realization of the strategic objectives and implements KPN’s objectives and strategy are described on page 16. control system. The stronger the risk culture and control countermeasures to mitigate such risks, taking into account During the objective and strategy setting process, top 4. A  ssess risks and countermeasures environment, the better risk assessments, risk management the risk appetite. Periodically, the top risks, countermeasures, management takes into account the known risks and (the heart of the control system) and risk reporting will take place. After setting the strategy, the trends and incidents are reported to the Board of Management, opportunities of the company, and the company’s risk appetite Board of Management defines its willingness to accept risks which defines further remedial actions as necessary. (see next step). The objectives and strategy are discussed with Strategic objectives the Super­visory Board. We annually assess the top risks on Group (top down approach) and Segment level (bottom up) and, where possible, we implement countermeasures to mitigate them within 1 2 3 3. Define risk appetite the defined risk appetite. We conducted risk assessment Implement Objective workshops with our Commercial and Operations segments, Define risk strong and strategy Pursuing any business objective inevitably leads to taking as well as with selected staff functions in the Corporate Center. appetite risk culture setting risks. Risks can jeopardize those objectives in various ways. Each type of risk encountered is being dealt with in The business objectives are detailed in a strategic business a manner and with the intensity that matches the nature plan. Every quarter, segments perform a ‘most likely’ forecast 5 and size of the risk in relation to the risk appetite of the four to six quarters ahead on their main financials and key Report 4 Board of Management. The risk appetite is the total residual performance indicators (the rolling forecast). Segments Assess risks impact of risks that KPN is willing to accept in the pursuit update main risks and opportunities, resulting in a bandwidth top risks, and countertrends and of its (strategic) objectives. The risk appetite per strategic of outcomes around expected performance. Each month, measures incidents objective or risk area is determined annually by the Board segment management discusses their actual performance with Our Internal Risk Management of Management. These risk areas comprise themes such as the Board of Management. and Control System financial, operational, strategic, compliance and (information) security themes. Overall, KPN’s risk appetite did not materially Operational objectives change compared to previous year. KPN has business continuity plans in place to safeguard the continuity of services to customers and critical systems and 1. I mplement a strong risk culture facilitation payments. We actively detect and investigate any Effective risk management is a key success factor for processes. (control environment) alleged misconduct and take appropriate disciplinary action if realizing our objectives. Risk areas with a low-risk appetite misconduct is substantiated. and thus a low acceptable residual risk require strong risk KPN strives for a business culture in which compliance and T  o strengthen the tone at the top and in other management management and strong internal controls. Risk areas with integrity are self-evident for all employees. This is, among levels, we supported management with Fraud Risk a high-risk appetite require relatively less risk management others, realized by the following actions: Assessments, including risk assessment on attitude and and internal control effort. Our main risks and our response In May 2016, KPN issued a new Code of Conduct (the Code). behavior, and provided integrity training upon request. to those risks are summarized on page 55 of this The Code applies to all KPN employees, including the Board To emphasize desired company culture and behavior – Integrated Annual Report. of Management, the Supervisory Board and temporary staff. and create awareness in the business – we developed a It describes how we work in an open, transparent, honest communication and training program on compliance and KPN has a generally prudent risk appetite, which can be and socially responsible way. We communicate the Code integrity subjects. Information that is important to share described per risk category as follows: on our corporate website (www.kpn.com/ir), our intranet, because of (or due to a change in) applicable policies, laws Strategic risks: in the pursuit of our strategic objectives, KPN “Effective risk management is a and via a mandatory e-learning for all our employees. We or regulations – or because of a necessity or demand in is willing to accept reasonable risks in a responsible way, have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, business (risk or need based) – is shared by e-learnings, taking into account our stakeholders’ interests. key success factor for realizing the fraud and all other forms of (illegal) misconduct, including workshops or classroom trainings. Operational risks: KPN is committed to a high quality of strategic objectives.” 52 53 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Compliance & Risk Supervisory Board Compliance & Risk Risk Main countermeasures Impact Increased competition from current competitors, new market O ffer bundled services and competitive price/portfolio High; the described risk could lead entrants, OTT players, market consolidation or new (disruptive) combinations to lower profitability as well as lower To manage our information security and privacy risks, we The Disclosure Committee examines all reports and technologies*. Improve NPS and invest in quality of service market shares. Trend Introduce new innovative products and services to meet Monitoring KPI: implemented the KPN Security Policy as part of the BCF (for more documents containing financial information that are intended changing customer needs M  arket shares details, refer to the Privacy & Security paragraph on page 40). for external publication, to ensure that these fairly present S trategic partnerships with OTT players, online channels and KPN’s financial position and results. shops We have implemented ISO standards in designated areas to Implement an agile organization, technology and processes to improve operational processes. Additionally, we simplified enable swift response to new market developments services and processes. We implemented quality improvement 5. Report top risks, trends and incidents S mall in-country M&A and KPN Ventures to form partnerships with innovative companies. plans such as ‘First Time Right’ and continued to focus on improving Net Promoter Scores (NPS). Risks related to climate Segment management provides the Board of Management Damage, service interruptions, operational issues in KPN’s M onitor performance of technical infrastructure and IT Medium; the incidents could negatively change and compliance with new environmental legislations with a quarterly assurance letter regarding the reliability of technical infrastructure and IT. S trengthen and simplify the IT and continue implementation of impact KPN’s reputation, customer are incorporated in our risk management and control system. their financial reporting, the effectiveness of their internal Trend: the KPN Security Policy satisfaction and profitability. B ack-up and recovery plans in case of emergencies (e.g. ‘be alert’ Monitoring KPI: For example, flooding risks are managed in KPN’s business controls over financial reporting, risk management and N  PS NL procedures) continuity strategy. With our climate neutral performance for compliance with telecommunication laws, internal policies and S implification programs to simplify and rationalize IT/TI. W  eighted Downtime Reduction our own operations and continued focus on absolute energy other laws and regulations. Twice a year, R&C reports top risks Q  uality of networks and platforms reduction, we are well ahead to meet new regulations and and countermeasures to the Board of Management, including (customer perception) customers’ expectations (read more in the Environmental main improvement actions, if any. #  Service tickets. Performance paragraph on page 44). Threats to the confidentiality, integrity or availability of C ontinue and reinforce strategic security programs, such as High; the incidents could lead to loss/ Summary of main risks and countermeasures KPN’s networks, systems or (customer) data caused by Permanent Vulnerability Management theft of customer data, higher costs, Financial objectives In the table on the right page a summary is given of KPN’s cyberattacks* or terrorism. C ontinue and strengthen Security Operations Center to improve penalties and reputational damage. KPN’s Corporate Treasury department manages risks related main risks and countermeasures, including its expected trend Trend: security visibility and risk intelligence Monitoring KPI: Increase awareness of personnel for security and privacy. PHOSI (Potential Harm Of Security to cash positions, finance agreements, credit ratings, currency and impact. It also lists the KPIs that are used to monitor Incident) and interest exposures, and non-life insurance (read more in the development of the risks and the realization of our risk Average days to close incidents and Note 26 and 28 of the Consolidated Financial Statements). appetite. The KPIs are frequently monitored in KPN’s planning vulnerabilities. Treasury has defined policies with clear boundaries for these and control cycle and discussed in the Board’s business Non-compliance with regulation, including – but not limited S trengthening the effectiveness of the compliance organization Medium; the risk could affect KPN’s risks. Compliance with these policies is monitored frequently. reviews with segment management, including improvement to – privacy regulation. by compliance training sessions for staff and management future operations and profitability. As part of KPN’s tax strategy, the Corporate Tax Department actions where necessary. New regulatory decisions in the EU and the Netherlands. P roactive internal compliance investigations Monitoring KPI: recommends the most tax-efficient and responsible approach Trend: S urveys and culture improvement programs Fines in the interest of all stakeholders, while adhering to KPN’s For a more extensive list of our main risks and countermeasures, Improving and maintaining robust internal controls #  data leakages. tax policy and complying with all relevant tax laws and please refer to the Appendix included in the digital version P roactive stakeholder and reputation management including dialog with regulators. regulations. This determines KPN’s overall tax risk appetite. of this Integrated Annual Report available on our website As KPN proactively engages with (Dutch) tax authorities, tax (www.kpn.com/annualreport). Frequency auctions in the Netherlands could entail high Preparation of auctions by experienced KPN team and High; KPN may have to pay a high exposures (if any) are contained and under control. Next to a costs. external experts; simulation of auctions price for the required spectrum. potential tax exposure, reputational risk is always part of the Internal Audit Trend: Use alternative combinations of spectrum and advanced Monitoring KPI: techniques to meet required technology. N.A. consideration to apply a particular tax-planning idea. KPN’s internal audit function, KPN Audit, is – in line with Dutch Corporate Governance requirements – an integral part of the Inadequate access to (debt) capital markets to finance our Commitment to investment-grade credit profile High; due to this risk, KPN might not Compliance objectives Internal Risk Management and Control System and provides operations and refinance our outstanding debt. Maintaining a strong liquidity position and prefunding debt be able to maintain its current credit Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) framework comprises assurance to both the Board of Management and the Audit Trend: redemptions ratings, which could negatively affect Monitoring and forecasting of metrics used by rating agencies pricing and availability of financing an integrated framework that oversees risks mainly related Committee concerning the ‘In Control status’ of KPN Group Maintaining discipline in allocating capital to investment resources. to compliance with the Dutch Telecommunications Act, segments/units/entities and processes. opportunities and shareholder remuneration. Monitoring KPI: competition laws and privacy regulations. For these risks, Multiple KPIs such as Credit rating relevant processes and controls have been implemented and KPN Audit provides quality assurance on the RFR GRIP and Net debt/EBITDA ratio. are continuously monitored. For risks related to our regulated framework on a quarterly basis and conducts ad hoc financial, Dependence on suppliers and outsourcing/offshoring Establish a strong and centralized demand and contract Medium; this could lead to an inability business (with significant market power), compliance controls information technology and operational audits and special partners to obtain adequate telecommunications equipment, management organization that defines, enforces and monitors to deliver the required services to are tested by dedicated staff all year round. investigations. KPN Audit conducts its activities in a manner software and IT services. suppliers’ compliance with terms of contracts our customers at the right price and based on a continuous evaluation of perceived business Trend: Include a right-to-audit clause in supplier contracts and conduct quality level. regular audits Monitoring KPI: Financial reporting objectives risks, and has full and unrestricted access to all activities, Prepare re-transition plans as fallback scenario. %  spend reduction. Our internal controls for Reliable Financial Reporting (also documents/records, properties and staff. The Chief Auditor known as RFR GRIP) ensure that material misstatements in reports to KPN’s CEO. Quarterly KPN Audit reports are KPN’s Financial Statements are prevented or detected in a submitted and discussed with both the Board of Management Group equity position could be negatively impacted by Improve profitability of KPN Group Medium-high; could lead to Group timely manner. Each quarter, the Risk & Compliance department and the Audit Committee. KPN Audit liaises extensively with impairments of goodwill or other assets, lower profits or by B alanced shareholder remuneration in relation to profit and cash equity lower than self-imposed dividend payments. flow development minimum thresholds. (R&C) and KPN Audit assess the overall effectiveness of the the external auditor, inter alia based on International Standard Volatility in the share price of Telefónica Deutsch­land could Monitoring KPI: M onitor shareprice of Telefónica Deutschland. controls before publication of the quarterly figures. The internal on Auditing 610. lead to an impairment of KPN’s 15.5% stake, which could G  roup equity position evaluation conclusions, as discussed with the Board of impact our consolidated profits and equity position. S hareprice TEFD. Management and the Audit Committee, were in line with the Trend: observations discussed in the report of the external auditors as part of their audit of the 2016 Financial Statements. risk is increasing (worsening) risk is stable risk is decreasing (less bad) * The risks marked with a * are important long-term (3-5 years) emerging risks as having the most significant impact on our future revenues, EBITDA, cash flow and reputation 54 55 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Compliance & Risk Supervisory Board Compliance & Risk Governance of Risk management and Compliance – In Control Statement and Responsibility Statement three lines of defense Although the Board of Management is ultimately responsible The Board of Management is responsible for KPN’s Internal Risk Management and Control for risk management and compliance, it is business System. This system is designed to manage the risks that may prevent KPN from achieving management’s duty to effectively identify, assess and manage its objectives. However, this system cannot provide absolute assurance that material the main risks of the company, in line with the steps discussed misstatements, fraud and violations of laws and regulations can be avoided. The Board of in the previous paragraphs (first line of defense). The Risk Management reviewed and analyzed: & Compliance department (second line) is responsible for the design of the Risk management and Compliance policies T  he strategic, operational, financial, financial reporting and regulatory and compliance risks, and to support and challenge business management in their as discussed in paragraph ‘Summary of main risks and countermeasures’ on pages 54 and 55; assessment and management of top risks. KPN Audit (third and line) performs, where necessary, independent reviews on the T  he design and operating effectiveness of the Internal Risk Management and Control system, implementation of the risk management processes. The main as discussed on pages 52 to 56 of this Integrated Annual Report. results of the risk assessments and evaluation of the internal risk management and control systems, are shared with the The outcome of this review and analysis was shared with the Audit Committee and Supervisory Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and discussed with Board and discussed with KPN’s external auditors. the external auditor. With reference to best practice provision II.1.5 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Management, to the best of its knowledge, believes that the Internal Risk Management Improvements in the internal control system and and Control System, with regard to financial reporting, worked properly over 2016 and that examples of risks that materialized in 2016 the Internal Risk Management and Control System provides a reasonable assurance that the During 2016, KPN improved the internal control system financial reporting does not contain any errors of material importance. further. For example, KPN strengthened the internal control frameworks for information security (such as protecting its With reference to section 5.25c paragraph 2c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, the Board systems against cyberattacks, for more information please of Management states that, to the best of its knowledge: refer to the Privacy & Security paragraph) and Reliable Financial Reporting. T  he Financial Statements of 2016 give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of KPN and its consolidated companies; During 2016, KPN was subject to five penalty cases for and breaches of the law, all relating to telecommunication law. T  he Integrated Annual Report gives a true and fair review of the position as at December 31, 2016, The penalties were all imposed before 2016; four cases are still the development during 2016 of KPN and its Group companies included in the Financial pending a final court-decision, amounting to EUR 9,573,000, Statements, together with a description of the top risks KPN faces. of which EUR 8,640,000 was preliminarily paid in accordance with Dutch regulations. The Hague, February 23, 2017 One case, where ACM imposed a fine on KPN of EUR 364,000, after a hacker successfully broke into KPN’s network in 2012, Eelco Blok Frank van der Post was concluded on November 16, 2016, when the highest Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management administrative court ruled that ACM had correctly imposed and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Commercial Officer the fine. Jan Kees de Jager Joost Farwerck In September 2016, there was a disruption of our voice, Member of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Internet and IPTV services. As a consequence, an important and Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operations Officer portion of our customers could not use Internet, fixed telephony and IPTV for a large part of that day. “The manner in which the business embraced the new Code of Conduct tells us our values have already been embedded in our day-to-day operations” 56 57 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Sustainable employment Supervisory Board Sustainable employment Transforming into a future-proof (FoW) program played an important role in our continuous better prepared for their future. It also helps to combat organization focus on sustainable employability. HR worked together with senior management to develop a joint vision of relevant trends, their impact on our organization and people, and how absenteeism. In 2016, this was 4.0%, in line with our target. This result is partly due to the emphasis on the role of managers in managing absenteeism and initiatives to to respond to be fit for the future. We raised awareness among support them in doing so. Through our activities in 2016 we continued to contribute to the transformation of KPN into a our employees on the importance of their own development simpler, more focused organization that is ready for the future. to remain employable in the future. We help them by investing We continued to offer initiatives in 2016 such as stress in their craftsmanship, vitality and resilience. This is supported management workshops and mindfulness training. At XS4ALL by our existing initiatives such as the KPN Academy and jobwe started a fit4all initiative in response to a low score from related training. employees to the question in the employee survey about KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 the role of KPN in creating and promoting healthy working The number of training requests using the available conditions and lifestyle. Overall percentage of women at KPN in the Netherlands 25% 24% Employability budgets grew by more than 50% compared to 2015. Our employee engagement survey shows that 82% Diversity and Inclusion of people said they felt able to discuss their development We believe that our workforce should reflect our customer 1) overall engagement 77% Engagement: 77% with their managers. This is higher than in 2015. Part of our base and society and that diverse viewpoints and perspectives 2) working environment 59% Sustainable employability/ commitment to employability is to work with external partners help teams achieving better results. One of our initiatives to Employee survey score on Sustainable employability 3) strategy & leadership 51% Fit for the future: 58% to place people in new roles, also outside KPN. In 2016, 87% of become a more diverse company is an internal training for employees who participated in an outplacement process were customer service professionals with a relatively weak position Sustainable employability: % of employees with a new job < 1 year after leaving KPN 83% 87% moved to new jobs outside KPN. This is in line with our target. In our new CLA (Collective Labor Agreement) we identified in the labor market. Of these trainees, 85% graduated on MBO level (secondary vocational training). Half of them found a job three situations that employees could experience regarding within KPN, Telfort or other organizations. % of KPN employees in the Netherlands who feel they can work in line with the New Way of Living and Working 80% 82% employment security within KPN: 1) not expected to become redundant in the short term, 2) a redundancy situation is According to Workplace Pride, the international platform for expected, 3) redundancy is certain. We support our people LGBT inclusion at work, we are the fifth most LGBT-inclusive with dedicated development tools in all of these situations. (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender) employer in the world (compared to the seventh place last year). KPN also Building a solid organization and commercial divisions, the Corporate Center and Finance Attracting, retaining and developing our people supports the Workplace Pride Chair that will be initiated at (including the Shared Service Organization) realized a reduction To attract talent in today’s competitive labor market we Leiden University and focuses on how we can improve LGBT Operational excellence; improving the employee journeys of 83 FTEs in 2016. repositioned KPN as a dynamic employer in a rapidlyinclusion in the workplace. The objective of the operational excellence program is to changing sector. The 2016 recruitment campaign is built achieve a positive employee experience of HR service delivery: A connected workplace around making an impact by creating a better, more free and With regard to gender diversity we have 19% women in top simple and of good quality. To support this we identified six We planned and partially implemented a resettlement of easier life for our customers and for ourselves. The campaign management, 17% women in middle management and a total HR value chains that will stimulate operational excellence and the KPN offices in the Randstad area into modern hubs is supported by a new website and we initiated a tour around of 24% women across the company. In our company, we remain improve performance. This covers the working conditions that put the new way of working into practice. The result Dutch universities and college campuses to recruit new committed to reaching 30% in the longer term and will step up (e.g. salary processes), hire and retire processes, sustainable will be a working environment that enhances cooperation graduates. Intermediar magazine’s annual brand image survey our efforts in 2017 by enforcing our recruitment activities and employability (e.g. absenteeism), learning and development between teams and where specific areas are designed for found highly skilled professionals rank KPN as the number one including these targets in business plans. and mobility. Methodologies used to optimize the employee tasks such as meetings, video conferencing or concentrated Dutch telecoms provider they would most like to work for, and journeys are chain management and the use of HR data working. We want our offices to be attractive workplaces that number 13 overall in 2016, compared to number 15 in 2015. and HR analytics results. Results show a decrease of incidents fully utilize our technical capabilities. At the same time we in HR Service delivery (-26% in 2016 compared with 2015) want to maximize occupancy rates at KPN premises while In our annual employee engagement survey scores on and an improvement in employee satisfaction with HR guaranteeing accommodation for all our employees. Strategy and Leadership increased to 53% (compared Services (+1 January 2015 to June 2016). with 51% in 2015) and 73% of employees said they would We have refurbished our office in Amsterdam according to recommend us as an employer. Pride in the company Simplification of the organization these new standards. Our offices in Rotterdam and The Hague rose to 77%, mainly because more employees would Automation is simplifying our processes, leading to greater will follow in 2017. Our employee engagement survey regarding recommend KPN as an employer and more employees efficiency and increased productivity. However, it means we working environment found 58% people are positive about are proud to work for KPN. We didn’t meet our target on require fewer people to do the work. In 2016, this, along with their working environment. sustainable employability/fit for the future, due to changed the ongoing simplification of our business and the introduction priorities and consequently less focus on lifecourse aware of a functional organization structure with fewer segments, led HR policies and vitality as originally intended. This is also to the reduction of 529 FTEs in the commercial division and Creating sustainable employability the reason that we did not publish a new ambition. 17 FTEs in the operational division (read more in Note 5 for “We raised awareness among our further details). We expect this trend will continue. A trial with Future of Work Health and vitality employees on the importance of robots in a call center proved to be effective and we predict Working in a technology-led environment, characterized by Another focus area for HR is the health and vitality of our this will become more prevalent in customer service and retail frequent and disruptive change, demands employees to be employees. We believe that healthy workers are more engaged, their own development to remain in the future. In line with the reductions in our operational self-aware and act responsibly. In 2016, the Future of Work can cope better with everyday stresses and are employable in the future” 58 59 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Sustainable suppliers Supervisory Board Sustainable suppliers Solutions for a sustainable KPN is a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation, an association of 13 telecom operators aiming to verify, assess and develop Corporate supply chain Social Responsibility (CSR) implementation across the manufacturing centers of important multinational suppliers to the information and communications technology (ICT) industry. We work closely with our suppliers to improve the quality and environmental friendliness of our equipment and products and to save costs and reduce the environmental footprint. “To really have impact as a circular Our business partners share our commitment to a sustainable future and are committed to company KPN will have to influence international agreements, laws and regulations related to good working practices. both the supplier side and the business side. This is broadening the role of KPI Result 2015 Result 2016 procurement beyond supply chain efficiencies” % realized improvements on corrective action plans 58% 77% Influencing suppliers group in 2016 to look into this, the European Partnership for During 2016, we continued our ongoing program to simplify The outcome of this investigation will be translated into policy Responsible Minerals. It integrates the activities of the IDH our supply chain and align the suppliers we work with, in 2017. KPN is a member of the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC), (sustainable trade initiative) working group. KPN stipulates including startups, entrepreneurs and smaller companies. an association of 13 telecom operators aiming to verify, in its supplier contracts that they have to comply with This has contributed to sustainable savings that are included To really have impact as a circular company KPN will have to assess and develop Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) international guidelines on conflict minerals as well as JAC in the run-rate simplification savings as explained on page 28. influence both the supplier side and the business side. implementation across the manufacturing centers of important standards for sustainable mining. This is broadening the role of procurement beyond supply multinational suppliers on labor requirements, health and An area of procurement we are paying close attention to chain efficiencies. We can stimulate innovation and prosafety, environment, ethics, bribery and anti-corruption. JAC is KPN’s transition into a more circular business model. We are actively steer the business towards suppliers with inventive monitors suppliers and conducts on-site audits to ensure they Dilemma looking at ways our suppliers can help us extend the lifespan and sustainable products or solutions that can improve our comply with its supply chain guidelines. When a supplier does of equipment and products and make them more recyclable own offering to customers. not comply, a corrective action plan is drawn up. While the sustainability of products and equipment is a clear and use increasingly more recycled contents in their products. priority for KPN, so are quality and price. Sometimes we have Together with JAC, KPN is aiming to promote safe and to compromise on one of these to come up with the best fair working conditions as well as responsible, social and quality product at the best price. We continuously work with Sustainable developments environmental management. JAC will strive for continuous our suppliers to move sustainability and a circular economy improvement of these guidelines developed in line with higher up on their agendas. However, this remains a continuous In 2016, together with our suppliers, we implemented the following sustainable solutions: internationally recognized standards and through dialogue challenge. with its stakeholders. In 2016, together with JAC we audited 22 high-risk Tier I, Tier II Respecting and promoting respect for and Tier III suppliers. Of the corrective action plans drawn up, human rights 77% were realized, well above our 50% target. This is the second consecutive year we exceeded the target. In 2017, we In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and aim to reach 60% realized improvements on corrective action Human Rights, KPN is committed to respecting the 10 guiding plans. In addition, some issues are still outstanding. Most of principles relating to freedom of expression, the protection these date back to previous audits and are more complicated of human rights by states and the respect of human rights by to resolve. We are still monitoring them for improvement, operators. and stay in close contact with the suppliers. In this way we are extending our influence on our supply chain. Suppliers who In our Supplier Code of Conduct, which forms the basis of our  e made a new fiber termination unit W  roduct innovation by one supplier P The user manuals for our modems consistently fail audits run the risk of losing our business. agreements with suppliers, we ask our suppliers to support that is 75% smaller and lighter than the resulted in an IT server that can and TV set-top boxes were replaced and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed existing units. These are the units that cope with more data while being with quick reference cards. Customers To audit the working conditions in our suppliers’ factories human rights. We ask them to operate in the spirit of the connect the fiber cables to people’s more energy efficient. After a indicated they don’t use the we are piloting a workers survey via mobile phone with JAC. Charter of the United Nations. homes. We expect this will save 32.7 successful pilot, we placed 24 of manuals often and prefer to look We approach the employees for a short mobile phone survey tonnes of plastic in 2017. The new units these new type of servers instead up information on the Internet. This about their work and working conditions. This provides a more will only be used for new installations of the old ones. This led to energy will save about 268 tons of paper complete picture of how employees rate working for the supplier. and inevitable replacements as the savings of more than 0.22 GWh/y, and EUR 660,000 yearly based For a full overview of our supply chain, see our online website about our supplier policy: http://corporate.kpn.com/company-kpn/csr/procurement.htm existing units have a 30-year lifespan equivalent to the annual energy on amount of usage consistent Conflict minerals remain an issue for the entire telecoms (full overview of the supply chain can be downloaded by clicking the link in and will not be replaced. consumption of 66 households. with the previous full year. industry and the European Commission set up a working the last sentence on the page). 60 61 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Corporate governance Supervisory Board Corporate governance Stable steering in a dynamic environment Other General Meetings of Shareholders are held as often as the Supervisory Board or Board of Management deem to purchase shares in the company’s own capital with the aim to service incentive plans for management and personnel. necessary. The Board of Management and the Supervisory The number of ordinary shares to be acquired is limited to a The corporate governance framework of KPN is based on our strategy and in line with Board determine the agenda of the General Meetings of maximum of 10% of the issued capital per April 13, 2016. the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as well Shareholders. Shareholders who individually or collectively represent at least 1% of the issued capital or who, according The General Meeting of Shareholders provided authority as applicable securities laws. Furthermore, the company is governed by its Articles of to the Official Price List of Euronext Amsterdam, represent at to reduce the issued capital through cancellation of own Association and internal procedures, such as the by-laws of the Board of Management least a value of EUR 50 million have the right to propose items shares held by the company in accordance with the Articles for the agenda. Every shareholder has the right to attend a of Association, with the aim to further optimize the equity and the Supervisory Board. General Meeting of Shareholders in person or through written structure of the company. The number of shares to be proxy, to address the meeting and to exercise voting rights. canceled following this resolution will be determined by the Board of Management and is limited to a maximum of 10% of Legal structure of the company listed on Euronext Amsterdam (ticker: KPN). KPN has Obligations to disclose holdings issued capital as per April 13, 2016. The General Meeting of a Level I ADR program, which allows investors to trade Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (Wet op het Shareholders has designated the Board of Management as the Royal KPN N.V. is a public limited liability company established KPN ADRs in the United States on the Over-The-Counter financieel toezicht or Wft), legal entities as well as natural body authorized to issue ordinary shares and to grant rights under the laws of the Netherlands, with ordinary shares listed market (ticker symbol: KKPNY). KPN shares are included persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for to subscribe for ordinary shares and to restrict and to exclude on Euronext Amsterdam. The Articles of Association of KPN among others in the following leading indices: AEX, EURO Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding reaches, statutory pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders upon were last amended on June 23, 2016. STOXX Telecommunications Index and STOXX Europe 600 exceeds or falls below certain thresholds of the issued capital. the issuance of ordinary shares or the granting of rights to Telecommunications Index. The AFM incorporates these notifications in the public register, subscribe for ordinary shares (for a period of 18 months, until KPN has a two-tier management structure with a Board which is available on its website. Read more in Note 31 to the October 13, 2017), with the aim to ensure continuing financial of Management and a Supervisory Board. KPN qualifies General Meeting of Shareholders Consolidated Financial Statements for the KPN shareholding flexibility of the company. This authority is limited to as a ‘large company’ (structuurvennootschap) within the The General Meeting of Shareholders holds all powers that as at December 31, 2016. a maximum of 10% of the issued capital as per April 13, 2016. meaning of the Dutch Civil Code and applies the relevant have not been granted to other company organs. It has the rules of Dutch corporate law. The Board of Management is authority to appoint members of the Supervisory Board upon Purchase of shares in the company’s own capital and Resolutions by the Board of Management to acquire the entrusted with the management of the company. binding nomination by the Supervisory Board and to dismiss issue of new shares company’s own shares, to issue ordinary shares, to grant rights to The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders The General Meeting of Shareholders authorized the Board of subscribe for ordinary shares, or to restrict or exclude pre-emptive policymaking by the Board of Management and the way is also entitled to adopt the Financial Statements, release Management (for a period of 18 months until October 13, 2017) rights are subject to the approval of the Super­visory Board. in which it manages and directs KPN’s operations and the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory affiliated/associated companies. In the performance of Board from liability, determine the dividend, determine the their duties, the members of the Board of Management remuneration for each member of the Supervisory Board and and the Supervisory Board are guided by the interests of approve the remuneration policy and share (option) plans the company and the enterprise connected therewith. The for the Board of Management. Furthermore, a number of Board of Management is accountable to the General Meeting decisions are subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with Dutch legislation. of Shareholders, including decisions entailing a significant change in the identity or character of the company or its Read more in Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial business and various corporate matters such as proposals Statements for details on KPN’s legal structure. to amend the Articles of Association of the company, to (de) merge or to dissolve the company, or to issue shares or reduce the issued capital of the company. Shareholders Within four months from the end of every fiscal year, the Board Share capital, listings and indices of Management prepares Financial Statements accompanied KPN authorized capital stock totals EUR 720 million, divided by an Annual Report. The Financial Statements are submitted into 9 billion ordinary shares of EUR 0.04 each and 9 billion to the Supervisory Board for approval. The Supervisory Board preference shares B of EUR 0.04 each. As of December 31, 2016, submits the approved Financial Statements to the Annual a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were outstanding. General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption together with Since June 13, 1994, KPN’s ordinary shares have been the Annual Report for discussion. At the same time, the Board of Management submits the approved Financial Statements to the Central Works Council for information purposes. Adoption of the Financial Statements does not automatically Shareholders Supervisory Board Board of “Application of sound corporate governance discharge the Board of Management or the Supervisory principles is important for KPN. It should Board from liability. This requires a separate resolution by the Shareholders appoint Supervisory Board members, upon nomination Supervisory Board appoints Board of Management members Management of Supervisory Board however not be an end in itself. The true General Meeting of Shareholders. An Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six months of the end of a aim is to achieve and maintain a culture of fiscal year to discuss the Annual Report and to approve the Please see ‘Composition of the Boards’ starting on page 66, for information on the composition of the Board of Management and the Supervisory honesty and integrity” Financial Statements. Board, Insider transactions and share ownership by the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 62 63 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Corporate governance Supervisory Board Corporate governance Supervisory Board Committees of the Supervisory Board Compliance with the Dutch Corporate The Foundation Preference Shares B KPN The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit Governance Code (Stichting Preferente Aandelen B KPN) The Supervisory Board oversees strategic and commercial Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominating policymaking by the Board of Management and the way in and Corporate Governance Committee, and the Strategy As a Dutch listed company, KPN applies the Dutch Corporate KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, to which it manages and directs KPN’s operations and affiliated/ and Organization Committee. These committees assist Governance Code. KPN complies with all best practice provisions the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation), associated companies. Members of the Supervisory Board are the Supervisory Board in its decision-making and report thereof. The text of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code as to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN, which appointed by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders their findings to the Supervisory Board. The tasks of these well as KPN’s application thereof in accordance with the “apply or have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, not exceeding upon binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. The committees are laid down in charters, which are available on explain” principle is available on KPN’s website. the total issued amount of ordinary shares, minus one share Central Works Council has an enhanced right to recommend KPN’s website. Further information on the activities of the and minus any shares already issued to the Foundation. persons for nomination to the Supervisory Board for up committees in 2016 can be found in the section ‘Supervisory In December 2016, the Monitoring Committee Corporate Upon exercise of the call option, 25% of the nominal value to one-third of its members. The Supervisory Board must Board Report’ starting on page 72. Governance published a new version of the Dutch Corporate of EUR 4ct per Class B preference share needs to be paid nominate the recommended persons unless it is of the opinion Governance Code. Once confirmed by the government, it will by the Foundation. According to its Articles of Association, that any such person would be unsuitable to fulfill the duties apply over KPN’s financial year 2017, and KPN will report on its the statutory goal of the Foundation is “to protect KPN’s of a Supervisory Board member, or such appointment would Board of Management compliance with the new code in its Integrated Annual Report interests (which includes the interests of stakeholders, such cause the Supervisory Board to be improperly constituted. over 2017. as customers, shareholders and employees), by, among The Board of Management manages KPN’s strategic, others, protecting KPN from influences that may threaten the Pursuant to a specific arrangement with América Móvil, commercial, financial and organizational matters, and Conflict of interest continuity, independence and identity”. Consequently, in the América Móvil has a right to designate one person to be appoints senior managers. The Supervisory Board appoints The handling of conflicts of interest between the company and event of any circumstances where the company is subject nominated by the Supervisory Board for appointment and discharges members of the Board of Management members of the Board of Management or Supervisory Board to influences as described above and taking public security as a member of the Supervisory Board. and establishes their individual remuneration within the is governed by Dutch law, the relevant provisions of the Dutch considerations into account, the Board of the Foundation boundaries of the remuneration policies approved by the Corporate Governance Code and the by-laws of the respective may decide to exercise the call option, with a view to enabling According to the Articles of Association, the Supervisory Board General Meeting of Shareholders. Board. the company to determine its position in relation to the must consist of at least five and not more than nine members. circumstances as referred to above, and seek alternatives. The Members of the Supervisory Board resign according to a The by-laws of the Board of Management contain, among A Board member is required to immediately report any Board of the Foundation is of the opinion that under normal schedule set by the Supervisory Board. A member steps down other things, rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest that is of circumstances it should not exercise its voting rights for longer at the first Annual General Meeting of Shareholders following working methods and decision-making and conflict handling. material significance to the company and/or to the member than a limited period. their four-year term in office. In line with the Dutch Corporate The by-laws are available on KPN’s website. concerned, to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board (or, in Governance Code, members can be reappointed twice, leading case of the Chairman, to the Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory The members of the Board of the Foundation are J.H. Schraven to a maximum term in office of 12 years. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) governance Board). The relevant Board member shall not take part in any (Chairman), P. Bouw (Vice-Chairman), M.W. den Boogert, CSR is embedded in accordance with the hierarchical structure discussion or decision-making on a subject in which he has H. Zwarts and J.E.F. Klaassen. As of January 1, 2017 P. Bouw The Supervisory Board has determined its ‘profile’, defining within KPN. Every CSR theme is assigned to a theme owner, a conflict of interest. Decisions to enter into transactions in stepped down and Mrs. A.P. Aris was appointed as member of the basic principles for its composition. All nominees for a member of the senior management who is responsible for which there are conflicts of interest with members of either the Board of the Foundation. The Board of Management has election to the Supervisory Board must fit this profile. stakeholder dialogue, targets, progress and results. Every five Board that are of material significance to the company or such concluded that the Board of the Foundation is independent According to this profile, the Supervisory Board must be weeks, these theme owners come together in the Steering member require the approval of the Supervisory Board. from KPN in accordance with parts c and d of the first composed in such a way that members of the Supervisory Committee ‘KPN in Society’ to align initiatives and review subsection of article 5:71 of the Dutch Financial Supervision Act. Board are able to operate independently of each other and progress against targets. This Steering Committee is chaired During 2016, no conflicts of interests occurred. of the Board of Management. The profile is available on by KPN’s CSR Manager, who is responsible for the overall The views of the Board of the Foundation, summarized above, KPN’s website. reporting, approach and coherency. Four times a year, CSR have been published on the Foundation’s website data is included in the overall set of business KPIs that is External auditor (www.prefs-KPN.nl). The by-laws of the Supervisory Board contain, among other reported to the Board of Management. The CSR Manager things, rules regarding the members’ duties, powers, working reports to the Director Corporate Communication & CSR, The external auditor is responsible for the audit of the financial methods and decision-making, what decisions by the Board of who is responsible for the communication to the Board of statements. The external auditor reports to the Board of Telecommunication and national security Management it must approve, training and conflict handling. Management. Management, the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board The by-laws are available on KPN’s website. to discuss findings pertaining to their agreed upon procedures or The Dutch government is considering legislation which should To ensure business commitment, managers of all departments audit of the quarterly and annual financial results. The external enable it to influence a potential take over of a company providing involved in one of the themes take part in the Steering auditor attends the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders telecommunications services in the Netherlands, for reasons of Committee for that CSR theme. Those committees, headed to answer questions pertaining to the combined independent national security. Draft legislation is expected in the course of 2017. by the theme owner, coordinate activities and report the auditor’s report as included in the Integrated Annual CSR data. Report. The Audit Committee approves every engagement Please find the In Control Statement and Responsibility of the external auditor, after pre-approval by the internal Statement on page 57. In order to obtain sufficient outside reflection, an Advisory Board auditor in order to avoid potential breaches of the external “In order to obtain sufficient outside consisting of external experts discusses CSR issues four times a auditor’s independence. All Audit Committee meetings were reflection, an Advisory Board consisting of year, since 2011, with the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’. attended by the external auditor. The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the external auditor on a yearly basis, external experts discusses CSR issues with upon recommendation by the Board of Management and the the Steering Committee ‘KPN in Society’.” Supervisory Board. For the role of internal audit see page 74. 64 65 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the Boards Supervisory Board Composition of the Boards Supervisory Board P.A.M. van Bommel Mr. van Bommel is currently P.F. Hartman Since 2013, Mr. Hartman was vicea member of the Board of chair of the Supervisory Board of KPN’s Supervisory Board currently consists of seven members. The composition of the Management and CFO of ASM Air France/KLM Group. Supervisory Board did not change in 2016. At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of International N.V. and, as part of that position, also a non-executive Before that, he spent 40 years April 13, 2016, Mr. P.A.M. van Bommel was re-appointed as member of the Supervisory Board. director of ASM PT (Hong Kong). working for KLM, the last seven of those as CEO. He is the chairman Furthermore, he is a member of the Supervisory Board of of the Supervisory Board of Fokker Technologies Group and Mr. Spanbroek, General Counsel and Company Secretary, acts D.W. Sickinghe Neways Electronics International N.V. a member of the Supervisory Board of Constellium B.V. and of as secretary to the Supervisory Board. All members of the Mr. Sickinghe was appointed Texel Airport N.V. Mr. Hartman is a Dutch citizen. Supervisory Board comply with clause 2:142a of the Dutch Civil Chairman of the Supervisory Board Before his appointment as CFO at ASMI, Mr. van Bommel was Code, which limits the number of positions in a supervisory or on April 15, 2015. CFO at Odersun, CFO at NXP and CFO at various divisions of management board that a director may hold. Philips. Mr. van Bommel is a Dutch citizen. Mr. Sickinghe is Managing Director Two vacancies will arise at the closure of the Annual General of Fortino Capital (Belgium). Meeting of Shareholders in 2017, as Mr. García Moreno Furthermore, he is Chairman of the Elizondo and Mr. Haank will step down as they will reach the Supervisory Board of Van Eeghen & Co (the Netherlands), C.J. García Moreno Elizondo J.C.M. Sap end of their four-year term of office. member of the Board of uniBreda (Belgium) and member of Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is Ms. Sap occupies several the board of Guberna (Belgium). currently CFO of América Móvil. supervisory and other functions, He holds several supervisory and including chairing the Supervisory Mr. Sickinghe was previously Chief Executive Officer and advisory positions, including those Boards of the GGZ affiliate member of the Board of Telenet N.V. (Belgium) in the period of member of the Boards of Grupo Arkin, the Netherlands Public 2001-2013. Prior to that, he held various management positions Financiero Inbursa and Nacional Health Federation and Fairfood at Hewlett-Packard (Switzerland), NeXT Computer (France), Financiera. International. Ms. Sap is also a Wolters Kluwer (the Netherlands) and was founder of Software member of the Supervisory Board of KPMG N.V. Direct (France). Mr. Sickinghe is a Dutch citizen. Prior to joining América Móvil, Mr. García Moreno Elizondo held positions at among others the Mexican Ministry of In addition, she is a partner at Camunico, a consultancy firm in Finance as the Director General of Public Credit and at the the field of sustainable management. Between 2008 and 2012, Swiss Bank Corporation Warburg as executive director and Ms. Sap represented the Dutch Green Party, GroenLinks, in the managing director. Mr. García Moreno Elizondo is a Mexican lower house of the Dutch parliament, the last two years of which Composition of the Supervisory Board Committees citizen. she was party leader. Before that she worked as an economist in the fields of science, policy and business. She was, among other Nominating things, head of the Incomes Policy department at the Ministry of End of Strategy & & Corporate Social Affairs and Employment. Ms. Sap is a Dutch citizen. Year of current Organization Governance Audit Remuneration Name birth Start of term term Committee Committee Committee Committee D.W. Sickinghe 1958 April 9, 2014 2018 X X X (Chairman) D.J. Haank C.J.G. Zuiderwijk P.A.M. van Bommel 1957 April 13, 2016* 2020 X Mr. Haank is currently CEO of Mrs. Zuiderwijk chairs the Board SpringerNature. He is a member of of Management of the Chamber C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 1957 April 10, 2013 2017 X the Supervisory Council of the Dutch of Commerce. She is currently a broadcast association AvroTros. member of the Supervisory Board D.J. Haank (Vice-Chairman) 1953 April 7, 2009 2017 X of APG and member of the Board April 10, 2013* Before his appointment at Springer, of PubliQ. Mr. Haank was the CEO of Elsevier P.F. Hartman 1949 April 15, 2015 2019 X X X Science and Executive Board Member of Reed Elsevier PLC. Mr. In the years 1993 to 2003, Mrs. Zuiderwijk worked for Haank is a Dutch citizen. PinkRoccade in various management functions. Thereafter, J.C.M. Sap 1963 April 15, 2015 2019 X Mrs. Zuiderwijk chaired the board of the Hilversum hospital and, following the merger with the Gooi Noord hospital, the C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 1962 April 9, 2014 2018 X X X Board of the Tergooi hospitals. Mrs. Zuiderwijk was also a member of the Innovation Platform of the Dutch government (from April 2007 to May 2010) and a member of the Care X Chairman * Reappointment Innovation Platform of the Dutch Ministry of Health (from April X Member 2008 to May 2010). Mrs. Zuiderwijk is a Dutch citizen. 66 67 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the Boards Supervisory Board Composition of the Boards Board of Management Currently, the Board of Management consists of four members. All members of the Board of E. Blok F.H.M. van der Post Management comply with clause 2:132a of the Dutch Civil Code, which limits the number of Mr. Blok is the Chairman of Mr. van der Post is member of the Board of Management and the Board of Management and positions in a supervisory or management board that a director may hold. Chief Executive Officer. Chief Commercial Officer. Mr. Blok was appointed as a member of the Board of He began his career in the hospitality sector in 1985. His Management on June 1, 2006, and was responsible for KPN’s positions included that of general manager at the American Composition of the Board of Management Fixed division until January 1, 2007. Until February 1, 2010, he was and Amstel Hotels in Amsterdam for InterContinental Hotels Managing Director of the Business, Getronics and Wholesale & where he worked in variety of international assignments. Operations segments (including iBasis). As of February 1, 2010, In 2005, he joined the Jumeirah Group in Dubai, a chain of Name Position Year of birth Start of term End of current term Mr. Blok assumed responsibility for KPN’s international operations, luxury hotels in the Middle East and Asia. In 2008, he was comprising Mobile International and iBasis, KPN’s wholesale appointed Chief Operating Officer for the group. In 2011, E. Blok Chairman of the Board of Management and Chief Executive Officer 1957 June 2006/2010/2014* 2018 international voice traffic carrier. He assumed the additional he switched from the hospitality to the aviation industry, role of Chief Operating Officer in October 2010. Per April 2011, becoming executive director and board member of British J.C. de Jager Board member and Chief Financial Officer 1969 September 2014 2018 he was appointed Chief Executive Officer. Airways, where he was responsible for brands & marketing, products and the customer experience, including cabin crew F.H.M. van der Post Board member and Chief Commercial Officer 1961 March 2015 2019 Mr. Blok joined KPN in 1983 and has had various management and the London Gatwick BA unit. positions, including as director of KPN’s Carrier Services, J.F.E. Farwerck Board member and Chief Operating Officer 1965 April 2013 2017 Corporate Networks and Fixed Net Operator, and he was responsible for Corporate Strategy & Innovation. More recently, * Reappointment he was Chief Operating Officer of KPN’s former Fixed division. He is co-chairman of the National Cyber Security Council. Mr. Blok has been nominated for appointment as member of the Supervisory Board of PostNL N.V. J.C. de Jager J.F.E. Farwerck Mr. de Jager is member of Mr. Farwerck is a member of the Board of Management and the Board of Management and Chief Financial Officer. Chief Operating Officer. In the period from 2007 to 2012, Mr. de Jager was a member of Mr. Farwerck started working at KPN in 1994 and held senior the Dutch Cabinet, first as State Secretary for Finance (from management positions in various divisions. He was responsible 2007 to 2010), thereafter as Minister of Finance (from 2010 to for all KPN’s activities in the Netherlands as Managing Director 2012). As Minister of Finance, Mr. de Jager was responsible for, Netherlands since February 2012, and in September 2014 he among others, the budget, general financial and economic became responsible for the operating activities of KPN as policy, supervision of financial markets and cooperation with Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Farwerck is a member of the international financial institutions. As State Secretary for executive committee of VNO-NCW and a member of the Board Finance, Mr. de Jager was responsible for many change of Nederland-ICT. He is Chairman of the Board of the KPN processes, among others within the Dutch Tax Administration. Group company iBasis. In the period 1992 to 2007, Mr. de Jager founded and was Managing Partner at ISM eCompany, an eBusiness solutions company, for which he acted as special advisor since his resignation from the Dutch Cabinet until his employment on the board of KPN. 68 69 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Composition of the Boards Supervisory Board Composition of the Boards Insider transactions transactions in KPN securities by such employees. Members Stock ownership Board of Management 1 of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are Number of ordinary shares December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 KPN employees that have access to inside information through furthermore subject to reporting obligations to the AFM. the exercise of their employment, profession or duties, including E. Blok 750,907 634,717 all members of the Board of Management and Supervisory The following table provides an overview of transactions Board, are subject to the Code of Conduct ‘Inside Information’. in 2016 by members of KPN’s Board of Management and J.C. de Jager 232,410 206,410 This Code of Conduct contains rules for possession of and Supervisory Board. F.H.M. van der Post 126,967 51,000 Date Name Transaction Price per share J.F.E. Farwerck 116,071 91,071 January 22 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Sold options for 40,810.50 KPN shares. EUR 4.86 1 Shares held by current members of the Board of Management (including vested shares in lock-up period). Share ownership relates to ordinary shares. February 4 E. Blok Bought 87,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.46 In 2011, a share ownership recommendation was introduced whereby the members of the Board of Management are encouraged to acquire company shares equal to one times the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed compensation February 4 J.F.E. Farwerck Bought 25,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.48 for the CEO (read more in Note 5). Retained vested shares as part of the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. February 4 J.C. de Jager Bought 26,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.47 February 4 F.H.M. van der Post Bought 30,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.46 Stock ownership Supervisory Board February 4 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Sold 36,950 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.41 Number of ordinary shares December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 February 12 C.J. García Moreno Elizondo Sold 80,750 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.25 March 1 F.H.M. van der Post Vesting of 48,691 conditional KPN shares (1/4 of the conditional KPN shares EUR D.W. Sickinghe 380,000 380,000 awarded on March 1, 2015 as compensation payment) into 30,967 ordinary KPN shares (after sale of part of the shares to finance the income tax). P.A.M. van Bommel 114,000 114,000 April 12 E. Blok Cancellation of 156,693 conditional KPN shares due to non-fulfilment of EUR performance criteria. C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 80,820 198,520 April 12 J.F.E. Farwerck Cancellation of 108,860 conditional KPN shares due to non-fulfilment of EUR D.J. Haank 24,351 24,351 performance criteria. April 14 E. Blok Award of 331,331 conditional KPN shares. EUR April 14 J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 149,424 conditional KPN shares. EUR April 14 J.C. de Jager Award of 162,417 conditional KPN shares. EUR April 14 F.H.M. van der Post Award of 181,907 conditional KPN shares. EUR June 24 E. Blok Bought 20,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 2.90 June 30 E. Blok Award of 102,990 conditional KPN shares as adjustment of the LTI 2014, 2015 EUR and 2016 plans to compensate for decrease of the economic value of awards due to the capital repayment to KPN shareholders. June 30 J.F.E. Farwerck Award of 46,447 conditional KPN shares as adjustment of the LTI 2014, 2015 and EUR 2016 plans to compensate for decrease of the economic value of awards due to the capital repayment to KPN shareholders. June 30 J.C. de Jager Award of 50,486 conditional KPN shares as adjustment of the LTI 2014, 2015 and EUR 2016 plans to compensate for decrease of the economic value of awards due to the capital repayment to KPN shareholders. June 30 F.H.M. van der Post Award of 46,916 conditional KPN shares as adjustment of the LTI 2015 and 2016 EUR plans to compensate for decrease of the economic value of awards due to the capital repayment to KPN shareholders. July 27 E. Blok Bought 9,190 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 3.02 July 29 F.H.M. van der Post Bought 15,000 ordinary KPN shares. EUR 2.89 70 71 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Report for The Supervisory Board supports the vision that ICT can time on its own composition as well as the composition of the KPN Integrated Annual Report 2016 accelerate the transition to a circular economy and the mitigation of negative climate impacts. We support and encourage the development of long term goals that are in Board of Management this year, with the upcoming renewal of the appointment of Mr. Farwerck as main event. Given his performance in the past period and his preparedness for line with the international ambitions as formulated in the the challenges ahead, the Supervisory Board concluded to Paris Agreement and in the Sustainable Development Goals. a continuation of his tenure, subject to observations made Over the last years, KPN put long-term growth in the interests of its customers, shareholders during the 2017 shareholders’ meeting. and employees, at the core of its strategy. Key elements of this vision have been continued CSR as part of our business strategy was also a key topic of a strategy day for the Supervisory Board with the Board of The Supervisory Board devoted fair time to its own permanent investments in future-proof infrastructure, simplification of its systems and processes and Management in the autumn of 2016, where both external and education, e.g. in the fields of integrity and compliance, and focus on Net Promoter Score as a key performance indicator. In addition, through Corporate internal experts contributed to a highly fruitful discussion, Corporate Social Responsibility, and has established an agenda which should help advance KPN’s achievements in this field for structural education. The Supervisory Board evaluated its Social Responsibility themes and the engagement of its employees, KPN works towards value even further. own performance in its meeting in January 2017, and concluded creation in the longer term while keeping a solid eye on short-term returns. that it was generally satisfied with its own performance. As to the composition of its own team, the Supervisory Board People & Culture concluded that it could strengthen knowledge in the digital The revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code, expected to Technological progress and communication industry, and therefore decided to initiate be applicable as of financial year 2017, positions such ‘longOur company is a reflection of the values and norms of the a search for an eighth member. Further points of improvement term value creation’ at the heart of every listed company, and KPN’s long-term basis for success is our ability to stay abreast people we employ. Employment at our company will continue included the information flows with the Board of Management, therewith makes it also formally a central reference for the of the constantly changing technological environment in to decline, as it has done over the past decades. Simplification, agenda setting, and certain improvements to the structure of supervision by the Supervisory Board. our sector. The company must carefully weigh the payback digitization and competitive pressure will continue to lead to the meetings. of its investments against the backdrop of increasing a lower number of jobs. In such circumstances, a continuous technological rate of change. The Board spent ample time focus on the wellbeing of our people, and social relations in Business results discussing future technologies, including spectrum and 4G/5G general, is critical. The Supervisory Board aims to monitor such Remuneration developments, IoT, cloud as well as fixed and mobile network relations carefully, both through interaction with the Board of 2016 showed generally solid business results, with continued upgrades. At the same time, it followed the simplification Management and the HR function, as well as with the Central Given the importance of balanced remuneration, the increase of the Net Promoter Score in all main segments. In the program and the digitization efforts with great interest, also Works Council. Supervisory Board, whether in full or in the Remuneration Consumer segment, over one million fixed-mobile households looking into such topics as Software Defined Networks and Committee, thoroughly assessed this topic. Also based trust us for both their fixed and mobile service needs. This was Network Virtualization, which could support a next wave of The introduction of the ‘Greenprint’, which formulates our on external advice, the Board concluded that the current an important milestone. The transformation of the Business simplification. The Supervisory Board engaged with both the ‘why’, was an important milestone in the definition and growth remuneration policy fits the needs of the company, and is on segment starts showing results, although this remains a Board of Management and members of staff to understand of the desired company culture. The related launch of the par with, or ahead of, market practice, for example with regard challenging environment and much remains to be done here. and discuss the impact of such developments, and put special new Company Code was an as important step to underpin the to the use of non-financial parameters for variable pay. The The new areas of business that the company pursues, such emphasis on the company’s investment program. importance of integrity in whatever we do. Supervisory Board ensures that the remuneration policy has as cloud & hosting and the Internet of Things, have good strong alignment with the company’s annual performance prospects for future growth. goals and long-term value creation strategy, based on Corporate Social Responsibility Shareholders addressing the needs and challenges of society. Strategy & M&A CSR has become pervasive to the entire company. The For shareholders, 2016 showed increasing shareholder returns, Meetings Supervisory Board paid special attention to the integration of including a EUR 28ct per share capital repayment related The Supervisory Board met with the Board of Management The Supervisory Board discussed and reviewed KPN’s corporate social responsibility in KPN’s business strategy. KPN to the cash proceeds from the sale of BASE Company in on eight, regularly scheduled, occasions in 2016. The strategic plan with the Board of Management, and supports pays substantial attention to its own impact on sustainability, February 2016 and the sale of 150 million shares in Telefónica attendance at the Supervisory Board meetings was 86%. the move that was made early in the year from the ‘Strengthen, e.g. by reducing own energy consumption thus making a Deutschland in November 2015, final 2015 dividend and interim Due to circumstances relating to the unanticipated events Simplify & Grow’ strategy to the ‘Simplify, Grow & Innovate’ strong contribution to society at large. KPN makes healthcare 2016 dividend payments, as well as a pass-on of the dividend in his agenda related to his primary function and in addition strategy, emphasizing a next, gradually executed phase in the more efficient, reduces traffic by facilitating the New Way received on our shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland. KPN’s to his overseas domicile, Mr. Garcia Moreno was unable to company’s transformation. of Living and Working and, last but not least, it connects ill share price outperformed the relevant European Telecoms attend approximately half the meetings held. In such cases, children with their classmates through the ‘KlasseContact’ indices, but underperformed the broader market indices, such however, he has participated in the Audit Committee meetings The Supervisory Board, in full or through its Committees, initiative of the KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds. as the AEX Index. The Supervisory Board has had a number preceding the meeting of the full Board, and/or provided his aimed to review and discuss key aspects of the strategy in of contacts with shareholders in order to understand their observations and opinion to the documents and proposals detail, such as the progress in Business and at the Customer concerns, listen to their inputs and benefit from their expertise prior to the meeting. All members had adequate time available Contact Centers, the status of IT Security, and the company’s as they often have a broad view on our industry. to prepare themselves and give the required attention to content strategy. In its review of the business, it paid specific the matters at hand. In the event members could not join a attention to the returns made on individual parts of the meeting, the Chairman discussed the matters at hand before company’s portfolio. “2016 showed generally solid business The Boards and after the meeting, in order to obtain the input and views of all Supervisory Board members. Most meetings commenced It also reviewed relevant proposals for potential M&A transactions results, with the continued increase of the As further explained under the header ‘Nominating & and/or ended with closed meetings where only Supervisory and was periodically updated on the activities of KPN Ventures. Net Promoter Score in all main segments” Corporate Governance Committee’, the Board also spent ample Board members, and at times the CEO, were present. 72 73 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board Independence Committee reporting The Committee worked with the Board of Management to by the company and acted solely on the instructions of the Throughout the year, six members of the Supervisory Board evaluate aspects of the company’s current and potential Committee on a basis in which conflicts of interest were were independent from the company within the meaning of The Supervisory Board has established four Committees, strategy, where relevant in preparation of decisions in the avoided. the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Mr. García Moreno as further explained in the chapter ‘Corporate Governance’: full Supervisory Board. The topics discussed were chosen by Elizondo, who was appointed upon the nomination of América The Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Committee based on suggestions by management or the Further details on the activities of the Remuneration Móvil, is not considered independent within the meaning the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee Committee itself, and included such topics as value steering, Committee are provided in the ‘Remuneration Report’ of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. At all times, the and the Strategy and Organization Committee. The main cloud & hosting and spectrum management. Extensive section of this report. composition of the Supervisory Board was such that the considerations and conclusions of each Committee were attention was paid to strategic considerations in the field of members were able to act critically and independently of shared with the full Supervisory Board. (TV) content, including the negotiations with Fox Sports and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee one another and of the Board of Management. KPN’s positioning on exclusive content. The Committee also The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee met paid specific attention to new business opportunities and on four occasions in 2016. It reviewed both the composition of See Note 31 of the Consolidated Financial Statements the progress of KPN Ventures, both to anticipate disruptive the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. for information on related party transactions. trends in our industry and drive new sources of revenue. It furthermore on a regular basis reviewed relevant M&A As to the Board of Management, the Committee most notably developments. Particular attention was paid to KPN’s policies evaluated the potential reappointment of Mr. Farwerck, who Audit Committee Remuneration Nominating & Corporate Strategy & on Corporate Social Responsibility, and the anchoring thereof will reach the end of his first term of appointment in April Committee Governance Committee Organization Committee in the strategy. The Committee prepared the Strategy off-site 2017. Based on an evaluation of his performance in his first for the Supervisory Board in the autumn, where CSR was a key term, and given the challenges in the operations domain in Chairman P.A.M. van Bommel P.F. Hartman D.W. Sickinghe D.J. Haank topic of discussion. the years ahead, the Committee concluded it was in the best interest of the company to recommend the reappointment of Members C.J. García Moreno D.W. Sickinghe P.F. Hartman P.F. Hartman By discussing such topics, the Committee enabled the full Mr. Farwerck for a further four-year term. The Central Works Board to gain an even better view of the impact of choices Council supports the reappointment. The committee also took J.C.M. Sap C.J.G. Zuiderwijk C.J.G. Zuiderwijk C.J.G. Zuiderwijk made on the company, hence improving the Supervisory note of the 360-feedback received for each of the members of D.W. Sickinghe Board’s oversight, while having in-depth discussions with the Board of Management. relevant members of staff. Attendance (# meetings) 88% (5) 93% (5) 100% (4) 85% (5) Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions during 2016. The CEO attended parts of the Committee meetings. The Committee assisted the Supervisory Board in establishing and reviewing KPN’s pay policy to ensure that members of the Board of Management are compensated consistently with that policy. Audit Committee including the pass-through of the dividend KPN received The Audit Committee had five regularly scheduled meetings, as shareholder in Telefónica Deutschland. It also reviewed The Committee defined the level of pay-out for individual all of which were also attended by the CFO, the external the pay-out of part of the proceeds of the sale of shares in members of the Board of Management as part of the STI plan auditor Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY) and partially Telefónica Deutschland and the sale of BASE Company (for a 2015 and LTI grant 2013, and determined the financial and by the Internal Auditor and the EVP Corporate Control. The total amount of EUR 1.2 billion) through a capital repayment. non-financial targets and performance criteria for the STI plan Committee also met separately with EY, which was appointed 2016 and LTI grant 2016. The Committee developed a more by the General Meeting of Shareholders as KPN’s independent The Audit Committee furthermore discussed other topics that detailed approach to evaluating individual performance of external auditor. were within its scope of attention, most notably compliance, members of the Board of Management, as input for the final fraud management and tax matters, and paid attention to such determination of the STI pay-out levels for 2016 and onwards. The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed in particular topics as IT/TI security, changes in IFRS regulations and the all financially relevant matters that were presented to the new design of the Finance Organization and execution thereof. The Committee furthermore reviewed the remuneration policy Supervisory Board, most notably the Integrated Annual and, confirmed by the views of external experts, concluded Report, the quarterly results, the financial and risk-related Finally, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance that the remuneration policy was in line with market practice aspects of the strategic plan and the outlook for 2017. It had a evaluation of EY and was satisfied with the results and also and good governance practices as well as relevant regulations. specific focus on the effectiveness and outcome of the internal performed a self-assessment by means of an extensive control framework and the risk management systems of the questionnaire. The results of such questionnaire were discussed The Committee evaluated the individual base pay levels for company, for which it received and reviewed reports by the during the first meeting of the Audit Committee in 2017. each of the members of the Board of Management against “The Committee enabled the full Board to Internal Auditor, the Group Risk & Compliance Officer and the market and peer levels, the requirements of the position, Disclosure Committee. Each quarter, the Audit Committee also Strategy and Organization Committee internal equity and the experience of the individual concerned, gain an even better view of the impact discussed in detail the matters included in the Board Report of The Strategy and Organization Committee held five meetings and recommended adjustment for certain individual members, of choices made on the company, hence the external auditor EY. in 2016, which were also attended by several members of the as set out in the Remuneration Report. improving the Supervisory Board’s oversight, Board of Management and staff. The Audit Committee also kept close oversight on KPN’s When engaging external experts, the Committee ensured while having in depth discussions with financing policy and profile and the related dividend proposals that the expert was independent from the consultant used relevant members of staff.” 74 75 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Report by the Supervisory Board The Committee furthermore reviewed the composition of the the telecommunications sector. As to the position of Mr. Haank, The Committee followed the review of the Dutch Corporate Final remarks Supervisory Board itself, as both Mr. Haank en Mr. García the Committee noted in particular the desire for general Governance Code with great interest, and will support the Moreno are to step down at the 2017 AGM. Based on a review experience in managing large companies, also in a digital Supervisory Board and the Board of Management in the We exist by virtue of our customers. Our employees make of the required skills and experience (as set out in the skills transformation phase. This profile, in combination with desired implementation process thereof during 2017. us who we are. Our business partners enable us to reach matrix), it determined the desired profiles for filling these continuity in the Board, led the Committee to the conclusion our goals together. Our shareholders and bondholders trust positions. Under existing arrangements, América Móvil was that it is in the best interest of the Supervisory Board to The Committee remains committed to ensuring that the us with their financial resources to allow us to finance our entitled to nominate one candidate for appointment to the propose the reappointment of Mr. Haank for a third and final Supervisory Board and Board of Management will consist of business. We aim to be an engaged member of the Dutch Supervisory Board, and nominated Mr. García Moreno for term. Finally, the Committee concluded that the Supervisory at least 30% female and at least 30% male members, thereby society at large. reappointment. The Committee fully supports this nomination, Board could benefit from further experience and knowledge in serving the interest of a balanced composition of the Boards. given Mr. García Moreno’s extensive expertise in the financial the digital and communication industry. It therefore initiated a When searching for candidates for available Board seats, The Supervisory Board is grateful to all stakeholders for their markets, in combination with his knowledge of, and expertise in, search for a potential eighth member of its Board. special attention was therefore given to identify female contribution to our company. candidates to achieve a more even distribution between male and female members. At the same time, KPN aims to select C.J. the best person for the job and – as suitable female candidates Duco W. Sickinghe, Chairman D.W. D.J. P.A.M. van García C.J.G. P.F. J.C.M. were not deemed available – the 30% target for female Skills / Characteristics Sickinghe Haank Bommel Moreno Zuiderwijk Hartman Sap representatives has not yet been achieved in either Board. Peter A.M. van Bommel Business leadership x x x x x x For upcoming vacancies, KPN aims to make further progress Carlos J. Garcia Moreno Elizondo in striving for at least 30% female representation. For further Derk J. Haank Industry knowledge (Telco) x x information on KPN’s diversity policy, see ‘Diversity and Peter F. Hartman Industry knowledge (IT) x x Inclusion’ in the ‘Sustainable employment’ section of this report. Jolande C.M. Sap Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk Commercial x x x x Operational x x x Financial Statements Employment / social relations x x x The Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2016, Society / government relations x x x were prepared by the Board of Management and approved Corporate Social Responsibility x by the Supervisory Board. The Report of the Independent Auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (EY), is included in Financial markets x x x x the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report in the ‘Other Finance, Audit & Risk x x x x x Information’ section of the Financial Statements. Financial experts (Dutch CGC) x x The Supervisory Board recommends that the AGM adopts International experience x x x x x these Financial Statements. Executive / non-executive (Full time) Executive position at other company x x x x x Mainly non-executive role x x Diversity Male x x x x x Female x x 76 77 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Remuneration Report A. Executive pay at a glance The pay mix for executives consists of the following four elements: Introduction KPN’s pay policy; a balanced approach between market competitive standards and long term value creation Component Form Fixed/variable Drivers We are committed to preserving your confidence and trust by The objectives and principles of KPN’s pay policy are based on presenting an accountable and transparent implementation of a balanced approach between market competitive standards, Base salary Cash Fixed Experience and responsibility our pay policy. the ratio between fixedand variable pay (with a focus on long term value creation) and the economicand social contribution Benefits (primarily pensions) Funded by cash contributions Fixed Market-competitive standards The Remuneration Committee’s (the Committee) tasks are of the company linked to the non-financial parameters of the laid down in the terms of reference of the Committee. The variable pay. Further details are described in the table below. Short-Term Incentive (STI) Cash Variable Performance – assessed through annual financial and non-financial Committee assists the Supervisory Board with establishing and targets reviewing the company’s pay policy to ensure that members Performance – assessed through relative TSR (peer group), Long-Term Incentive (LTI) Conditional shares Variable Free Cash Flow, Earnings Per Share and non-financial parameters of the Board of Management are compensated in consistence Objectives: Principles: with that policy. Market competitive standards: The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Committee The ratio between fixed and variable pay are appointed by the Supervisory Board. The Committee Attracting, motivating and retaining Paying at market-median level The ratio between fixed and variable pay is influenced by the necessary leadership talent currently consists of Mr. Hartman (Chairman), Mr. Sickinghe the extent to which targets are met. The following pie charts and Mrs. Zuiderwijk. Differentiating by experience represent the pay mix for both the CEO and the other Board Complying with best practice in corporate governance and responsibility, while members in case of an on-target performance. The different promoting internal fairness We intend to foster an actionand innovation-oriented pay mix for the CEO (when compared to the other Executives) culture aimed at delivering results in line with KPN’s strategic Supporting a work environment where Enhancing transparency and reflects the outcome of the benchmark reference. direction. Being aware of the public debate surrounding the inspiring leadership is the norm clarity topic of executive remuneration, the Committee strives to Ratio base/variable pay (focus on long term value creation): The level of remuneration balance all stakeholder interests. Our pay programs therefore KPN’s pay levels are benchmarked against other companies in emphasize variable pay and long-term value creation. This Driving performance that generates longPaying for performance order to ensure that KPN’s total level of compensation based ensures a strong alignment with the company’s annual term sustainable and profitable growth on the pay mix is in line with KPN’s pay policy and objectives, performance goals and long-term value creation strategy Encouraging customer satisfaction and Rewarding a customer centric as described above. In order to benchmark pay levels, KPN based on addressing the needs and challenges of society. loyalty, agility and innovation approach uses an employment peer group of companies against which KPN competes for talent. The peer employment Economic and social contribution: group consists of AEX-listed and European sector-specific Creating economic value by addressing the Balancing all stakeholder companies. The advice of Hay Group, an independent external needs and challenges of society interests consultant, is used by the Committee to ensure an objective benchmark for KPN’s remuneration policy and levels of pay. Overview Compensation policy Compensation Compensation policy policy CEO CEO OtherOther Executives Executives Base Base Base Base Details of Board Details of STI STI STI STI Executive Duties and Executive pay of Management Supervisory LTI LTI LTI LTI pay a t a glance activities of the policy – detailed remuneration in Board pay in Committee overview Financial Statements Financial Statements 30% 30% A B C D E 42% 42% 36% 36% 40% 40% In-depth insight into Highlights of KPN’s Insight into the topics Disclosure of Disclosure of KPN’s pay policy pay policy and a ctual discussed by the remuneration costs remuneration costs 28% 28% for the Boardof 24% 24% remuneration Committee under IFRS principles under IFRS principles Management 78 79 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Actual remuneration Board of Management B. Duties and activities of the Committee The alignment of KPN’s pay policy with its strategic goals is In thousands of EUR. Refer to the ‘Personnel Expenses’ section in the Consolidated Financial Statements for full disclosure of reflected in the overview below. remuneration cost under IFRS principles. Duties of the Committee The Committee assists the Supervisory Board with: Actual Pension cost and E stablishing and reviewing the company’s pay policy Strategic Goals of ‘Simplify Grow Innovate’ Name Year Base STI vested LTI 2 social security Total (based amongst other things, on national and international Eelco Blok 2016 850 531 971 3 264 2,616 benchmark standards); E nsuring that members of the Board of Management 2015 850 1,049 – 267 2,166 are compensated consistently with that policy; and Accelerate upand cross-sell in bundles R eviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes Grow in TV and IT services Jan Kees de Jager 2016 625 238 476 3 122 1,461 to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Finalize Business Transformation F inalize build of flexible and simplified integrated 2015 625 514 – 131 1,270 Members of the Supervisory Board regularly liaise with network and operating model senior management below Board level. E  nsure best customer experience Frank van der Post 2016 700 266 318 171 1,455 O  ptimize financial framework and grow dividend In performing its duties, the Committee is assisted by an 2015 1 583 480 149 154 1,366 external remuneration consultancy firm (i.e. Hay Group). The Committee is fully independent in the execution of its assigned Joost Farwerck 2016 575 239 438³ 139 1,391 responsibilities and ensures that the external remuneration consultancy firm acts on the instructions of the Committee and Short-term targets Long-term targets 2015 575 473 70 142 1,260 on a basis by which conflicts of interest are avoided. Activities during 2016 1 R emuneration of Mr. Van der Post since appointment as Board member in March 2015. The Committee met 5 times in 2016, with an attendance rate Financial Financial 2 Final TSR measurement for the 2013 share grant was conducted in 2016, which did not lead to vesting of shares in April 2016. In March 2016, part of of 93%. Consistent with its charter, the Committee has been the long-term compensation payment of Mr. Van der Post vested. involved in several aspects, such as: Non-financial Non-financial 3 Final measurement of the 2014 share grant was conducted in 2017, which leads to 68.75% vesting of the shares in April 2017. The amounts give an indication of the underlying value of the shares that will vest in april 2017 based on the closing share price of KPN at 16 February, 2017. D efining the level of pay-out as part of the STI plan 2015 and LTI grant 2013; Reward Reward I ssuing the STI plan 2016 and LTI grant 2016 in line with the Cash Conditional shares Incentives aligned with strategy and sustainable remuneration policy; performance growth A djusting the LTI grants as a result of the capital repayment; The focus of KPN’s strategy is on customer experience, D iscussing the projected outcome of the STI plan 2016 and Principles of KPN’s pay policy flexible and simplified integrated network and operating LTI grant 2014; KPN’s pay policy is guided by the following main principles: models, optimized financial framework and dividend growth, M onitoring the current remuneration policy; and 1) Paying at market-median level: this is achieved through acceleration of upand cross-sell in bundles, growth in TV and P reparing the Remuneration Report 2016 to be included in benchmarking against an employment market peer IT services and finalization of Business Transformation. The KPN’s Integrated Annual Report. group consisting of companies with which KPN generally goals and objectives of this strategy are reflected in the shortcompetes for talent; to medium-term targets and long-term targets, which are used 2) Pay-for-performance: target pay aims at 30–40% of pay in to compensate senior management for their performance. C. Executive pay policy – detailed overview base salary, and 60–70% in variable pay in order to maintain The performance measures also strengthen sustainable a strong alignment with the company’s annual financial performance growth by focussing on both financial and Objectives of KPN’s pay policy performance goals and long-term value creation strategy; non-financial performance indicators. KPN is dedicated to fostering a strong action and innovation 3) Differentiating by experience and responsibility: oriented culture aimed at delivering results. KPN’s pay this is achieved through alignment of the pay with the Level of variable compensation aligned with the programs therefore emphasize variable pay and long-term responsibilities, relevant experience, required competence company’s risk profile value creation. and performance of individual jobholders. Consequently, KPN aligns incentives with its long-term strategy, but it also there can be substantial differentials in pay levels, despite needs to focus on short-term success in order to achieve Sustainable performance growth employees having similar job titles; and further growth. The company’s risk profile is embedded The performance measures of the short and long-term 4) Balancing all stakeholder interests based on a transparant in the short-term and long-term incentive structure which incentive plans are aligned with sustainable performance pay policy. measurement is assured by KPN’s standards of internal growth. The focus is on both financial and non-financial control over financial reporting. targets in order to support creation of economic value by These principles apply to all levels of senior management. addressing the needs and challenges of society. Examples The company’s pay policy is compliant with the relevant of such non-financial performance measures are: customer legal requirements and the principles of the Dutch Corporate satisfaction, loyalty and customer base, reputation targets Governance Code. and energy reduction targets. 80 81 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Composition of employment market peer group business plan. At the end of the year, the Supervisory Board Short-Term Incentives (STI) and market assessment reviews the company’s performance against the target To ensure the overall competitiveness of KPN’s pay levels, ranges. Members of the Board of Management are eligible these levels are benchmarked against an employment market for an annual cash incentive only if company performance is Component STI peer group. The Committee uses one peer group consisting at or above the predetermined ranges. A “circuit breaker” is of AEX-listed companies and European sector-specific applicable as a minimum requirement for pay out of the STI Form of compensation Cash companies. The table below shows the current composition of non financial parameters. ‘On-target’ incentive equals 90% of base salary for the CEO and 60% of base salary for the other members of the Board of KPN’s employment peer group: Value determination Management. Objectives: focus on both financial and non-financial targets The objective of this STI scheme is to ensure that the Board Targets typically are EBITDA, Free Cash Flow, revenue and various measures of customer satisfaction and loyalty and customer Employment peer group Targets base. of Management is well incentivized to achieve company performance targets in the shorter term. Specific details on Pay-out at threshold 25% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 22.5% of base salary for the CEO and 15% of base salary for the other members of the Board AkzoNobel NV BT Group Plc performance of Management). Pay-out below threshold performance: 0% of the ‘on-target’ incentive. targets cannot be disclosed for performance measures, as this would require providing commercially sensitive information. DSM NV Cap Gemini NV Discretionary factor A factor between 0.7, reducing the incentive by 30%, and 1.3, increasing the incentive by 30%. Performance incentive zone Pay-out capped at 150% of the ‘on-target’ incentive (i.e. 135% of base salary for the CEO and 90% of base salary for the other Heineken NV Portugal Telecom SA Scenario maximum The target ranges for financial and operational performance members of the Board of Management). Randstad Holding NV Proximus SA comprise: A  ‘threshold’ below which no incentive is paid; Reed Elsevier NV/Plc Swisscom AG A  n ‘on-target’ performance level at which an ‘on-target’ Long-Term Incentives (LTI) incentive is paid; and Royal Ahold NV Vodafone Group Plc A  ‘maximum’ at which the maximum incentive is paid. Component Long-term share-based compensation Royal Philips Electronics NV Unilever NV/Plc The STI is designed to strike a balance between the company’s risk profile and the incentive to achieve ambitious targets. Form of compensation Shares The pay-out methodology is based on a separate pay-out The Committee regularly reviews the peer group to ensure approach for each of the financial and non-financial targets. Value determination1 CEO: based on 135% of base pay. Other members of the Board of Management: based on 90% of base pay. that its composition is still appropriate. The composition of The Supervisory Board’s ability to apply a discretionary factor the peer group might be adjusted as a result of mergers or ranges between 0.7 (reducing the incentive by 30%) and 1.3 For 25% based on relative TSR versus peer group, for 25% on Free Cash Flow, for 25% on Earnings Per Share, for 12.5% on Drivers2 sustainability/environmental targets and for 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. other corporate activities. The relative size of KPN is taken (increasing the incentive by 30%). With this discretionary into account when determining whether KPN’s pay levels factor, the Supervisory Board is able to express the assessment On-target 100% of the granted shares vest. are in line with the market-median levels. of the overall individual performance of each member of the Board of Management. The Supervisory Board has agreed a Scenario maximum Position 1 in TSR peer group and maximum performance of financial and non-financial targets: 200% of the granted shares vest. Base salary set of non-financial kpi’s with each individual member of the The Committee determines appropriate base salary levels Board of Management. The performance based on these kpi’s based on KPN’s relative positioning in the peer group. In will be evaluated by the Committee annually and discussed 1 Based on the average share price of the first trading day after the AGM. Dividend paid during the vesting period will be included in the value determination. line with KPN’s pay-for-performance principle, base salary with the individual Board members at the end of each year. 2 Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three years (i.e. qualifier for vesting). is targeted at the lower end of the market-competitive The outcome of this discussion will be used by the Supervisory range. Each year, the Supervisory Board considers whether Board as a reference to determine the discretionary factor. circumstances justify an adjustment in base salary within the market-competitive target range for individual members of Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied Long-Term Incentives (LTI): 75% financial and 25% nonmethodology is based on a separate vesting approach for each the Board of Management. The annual base salary for the by the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the STI scheme financial targets of the financial and non-financial targets. COO will be adjusted form EUR 575,000 to EUR 625,000 would produce an unfair result or if the outcome would not and for the CFO from 625,000 to EUR 650,000 with an be considered to reflect the basic objectives and principles General It is considered that comparing KPN’s TSR with a wider group effective date April 13, 2017 which is the first day after the of pay as outlined in this section. In addition to the base salary and the Short-Term annual cash of companies (either geographically or with other industries) is AGM. The annual base salary of both board members has not incentive described above, a Long-Term incentive based on not meaningful. Variations in returns would most likely be been adjusted since their initial appointments in 2013 (COO) Actual pay-out levels performance shares is used to ensure that the interests of the attributed largely to macro-economic events and/or sector shifts and 2014 (CFO). For 2016, Free Cash Flow performed close to target. EBITDA members of the Board of Management are aligned with those rather than to variations in management actions. Therefore, and customer base performed between threshold and target of its long-term (or prospective) shareholders and to provide benchmarking TSR achievements relative to other, similar Short-Term Incentives (STI): 70% financial and 30% level, while Net Promoter Score and revenue performed, on an incentive for members of the Board of Management to companies emphasizes rewarding for specific KPN performance. non-financial targets average, at the lower level of the bandwidth. continue their employment/service agreement relationship with the company. The non-financial parameters set for 2016 are based on General energy reduction and a reputation dashboard. Please refer At the beginning of each year, the Supervisory Board sets The number of shares granted under this plan is based on a to the ‘Environmental performance chapter’ of this report for financial and non-financial target ranges for the Board of percentage of base pay as shown in the LTI table. The vesting detailed information about the energy reduction parameters. Management. These ranges are based on the company’s 82 83 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Vesting is, in principle, also subject to the condition that the from the employment market peer group, which is used to Actual pay-out levels Loans member of the Board of Management has not resigned within determine pay levels for the CEO and members of the Board of Company policy does not allow loans or guarantees to be three years of the date of the initial grant. The performance Management. The peer group may be adjusted if an individual Weighting Outcome Vesting granted to members of the Board of Management. period of the LTI plan is set at three years. The Committee company no longer qualifies as a relevant peer company. Percentage uses scenario analysis to estimate the possible outcomes of TSR 25% 75% 18.75% Terms of employment the value of the shares vesting in coming years and decides Performance incentive zone Members of the Board of Management have a service whether a correct risk incentive is set for the members of the In line with the design of KPN’s LTI plan the target EPS 25% 0% 0% agreement for a definite period of time with the exception of Board of Management with respect to the overall level of pay performance ranges for vesting of the LTI plan comprise Mr. Blok, who has an employment contract for an indefinite and pay differentials within the company. a threshold below which no shares vest, an on-target FCF 25% 0% 0% period of time. performance level at which shares vest an on-target and a In addition to the information provided in the Remuneration maximum at which the shares vest at the maximum level. Energy 12.5% 200% 25% All members of the Board (including the CEO) are appointed Report, read more in Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial for a period of four years, which is in line with the requirements Statements for a further description and valuation of the Once vested, the shares will have to be held for a minimum Reputation 12.5% 200% 25% of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. option and share plans. period of two years. An exception to this rule is made for shares that are sold to cover income tax obligations in Total vesting 68.75% Severance arrangements Performance-measuring and peer group performance relation to the vested shares (typically the value taxed as Severance payments for the CEO and members of the The following table provides an overview of KPN’s income equals the number of shares vested multiplied Board of Management are aligned with the Dutch Corporate performance peer group to determine KPN’s relative by the share price at the time of vesting). An external Final TSR measurement for the 2014 share grant was conducted Governance Code (one-year base salary, and – exceptionally shareholder return for LTI plans as of 2014. remuneration consultant calculates the end-of-year TSR as per February 15, 2017. The LTI plan did not vest over the during the initial term of four years – up to two years’ base peer group position and the number of shares vested based last couple of years as the minimum performance criteria salary). on this target, and makes certain that calculations are for vesting were not met. The LTI plan 2014 will vest in April Companies included in the peer group performed objectively and independently. 2017 at 68.75% of on-target, primarily based on both the solid Outlook for 2017 relative TSR performance and the strong performance related No adjustments in the company’s remuneration policy that BT Group Plc Tele2 AB Discretion both upwards and downwards can be applied by to the energyand reputation targets. require AGM approval are foreseen in 2017. the Supervisory Board if the outcome of the LTI incentive Deutsche Telekom AG Telekom Austria AG scheme would produce an unfair result or if the outcome KPN was placed in the top of the Dow Jones Sustainability The Committee will review the financial and non-financials of would not be considered to reflect the basic objectives and World Index (DJSI) for the fifth year in a row. This strong the long term incentive plan (LTI) to ensure that these targets Orange Belgium SA Telia Company AB principles of pay as outlined in this section. performance is reflected in KPN’s sustainability performance will continuously be aligned with the underlying principles and during the vesting period 2014-2016 and resulted in a vesting objectives of the remuneration policy. Orange SA Vodafone Group Plc The change of control clause contains immediate vesting at of 200% for this part of the LTI plan 2014. Proximus SA Swisscom AG 100% (irrespective of the actual performance at that moment, Please refer to note 5 ‘Personnel Expenses’ of the Consolidated whether higher or lower) and lifting of the blocked period Claw-back clause Statement of Profit or Loss for details on actual remuneration TDC A/S KPN NV normally applicable, to enable the member of the Board of The Supervisory Board has the discretionary authority to of the Board of Management. Management to dispose of their shares in the situation of a recover variable pay awarded on the basis of incorrect financial change of control. The immediate vesting at 100% will be pro rata or other data. for the time passed in the plan during the vesting period of Vesting Vesting three years (i.e. 1/3 in year one, 2/3 in year two, full in year three). Benefits Position Position schedule schedule as of 2014 as of 2014 Pensions grant grant Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a Position 5 100% defined contribution pension plan with a contribution based Position 1 200% on the fiscal defined contribution table that corresponds Position 2 175% Position 6 75% to a retirement age of 67, an annual accrual rate of 1.875% and a pension accrual capped at EUR 101,519 base pay. Position 3 150% Position 7 No vesting Board members receive a fixed gross allowance equal to the and below associated pension contribution paid by the company prior to Position 4 125% 2015 for the base pay part above EUR 101,519. Additional arrangements The table above provides the vesting schedules of the TSR The additional arrangements, such as life insurance coverage, part in the LTI plans granted as of 2014. Vesting schedule for expense allowances, use of cell phones and company car financial and non-financial targets other than TSR: threshold provisions needed for the execution of their roles, are broadly performance 25%, on-target performance 100% and maximum in line with other companies of similar size and complexity, as performance 200%. Please note that the peer group used for well as with market practice. relative TSR reflects the relevant competitive market in which KPN competes for investor preference. As such, it is different 84 85 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Remuneration Report Supervisory Board pay The Committee is responsible for reviewing and, if appropriate, recommending changes to the pay of the Supervisory Board. Any recommended changes to Supervisory Board pay must be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders for approval. The remuneration levels for the chairman and members of the Strategy & Organization Committee were approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders in April, 2015. Members receive an additional fee if a meeting is held in a country other than the member’s country of residence. Shareholdings in the company held by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the company and help to align their interest with those of KPN’s other shareholders. No Supervisory Board member is granted shares as a form of pay. As a policy, the company does not provide loans or guarantees to its Supervisory Board members. The table below shows the pay-out to Supervisory Board Members and fixed Committee fees on an annual basis. Annual Amounts in EUR fees Chairman Supervisory Board 100,000 Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board 70,000 Member Supervisory Board 60,000 Chairman Audit Committee 20,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman Strategy & Organization Committee 12,500 Member Strategy & Organization Committee 7,500 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 Member Remuneration Committee 5,000 Chairman Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 10,000 Member Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee 5,000 Read more in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Personnel expenses) for details on actual remuneration of the Supervisory Board. Peter F. Hartman (Chairman Remuneration Committee) Duco W. Sickinghe Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk 86 87 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 90 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 91 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 92 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 94 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity 96 General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 97 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 104 Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 114 Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 148 Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss 166 Corporate Statement of Financial Position 167 Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 169 Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 174 Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report 181 88 89 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Consolidated Statement of Other For the year ended December 31 Comprehensive Income Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 For the year ended December 31 Revenues 6,801 7,006 Other income 5 2 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 6,806 7,008 Profit for the year 800 659 Total revenues and other income [4] Other comprehensive income: Cost of goods & services 2,131 2,209 Items of other comprehensive income that may not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Personnel expenses [5] 1,175 1,260 Remeasurement pensions and other post-employment plans: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period [23] -58 45 Information Technology / Technical Infrastructure 517 535 Other operating expenses [6] 554 680 Income tax 1 2 Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods -57 47 Depreciation, amortization and impairments [7] 1,545 1,616 Total operating expenses1 5,922 6,300 Items of other comprehensive income that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met: Operating profit 884 708 Cash flow hedges [20]: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period -114 166 Income tax 29 -41 Finance income 112 150 Finance costs -641 -507 -85 125 Other financial results 112 252 Financial income and expenses [8] -417 -105 Currency translation adjustments [20]: Gains or losses (-) arising during the period 20 -2 Share of the profit of associates and joint ventures [13] -1 2 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale financial assets: Unrealized gains or losses (-) arising during the period [14] -356 363 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 466 605 Income tax on unrealized gains or losses (-) [9] 95 -91 Realized gains through profit or loss [14] -2 -184 Income taxes [9] -96 -81 Income tax on realized gains [9] – 46 Profit for the year from continuing operations 370 524 -263 134 Profit for the year from discontinued operations [19] 430 135 Profit for the year 800 659 Net other comprehensive income/ loss (-) to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods -328 257 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 7 21 Other comprehensive income/ loss (-) for the year, net of income tax -385 304 Profit attributable to equity holders of the company 793 638 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 415 963 Earnings per ordinary share after taxes attributable to equity holders of the company for the year in EUR [10] Basic (continuing operations) 0.07 0.11 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Equity holders of the company 408 942 Diluted (continuing operations) 0.07 0.11 Non-controlling interests 7 21 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 415 963 Basic (discontinued operations) 0.10 0.03 Diluted (discontinued operations) 0.10 0.03 Total comprehensive income/ loss (-) attributable to equity holders of the company arises from: Continuing operations -22 807 Basic (total, including discontinued operations) 0.17 0.14 0.17 0.14 Discontinued operations 430 135 Diluted (total, including discontinued operations) 1 Operating expenses have been restated to align with internal, functional based, reporting. Read more in Note 3. [..] B  racketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial [..] B  racketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. Statements. 90 91 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Assets Group equity and Liabilities Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Non-current assets Group equity Goodwill 1,428 1,428 Share capital 171 171 Licenses 1,037 1,180 Share premium 8,651 9,847 Software 519 556 Other reserves -451 -125 Other intangibles 266 286 Retained earnings -5,859 -6,000 Total intangible assets [11] 3,250 3,450 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 Land and buildings 489 525 Equity attributable to equity holders of the company [20] 3,601 4,982 Plant and equipment 5,238 5,230 Non-controlling interests [20] – 69 Other tangible non-current assets 31 38 Total group equity [20] 3,601 5,051 Assets under construction 211 208 Total property, plant and equipment [12] 5,969 6,001 Non-current liabilities Investments in associates and joint ventures [13] 24 42 Borrowings [22] 7,897 8,853 Loans to associates and joint ventures – 20 Derivative financial instruments [26] 197 17 Available-for-sale financial assets [14] 1,909 2,272 Deferred income tax liabilities [9] – 47 Derivative financial instruments [26] 298 530 Provisions for retirement benefit obligations [23] 262 259 Deferred income tax assets [9] 1,091 1,069 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 89 97 Trade and other receivables [15] 61 81 Other payables and deferred income [25] 62 65 Total other non-current assets 3,383 4,014 Total non-current liabilities 8,507 9,338 Total non-current assets 12,602 13,465 Current liabilities Current assets Trade and other payables [25] 1,839 2,090 Inventories [16] 47 65 Borrowings [22] 735 847 Trade and other receivables [15] 766 778 Derivative financial instruments [26] 1 3 Income tax receivables [9] – 58 Income tax payables [9] 4 43 Derivative financial instruments [26] – 102 Provisions for other liabilities and charges [24] 49 59 Other current financial assets [17] 140 575 Total current liabilities 2,628 3,042 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,179 1,446 Total current assets 2,132 3,024 Liabilities directly associated with assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] – 366 Assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale [19] 2 1,308 Total equity and liabilities 14,736 17,797 Total assets 14,736 17,797 [..] B  racketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. [..] B  racketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 20 20 17,797 17,797 15 15 14,736 14,736 Intangible assets Group equity 10 Property, plant and equipment 10 9,338 Non-current liabilities Other non-current assets 8,507 Current liabilities 5,969 6,001 Current assets 5 L  iabilities associated with non5 5,051 4,014 Non-current assets and disposal 3,601 current assets and disposal 3,250 3,450 3,383 3,024 2,628 3,042 2,132 groups classified as HFS groups classified as HFS 1,308 366 2 Total assets Total equity a nd liabilities 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 92 93 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended December 31 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 466 605 Dividends paid -487 -495 Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bonds -67 -67 Adjustments for: Proceeds from borrowings 1,235 – – Net financial expense [8] 417 105 Repayments of borrowings and settlement of derivatives [22] -2,137 -929 – Share-based compensation [5] 7 8 Capital repayment [20] -1,193 – – Share of the loss of associates and joint ventures [13] 1 -2 Other [27] -72 -5 – Depreciation, amortization and impairments [7] 1,545 1,616 Net cash flow used in financing activities from continuing operations -2,721 -1,496 – Other non-cash income and expense -23 -2 Net cash flow used in financing activities from discontinued operations [19] – – – Changes in provisions (excluding deferred taxes) -68 -44 Net cash flow used in financing activities [27] -2,721 -1,496 Changes in working capital relating to: Total net cash flow from continuing operations -1,573 -346 – Inventories 19 -12 Total net cash flow from discontinued operations [19] 1,176 -25 – Trade receivables 7 63 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -397 -371 – Prepayments and accrued income 15 53 – Other current assets 1 18 Net cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year [18] 1,575 1,945 – Trade payables -137 63 Exchange rate differences – 1 – Accruals and deferred income -44 -145 Changes in cash and cash equivalents -397 -371 – Current liabilities (excluding short-term financing) 18 -10 Net cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year [18] 1,178 1,575 Bank overdrafts [22] 1 4 Dividends received [13, 14] 110 147 Cash classified as held for sale – -133 Income taxes paid/received 50 18 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,179 1,446 Interest paid/received -460 -485 [..] B  racketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Net cash flow provided by operating activities from continuing operations 1,924 1,996 Statements. Net cash flow provided by / used in (-) operating activities from discontinued operations [19] -7 222 Net cash flow provided by operating activities 1,917 2,218 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets [14] 31 805 Acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of acquired cash) -37 -73 Disposal of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (net of cash) 3 -1 Investments in intangible assets (excluding software) -26 -4 Investments in software -276 -288 Investments in property, plant and equipment -917 -1,012 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 10 3 Changes in other current financial assets [17] 435 -275 Other 1 -1 Net cash flow used in (-) investing activities from continuing operations -776 -846 Net cash flow provided by / used in (-) investing activities from discontinued operations [19] 1,183 -247 Net cash flow used in (-) /provided by investing activities [27] 407 -1,093 94 95 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in General Notes to the Consolidated Financial Group Equity Equity Equity Statements attributable attributable to holders to equity Amounts in millions Number of of perpetual holders NonTotal [1] General information Changes in accounting policies and disclosures of EUR, except subscribed Share Share Other Retained capital of the controlling Group KPN applies new standards and amendments issued by number of shares shares1 capital premium reserves earnings securities company interests equity KPN is the leading telecommunications and information and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), when Balance as of December 31, 2014 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 -388 -6,146 1,089 4,573 57 4,630 communications technology (ICT) provider in the Netherlands, effective and endorsed by the European Union. KPN has offering fixed and mobile telephony, fixed and mobile not early adopted any of these standards. Only those new broadband internet and TV to retail consumers. KPN is also standards or amendments with a material impact on KPN or Profit for the year – – – 638 – 638 21 659 market leader in the Netherlands in infrastructure and network those that are considered relevant for users of these Financial related ICT solutions to business customers, including other Statements are discussed. Other comprehensive income for the year – – 257 47 – 304 – 304 telecommunications operators. KPN also provides wholesale Total comprehensive income network services to third parties and operates an IP-based Implications of new and amended standards and – – 257 685 – 942 21 963 infrastructure for international wholesale customers through interpretations for the year KPN’s US-based subsidiary iBasis. As of January 1, 2016, KPN applies the amendments to IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. These amendments Share-based compensation [5] – – – -3 – -3 – -3 Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN or the company) was incorporated clarify or significantly change several existing IAS 1 Sold treasury shares – – 6 – – 6 – 6 in 1989 and is domiciled in the Netherlands. The address of its requirements including: registered office is Maanplein 55, 2516 CK, The Hague. KPN’s the materiality requirements in IAS 1; Paid coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) – – – -51 – -51 – -51 shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. that specific line items in the Statement of Profit or Loss, Other Comprehensive Income and Statement of Financial Dividends paid – – – -485 – -485 -9 -494 The Financial Statements as of and for the year ended Position may be disaggregated; Total transactions with owners, – – 6 -539 – -533 -9 -542 December 31, 2016 of Koninklijke KPN N.V. were approved the flexibility of the order in which Notes to Financial recognized directly in equity for issuance by both the Supervisory Board and the Board of Statements are presented; and Management on February 23, 2017 and are subject to adoption that the share of other comprehensive income of associates Balance as of by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on April 12, 2017. and joint ventures accounted for using the equity method 4,270,254,664 171 9,847 -125 -6,000 1,089 4,982 69 5,051 December 31, 2015 must be presented in aggregate as a single line item, and classified between items that will or will not be subsequently Profit for the year – – – 793 – 793 7 800 [2] Summary of significant accounting policies reclassified to profit or loss. Other comprehensive income for – – -328 -57 – -385 – -385 Basis of preparation The amendments had limited impact on KPN’s Consolidated the year Total comprehensive income The Consolidated Financial Statements of KPN have been Financial Statements. – – -328 736 – 408 7 415 for the year prepared: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Future implications of new and amended standards and Share-based compensation [5] – – – -10 – -10 – -10 Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS) and interpretations with the statutory provisions of Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch The IASB has issued several new standards and amendments Sold treasury shares – – 14 – – 14 – 14 Civil Code; with an effective date of January 1, 2017 or later. Those with an under the historical cost convention, except for availableexpected material impact for KPN are discussed below. Paid coupon perpetual hybrid – – – -51 – -51 – -51 for-sale financial assets and financial assets and financial bond (net of tax) liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value As three new IFRS standards (IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16) with Dividends paid – – – -460 – -460 -26 -486 through profit or loss; and an expected material impact on KPN’s financial performance Capital repayment [20] – -1,196 3 – – -1,193 – -1,193 on a going concern basis. and / or the presentation thereof will become effective in the next years, KPN established enterprise-wide, multidisciplinary Acquisitions2 – – – -89 – -89 -57 -146 Consolidated financial information, including subsidiaries, IFRS project teams dedicated to ensure timely and appropriate associates and joint ventures, has been prepared using implementation. These project teams are governed by a Other – – -15 15 – – 7 7 uniform accounting policies for similar transactions and other Steering Committee and provide regular progress reports to Total transactions with owners, events in similar circumstances. the Board of Management and to the Audit Committee. – -1,196 2 -595 – -1,789 -76 -1,865 recognized directly in equity Summary of significant accounting policies For all three standards, the implementation plans comprise Balance as of The general accounting policies as applied in these Consolidated four phases: 4,270,254,664 171 8,651 -451 -5,859 1,089 3,601 – 3,601 December 31, 2016 Financial Statements as a whole are described below. Significant accounting policy impact analysis; [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements which form an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. accounting policies are described in the relevant Notes to these decision on accounting policies and IT design; 1 Subscribed ordinary shares (including treasury shares). Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting policies have been implementation; and 2 This relates to the acquisitions of the remaining shares in GroupIT B.V. and Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. which have been recorded as transactions between applied consistently to all years presented, unless stated otherwise. completion and integration of all system process changes. equity holders. Read more in Note 20, 27 and 29. 96 97 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements C  onsolidated Financial Statements IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ Sales via KPN shops and website IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ Basis of consolidation This standard introduces new requirements for classification For KPN, IFRS 15 will result in earlier recognition of nonThis standard introduces on balance sheet accounting for KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements include the financial and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting of service revenue due to the removal of the cash restriction rule (almost) all leases. For lessees, the distinction between results of its subsidiaries and incorporate KPN’s share of the financial instruments. IFRS 9 must be applied retrospectively. currently applied in multiple element arrangements. As a result financial leases (‘on balance’) and operating leases (‘off results from associates and joint ventures. Read more in Note However, the hedge accounting requirements are generally hereof, KPN also expects a shift from service to non-service balance’) is removed whereas for lessors, these two types of 13 (accounting policy on associates and joint ventures). applied prospectively. Apart from some aspects of hedge revenue as contract revenues are allocated to components in leases remain in place. IFRS 16 will have a significant impact accounting, restatement of comparative information is not a contract based on their relative standalone selling price. As on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Financial Position due Subsidiaries mandatory and is only permitted if information is available an example, compared to the current accounting policies, a to the recognition of the right of use of the leased assets and Subsidiaries are all entities directly or indirectly controlled by without the use of hindsight. postpaid subscription with a handset will result in recognition corresponding lease liabilities. Also, an impact is expected on KPN. Control is defined as the power over an entity, i.e. the of higher non-service revenues upon delivery of the handset KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as operating ability to govern the financial and operating policies, resulting IFRS 9 is expected to have an impact on the classification and to the customer and lower subscription fees (service revenues) lease fees will no longer be part of operating expenses but will in obtaining the gains or losses from the entity’s activities. measurement of KPN’s financial assets and liabilities, for which during the subscription period for direct sales. become part of depreciation and interest expenses. EBITDA Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which KPN has started the accounting impact analysis. The project and operating profit will increase, but the impact on profit control is obtained by KPN and are deconsolidated from team also specifically addresses dependencies with other Sales via third parties before tax is not expected to be significant. Furthermore, an the date on which KPN’s control ceases. All intercompany existing and new IFRS standards, including IFRS 15 and IFRS For sales via third parties IFRS 15 will result in a decrease of impact is expected on KPN’s Consolidated Statement of Cash transactions, balances and unrealized results on transactions 16. Based on the impact analysis, KPN will take decisions on revenue, as handset installments will no longer be recorded Flows as payments for the principal portion of lease liabilities with subsidiaries are eliminated. accounting policies and IT if needed. As these new accounting as service revenue. As an example, compared to the current will be presented within financing activities. policy decisions have not yet been completed, no reliable accounting policies a postpaid subscription with a handset Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without estimate of the impact is available. sold via the indirect channel will result in lower subscription As at December 31, 2016, KPN reports an off balance sheet change of control fees (service revenues) during the subscription period since obligation for operating leases of EUR 821 million, determined Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result IFRS 9 will be effective as of January 1, 2018, but may be handset-related instalments will no longer be reported in based on the nominal contract values of KPN’s operating in loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The applied earlier. The standard has been endorsed by the the Statement of Profit or Loss. For dealer fees, the IFRS 15 leases. IFRS 16 requires the lease liability to be recognized at difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the European Union. KPN will not early adopt this standard. impact depends on the type of dealer fees. Handset-related discounted value and, among other factors, requires that the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the fees will be capitalized, creating an unbilled receivable that will likelihood of early terminations or expected use of renewal subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to I FRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ decrease when instalments are billed, i.e. handset-related fees options are taken into account as well. Therefore, the amounts non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity. This new standard introduces new guidance on the will no longer be reported as part of operating expenses. Costs KPN will recognize as lease liability and right of use asset recognition and measurement of revenues and also provides a of dealer commissions paid to acquire or retain subscribers upon transition are not expected to be equal to the currently Disposal of subsidiaries model for the sale of some non-financial assets that are not an will no longer be expensed as incurred but capitalized and reported off balance sheet obligation. When control ceases, any retained interest in the entity is output of a company’s ordinary business activities. recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term of remeasured to its fair value on the date when control is the underlying customer contract. In 2016, KPN performed the initial accounting policy impact lost, with the change in carrying amount recognized in the In 2016, KPN completed the detailed contract analysis for all analysis and is currently finalizing the identification of leases in Statement of Profit or Loss. The fair value is the initial carrying of KPN’s revenue streams. As part of this analysis the impact Other elements scope. KPN is preparing for decisions on accounting policies amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the of applying IFRS 15 accounting policies and policy choices, KPN does not expect a material impact from other elements and IT design. As new accounting policy decisions have not yet retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial if any, was modelled for decision making. To date, KPN such as the requirements in respect of significant financing been finalized, no reliable estimate of the impact is available. asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in Other has finalized and approved the IFRS 15 accounting policies and the application of the percentage of completion method IFRS 16 will be effective as of January 1, 2019, but may be Comprehensive Income (OCI) in respect of that entity are and target IT architecture. In addition, software solution for for ICT solutions within the business segment. applied earlier in conjunction with IFRS 15. The standard has accounted for as if KPN had directly disposed of the related the IFRS 15 implementation was purchased after a vendor not yet been endorsed by the European Union. KPN has not assets or liabilities. This may mean that amounts previously selection process. The IFRS project team is now working on Financial statements decided yet if it will early adopt this standard in 2018. recognized in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss. the implementation of the IT solution. Draft IFRS financial statements and disclosures have been prepared, based on the approved accounting policies and Amendments to existing standards Foreign currency translation IFRS 15 will be effective as of January 1, 2018. Based on our optional expedients available under IFRS 15. Upon Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payments’ provide Functional and presentation currency current project plan, the 2017 reported results will be restated implementation, the disclosures in KPN’s Consolidated requirements on the accounting for a) the effects of vesting and These Financial Statements are presented in euro (EUR), to reflect the changes introduced by IFRS 15. KPN does not Financial Statements will be expanded to include required non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled which is KPN’s presentation currency and functional currency. intend to early adopt this standard. information such as movement schedules for recognized share-based payments, b) share-based payment transactions Each entity within the KPN Group has its own functional contract assets and contract liabilities, information about with a net settlement feature for withholding tax obligations, currency, which is determined based on the primary economic The required changes to our revenue recognition policies are performance obligations and information on key judgments and and c) a modification to the terms and conditions of a shareenvironment in which the entity operates. All amounts are expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. estimates applied in recognition and measurement of revenues. based payment that changes the classification of the transaction rounded to millions unless stated otherwise. There will be adjustments to our opening equity upon transition These statements and disclosures will be used as of 2018. from cash-settled to equity-settled. These amendments are to IFRS 15 as well as changes to KPN’s Consolidated Financial effective as of January 1, 2018, and are not expected to have a Transactions and balances Statements and Notes. Reliable quantitative estimates of the Internal controls significant impact on accounting or disclosures. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into euro impact are not yet available. The main expected qualitative KPN does not expect that the implementation of IFRS 15 will > Amendments to IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’ result from using the exchange rates applicable at transaction date. At impacts are explained below. KPN intends to apply IFRS 15 have a significant impact on internal controls. However, some the Disclosure Initiative, require additional information on the reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 2018 retrospectively, including restatement of the 2017 additional controls will be required around reporting opening changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including in foreign currencies are translated to euro using the rates at comparative figures. balance adjustments and source systems that were previously disclosures of cash flow and non-cash flow movements. These reporting date. Exchange rate differences are recognized in not used for external reporting. amendments are effective as of January 1, 2017, and are limited the Statement of Profit or Loss except when these differences to the disclosures in KPN’s Consolidated Financial Statements. are related to qualifying cash flow hedges and qualifying 98 99 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements net investment hedges in which case the exchange rate All financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value net [3] Segment reporting Note 19 for more information on the sale of BASE Company. differences are recorded in OCI. Exchange rate differences on of directly attributable transaction costs (in case of loans Comparative information has been restated for these changes. non-monetary assets and liabilities are reported as part of the and borrowings). Subsequent measurement depends on the Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent KPN’s operating segments are summarized below. fair value gain or loss from that asset or liability. Exchange rate classification of the financial liability. with the internal reporting to KPN’s CEO, who is the Chief differences arising from the translation of the net investment Operating Decision Maker according to IFRS 8 ‘Operating The Netherlands in foreign entities, of borrowings and other currency Significant accounting estimates, judgments and Segments’. instruments designated as hedges of such investments are assumptions  Commercial Operations recognized in the Statement of OCI. The preparation of these Financial Statements requires Changes organizational structure C  onsumer segment – dedicated  holesale segment – provides W management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions to offer KPN’s retail customers connectivity solutions to KPN’s Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues Changes to reporting format a broad range of services in fixed and mobile wholesale a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign and expenses as well as the information disclosed and the As of January 1, 2016, KPN implemented a new organizational the areas of communication, partners via KPN’s copper, information, entertainment and fiber-optic and mobile networks. entity and translated at the closing rate at the reporting date. contingent liabilities. Actual results may therefore deviate from structure with KPN’s CCO and COO managing Commercial and commercial services through single the estimates applied. Estimates and judgments are evaluated Operations respectively. The new structure, with a functional play and multi-play offerings. The  etwork, Operations & IT N Subsidiaries continuously and are based on historic experience and other focus, has been implemented to enable a more direct control offered services include fixed and segment (NOI) – responsible for The results and financial position of subsidiaries that have a factors, including expectations of future events thought to be of KPN’s operational activities and provide increased cost mobile telephony, mobile data, KPN’s operational activities for functional currency other than KPN’s presentation currency reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates are revised visibility. The changes resulted in identification of the new providing internet and TV. the Dutch networks (both fixed and mobile) and IT services for (EUR) are translated for consolidation purposes at closing when material changes to the underlying assumption occur. Reporting Segments as presented in this Note. B  usiness segment – KPN offers KPN’s consumer and business rate of the date of the financial position (assets and liabilities) KPN’s business customers customers. or at the average exchange rates applicable for the specific The accounting estimates, judgments and assumptions The main changes in the reporting format are: (small, medium-sized, large and reporting period (income and expenses). All resulting deemed significant to KPN’s financial statements relate to: >E limination of most internal revenues; Network, Operations & corporate) a complete portfolio of services from fixed and mobile exchange differences are recognized in OCI (in the currency IT has been set up as a cost center; telephony and internet to a translation reserve, a separate component within equity). >C onsumer Residential and Consumer Mobile are merged into range of end-to-end solutions The determination of deferred tax assets for losses carry forward and provisions for tax contingencies Note 9 Consumer segment; in infrastructure, workspace Financial assets and liabilities >C onsumer & Business operations (including field engineers) management, data network and datacenter services. The determination of fair value less costs of disposal and value in moved from Consumer and Business segments to Network, KPN’s financial assets consist of KPN’s financial liabilities consist Note 11 use of cash-generating units for goodwill impairment testing Operations & IT; these main categories: of these main categories: > Wholesale separated from Consumer Mobile and NetCo The Netherlands’ Other Segment includes the results of KPN’s The depreciation rates for the copper and fiber network included >C orporate Center activities are transferred from Other Corporate Center (support) and eliminations. F inancial assets at fair Note 12 Notes within property, plant and equipment value through profit or 17/26  oans and borrowings Note 22 L activities to Other the Netherlands; and loss >N ew functional split in operating expenses. iBasis The valuation of available-for-sale financial assets with significant Notes D  erivative financial or prolonged fair market value below the historic cost value. Through iBasis, KPN is a leading player in the international L oans and receivables Note 26 Note 14 Restatement split operating expenses wholesale voice market in terms of minutes carried. iBasis offers 13/15/28 instruments In this context, KPN deems 20% ‘significant’ and a period of nine months measured at reporting date ‘prolonged’ a comprehensive portfolio of voice termination and data services H eld-to-maturity for many of the world’s largest fixed and mobile operators, as well Note 17 investments The ‘more likely than not’ assessment required to determine Notes as voice-over-broadband. whether or not to recognize a provision for idle cables, A vailable-for-sale 24/30 Note 14 which are part of a public electronic communications network As reported in 2015 New functional split financial assets Other activities The assessments of exposure to credit risk and financial Other activities comprise KPN Holding, remaining activities Note 28 Cost of materials 680 Cost of goods & services 2,209 D erivative financial Note 26 market risks abroad and eliminations. Also, comparative information instruments Work contracted out and Information Technology / includes SNT Germany (sold March 2015) and the effect of 2,662 535 other expenses Technical Infrastructure winding down of Ortel France. In preparing these Financial Statements, KPN has applied Employee benefits 1,107 Personnel expenses 1,260 At initial recognition, KPN’s management determines the the concept of materiality to the presentation and (level of) appropriate classification of financial assets and financial disclosures. Depreciation, amortization Depreciation, amortization 1,616 1,616 and impairments and impairments liabilities in one of these categories. For financial assets, the classification depends on the purpose for which the Other operating expenses 325 Other operating expenses 680 financial assets were acquired. Management assesses the designation of financial assets and liabilities assesses at Own work capitalized -90 every reporting date. Total operating expenses 6,300 Total operating expenses 6,300 All financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus transaction costs attributable to the acquisition of the asset if a financial asset is not recorded at fair value through profit or Sale of Belgium Segment loss. Subsequent measurement depends on the classification The sale of BASE Company was completed on February 11, 2016. of the financial asset. As BASE Company was KPN’s Belgium Segment, this segment has been eliminated from the disclosures in this Note. Read 100 101 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Inter-segment pricing Segment performance Segmentation 2016 1. KPN’s mobile terminating services are regulated in some As most of the intercompany settlements have been stopped Commercial Operations aspects. The price level of the mobile terminating services as of January 1, 2016, the EBITDA of Consumer, Business to external wholesale operators has been set in consultation and Wholesale has become the contribution margin of these Total The Other KPN Group Amounts in millions of EUR Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Netherlands iBasis activities3 Consolidated with and approved by the Dutch competition and segments and the EBITDA of NOI consists mostly of operating telecommunications regulators. The mobile terminating tariffs expenses. Statement of Profit or Loss are applied on a non-discriminatory basis within the segment External revenues¹ 3,118 2,249 625 15 14 6,021 779 1 6,801 Consumer, Business and Wholesale and to other operators; Due to the fact that KPN neither allocates interest expenses Other income – – 1 2 -1 2 1 2 5 2. Roaming tariffs between KPN’s Mobile operators are based to segments nor accounts for taxes in the segments, the on bilateral agreements and contain generally similar terms disclosure is limited to operating profit for the year. Inter-division revenues 21 54 137 – -183 29 87 -116 – as bilateral agreements with third parties; and Total [4] 3,139 2,303 763 17 -170 6,052 867 -113 6,806 3. As of January 1, 2016, KPN terminated most of the For an explanation of incidental transactions included in Operating expenses [5,6] -1,268 -921 -227 -1,160 -74 -3,650 -844 117 -4,377 intercompany settlements, except for: Revenues, Other income and EBITDA, read more in Appendix 1 of T  he intercompany settlements that are relevant these Financial Statements. Appendix 1 also includes the bridge EBITDA2 1,871 1,382 536 -1,143 -244 2,402 23 4 2,429 for determining the tax return of KPN, for instance between the reported and adjusted results per segment. DA&I [7] -208 -73 -11 -1,180 -15 -1,487 -57 -1 -1,545 intercompany settlements with several subsidiaries; Segment information on employee numbers is available in Operating profit 1,663 1,309 525 -2,323 -259 915 -34 3 884 T  he intercompany settlements that are necessary for the Note 5. More details on investments per segment are available capitalization of project-costs. in Notes 11 and 12. Total assets 4,225 2,743 886 9,803 7,282 24,939 334 -10,537 14,736 Total liabilities 4,352 2,722 886 9,533 -14,886 2,607 198 8,330 11,135 Geographical Geographical information (continuing operations) information Amounts in millions of EUR (excluding deferred taxes and derivative financial instruments) Other Investments in associates and JVs: – – – – 1 1 – 23 24 The Netherlands Results associates and JVs – -1 – – – -1 – – -1 2016 2015 Total non-current assets: 11,129 11,772 1 External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. Total intangible assets: 3,196 3,389 2 Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. Total property, plant and equipment: 5,945 5,974 3 Including eliminations. The Americas Total revenues and other income: 6,023 6,136 Total non-current assets: 81 128 Total intangible assets: 55 100 Segmentation 2015 (restated) Total property, plant and equipment: 23 24 Total revenues and other income: 778 813 Commercial Operations Total The Other KPN Group Amounts in millions of EUR Consumer Business Wholesale NOI Other3 Netherlands iBasis activities3 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Other Total External revenues1 3,075 2,427 598 15 16 6,131 813 62 7,006 Total non-current assets: 2 -34 Total non-current assets: 11,212 11,866 Other income 1 – – – 1 2 – – 2 Total intangible assets: -1 –39 Total intangible assets: 3,250 3,450 Total property, plant and equipment: 1 3 Total property, plant and equipment: 5,969 6,001 Inter-division revenues 19 55 132 1 -178 29 107 -136 – Total revenues and other income: 5 59 Total revenues and other income: 6,806 7,008 Total [4] 3,095 2,482 730 16 -161 6,162 920 -74 7,008 Operating expenses [5,6] -1,298 -1,014 -235 -1,203 -111 -3,861 -897 -74 -4,684 EBITDA2 1,797 1,468 495 -1,187 -272 2,301 23 – 2,324 DA&I [7] -286 -99 -7 -1,192 -13 -1,597 -11 -8 1,616 Operating profit 1,511 1,369 488 -2,379 -285 704 12 -8 708 Total assets 3,164 2,499 868 11,594 7,460 25,585 390 -8,178 17,797 Total liabilities 3,214 2,427 868 11,006 -14,714 2,801 218 9,727 12,746 Other Investments in associates and JVs: – – – 17 2 19 – 23 42 Results associates and JVs – – – – – – – 2 2 1 External revenues mainly consist of rendering of services. 2 Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation, amortization and impairments. 3 Including eliminations. 102 103 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement [5] Personnel expenses of Profit or Loss Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 1 comparing the cost incurred with the total expected Salaries and wages 872 908 [4] Revenues and Other income project cost. Revenue from fixed-price contracts involving managed Retirement benefits [23] 77 90 services is recognized in the period the services are Social security contributions 106 107 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 provided using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. When the outcome of the contract Additional labor capacity 158 179 Rendering of services 6,566 6,711 cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized Own work capitalized -105 -90 Sale of goods 214 272 only to the extent of contract costs incurred. Other 67 66 Other revenues 21 23 Sale of goods Total personnel expenses 1,175 1,260 The sale of goods includes peripheral and other 1 Certain amounts do not correspond to the 2015 financial statements, since Other income 5 2 equipment. Revenue is recognized when all significant personnel expenses have been restated to align with internal reporting. Total revenues and other income 6,806 7,008 risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are Read more in Note 3. [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. transferred to the buyer, which is normally at the date the equipment is delivered to and accepted by the customer. Number of own personnel (FTE) per segment at year end Revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables Accounting policy: Revenue recognition For arrangements with customers that include multiple Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration deliverables (for example a postpaid subscription combined received or receivable for the sale of goods and with a handset), revenues are allocated to the separate 2,731 FTE’s 3,122 FTE’s 171 FTE’s 5,998 FTE’s 323 FTE’s 1,185 FTE’s services. Revenue is recognized when it is probable that elements (units of accounting) based on their relative fair 3,168 FTE’s 3,214 FTE’s 182 FTE’s 6,004 FTE’s 328 FTE’s 1,182 FTE’s the economic benefits associated with a transaction values. If the fair value of the delivered item exceeds the will flow to KPN and the amount of revenue and the cash received at the time of delivery, revenue is recognized associated costs can be measured reliably. Revenues are up to the non-contingent cash received. Costs associated presented net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts with these arrangements are expensed as incurred. and after eliminating. KPN presents revenue gross of costs when the Group acts as the principal in the arrangement One-off connection fees and other initial fees are not and net of costs when the Group acts as agent. a separate unit of accounting and their accounting treatment is therefore dependent on the other Consumer Business Wholesale NOI iBasis Other Rendering of services deliverables in the sales arrangements: Rendering of services includes: Any connection fees not allocated to delivered total FTE 2016: 13,530 equipment are deferred upon connection and T raffic fees, charged at an agreed tariff for a fixed recognized as service revenues over the customer total FTE 2015: 14,078 duration of time or capacity and recognized as revenue contract period unless KPN has the obligation to based upon usage of KPN’s network and facilities; continue providing services beyond that period, in which Read more in Note 24 ‘Provisions for other liabilities and Since 2014, vesting is based on individual vesting of 25% S ubscription fees for the usage of KPN’s networks, case the expected customer service period is used, and charges’ for information on employee redundancy costs. relative TSR versus peer group, 25% Free Cash Flow, 25% recognized as revenues over the subscription period; For multiple deliverable arrangements that comprise Other operating expenses include an amount of EUR 55 Earnings Per Share, 12.5% on sustainability/environmental R  evenue related to airtime is recognized as revenue only one unit of accounting and include an upfront million for restructuring costs related to personnel reductions targets and 12.5% on stakeholder/customer targets. based on the expected usage of airtime per proposition; connection fee, amounts representing connection fees (2015: EUR 89 million). Vesting of non-financial targets will be subject to achieving R evenues from designing, building, deploying and are deferred and recognized pro rata. a cumulative net profit during the vesting period of three managing ICT solutions that are provided on a time and Deferred connection fees are amortized over the Share plans years (i.e. a qualifier for vesting). material basis or as a fixed-price contract with terms customer contract period. KPN has granted shares (equity-settled) and share-based generally ranging from less than one to three years. awards (cash-settled) on its shares to members of the Board of The list of companies included in the peer group and the Revenue from time and material contracts is Other revenues Management and senior management: the Performance Share vesting schedule can be found under ‘Long-Term Incentives’ recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct Other revenues mainly include royalties and proceeds Plan (PSP). The conditionally granted PSP award will vest after in the ‘Remuneration Report’ section. expenses are incurred. from operating leases where KPN acts as lessor. three years if the employee is still employed by KPN. The number Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognized of shares and share-based awards which vest partly depends on In May 2012 and May 2013, an additional equity settled plan under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method Other income KPN’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) position ranking relative was granted to senior management: the KPN Restricted Share unless the outcome of the contract cannot be Other income includes gains on the sale of property, plant to its peer group of European telecommunications companies. Plan. Shares under this plan vested on January 1, 2015 (2012 estimated reliably. Under the POC method, the and equipment as well as other gains not related to KPN’s Since 2011, vesting was based for 75% on relative TSR and for grant) and on January 1, 2016 (2013 grant) if the employee was percentage of revenue recognized is determined by operating activities. 25% on non-financial performance measures i.e. energy reduction still employed by KPN. For this plan, no other performance targets and a reputation dashboard. measures are applicable. 104 105 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements In April 2015, KPN’s Chief Commercial Officer, Mr. Van der Post are split or merged, repayment on shares occurs, shares are The total compensation expense associated with the share and senior management. For the Restricted Share Plan 2013, was granted 194,763 shares. Shares under this plan partially stamped or an issue of shares occurs. plans was EUR 7 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 9 million) and the the service conditions were met in the year 2016. The intrinsic vest in 2016, 2017 and 2019 if he is still employed by KPN. This approach is aimed at reflecting the increased number of related liability (for cash-settled shares) on December 31, 2016 value at vesting was EUR 4 million. No vesting conditions were For this plan, no other performance measures are applicable. shares following a rights issue, for example, and is in line with was EUR 12 million (2015: EUR 9 million). This liability is met in the years 2016 and 2015 for the PSP. The share plan rules provide the possibility to adjust granted market practice. The main features of the awards granted included under Other payables and deferred income. During rights under the incentive plans to maintain its economic under the PSP and Restricted Share Plan to KPN management 2016, KPN granted 4,073,000 shares and share-based awards The following table presents the number of shares and sharevalue if for example, subsequent to the date of grant, shares are summarized below: (2015: 3,150,568) to members of the Board of Management based awards in thousands under the share plans. Holding period Total Granted/ Total Granted/ Total -of which: after vesting Dec 31, additional Exercised/ Dec 31, additional Exercised/ Dec 31, NonMaximum term Settlement type1 Vesting period of/until 20143 vesting1-2 Vested Forfeited 20153 vesting2 Vested Forfeited4 20163 vested 2013 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years 2012 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 1,553 – – -1,553 – – – – – – 2012 Shares BoM/Sr. Man. 506 – – -506 – – – – – – Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2012 Restricted Shares Sr. Man. 569 – -557 -12 – – – – – – Senior Management Restricted Share Plan 2.7 years Equity 2.7 years – 2013 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 1,622 – – -100 1,522 – – -1,522 – – 2014 Board of Management and Senior Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years 2013 Shares BoM/ Sr. Man. 533 – – – 533 – – -533 – – Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2013 Restricted Shares Sr. Man. 1,420 – – -101 1,319 – -1,319 – – – 2014 Share-based awards Sr. Man. 3,252 – – -304 2,948 241 – -315 2,874 2,874 2015 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years 2014 Shares BoM/Sr. Man. 1,602 – – -99 1,503 123 – -161 1,465 1,465 Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2015 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – 2,091 – – 2,091 189 – -64 2,216 2,216 Board of Management Chief Commercial Officer 4 years Equity2 4 years – 2015 Shares BoM – 865 – – 865 78 – – 943 943 2016 Board of Management 5 years Equity2 3 years 2 years 2015 Shares Chief Commercial Off. – 195 – – 195 13 -49 – 159 159 2016 Share-based awards Sr. Man. – – – – – 2,529 – – 2,529 2,529 Senior Management 3 years Cash 3 years – 2016 Shares BoM – – – – – 900 – – 900 900 1 The cash-settled share awards will be settled in cash and no holding restrictions apply. An exception to the holding period for equity-settled plans is made with respect to shares that were sold upon vesting to cover the tax obligation on the vested shares. After vesting, the holder is able to sell a number of 1 On the basis of a 100% grant. The equity-settled share numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during unconditional granted shares only up to the amount necessary to settle the wage taxes liability relating to the profit made on the stock compensation plan. the vesting period will be granted in additional shares. 2 Including deferred dividend. 2 At grant date, the fair value is calculated using a Monte Carlo Simulation model except for the restricted shares. At April 14, 2016, the fair value was EUR 3.17 (2015 grant: EUR 3.18) for the 2016 share-based award (cash-settled) and EUR 3.17 (2015 grant: EUR 3.18) for the 2016 equity-settled share grant for the Board of Management (excluding deferred dividend). At March 1, 2015, the fair value was EUR 2.91 for the 2015 share award (equity-settled) of KPN’s Chief Commercial Officer. In 2016, additional shares were granted to compensate for the economic value of the capital repayment in that year. 3 At December 31, 2016, the fair value of each cash-settled share-based award was measured, using recent strategic plans, forecasts and a Monte Carlo Simulation model, based on the most recent available share price of KPN and its performance compared with peer companies at the moment of valuation (i.e. closing share prices as at December 31, 2016). At December 31, 2016, the fair value is EUR 2.01 (2015: EUR 2.74) for the 2014 share-based award, EUR 4.24 (2015: EUR 4.24) for the 2015 share-based award and EUR 2.52 for the 2016 share-based award. 4 At the end of 2016, KPN held the 6th position with respect to the 2014 share grant and at the end of 2015, KPN held the eighth position with respect to the 2013 share grant. This position and the outcomes of the other targets of this plan leads to 68.75% vesting in April 2017 of the 2014 share grant. Final TSR measurement for the 2014 share grant was conducted on February 15, 2017. The fair value of each award at the grant date is determined using the following assumptions: 2015 Chief Commercial Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 PSP 2015 PSP Officer Risk-free interest rate based on euro government bonds for remaining time to maturity of 2.7 years -0.1% 0.1% 0.1% Expected dividend for KPN (based on one years’ historical daily data preceding the date of award) 2.5% 2.3% 2.0% Expected volatility (PSP grant based on 2.7 years’ historical daily data) used for TSR 27.8% 36.7% – Share price at date of award (closing at grant date) EUR 3.45 EUR 3.27 EUR 3.06 106 107 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements The following chapters provide detail on the actual Details of actual remuneration The following table summarizes the shares/share-based awards granted to members of the Board of Management. remuneration of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Please refer to the Remuneration The remuneration of the current members of the Board of Report for the executive pay policy. Management is set out below. This table represents the costs incurred by the company measured under IFRS principles. Pre-tax Number market value Number of shares/ Number of shares Number of shares/ share-based of shares/ Total pre-tax on vesting of shares share-based awards share-based fair value of date or end Pension costs2 & granted as awards granted or awards as of shares on of lock-up in Salary STI3 LTI: Share awards1 social security Total Current of January 1, vested in forfeited in1-2 December grant date 2016 End of lockName Year (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) (EUR) Grant date status5 2016 20161,4 2016 31, 2016 (EUR)3 (EUR) up period E. Blok 2016 850,000 530,840 998,976 263,673 2,643,489 E. Blok 4/14/2016 Conditional – – 361,297 361,297 1,050,319 – 4/14/2021 2015 850,000 1,048,968 707,531 267,495 2,873,994 4/16/2015 Conditional 347,454 – 31,424 378,878 1,104,904 – 4/16/2020 J.C. de Jager 2016 625,000 237,590 514,575 122,078 1,499,243 4/10/2014 Conditional 459,975 – 41,600 501,575 1,090,141 – 4/10/2019 2015 625,000 514,200 338,402 130,895 1,608,497 4/12/2013 Conditional 156,693 – -156,693 – 166,095 – 4/12/2018 F.H.M. van der Post 2016 700,000 266,100 647,640 170,828 1,784,568 20154 583,333 479,920 751,260 154,146 1,968,659 J.C. de Jager 4/14/2016 Conditional – – 177,106 177,106 514,862 – 4/14/2021 J.F.E. Farwerck 2016 575,000 239,400 454,324 139,475 1,408,199 4/16/2015 Conditional 170,320 – 15,404 185,724 541,618 – 4/16/2020 2015 575,000 473,053 329,510 141,795 1,519,358 9/26/2014 Conditional 225,478 – 20,393 245,871 534,383 – 4/10/2019 Total current members 2016 2,750,000 1,273,930 2,615,515 696,054 7,335,499 2015 2,633,333 2,516,141 2,126,703 694,331 7,970,508 F.H.M. van der Post 4/14/2016 Conditional – – 198,359 198,359 576,645 – 4/14/2021 4/16/2015 Conditional 190,759 – 17,253 208,012 606,614 – 4/16/2020 1 The amounts in the table represent the cost recognized for shares in 2016 and 2015 based on their fair values. The fair value per share of the 2016 grant was EUR 3.17. Please refer to the ‘Long-Term Incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report section for a further explanation. Under IFRS, the fair value of the 3/1/20156 Conditional 194,763 -48,691 13,211 159,283 566,177 169,289 N.a. share-based award is recorded as cost over the vesting period. The amount for Mr. Van der Post includes his long-term compensation in cash. 2 In the pension costs, the costs for survivor’s pension, disability coverage, administration as well as the gross allowances are included. The fixed gross allowance (for the base pay part above EUR 100,000) in 2016 was EUR 171,000 for Mr. Blok (2015: EUR 171,000), EUR 76,000 for Mr. De Jager (2015: EUR 76,000), EUR 119,000 for Mr. Van der Post (2015: EUR 99,800), and EUR 82,000 for Mr. Farwerck (2015: EUR 82,700). J.F.E. Farwerck 4/14/2016 Conditional – – 162,938 162,938 473,674 – 4/14/2021 3 Actual STI relates to performance in the current year but paid out in the following financial year. Please refer to the ‘Short-Term Incentives’ section in the Remuneration Report section for the actual pay-out levels per target in 2016. 4/16/2015 Conditional 156,695 – 14,172 170,867 498,290 – 4/16/2020 4 Remuneration of Mr. Van der Post since his appointment as a Board member in March 2015. 4/10/2014 Conditional 207,440 – 18,761 226,201 491,633 – 4/10/2019 4/12/2013 Conditional 108,860 – -108,860 – 115,392 – 4/12/2018 1 The shares granted to the members of the Board of Management represent 26% of the total number of shares and share-based awards granted in 2016 to all employees. On the grant date (April 14, 2016) the KPN share price quoted was EUR 3.45 (closing price) while the fair value of each granted share was EUR 3.17 for members of the Board of Management. In 2016, additional shares were granted to compensate for the economic value of the capital repayment in that year. 2 The 2016 grant numbers do not include any deferred dividend during the vesting period. The deferred dividend during the vesting period will be additionally granted in shares. 3 Value is calculated by multiplying the number of share awards by the fair value at grant date. 4 Final TSR measurement for the 2013 share grant was conducted in February 2016. This did not lead to vesting of these shares in 2016. 5 Shares in the vesting period or lock-up period are disclosed as conditional. 6 Next to the vesting of shares in 2016, also EUR 148,750 vested of Mr. Van der Post’s long-term cash compensation. Read more in the ‘Composition of the Boards’ section in the Integrated Annual Report for stock ownership of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. 108 109 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Supervisory Board The total fees of Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, charged to The other assurance fees include the aggregate fees incurred The table below shows the actual fee received by each member of the Supervisory Board. KPN and its consolidated group entities amounted to EUR 4.8 for assurance and related services that are reasonably related million in 2016 (2015: EUR 5.2 million). to the performance of the audit or review of KPN’s financial Amounts in EUR Membership fee 2016 Committee fee 2016 2016 Total 2015 Total statements and are not reported under audit services. This The financial statements audit fees include the aggregate includes revenue and IT-related assurance services and D.W. Sickinghe 100,000 23,929 123,929 112,916 fees incurred in 2016 and 2015 for professional services regulatory-related assurance services. D.J. Haank 70,000 14,643 84,643 100,417 rendered for the audit of KPN’s annual financial statements and the annual statutory financial statements of subsidiaries The tax fees and other fees incurred in 2016 and 2015 are P.A.M. van Bommel 60,000 17,143 77,143 70,000 or services that are normally provided by the auditor in permitted services under the Audit firms supervision act C.J. García Moreno Elizondo 60,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 connection with the audits. (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’). C.J.G. Zuiderwijk 60,000 17,500 77,500 75,313 P.F. Hartman 60,000 20,357 80,357 53,125 Accounting policy: Operating expenses Personnel expenses include all expenses related to KPN’s J.C.M. Sap 60,000 10,000 70,000 49,583 KPN has divided its Operating expenses into Direct Cost workforce, both related to own employees and external (Cost of goods and services) and Indirect Cost (IT/TI, personnel. J.B.M. Streppel1 – – – 35,730 Personnel expenses and Other operating expenses). C.M. Hooymans1 – – – 20,417 C ost of goods and services are costs incurred in the Other operating expenses are all remaining operating context of a sales transaction. These expenses include expenses and include expenses related to marketing and O. Von Hauske Solis1 – – – 70,181 goods and services purchased from third parties, communication, billing and collection, housing and facilities. Total 470,000 113,572 583,572 657,682 subscriber acquisition and retention costs and traffic expenses. Operating expenses are measured and recognized based on IT/TI stands for Information Technology and Technical the accounting principles that are applied to related assets or 1 Former member of the Supervisory Board. Infrastructure. IT expenses relate to KPN’s IT environment liabilities and are allocated to the year in which they are incurred. (systems and networks), used, maintained and hosted by KPN. These expenses include licenses and maintenance Subscriber acquisition and retention costs are expensed as expenses for both software and/or IT hardware when not incurred. The most common subscriber acquisition costs Share ownership relates to ordinary shares [6] Other operating expenses directly related to a sales transaction. TI expenses are all are cost for handsets and dealer fees. The cost of a handset In 2011, a share ownership recommendation was introduced expenses related to KPN’s fixed and mobile networks that is expensed when the handset is sold. The sale can be an whereby the members of the Board of Management are In 2016, Other operating expenses comprised, among others, do not qualify for capitalization. These expenses include individual sale or a component of a multiple deliverable encouraged to acquire company shares equal to one times an addition to the restructuring provision of EUR 45 million items such as network components, costs of repair and arrangement containing for example the sale of a handset the annual fixed compensation for members of the Board of (2015: EUR 100 million). For more details read Note 24. Other damages, transportation expenses for mechanics and combined with a subscription. In both cases, the handset is Management (excluding CEO) and two times the annual fixed operating expenses also comprised marketing and promotion expenses related to general purposes data centers etc. expensed when the costs are incurred. compensation for the CEO. Retained vested shares as part of expenses for an amount of EUR 90 million (2015: EUR 106 the LTI will be included in the share ownership recommendation. million). Auditor’s fees [7] Depreciation, amortization and Depreciation and impairments on Property, plant and Accounting policy: Share-based compensation The fees listed below relate to the services provided to impairments equipment KPN operates a number of share-based compensation KPN and its consolidated group entities by Ernst & Young plans, both equityand cash-settled. For equity-settled Accountants LLP, KPN’s external auditor as of January 1, 2015, Amounts in millions of EUR plans, the fair value of shares granted to employees is as referred to in Section 1(1) of the Dutch Accounting Firms Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 measured at grant date. For cash-settled plans, the fair Oversight Act (‘Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties’ or ‘Wta’), value of the liability for the awards granted is remeasured as well as by other Dutch and foreign-based EY individual Amortization of Intangible assets 486 500 Assets under Land and construction: buildings: at each reporting date and at settlement. The costs of partnerships and legal entities, including their tax services and 71 73 Impairments of Intangible assets [11] 51 11 8 13 share-based compensation plans are determined based advisory groups: on the fair value of the shares and the number of shares Total amortization and impairments 537 511 Plant and expected to vest. On each Statement of Financial Position Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 of Intangible assets Other equipment: date, KPN determines whether it is necessary to revise tangible 914 1,003 Financial statements audit fees 3.8 4.4 fixed the expectation of the number of shares that will vest. Depreciation of Property, plant and 984 1,059 assets: The fair value is recognized as Employee benefits in the Other assurance fees 1.0 0.8 equipment 15 16 Total: Statement of Profit or Loss over the vesting period of the Impairments and retirements of 24 46 1,008 1,105 shares against an increase in equity in case of Tax fees 0.2 0.2 Property, plant and equipment equity-settled share-based compensation plans and Total depreciation and impairments 1,008 1,105 2016 All other fees – 0.1 of Property, plant and equipment 2015 against recognition of a liability in case of cash-settled share-based compensation plans. Total 5.0 5.5 Total 1,545 1,616 110 111 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [8] Financial income and expenses Finance costs), partly offset by a EUR 66 million gain from In 2016, the net deferred tax asset (DTA) of the Dutch fiscal Belgium discontinued operations discontinued fair value hedges on the repurchased bonds unity with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus is as The sale of BASE Company was completed in 2016. At December Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 (included in Other financial results). follows: 31, 2015 for BASE Company, the deferred tax positions were part of the disposal group held for sale, of which EUR 39 Finance income 112 150 In 2015, KPN recorded a EUR 184 million book gain on the sale million relates to available tax loss carry forward. Net DTA Net Loss of part of its stake in Telefónica Deutschland. Read more in Note 27. December 31, 2014 1,113 4,454 Interest on borrowings -402 -483 Interest on provisions for retirement Since May 2015, KPN holds all interest swaps at fair value Income tax expense Income tax expense -7 -9 benefit obligations [23] through profit or loss, which resulted in a EUR 28 million loss Movement 2015 -202 -810 Amounts in millions of EUR in 2016 (2015: EUR 8 million loss). Read more in Note 26. Interest on other provisions -10 -1 December 31, 2015 911 3,644 Tender premium -222 – In 2016, line item Other in Other financial results included a 37 gain of EUR 29 million from the sale of KPN’s stake in Jasper Wireless. In 2015, line item Other in Other financial results Movement 2016 -7 113 Other – -14 -9 included a gain due to revaluation of the option to acquire the December 31, 2016 904 3,757 Finance costs -641 -507 remaining stake of 87.5% in GroupIT B.V. Read more in Note 28. Book gain sale Telefónica Deutschland – 184 [9] Taxation The net DTA with regard to the book loss on the sale of E-Plus shares Current tax of EUR 904 million (2015: EUR 911 million) is partly realized Amortizable part of hedge reserve [20] -10 -11 The Netherlands for EUR 470 million (2015: EUR 518 million), partly unrealized KPN qualifies as an innovative company and concluded for EUR 501 million (2015: EUR 500 million) and is offset by a Amortization discontinued fair value hedges 114 41 a renewed agreement with the Dutch tax authorities with deferred tax liability (DTL) recapture of EUR 67 million (2015: -118 respect to the application of the Dutch innovation box tax EUR 107 million) Derivative financial instruments not qualified for hedge accounting -28 -8 regime. The innovation box tax regime is a facility under Dutch -87 corporate income tax law whereby profits attributable to The Reggefiber Group mainly consists of one fiscal unity Exchange rate differences -2 -1 innovation are taxed at an effective rate of 5%. The application separate from KPN’s Dutch fiscal unity and has pre-fiscal unity of the innovation box resulted in a benefit of EUR 17 million tax losses carry forward. At December 31, 2016, a DTA of Other 38 47 over 2016 (2015: EUR 9 million). EUR 72 million (2015: EUR 81 million) was recorded, of which EUR 36 million (2015: EUR 45 million) relates to recognized Charges in Other financial results 112 252 The tax book loss of approximately EUR 5 billion, which is tax losses carry forward. deferred taxes recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus, offsets KPN’s taxable income in the Netherlands in the current and coming Please read more in Note 29 for the impact of the acquisitions Total -417 -105 years. Dividends, not qualifying as specific capital repayments, of GNA, Dekatel and Internedservices Group. -81 received and/or capital gains realized (proceeds above tax [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. bookvalue) on KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland There are several other relatively small entities in the Netherlands -96 are subject to Dutch corporate income tax. which are separately liable for income taxes for which no loss Finance income in 2016 included a dividend received from carry forward is available. In most other countries in which Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 110 million (2015: EUR 146 KPN is present, tax loss carry forward is available and therefore million). no income tax is payable except when minimum taxation rules are applicable. In 2016, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 81 million, Income tax (charge)/benefit which was mainly related to a lower gross debt position. In 2015, an agreement was reached with the Dutch tax from continuing Interest on borrowings included a non-cash amount of authorities on a tax-deductible loss with regard to the operations EUR 17 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 14 million) relating to debt proposed liquidation of part of the UK structure. Based on issue costs and similar costs, which are amortized over the this, a deferred tax asset (DTA) was recorded of EUR 35 million 2016 remaining life of the respective bonds using the effective relating to the liquidation. Also in 2015, a DTA was recorded 2015 interest rate method. of EUR 17 million for the proposed liquidation of an entity in France. In 2016 the UK liquidation has been realized. In September 2016, KPN completed a tender offer, in which KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1.0 billion across five eurobonds with maturities between 2017 and 2024. The bond tender resulted in a EUR 160 million loss in 2016. This consisted of tender premiums of EUR 222 million and EUR 4 million of accelerated amortization (included in 112 113 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Statement of Deferred tax positions: Financial Position Deferred tax assets The reconciliation from the Dutch statutory tax of 25% (2015: 25%) to the effective tax rate of 20.6% (2015: 13.4%) is explained in Tax loss & Unrealized Offset against Amounts in millions of EUR other carry liquidation Bonds & Restriction on Fiscal deferred tax the table below. (restated) forwards losses4 hedges2 depreciation goodwill Other1 liabilities Total Amounts in millions of EUR Balance as of December 31, 2014 838 500 127 215 56 145 -558 1,323 Exchange differences 3 – – – – – – 3 467 (2015: 603) Income statement benefit/(charge) – 52 -41 -27 2 9 56 51 Transfer to current tax -184 – – – – – – -184 Tax charged to OCI2 – – -41 – – 2 – -39 -3 (0.6%) Transferred to held for sale -61 – – – – -24 – -85 -117 (25%) (2015: -2; 0.3%) (2015: -151; 25%) Balance as of December 31, 2015 596 552 45 188 58 132 -502 1,069 2 (-0.4%) (2015: 65; -10.8%) 0 (0.0%) Income statement benefit/(charge) 64 -34 102 -28 -10 -54 47 87 (2015: 8; -1.2%) 0 (0.0%) 0 (0.0%) -96 (20.6%) Changes in consolidation 3 – – – – – – 3 (2015: -6; 1.0%) (2015: 1; -0.3%) (2015: -81; 13.4%) 17 (-3.7%) (2015: 9; -1.4%) 5 (-1.1%) Transfer to current tax3 -124 – – – – – – -124 (2015: -5; 0.8%) Tax charged to OCI2 – – 29 – – 1 – 30 Reclassification 26 – – – – – – 26 Balance as of December 31, 2016 565 518 176 160 48 79 -455 1,091 Profit before Taxes Tax rate Non-taxable Innovation Innovation – related to – related to the Other Income tax 1 Other deductible temporary differences at December 31, 2016 include revenue recognition of EUR 15 million (2015: EUR 16 million). income tax at Dutch differences income, box tax box tax prior years current year benefit/(charge) 2 Tax charged to OCI relates mainly to the hedge reserve. In 2016, the total DTA mainly increased due to future deductible cost relating to the tender premium. from continuing statutory of foreign non-deductible regime regime from continuing 3 The decrease is the result of the offset of taxable income against available fiscal losses. operations tax rates operations expenses, and current year prior years operations excluding 4 Addition 2015 due to liquidation losses UK and France. The UK loss was realized in 2016. liq. losses associates and joint ventures (De)recognition of deferred tax positions Deferred tax liabilities Taxable temporary differences In 2016, the effective tax rate was lower than the Dutch statutory tax rate mainly due to the Dutch innovation box tax regime. Offset against Amounts in millions of EUR Software DTL Accelerated Goodwill deferred tax (restated) development recapture2 depreciation1 depreciation PPA4 Other3 assets Total Summary of deferred tax positions: Depending on future taxable results, a part of deferred tax Balance as of December 31, 2014 203 78 172 35 57 65 -558 52 assets relating to tax loss carry forward now considered to be December 31, December 31, recoverable after 12 months may be recoverable in the short term, Income statement (benefit)/charge -20 -9 -51 11 -5 -9 56 -27 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 whereas tax loss carry forward now considered to be recoverable Changes in consolidation – – – – – 8 – 8 within 12 months may be recoverable in the long term. Tax charged to Equity – – – – – -16 – -16 Deferred tax assets 1,091 1,069 Transfer to current tax – -7 – – – – – -7 – of which: to be recovered after 12 974 939 months Tax charged to OCI – 45 – – – – – 45 – of which: to be recovered within 12 Transferred to held for sale – – – – – -8 – -8 117 130 months Balance as of December 31, 2015 183 107 121 46 52 40 -502 47 Deferred tax liabilities 47 Income statement (benefit)/charge -16 27 -59 16 -5 25 47 35 Changes in consolidation – – – – – 4 – 4 – of which: to be realized after 12 months 44 Tax charged to Equity – – – – – -17 – -17 – of which: to be realized within 12 Tax charged to OCI – -95 – – – – – -95 3 months Reclassification -3 28 – – 3 -2 – 26 Balance as of December 31, 2016 164 67 62 62 50 50 -455 – Deferred tax assets and liabilities 1,091 1,022 1 Relates to property, plant and equipment in the Netherlands. 2 This relates to the unrealized capital gains on the stake in Telefónica Deutschland which are considered taxable in the Netherlands (recapture rule). 3 Other temporary differences at December 31, 2016 include bonds and hedges of EUR 26 million (2015: EUR 11 million). 4 PPA is Purchase price allocations and mainly relates to the recognition of customer bases. 114 115 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Tax loss carry forward Accounting policy: Taxation at the time of the transaction, affects neither the profit or December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 loss reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss nor the Maximum Recognized Recognized Current income tax taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recorded Tax loss carry deferred deferred Tax loss carry Maximum dedeferred The current corporate income tax charge recognized in for deductible temporary differences associated with Amounts in millions of EUR forward tax asset tax asset2 forward ferred tax asset tax asset2 the Statement of Profit or Loss is calculated in accordance investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in Koninklijke KPN – corporate tax1 2,026 507 507 2,114 528 528 with the prevailing tax regulations and rates, taking into joint ventures and are recorded only to the extent that it account non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses. is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in Other 258 72 58 306 85 68 The current income tax expense reflects the amount for the the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available Total continuing operations 2,284 579 565 2,420 613 596 current reporting period that KPN expects to recover from against which the temporary differences can be utilized. or pay to the tax authorities. Current income tax related to BASE Company – corporate tax 115 39 39 items recognized directly in equity is recorded in equity and Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable not in the Statement of Profit or Loss. KPN’s management temporary differences except when they arise from the Total KPN Group 2,284 579 565 2,535 652 635 periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a regarding situations in which applicable tax regulations are transaction that is not a business combination and, at the 1 Part of the tax loss carry forward are pre-consolidation losses (‘voorvoegingsverliezen’) limited in their use, as such losses may only be compensated subject to interpretation and establishes provisions when time of the transaction, affects neither the profit or loss by taxable income generated by the specific company itself. Part of the tax book loss which is recognized as a result of the sale of E-Plus to Telefónica deemed appropriate. reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss nor the taxable Deutschland is included in this amount. This total tax book loss amounts to EUR 4 billion, of which EUR 2 billion is recorded in the DTA for Tax loss carry profit or loss. Also, no deferred tax liabilities are recorded for forward and EUR 2 billion is recorded in the DTA for unrealized liquidation losses. The offset of losses with future profits (carry forward) is limited to 9 years. 2 The tax loss carry forward for Germany has been removed due to the intended liquidation of the legal structure. Deferred income taxes taxable temporary differences associated with investments Deferred income tax positions are recognized for temporary in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences their carrying values in KPN’s Statement of Financial Position. can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary The expiration of the available tax loss carry forward and recognized tax assets at December 31, is as follows: differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any Deferred tax positions are stated at nominal value and are December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognized only measured at the corporate income tax rates KPN expects to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits to be applicable in the year when the asset is realized or Maximum Recognized Maximum Recognized Tax loss carry deferred deferred Tax loss carry deferred deferred will be available against which the temporary differences liability is settled based on enacted or substantially enacted Amounts in millions of EUR forward tax asset tax asset forward tax asset tax asset can be utilized. Both the recognized and unrecognized tax laws. deferred tax assets are reassessed on each reporting date 2016 n.a. n.a. n.a. 2 – – based on available projections. If future taxable profits are Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are netted if there 2017 – – – 13 3 3 insufficiently available, derecognition may become inevitable is a legally enforceable right to set off deferred income tax unless certain exceptions can be applied. No deferred tax assets against deferred income tax liabilities and relate to 2018 2 – – 1 – – assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on the that arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability same taxable entity and there is an intention to settle on a 2019 5 1 1 27 7 7 in a transaction that is not a business combination and, net basis. 2020 21 5 5 50 13 12 2021 22 5 5 N.a. N.a. N.a. Later 2,233 568 554 2,311 586 574 Unlimited 1 – – 16 4 – Total Group 2,284 579 565 2,420 613 596 Discontinued operations unlimited – – – 115 39 39 Total KPN Group 2,284 579 565 2,535 652 635 116 117 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Earnings per share [10] Earnings per share Basic continuing Diluted continuing [11] Intangible fixed assets Goodwill CGUs December 31, 2015 operations operations Amounts in millions of EUR The following table shows the calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share attributable to equity holders December 31, December 31, 1,500 1,428 based on the profit attributable to equity holders, the average Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 number of subscribed ordinary shares and the calculated 0.07 0.07 1,200 2015: 0.11 2015: 0.11 Goodwill 1,428 1,428 weighted average number of subscribed ordinary shares 900 Basic discontinued operations Diluted discontinued divided by the weighted average number of subscribed operations Licenses 1,037 1,180 ordinary shares taking into account the dilution effects: 600 481 419 Software 519 556 2016 2015 300 271 167 Profit for the year from continuing 0.10 0.10 Other intangibles1 266 286 0 90 370 524 2015: 0.03 2015: 0.03 operations NetCo Business Consumer Consumer iBasis Total Profit for the year from discontinued Basic total, including Diluted total, including discontinued Total intangible assets 3,250 3,450 Mobile Residential 430 135 discontinued operations 1 Other intangibles mainly relate to customer relationships and trade names. Goodwill reallocated to new CGUs January 1, 2016 Profit for the year 800 659 0.17 0.17 Amounts in millions of EUR Profit attributable to non-controlling 2015: 0.14 2015: 0.14 Goodwill -7 -21 interests [20] As per January 1, 2016, KPN adjusted its internal organizational 1,500 1,428 Deduction for perpetual capital securities -51 -51 structure (read more in Note 3). As a consequence, KPN’s cash 1,200 generating units (CGUs) revised. Before 2016, KPN’s CGUs Adjusted profit (loss) attributable to 742 587 Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the were deemed equal to KPN’s operating segments. 900 ordinary shareholders of the company weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to 755 assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. As per January 1, 2016, the elimination of internal revenues 600 544 Weighted average number of subShare options and non-vested shares are regarded to have changed ‘Network, Operations & IT’ (former NetCo) into a 4,259,762,228 4,258,608,802 scribed ordinary shares outstanding 300 potential dilutive effects on the ordinary shares. For the cost center. Consumer and Business operations moved from 90 share options and share plans, a calculation is made in order Consumer and Business segments to ‘Network, Operations 0 39 Dilution effects: to determine the number of shares that could have been & IT’. Former Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile Business Consumer Wholesale iBasis Total acquired at fair value based on the monetary value of the merged into the new ‘Consumer’ segment. Wholesale (Mobile – options and non-vested shares 3,581,632 4,135,263 subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. and Fixed) separated from Consumer Mobile and NetCo. This resulted in the following (new) CGUs: Business, Consumer, Weighted average number of subThe profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations Wholesale and iBasis. Goodwill CGUs December 31, 2016 scribed ordinary shares outstanding 4,263,343,860 4,262,744,065 Amounts in millions of EUR including dilution effects on a diluted basis is equal to the profit attributable to equity holders used for calculations on a non-diluted basis. Goodwill of KPN the Netherlands was reallocated to the new CGUs applying the Relative Value Approach, whereas 1,500 1,428 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Coupons on the perpetual capital securities are deducted from particularly the asset intensity of the subject CGUs was taken the profit attributable to equity holders, since the perpetual into account. For the reallocation of the goodwill, see figure 1,200 hybrid bonds represent equity but do not constitute profit ‘Goodwill reallocated to new CGUs January 1, 2016’. 900 attributable to ordinary holders. 764 600 578 In the total basic earnings per share EUR 0.02 (2015: EUR 0.02) tax expense is included. 300 40 46 0 Business Consumer Wholesale iBasis Total 118 119 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of changes in goodwill Goodwill impairment tests Key long-term assumptions KPN performed its annual impairment test as at December 31. Assumptions used in the impairment test as at December 31, 2016 are summarized in the table below. KPN considers the relationship between its market capitalization Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 and its book value, among other factors, when reviewing for Terminal sales growth Capex intensity EBITDA margin Discount rate 2,191 indicators of impairment. As at December 31, 2016, the market Cost 2,217 capitalization of KPN was significantly higher than the book Consumer 20161 0% 12% – 20% 42% – 50% 7.5% – 8.5% Accumulated impairments -763 -763 value of its equity, indicating no potential impairment of goodwill or assets. Business 20161 0% 10% – 14% 32% – 37% 7.5% – 8.5% Balance as of January 1 1,428 1,454 Wholesale 20161 0% 27% – 35% 66% – 71% 7.5% – 8.5% A detailed review has been performed of the recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit. For all cash-generating units, the iBasis 2016 0% 0% – 2% 2% – 4% 10% – 12% Investments1 38 65 recoverable amount is based on their value-in-use, which was determined by using the discounted cash flow method. iBasis 2015 0% 0% – 1% 1% – 3% 8% – 10% Impairment2 -45 – 1 As per January 1, 2016, KPN adjusted its internal organizational structure and the internal revenues have been eliminated (read more in Note 3). Key assumptions used in the cash flow projections are As a consequence, the CGU structure for the Netherlands was revised and therefore the assumptions used in the impairment test as at December 31, 2015 Exchange rate differences 1 4 estimated EBITDA, estimated capital expenditures, estimated are not disclosed in this table. For more information about the assumptions used as at December 31, 2015, read more in KPN’s Integrated Annual Report 2015. change in working capital and pre-tax weighted average Subsequent purchase price adjustments 6 – cost of capital (WACC) used for discounting the cash flow projections. The cash flow projections for the first five years Transferred to held for sale3 – -95 are management’s best estimate based on the most recent business plans, historical growth rates and EBITDA margins. Sensitivity to changes in key assumptions Accounting policy: Goodwill Closing net book value 1,428 1,428 For goodwill impairment purposes, cash flow projections The expected future cash flows used in the impairment The excess of the consideration transferred over the and the carrying amount of both cost centers NOI and analysis are based on management’s estimates. Events among fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired in a Netherlands’ Other segments based on periodic management others in technology and telecommunications markets as well business combination is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill Cost 2,237 2,191 analysis have been allocated to the new CGUs. KPN believes as the financial markets and the overall economy may have an on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible the period used in the projections to be a suitable timescale impact on the estimated future cash flows of KPN’s businesses. assets. Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint Accumulated impairments -809 -763 for reviewing and considering the annual performance before Since the headroom of the Dutch cash-generating units is ventures is included in investments in associates and applying a fixed terminal value multiple to the final year cash more than sufficient, no sensitivity analysis is disclosed for joint ventures. Balance as of December 31 1,428 1,428 flows of the detailed projection. these cash-generating units. A reasonable possible change in the assumptions would not result in an impairment. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the 1 2016 investments mainly relate to the purchase price allocation of Dekatel The WACC is calculated using a Capital Asset Pricing Model, The following table gives an indication of value change of purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to Nederland B.V. (EUR 22 million), Glasvezelnet Amsterdam (EUR 11 million) with input factors based on peer group information and other iBasis as at the end of 2016: those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating and RedBee and FortyTwo (EUR 5 million). 2015 investments mainly related observable market data. units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of to Internedservices Group (EUR 63 million). For more details, read Note 29. 2 Impairment of EUR 45 million related to iBasis. Value change iBasis the business combination in which the goodwill arose, 3 2015 related to BASE Company classified as disposal group held for sale. For all four cash-generating units, the annual impairment test in irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the 2016 resulted in positive headroom as at December 31, 2016. Amounts in millions of EUR -0.5pps +0.5pps acquiree are assigned to those cash-generating units. Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment iBasis Terminal sales growth (3) – (4) 3–4 losses and tested for impairment annually or whenever Following changing market dynamics affecting iBasis in the KPN has an indication that the goodwill may be impaired. Capex intensity 15 – 16 (15) – (16) first half of 2016, an impairment test was performed. KPN Goodwill is impaired if the recoverable amount of the based the recoverable amount on the value-in-use of the EBITDA margin (15) – (16) 15 – 16 cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating units cash-generating unit iBasis, which was determined by using to which it is allocated is lower than the book value of the discounted cash flow method. The assumptions used to Discount rate 4–6 (4) – (6) the cash-generating unit or groups of cash-generating determine the projected cash flows were updated to reflect units concerned. The recoverable amount is defined as the changing market dynamics. The individual assumptions the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and remained within the ranges as disclosed in Note 11 of KPN’s Considering the margin of approximately EUR 30 million between the value in use of the cash-generating units concerned. Integrated Annual Report 2015. Nonetheless, the shift of all the recoverable amount (approximately EUR 100 million) and Following the restrictions of IFRS, impairment losses on combined key assumptions within these ranges resulted the carrying amount of iBasis, negative sensitivities as included goodwill are not reversed. in a decrease of the discounted cash flows expected to be in this table will decrease the available headroom. However, generated by iBasis. Therefore, KPN recognized an impairment a negative sensitivity for an individual assumption will not In case of disposal of a business which was part of a cashof EUR 45 million against goodwill carried for iBasis in the first result in an impairment. generating unit, goodwill is allocated to that business on half of 2016. a relative value basis and included in the carrying amount of the business when determining the result on the sale. 120 121 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Statement of changes in intangible fixed assets with finite lives Accounting policy: Intangible fixed assets of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in Computer Software in Customer use. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the Amounts in millions of EUR Licenses software development relationships Trade names Other Total Licenses impairment no longer exists. Balance as of January 1, 2015 1,564 579 96 260 24 15 2,538 Licenses are valued at cost less amortization and impairment. The cost value of a qualifying asset may include capitalized Other intangibles borrowing costs related to qualifying assets incurred during Other intangible fixed assets such as customer relationships Investments – 268 25 – – – 293 the construction phase of the related asset. Amortization is and trade names acquired in business combinations are Change in consolidation1 – 1 – 30 – – 31 calculated using the straight-line method over the economic capitalized at their fair values at acquisition date and are Reclassification – -2 -2 – – – -4 useful life and commences at the date that services can amortized using the straight-line method over the economic Amortization -154 -328 – -30 -4 -4 -520 be offered (available for use). The amortization period for useful life. Other intangible fixed assets are reviewed for Impairments – -8 -1 – -1 -1 -11 licenses equals the useful life, but is limited to the expiration impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances Exchange rate differences – – – – 1 – 1 date of the licenses. Licenses are reviewed for impairment indicate that the book value may no longer be recoverable. whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which Transferred to held for sale (net)2 -230 -47 -25 – -2 -2 -306 that the book value of the asset concerned may not be the book value of the other intangible fixed assets exceeds Closing net book value 1,180 463 93 260 18 8 2,022 recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined amount by which the book value of the licenses exceeds as the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal Cost 2,083 1,049 93 359 60 53 3,697 its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is defined and its value in use. Impairments are reversed if and to the Accumulated amortization/impairments -903 -586 – -99 -42 -45 -1,675 as the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal extent that the impairment no longer exists. Balance as of December 31, 2015 1,180 463 93 260 18 8 2,022 and its value in use. Impairments are reversed if and to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. Intangible fixed assets not yet available for use are tested Investments – 326 -50 – – – 276 annually for impairment or whenever KPN has an indication Change in consolidation¹ – – – 16 – – 16 Software that the intangible fixed assets may be impaired. For Amortization -143 -307 – -29 -4 -3 -486 Internally developed and acquired software, not being an example, licenses are tested as part of a cash-generating Impairments – -5 -1 – – – -6 integral part of property, plant and equipment, is capitalized unit as licenses do not generate independent cash flows. Closing net book value 1,037 477 42 247 14 5 1,822 on the basis of the costs incurred, which include direct costs and directly attributable overhead costs incurred. During Amortization The amortization period of the intangible assets are as Cost 2,083 1.021 42 351 61 12 3,570 the development phase, interest expenses incurred are follows: capitalized as part of qualifying assets if material. Software Accumulated amortization/impairments -1,046 -544 – -104 -47 -7 -1,748 is amortized over the estimated useful life. Amortization Balance as of December 31, 2016 1,037 477 42 247 14 5 1,822 commences when software is available for use. 1 The change in consolidation in 2016 of EUR 15 million includes the customer base of Dekatel (2015: EUR 30 million mainly related to the customer base of Internedservices Group). Software is reviewed for impairment whenever events or 2 Transferred to held for sale relates to BASE Company classified as disposal group held for sale. changes in circumstances indicate that the book value of the asset concerned may no longer be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which Investments in intangible fixed assets per segment the book value of the software exceeds its recoverable Licenses Software Other intangible assets Amounts in millions of EUR amount. The recoverable amount is defined as the higher 5 to 20 years 3 to 5 years 4 to 20 years Consumer: 6 9 Business: Other: 1 5 41 78 NOI: 271 270 2016 2015 Total: 319 362 122 123 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [12] Property, plant and equipment Sensitivity analysis 2016 amounted to EUR 151 million. If the useful life was set at At the end of 2016, the book value for copper and fiber cables 20 years, for example due to technological developments, the Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment is EUR 1,818 million, which is included in plant and equipment. depreciation charge for 2016 would be EUR 68 million. The current depreciation rates for these investments are Other tangible based on estimates and judgment about the useful lives of For fiber cables, KPN estimates that the remaining useful life Plant and non-current Assets under these assets. of investments is 30 years. The depreciation charge for 2016 Amounts in millions of EUR Land and buildings equipment assets construction Total amounted to EUR 53 million. If the useful life was set at 40 Balance as of January 1, 2015 569 5,704 58 275 6,606 For copper cables, KPN estimates that the remaining useful years, for example due to technological developments, the life of investments is 10 years. The depreciation charge for depreciation charge for 2016 would be EUR 35 million. Investments 35 997 21 -19 1,034 Disposals -2 -16 – – -18 Depreciation -69 -997 -19 – -1,085 Accounting policy: Property, plant and equipment The estimated useful lives of the principal PPE Impairments and retirements -4 -28 -1 -14 -47 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) are valued at cost less categories are as follows: Depreciation Other – 12 – -2 10 depreciation and impairment. The cost includes direct costs Transferred to held for sale (net)2 -4 -442 -21 -32 -499 (materials, direct labor and work contracted out), directly Closing net book value 525 5,230 38 208 6,001 attributable overhead costs and may include borrowing Cost 1,919 9,884 136 208 12,147 costs capitalized as part of qualifying asset, recorded during the construction phase of PPE components. Asset Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,394 -4,654 -98 – -6,146 retirement obligations are capitalized as part of the cost of Balance as of December 31, 2015 525 5,230 38 208 6,001 tangible fixed assets and expensed as either depreciation Investments 40 861 13 11 925 over the asset’s estimated useful life or as impairment Land Buildings Network equipment No amortization 14 to 33 years 3 to 7 years Disposals -7 – – – -7 charges. Depreciation -67 -902 -15 – -984 PPE are depreciated using the straight-line method, based Impairments and retirements -4 -12 – -8 -24 on estimated useful life, taking into account residual value. Other 2 1 -5 – -2 Land is not depreciated. PPE are reviewed for impairment Change in consolidation1 – 60 – – 60 whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate Closing net book value 489 5,238 31 211 5,969 that the book value of the assets concerned may not Cost 1,866 9,553 89 211 11,719 be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for Network infrastructure Vehicles Office equipment the amount by which the asset’s book value exceeds its 10 to 30 years 10 years 4 to 10 years Accumulated depreciation/impairments -1,377 -4,315 -58 – -5,750 recoverable amount. Impairments are reversed if and Balance as of December 31, 2016 489 5,238 31 211 5,969 to the extent that the impairment no longer exists. The The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed at 1 2016: Relates to fiber network as a consequence of the consolidation of Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. as per January 1, 2016. recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an asset’s least annually and adjusted if appropriate. 2 Relates to BASE Company classified as held for sale as of April 15, 2015. fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. Borrowing costs Subsequent costs such as costs for replacement of network Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, components are included in the asset’s carrying amount or construction or production of qualifying assets are added The book value of property, plant and equipment of which Investments in property, plant and equipment recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets KPN as the lessee is the beneficial owner under financial lease Amounts in millions of EUR is probable that KPN will receive future economic benefits are substantially ready for intended use or sale. Qualifying programs amounted to EUR 32 million (2015: EUR 75 million). associated with the item and the cost can be measured assets are assets that necessarily take a substantial period The book value of property, plant andBusiness: equipment of which KPN Other: 7 27 Consumer: 134 176 reliably. The carrying amounts of replaced assets are of time to get ready for their intended use or sale. KPN’s 41 78 is the lessor under operating lease programs amounted to EUR derecognized. All other repairs and maintenance costs are qualifying assets mainly are its network (included in PPE) 174 million (2015: EUR 176 million). The non-cancellable future iBasis: Business: 35 28 recognized in profit or loss when incurred. as well as operating licenses (included under intangible minimum lease payments receivable related to these operating 7 11 fixed assets) which are dependent on a related network. leases for 2017 are EUR 2 million (2015: EUR 2 million), which Borrowing costs related to licenses are capitalized during Wholesale: matures within one month. 4 5 the construction phase of the related network up to the time that services can be first rendered on a commercial basis. All other borrowing costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. NOI: 738 787 2016 2015 Total: 925 1,034 124 125 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [13] Investments in and loans to associates Accounting policy: Investments in associates and [14] Available-for-sale financial assets Other available-for-sale financial assets’ include minority and joint ventures joint ventures stakes in: Associates are investments in entities in which KPN has Tecnocom, a listed Spanish ICT services company with a significant influence, but not control, over the financial carrying value of EUR 35 million (2015: EUR 10 million); and operating policy decisions, generally by KPN having Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Actility SA, a provider of network solutions and managed Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 20% to 50% of the voting rights. A joint arrangement information systems for the Internet of Things market with a Balance as of January 1 2,272 2,713 is an arrangement of which two or more parties have carrying value of EUR 3 million (2015: EUR 3 million); and Balance as of January 1 42 42 joint control. Joint arrangements are classified either as Increase due to purchase 3 3 EclecticIQ B.V., OPNT CV, SecurityMatters, Viloc and Keen Movement due to business combination -17 – joint operations or joint ventures. KPN has assessed the Venture Partners for a total amount of EUR 3 million (all [31] nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to acquired in 2016). Decrease due to sale -9 -805 Income from associates and joint ventures -1 2 be joint ventures. Fair value adjustment recorded in OCI -356 363 Dividend received – -1 Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using Accounting policy: AFS financial assets the equity method and are initially recognized at cost. Other -1 -2 AFS financial assets include equity investments which, Transferred to held for sale – -1 Their carrying value includes goodwill identified upon after initial measurement, are subsequently measured at acquisition. The carrying value is subsequently adjusted Balance as of December 31 1,909 2,272 fair value. Unrealized gains or losses are recognized in Balance as of December 31 24 42 to recognize KPN’s share of the post-acquisition profits or OCI. When the investment is derecognized, the cumulative losses and movements in OCI, dividends and impairments gain is recognized in profit or loss. When the investment of goodwill. To determine KPN’s share in the results, the Available-for-sale financial assets consist mainly of KPN’s is impaired, the cumulative loss is recognized in profit or KPN holds interests in several legal entities. As at December 31, accounting policies of associates and joint ventures are stake in Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG (‘Telefónica loss. A significant or prolonged decline for recognising 2016, investments in associates and joint ventures include aligned with KPN’s accounting policies. Unrealized results Deutschland’). Upon the sale of E-Plus in 2014, KPN obtained an impairment on available-for-sale equity instruments is NTT Data Getronics (30%) for an amount of EUR 18 million on transactions with associates and joint ventures are a 20.5% interest which was reduced to 15.5% in 2015. At defined by 20% or 9 months measured at reporting date. (December 31, 2015: EUR 18 million). At December 31, 2015, eliminated to the extent of KPN’s share. December 31, 2016, the fair value of the stake amounted to investments in associates and joint ventures also included EUR 1,867 million (2015: EUR 2,249 million). The fair value is Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. (GNA) (70%) for EUR 17 million. When KPN’s share of accumulated losses in an associate or based on the price of a Telefónica Deutschland share on the GNA has been consolidated as of January 1, 2016 (read more joint venture exceeds its interest, KPN does not recognize Frankfurt Stock Exchange which was EUR 4.145 when KPN in Note 29). further losses, unless KPN has obligations to or made obtained the shares in 2014, EUR 4.414 on December 31, payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture. 2014, EUR 4.891 on December 31, 2015 and EUR 4.061 on The following table illustrates summarized financial data of the December 31, 2016. joint ventures and associates, based on KPN’s relative share. Loans to associates and joint ventures classify as ‘loans and receivables’, a category of financial assets. For the The stake is accounted for as an available-for-sale financial accounting policy on ‘loans and receivables’, read more in asset because KPN has no significant influence on Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Note 15. Telefónica Deutschland. The considerations of the facts and circumstances that lead to this conclusion are disclosed in Current assets 30 27 KPN’s Integrated Annual Report 2015. Non-current assets 5 48 In 2016, KPN received a dividend from Telefónica Deutschland Current liabilities 19 18 of EUR 110 million (2015: EUR 146 million) which has been recorded as Finance income (read more in Note 8). In 2015, Non-current liabilities 3 26 KPN reduced its stake in the outstanding share capital of Telefónica Deutschland from 20.5% to 15.5% through the Total revenues 63 73 sale of 150 million shares (at a price of EUR 5.37 per share), realizing EUR 805 million in proceeds. A gain of EUR 184 Total operating expenses -51 -60 million on this transaction was recognized in Other financial results (read more in Note 8). Profit or loss after taxes -1 2 In 2016, KPN sold its 3% equity share in Jasper Technologies, a privately held company that provides a global machine-to-machine platform, for an amount of EUR 36 The difference in value between the assets and liabilities of the million. The bookvalue as at December 31, 2015 was table above and the investment value is the goodwill paid by EUR 9 million. The gain on the sale of EUR 29 million has been KPN, which is included in the book value of the associates and recorded as Other financial results (read more in Note 8). joint ventures. 126 127 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [15] Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables (current) The maximum exposure to credit risk on trade receivables is For a discussion of KPN’s policies to reduce credit risk on trade limited to their gross amount. The concentration of KPN’s trade receivables as well as concentration of the credit risk, read Trade and other receivables (non-current) Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 receivables over the different segments as at December 31 can more in Note 28. Postpaid mobile services are considered to be summarized as follows: have the highest credit risks within KPN’s business (Business Trade receivables – gross 437 475 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 and Consumer segments). Overall, concentrations of credit risk Provision for doubtful trade receivables -64 -97 with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Group’s Balance as of January 1 81 140 large and unrelated customer base. The provision for doubtful Current portion of non-current receivables 30 31 Trade receivables – net 373 378 trade receivables is predominantly collectively determined based on ageing and is reviewed periodically. Gross 111 171 Social security and other taxes 1 – Trade andreceivables Trade Trade and other other gross (current) –receivables receivables Provision for doubtful trade receivables Additions 35 15 Other receivables 30 30 Amounts in millions of EUR Amounts in millions of EUR Redemptions -60 -79 Accrued income 263 268 iBasis:iBasis: 44 4544 45 Other:Other: 1 2 1 2 iBasis:iBasis: 5 6 5 6 Other:Other: 0 4 0 4 Consumer Consumer : 28 49 : 28 49 Consumer: Consumer: 7 10 7 10 Other changes 2 4 Prepayments 99 102 Wholesale: Wholesale: Wholesale: Wholesale: 139 131139 131 41 62 41 62 Business: Business: 10 13 10 13 Total 766 778 Total gross at December 31 88 111 Business: Business: 212 233 212 233 NOI: 1NOI: 2 1 2 Current portion of non-current receivables 27 30 The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value. Trade and other receivables are Balance as of December 31 61 81 non-interest bearing. The non-current balance as of December 31 included the The movements in the provision for doubtful trade receivables following: are as follows: Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 NOI: NOI: 13 15 13 15 Total: Total: 437 475 437 475 Total: Total: 64 9764 97 Accrued income and prepayments 34 21 Balance as of January 1 97 95 2016 2016 2016 2016 Receivables from financial leases 1 2 Addition through Statement of Profit or Loss 6 32 2015 2015 2015 2015 Cash collateral paid on derivatives 24 56 Usage/release -39 -16 The aging of the gross trade receivables at the reporting date was as follows: Other loans 2 2 Transferred to held for sale – -14 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Total 61 81 Balance as of December 31 64 97 Amounts in millions of EUR Gross Provision Gross Provision Accrued income and prepayments mainly consist of prepaid Amounts undue 241 1 252 3 rent recognized at nominal value. The gross amount with respect to receivables from financial leases amounts to EUR Past due 0–90 days 91 9 106 11 1 million (2015: EUR 2 million), which fully matures within five Past due 91–180 days 37 17 55 35 years. The short-term portion of the financial leases is less than 1 million (2015: less than EUR 1 million) and is classified Past due 181–270 days 6 4 10 4 as current trade and other receivables. Past due 271–360 days 4 3 9 5 More than one year 58 30 43 39 Total 437 64 475 97 128 129 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [16] Inventories [17] Other current financial assets Accounting policy: Trade and other receivables Accounting policy: Held-to-maturity investments Trade and other receivables classify as loans and As at December 31, 2015, and December 31, 2016, other current Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable receivables, a category of financial assets with fixed or December 31, December 31, financial assets included investments in short-duration fixed payments and fixed maturities are classified as helddeterminable payments that are not quoted in an active Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 income funds, which were held at fair value through profit to-maturity when KPN has the intention and ability to market and created by KPN by providing money, goods or Resources, parts, tools and measuring or loss. These funds have low volatility, with an investment hold them to maturity. After initial measurement, held 48 67 services directly to a debtor, other than: instruments objective of preservation of principal. to maturity investments are measured at amortized those KPN intends to sell immediately or in the short cost using the effective interest rate, less impairment. Finished goods 8 8 term, which are classified as held for trading; and As at December 31, 2015, other current financial assets also Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any those for which KPN may not recover substantially all Total inventories, gross 56 75 included held-to-maturity investments with initial maturities discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs of its initial investment, other than because of credit longer than three months. These include bank deposits and that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. The deterioration, which are classified as available-for-sale. Provision for obsolescence -9 -10 repurchase agreements which are fully collateralized. In case effective interest rate amortization is included as finance of counterparty default, the collateral ownership would transfer income in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Losses arising Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value, Total inventories, net 47 65 to KPN and can be converted to cash. Read more in Note 27 from impairment are recognized in the Statement of Profit and subsequently measured at amortized cost using regarding the decrease in 2016. or Loss as finance costs. the effective interest rate method, less provisions for impairment. The amortized cost value may equal During 2016, a net amount of EUR 4 million (2015: EUR 4 million) Other current financial assets are classified as short-term Accounting policy: Current financial assets at fair the initial cost value if there is no maturity. The amortized was recorded as an expense for inventories carried at net investments in KPN’s Net Debt definition. Read more in Note 28 value through profit or loss cost is calculated by taking into account any discounts or realizable value. The expense is included in the line item Cost for KPN’s net debt definition. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are premiums on acquisition and transactions costs. of materials in the Statement of Profit or Loss. recognized in the Statement of Financial Position at their The effective interest rate amortization is recognized in December 31, December 31, fair value with net changes in the fair value presented as the Statement of Profit or Loss under finance income or Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 finance costs (in case of negative net changes to the fair finance costs. Held-to-maturity investments with initial value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes – 350 Accounting policy: Inventories maturities longer than 3 months to the fair value) in the Statement of Profit or Loss. A provision for impairment is established when there is Inventories of resources, parts, tools and measuring Short-duration fixed income funds held at 140 225 objective evidence that KPN will not be able to collect all instruments, and finished goods are valued at the lower fair value through profit or loss amounts due according to the original terms of the of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories Total Other current financial assets 140 575 receivables (uncollectibility). The provision is the is determined using the weighted average cost. Net difference between the carrying amount and the present realizable value is the estimated selling price in the value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at ordinary course of business less applicable variable selling the original effective interest rate. The provision is set expenses. up through the Statement of Profit or Loss as Other operating expenses. Losses on the sale of handsets which are sold for less than cost is only recorded when the sale occurs if When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written the normal resale value is higher than the cost of the off against the allowance account for trade receivables. handset. If the normal resale value is lower than costs, Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off the difference is recognized as impairment immediately. are credited against Other operating expenses. Transition costs relating to fixed-price contracts involving Loans and receivables are included in current assets, managed ICT services are capitalized and subsequently except for maturities greater than 12 months after the recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss on a Statement of Financial Position Date. straight-line basis during the period the services are provided, taking into account the number of office seats included in the service contract during the term of the contract. Transition costs consist primarily of the labor and other cost of personnel directly engaged in performing the transition, third party services, products and other costs which will be charged to the customer. Transition costs are capitalized if it is probable that they will be recovered and are classified under inventories. 130 131 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [18] Cash and cash equivalents [19] Non-current assets, liabilities and disposal groups held for sale Accounting policy: Non-current assets and disposal As at December 31, 2016, cash and cash equivalents amounted groups held for sale to EUR 1,179 million (2015: EUR 1,446 million). The main items Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held causing the decrease in cash and cash equivalents were the December 31, December 31, for sale as well as liabilities directly associated herewith EUR 0.8 billion scheduled bond redemptions, a EUR 1.2 billion Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 are stated at the lower of carrying amount (book value) capital repayment in June 2016 and EUR 0.5 billion paid and fair value less costs of disposal if their carrying Intangible assets (including goodwill) – 419 dividends, partly offset by the net proceeds from BASE of EUR amount is recovered principally through a sale transaction 1.2 billion and regular free cash flow generation. Property, plant and equipment 2 564 rather than through continuing use. If fixed assets are transferred to held for sale, depreciation and amortization KPN’s cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2016, Other non-current assets – 78 ceases. A disposal group classifies as a ‘discontinued consisted of highly liquid instruments, mainly balances on operation’ based on its significance to the KPN Group. bank accounts, bank deposits, AAA-rated money market funds Current assets – 247 and tri-party repurchase agreements, all with initial maturities of three months or less. Part of KPN’s cash balances have been Total assets of disposal groups 2 1,308 held for sale invested in instruments which are classified as Other current BASE Company E-Plus Total financial assets rather than cash and cash equivalents. Read Non-current liabilities – 105 more in Note 17. Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current liabilities – 261 Cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2016, were for Revenues and other income 53 716 – – 53 716 Total liabilities directly associated with more than 98% (2015: 99%) denominated in the functional the non-current assets and disposal – 366 Operating expenses -54 -500 – – -54 -500 currency of the related entities. The effective interest rate groups classified as held for sale on cash and cash equivalents as at December 31, 2016, was Finance income and expenses – -3 – – – -3 approximately 0.07% negative (2015: 0.01% negative). On April 20, 2015, KPN announced it had reached an Income taxes -1 -65 – – -1 -65 agreement to sell BASE Company (BASE) to Telenet for a December 31, December 31, consideration of EUR 1,325 million. As of April 15, 2015, BASE Subtotal -2 148 – – -2 148 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 has been presented as disposal group held for sale and Result on disposal 374 – – – 374 – measured at the book value because this is lower than the fair Cash 490 396 value less costs of disposal. Given the significance of BASE to Transaction costs -5 – – -6 -5 -6 Short-term bank deposits, repurchase 689 1,050 KPN, BASE is considered a discontinued operation. The sale of agreements and money market funds BASE was completed on February 11, 2016. Tax adjustments – – 63 -7 63 -7 Total cash and cash equivalents 1,179 1,446 Total profit (loss) for the period 367 148 63 -13 430 135 All assets and liabilities of BASE were presented separately on from discontinued operations KPN’s Statement of Financial Position as of April 15, 2015, as Bank overdraft -1 -4 ‘non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale’ and ‘liabilities directly associated with non-current assets The following table summarizes the net cash flows related to discontinued operations: Net cash and cash equivalents 1,178 1,442 and disposal groups held for sale’ until completion of the sale. The assets and liabilities of BASE continued to be accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS standards as before April BASE Company E-Plus Total 15, 2015, except that non-current assets held by BASE were no longer amortized or depreciated as of April 15, 2015. Results Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 from BASE are reported as profit/loss (-) for the period from Cash flow from operating activities -3 230 -4 -8 -7 222 Accounting policy: Cash and cash equivalents discontinued operations and cash flows from BASE are reported Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, as cash flows from discontinued operations, separate from Cash flow from investing activities 1,183 -101 – -146 1,183 -247 deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term results and cash flows from KPN’s continuing operations as of Cash flow from financing activities – – – – – – highly liquid investments with original maturities of January 1, 2015, in these Consolidated Financial Statements. three months or less. Bank overdrafts are included within Total net cash (outflow)/inflow 1,180 129 -4 -154 1,176 -25 borrowings in current liabilities on the Statement of The sale of E-Plus was completed on October 1, 2014. Some from discontinued operations Financial Position and are not deducted from cash and results continue to arise from the unwinding of the remaining cash equivalents. E-Plus positions. In 2016, previously recorded provisions were released following agreements reached. The following table summarizes the results included in the Statement of Profit or Loss as profit for the period from discontinued operations: 132 133 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [20] Group Equity Share premium Hedge reserve Foundation Preference Shares B KPN The additional paid-in capital is exempt from Dutch tax up to KPN has granted a call option, which is not limited in time, For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, see the an amount of EUR 9,431 million as at December 31, 2016 (2015: December 31, December 31, to the Foundation Preference Shares B KPN (the Foundation) Statement of Changes in Group Equity. The total distributable EUR 10,568 million). Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 to acquire a number of preference shares B in KPN. In addition, reserves as at December 31, 2016 amounted to EUR 3,267 million KPN has a put option to sell to the Foundation a number of its Effective portion cash flow hedges1 -278 -202 (2015: EUR 4,305 million). For further details on the nonOn April 13, 2016, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Class B preference shares. For further information about the distributable reserves, read the Corporate Financial Statements. of KPN approved a capital repayment to shareholders of EUR Amortizable part2 [8] -193 -155 Foundation, read more in the chapter ‘Corporate governance’. 28ct per share. This capital repayment was related to the cash Share capital proceeds from the sale of BASE Company in February 2016 Hedge reserve -471 -357 KPN is of the opinion that neither the put option nor the KPN’s authorized capital stock totals EUR 720 million divided and the sale of 150 million shares in Telefónica Deutschland call option represent a significant fair value as mentioned in into nine billion ordinary shares of EUR 4ct each and nine in November 2015. The capital repayment was executed in Tax effect 118 89 IAS 1.31 due to the fact that the put option can no longer be billion preference shares B of EUR 4ct each. As of December two steps. In the first step the nominal value of the ordinary exercised by KPN and the fact that the preference shares B, 31, 2016 and 2015, a total of 4,270,254,664 ordinary shares were shares was increased from EUR 4ct to EUR 32ct per share. Hedge reserve, net of tax -353 -268 issued after exercise of the call option, bear interest linked to outstanding and fully paid-in. Dutch law prohibits KPN from The increase in share capital, in total EUR 1.2 billion, was EURIBOR. The options are therefore not accounted for in the casting a vote on shares KPN holds (treasury shares). The recorded as a deduction of the share premium reserve. In the 1 The effective portion of cash flow hedges will be recognized in the Statement annual accounts nor is any additional information disclosed as ordinary shares and preference shares B carry the right to cast second step the nominal value of the ordinary shares was of Profit or Loss in line with the maturities of the related derivatives. Read meant in IFRS 7. one vote each. The ordinary shares are registered or payable to decreased from EUR 32ct to EUR 4ct per share. The reduction more in Note 26. the bearer. Shareholders may request the company to convert of the share capital, amounting to EUR 1.2 billion, was paid in 2 The amortizable part of the hedge reserve is amortized over the remaining Non-controlling interests life of the related bonds (between 2016 and 2030). The impact on the their registered shares to bearer shares but not vice versa. cash to the holders of ordinary shares on June 30, 2016. Statement of Profit or Loss will be EUR 16 million in 2017. In 2012, KPN acquired a stake in GroupIT B.V. of 12.5% at [..] Bracketed number refers to the related Note. fair value with a right to acquire the remaining stake and thus obtained control over GroupIT B.V. The amount of noncontrolling interest as at December 31, 2015, included the Other reserves Treasury shares and treasury shares reserve 87.5% stake of a group of third party shareholders in GroupIT Below is a detailed overview of the movements in the number of treasury shares and other reserves: KPN purchased shares in its own capital for delivery upon B.V. In 2016, KPN exercised the option and acquired the exercise of share options by management and personnel remaining 87.5% stake on April 1, 2016. This acquisition has Fair value under the share option and performance share plans (read been accounted for as a transaction between equity holders reserve more in Note 5). Votes on purchased shares may not be cast resulting in the derecognition of the non-controlling interest in Number of Treasury available-forCurrency Amounts in millions of EUR, unless indicated treasury shares Hedge sale financial translation Total other and they do not count towards determining the number of GroupIT B.V. and the option value (read more in Note 28) and otherwise shares reserve reserve assets reserve reserves votes required at a General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2016 a decrease in equity attributable to equity holders. and 2015, no shares were purchased. In 2016, 1,265,159 shares Balance as of January 1, 2015 12,156,391 -138 -393 125 18 -388 were sold in connection with vesting of the 2013 grant of the Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. has been consolidated as of KPN Restricted Share Plan (read more in Note 5). In 2015, January 1, 2016 (read more in Note 29). Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – 125 134 -2 257 556,941 shares were sold in connection with vesting of the Disposals -556,941 6 – – – 6 2012 grant of the KPN Restricted Share Plan. Balance as of December 31, 2015 11,599,450 -132 -268 259 16 -125 Treasury shares are accounted for at cost, representing the market price on the acquisition date. The proceeds at delivery Movements recorded in OCI (net) – – -85 -261 20 -326 of the treasury shares are recognized directly in the other Movement recorded in the Income Statement – – – -2 – -2 reserves. In the event that more options are exercised than available as treasury shares for option plans, KPN anticipates Sold treasury shares -1,265,159 14 – – – 14 providing shares for equity-settled plans through the purchase of shares in the market. All rights with respect to repurchased Capital repayment – 3 – – – 3 treasury shares are suspended until those shares are delivered. Reclassification – – – -15 – -15 Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital Balance as of December 31, 2016 10,334,291 -115 -353 -19 36 -451 securities The EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond with a 6.125% coupon is subordinated to KPN Group’s senior creditors but ranks above the ordinary and preference shareholders in the event of the company’s winding up. This hybrid bond has a perpetual maturity and can, at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in September 2018. The hybrid bond is classified as equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (classified as perpetual capital securities). For interest payments and credit ratings, read more in Note 22. 134 135 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [21] Dividend per share The capital repayment to shareholders of EUR 28ct per On August 31, 2016, KPN priced a EUR 625 million Eurobond March 2023 respectively. The GBP and USD hybrid bonds ordinary share, equivalent to a total of EUR 1.2 billion, with a coupon of 0.625% and maturity date of April 9, 2025, are classified as borrowings in the Statement of Financial At the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to be held was executed in June 2016. and a EUR 625 million Eurobond with a coupon of 1.125% and Position. The EUR hybrid bond is classified as equity in the on April 12, 2017, a final dividend of EUR 6.7ct per share will maturity date of September 11, 2028. Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, read more in be proposed in respect of 2016. In August 2016, KPN paid an In April 2016, KPN paid a final dividend of EUR 5ct per share Note 20. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain interim dividend in respect of 2016 of EUR 3.3ct per share, in respect of 2015, in total EUR 213 million. The total dividend On March 18, 2016, KPN redeemed the GBP 135 million conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on each of in total EUR 141 million, bringing the total regular dividend in respect of 2015 was EUR 11.4ct per ordinary share including Eurobond 2006–2016 in accordance with the regular the three hybrid bonds. Arrears of interest must be paid if in respect of 2016 to EUR 10ct per share. These financial the additional interim cash dividend of EUR 3.4ct per share redemption schedule. dividends are paid on ordinary shares, in the event of early statements do not reflect the proposal for the remaining in relation to the dividend received from KPN’s stake in redemption, and for the GBP/USD hybrid bonds at final dividend payable, which will be accounted for in the Statement Telefónica Deutschland. On January 15, 2016, KPN redeemed the EUR 645 million maturity. Unless previously redeemed at the first call dates, of Changes in Group Equity as an appropriation of retained Eurobond 2008–2016 in accordance with the regular the interest paid on the hybrid bonds will be reset at pre-agreed earnings in the year ending December 31, 2016. redemption schedule. dates in the future, based on the prevailing swap rate plus a [22] Borrowings predetermined spread. KPN does not recognize accruals for In May 2016, the dividend received from KPN’s stake in On June 22, 2015, KPN redeemed the EUR 1.0 billion Eurobond coupon payments on the EUR hybrid bond (EUR 67 million Telefónica Deutschland was distributed to KPN shareholders as The carrying amounts and fair value of the borrowings are as 2005–2015 in accordance with the regular redemption per year). If an accrual had been recognized, the amount would an additional interim cash dividend of EUR 2.5ct per ordinary follows: schedule. have been EUR 20 million as at December 31, 2016. share (EUR 106 million). The total dividend in respect of 2016, including the additional interim cash dividend, will then Hybrid bonds The ratings for all three hybrid bonds are BB by Standard & amount to EUR 12.5ct per ordinary share. The EUR 1.1 billion hybrid bond has a coupon of 6.125%, Poor’s, Ba2 by Moody’s and BB by Fitch Ratings. The rating the GBP 400 million hybrid bond has a coupon of 6.875% agencies recognize 50% of the three hybrid bonds as equity December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 (swapped to EUR 460 million and a 6.78% coupon for a period and 50% as debt. The three hybrid bonds are for 50% treated of seven years) and the USD 600 million hybrid bond has a as equity and 50% as debt in KPN’s gross and net debt Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value coupon of 7% coupon (swapped to EUR 465 million and a definitions. 6.34% coupon for a period of 10 years). Eurobonds EUR 4,641 4,994 5,139 5,636 Credit rating Eurobonds GBP 1,557 1,952 1,999 2,251 The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are subordinated bonds KPN maintains credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s with 60-year maturities. The GBP and USD hybrid bonds can, and Fitch Ratings. The table below shows the adjustments to Global Bonds USD 1,202 1,275 1,191 1,198 at KPN’s discretion, first be redeemed in March 2020 and the credit ratings during 2016 and 2015. Hybrid Bonds (GBP and USD) 1,030 1,113 1,088 1,148 Financial lease obligations 76 73 81 76 Rating as at Credit rating agency December 31, 2016 Current outlook Adjustments 2016 Adjustments 2015 Bank overdraft 1 1 4 4 Standard & Poor’s BBBStable None None Cash collateral received on derivatives 69 69 147 147 Moody’s Baa3 Stable None None Other loans 56 71 51 65 June 8: rating changed to May 1: outlook changed to Fitch Ratings BBB Stable Total borrowings 8,632 9,548 9,700 10,525 BBB with stable outlook positive from stable – of which: current 735 736 847 859 – of which: non-current 7,897 8,812 8,853 9,666 Accounting policy: Loans and borrowings for at least 12 months after the Statement of Financial After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are Position date. The fair value for Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds For further details on borrowings, including a redemption subsequently carried at amortized cost; any difference is based on the listed price of the bonds. schedule, read more in Note 28. between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the When bonds are repurchased with the issue of new bonds, redemption value is recognized in the Statement of Profit the expenses related to the old bonds, including tender All Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds pay interest Bonds or Loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective premiums, are expensed as incurred unless the new bonds based on fixed coupons. KPN’s weighted average interest rate On September 9, 2016, KPN completed a tender offer, in which interest method. The amortized cost is calculated by taking are placed with the same holders and the change in the net on the borrowings outstanding before swaps at December 31, KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR 1.0 into account any discounts or premiums on acquisition or present value of the cash flows is less than 10%. In the latter 2016 was 5.2% (2015: 6.0%). The EUR perpetual hybrid bonds, billion across five Eurobonds with maturity dates between issuance and transaction costs. The effective interest rate case, these expenses are capitalized and amortized over the classified as equity, have been included in this calculation. The 2017 and 2024. The total cash-out for the tender amounted to amortization is recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss term of the new bonds. weighted average interest rate after swaps was 4.6% (2015: EUR 1.3 billion. As a result of this tender, KPN recorded a loss under finance costs. 5.4%). Excluding all hybrid bonds, the average interest rate on of EUR 160 million in the profit and loss account. This accounting policy also applies to deferred income and the senior bond portfolio after swaps at December 31, 2016 Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless KPN trade and other payables (Note 25). was 4.1% (2015: 5.1%). The tender was financed with the issue of two new Eurobonds. has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability 136 137 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [23] Retirement benefits Getronics UK and US Provisions for retirement benefit obligations retirement plans which are accounted for as defined benefit The Getronics US and UK operations were divested in The provisions for retirement benefit obligations consist of the plans as described above. The balance sheet position can be Retirement benefits are provided through a number of defined 2008 and 2012 respectively. The closed and frozen pension net defined benefit liability regarding pension plans and early broken down as follows: contribution plans and funded and unfunded defined benefit plans of the US and UK operations remained with KPN and Net defined benefit liability plans. The most significant plans are described below. are accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The assets of the plans are held separately from KPN in independently Net defined Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan a KPN main pension plan administered funds. The UK plan operates under the Defined benefit Fair value of benefit liability obligation4 plan assets (asset) SVG: Other: 130 137 SVG: -1,241 KPN’s main pension plan covers employees in the Netherlands regulations of the UK Pensions Regulator and the US plan 1,257 Getronics US: who are subject to KPN’s collective labor agreement and under the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Getronics UK: 256 268 Getronics UK: employees with an individual labor agreement and is externally Security Act (ERISA). The deficit in the plans’ funding must Balance as of January 1 2,039 2,132 -1,780 -1,816 259 316 383 377 -247 -269 funded through Stichting Pensioenfonds KPN (KPN pension be recovered by the investment returns in the plans’ assets fund). This plan is a Collective Defined Contribution pension and contributions by KPN. In 2016, lump-sum distributions Included in profit or loss: plan and is accounted for as a defined contribution plan were paid to certain participants of the US plan, which has Operating expense: because KPN has no other obligation than to pay the annual been recorded as a settlement. For details, read more in the contribution which is a fixed percentage of the pensionable table on page 139. current service costs 2 2 – – 2 2 base. The coverage ratio of the KPN pension fund as at past service gain 1 -11 – – – -11 – December 31, 2016 was 112.6%. The pension plans in the UK and US expose KPN to a number of risks which can have an impact on the future contributions settlement gain (net) 2 -1,339 – 1,336 – -3 – SVG by KPN and the liability recorded in its balance sheet. The administration cost – – 3 1 3 1 2016 Stichting Voorzieningsfonds Getronics (SVG) was the most significant risks are summarized below: 2015 Total: 769 2,039 interest costs (income) 57 43 -50 -34 7 9 administrator of a number of pension plans of former employees of KPN Corporate Market B.V. (formerly Getronics) A sset volatility: the pension plans’ assets are predominantly Net defined benefit liability Total -1,291 45 1,289 -33 -2 12 and related companies in the Netherlands. As of January 1, invested in equity securities and therefore the plans’ funding Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined benefit 2015, the active members were transferred to the KPN pension levels are exposed to equity market risks; fund and accrue benefits under KPN’s Collective Defined I nterest rate risk: a decrease in interest rates will increase the Included in OCI SVG: Other: 130 137 SVG: -1,241 Other: -76 -69 SVG: 16 Contribution plan. Benefits accrued until December 31, 2014 plans’ liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an Remeasurements loss (gain): 1,257 Getronics US: Getronics US: remained at SVG. As of January 1, 2015, KPN’s only obligation increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings; Getronics UK: 256 268 Getronics UK: -184 -201 Getronics UK: A  ctuarial loss (gain) arising to SVG was to pay administration expenses for participants I nflation risk: in the UK the indexation of the accrued benefits from: 383 377 -247 -269 136 108 who are employed by KPN or certain of its previously divested is unconditional and is based on a combination of consumer demographic assumptions -5 -9 – – -5 -9 entities. The amount of administration expenses was linked and retail price indices and therefore the UK plan is exposed to the value of the individual savings accounts and therefore to inflation risk; and financial assumptions 149 -89 – – 149 -89 the SVG plans continued to be accounted for as a defined L ife expectancy: the plans provide benefits for the life of experience adjustment 1 7 – – 1 7 benefit plan. For this obligation a provision of EUR 16 million the members, so increases in life expectancy will result in an R  eturn on plan assets was recognized as at December 31, 2015, and classified as increase in the plans’ liabilities. excluding interest income – – -87 46 -87 46 ‘provisions for retirement benefit obligation’. E  ffect of movements in Other -49 55 33 -37 -16 18 exchange rates 2016 In 2016, the board of SVG initiated a liquidation proceeding. KPN has a number of other funded plans in the Netherlands, Total 96 -36 2015 -54 9 42 Total: -27769 2,039 Total: -507 -1,780 After approval of De Nederlandsche Bank (the regulatory body which are closed to new entrants. The risks related to these for pension funds in the Netherlands), SVG’s remaining assets plans are limited because the obligations are insured with Net defined benefit liability Net defined benefit liability and accrued benefit obligations were collectively transferred external parties. The pension plan of BASE Company in Other in December 2016 to Stichting Algemeen Pensioenfonds Stap Belgium was transferred, together with all the associated risks, Defined benefit obligation Fair value of plan assets Net defined Defined benefit benefit liability (asset) obligation Fair value of plan a and the KPN pension fund. This transfer eliminated KPN’s with the sale of this company on February 11, 2016. Employer’s contribution – – -37 -40 -37 -40 SVG: Other: 130 137 SVG: -1,241 Other: -76 -69 SVG: 16 Other: Other:54130 68 137 SVG: -1,241 obligation to pay administration expenses to SVG. As KPN Benefits paid 1,257 -75 -86 75 86 – – Getronics US: Getronics US: 1,257 Getronics GetronicsUS: US: has no further obligations to SVG to pay for accrued benefits, KPN also has a transitional early retirement plan which is 256 268 -184 -201 72256 67 268 Getronics UK: to held for sale3 Transferred – -15Getronics–UK: 14 – -1 Getronics UK: Getronics UK: the transfer of capital was accounted for as a settlement. unfunded and closed to new entrants. The risks related to this 383 377 -247 -269 136 383 108 377 -247 -269 After a remeasurement, the remaining obligation to pay plan are limited because of their short duration (last payment Other – -1 – – – -1 administration expenses was released, through the Statement expected in 2020). The amount recorded as a provision for Balance as of December 31 769 2,039 -507 -1,780 262 259 of Profit or Loss, to the amount of administration expenses this plan amounts to EUR 52 million as at December 31, 2016. to be paid for the period until settlement, which is fixed. For details, read more in the table on page 139. The administrative Furthermore, with regard to closed and frozen plans which are 1 Relates to SVG: amendment gain due to reduction of the charges for administration expenses (EUR 4 million) and transfer of part of SVG’s assets and accrued benefit obligations to the KPN liquidation of SVG is expected to be finalized in the second insured, based on Dutch law, KPN could be required to make pension fund on April 1, 2016 (EUR 7 million). quarter of 2017. contributions if participants of these plans require a value 2 Settlement gain at SVG of EUR 4 million (EUR 1,317 million defined benefit obligations and transfer to another pension fund or insurer. The risk related to EUR 1,313 million plan assets) and settlement loss of EUR 1 million due to lump sum payments to certain participants of the US plan (EUR 22 million defined benefit obligations and EUR 23 these value transfers is limited and therefore no provision has 2016 million plan assets). 2016 been recognized for these plans. 32015 Includes BASE Company which Total: 769 2,039as ‘held for sale’ as of April 15, 2015. Total: -507 -1,780 was classified 2015 Total: 769259 Total:262 2,039 4 The measurement date for all defined benefit plans is December 31. 138 139 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Defined benefit obligations The sensitivities in the table on the left page were estimated Plan assets by actuaries based on the defined benefit obligations as The assets of all defined benefit pension plans as at Actuarial assumptions at December 31, 2016. If more than one of the assumptions December 31, 2016 and 2015 consisted of the following The key actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of the defined benefit obligations are as follows: change, the impact would not necessarily be equal to the total (in millions of EUR): impact of changes in those individual assumptions. December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Getronics Getronics Getronics Getronics Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total SVG UK US Other SVG UK US Other Equity securities Discount rate (%) N.a. 2.7 4.1 1.8 2.5 3.7 4.4 2.6 Europe 37 – 37 211 – 211 Expected salary increases (%) N.a. N.a. N.a. 2.0 N.a. N.a. N.a. 2.0 North America 82 – 82 366 – 366 Expected benefit increases/indexation (%) N.a. 2.3–3.3 N.a. 0.5 0.8 2.0–3.0 N.a. 0.8 Asia 1 – 1 13 – 13 L  ife expectancy for pensioners at the age of 65: South America 9 – 9 119 – 119 Male N.a. 23.0 21.7 21.4 22.1 23.0 21.7 22.1 Other 25 – 25 38 – 38 Female N.a. 25.0 24.2 23.6 23.3 25.0 24.2 23.4 Total 154 – 154 30% 747 – 747 42% Fixed income securities including inflation-linked bonds (per Standard & Poor’s rating) The discount rate is based on yield curves of AA corporate birth, corrected for fund specific circumstances. The mortality AAA 24 5 29 206 – 206 bonds with maturities equal to the duration of the benefit table used in the UK is the 93% of SAPS S2P tables CMI 2015 obligations and in the applicable currency. For the projection with a 1.5% long-term improvement and in the US AA 9 3 12 271 – 271 remeasurement at SVG in December 2016 (immediately the RP-2006 with Scale MP-2016. The life expectancy at the before the settlement), a discount rate of 1.8% was used and age of 65 is expected to increase in the next 20 years with A 20 8 28 124 – 124 an expected indexation of 1.47%. As at December 31, 2016, the approximately two years in the UK and the US. (weighted) average duration of the defined benefit obligation BBB 30 17 47 118 – 118 was 15 years. Assumptions regarding life expectancy are Sensitivity analysis < BBB 41 18 59 91 – 91 based on published statistics and mortality tables that include The table below shows the approximate impact on the allowances for future improvement in mortality. The mortality defined benefit obligation of a change in the key actuarial no rating – 1 1 13 – 13 table used in the Netherlands is the projected table AG 2014 assumptions of 0.5% and in the case of life expectancy of a which includes projected improvement rates varying by year of change of one year. Total 124 52 176 35% 823 – 823 46% Real estate1 6 9 15 3% – 18 18 1% December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Commodities2 6 – 6 1% 5 – 5 – Amounts in millions of EUR Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Derivatives3 – – – – – 25 25 2% Other (mainly insurance Discount rate -54 60 -100 108 57 99 156 31% 91 71 162 9% contracts) Expected salary increases – – – – Total 347 160 507 100% 1,666 114 1,780 100% Expected benefit increases 27 -25 60 -59 1 As at December 31, 2015, all investments in real estate were located in Europe (2016: none). Life expectancy 27 -27 54 -57 2 Includes investment funds which invest in financial instruments related to commodities such as energy, agricultural products and precious metals. 3 Includes interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and put options on equity securities. See the description of the strategic investment policies for an explanation of the use of these financial derivatives. 140 141 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Strategic investment policies [24] Provisions for other liabilities and The strategic investment portfolios of the defined benefit charges plans (before hedging) at year-end 2016 were as follows: Getronics UK Getronics US Other plans December 31, December 31, Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Equity securities 35% 45% – Restructuring provision 45 79 Fixed income securities (including inflation-linked bonds) 35% 25% – Asset retirement obligations 34 36 Other 30% 30% 100% Other provisions 59 41 Total 100% 100% 100% Total provisions for other liabilities and 138 156 charges of which: non-current 89 97 In both the UK and the US a road map is in place to move to Expected contributions and benefits more fixed income exposure as the funded status improves. In 2016, the total employer’s contributions and benefit payments of which: current 49 59 The Getronics UK pension fund does not hedge interest for all defined benefit and defined contribution plans amounted rate risks, currency risks and equity risks. The Getronics US to EUR 127 million (excluding discontinued operations), pension fund does not hedge currency and equity risks but consisting of EUR 91 million employer’s premiums for defined partially hedges interest rate risk. contribution plans, EUR 12 million contributions for funded defined benefit plans and EUR 24 million payments for Statement of changes in provisions As the pension funds mainly invest in the global investment unfunded plans. funds, a minor part of these investments could be related Total Asset retirement to KPN equities. The pension funds do not have direct The amount of employer’s contributions in 2017 for the Personnel Contractual restructuring obligation Other provisions Total provisions investments in KPN equities. remaining defined benefit pension plans is estimated to be Balance of January 1, 2015 35 41 76 67 61 204 EUR 30 million for both funded and unfunded plans. The total amount of employer’s premiums to be paid in 2017 for the of which: current portion 35 10 45 1 45 91 defined contribution plans is estimated to be EUR 89 million. Additions 89 11 100 – 16 116 Releases – -3 -3 -9 – -12 Changes in assumptions – – – 4 – 4 Accounting policy: Provisions for retirement benefit benefit plan has been overfunded. KPN recognizes a net obligations defined benefit asset in such a case only when future Usage -87 -8 -95 -1 -27 -123 economic benefits are available to KPN in the form of a Transferred to held for sale 1 – 1 -25 -6 -30 Pension obligations reduction in future contributions or a cash refund. Other movements – – – – -3 -3 The liability recognized in the Statement of Financial Balance as of December 31, 2015 38 41 79 36 41 156 Position in respect of all pension and early retirement plans Actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the that qualify as defined benefit obligation is the present Statement of OCI. of which: current portion 38 9 47 3 9 59 value of the defined benefit obligation at the Statement of Financial Position date less the fair value of plan assets. KPN Past service costs, curtailments and settlements are Additions 55 3 58 – 33 91 uses actuarial calculations (projected unit credit method) to recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Releases – -13 -13 -2 – -15 measure the obligations and the costs. For the calculation, Usage -70 -9 -79 -3 -15 -97 actuarial assumptions are made about demographic The amount of pension costs included in operating expenses Other movements – – – 3 – 3 variables (such as employee turnover and mortality) and with respect to defined benefit plans consist of service Balance as of December 31, 2016 23 22 45 34 59 138 financial variables (such as future indexation and the cost, past service costs, curtailments and settlements and discount rate). The discount rate is determined by reference administration costs. Net interest on the net defined benefit < 1 year 23 6 29 6 14 49 to market rates. These are interest rates of high-quality liability is presented as part of finance costs. 1 5 year – 9 9 8 5 22 corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency > 5 year – 7 7 20 40 67 in which the benefit will be paid and that have terms to For pension plans that qualify as a defined contribution maturity approximating the terms of the related liability. plan, KPN recognizes contributions as an expense when an employee has rendered service in exchange for those A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined contributions. 143 144 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Restructuring provision [25] Deferred income, trade and other [26] Derivative financial instruments During 2016, KPN further decreased the number of employees. Accounting policy: Provisions for other liabilities and payables The restructuring provision relating to FTE reduction charges Derivative financial instruments can be broken down as amounted to EUR 23 million as at December 31, 2016 (2015: Provisions for items such as asset retirement obligations, Other payables and deferred income (non-current) follows: EUR 38 million). A higher amount of usage compared to restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when additions resulted in a decrease of the restructuring provision. KPN has a present legal or constructive obligation as a December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, result of past events, and it is more likely than not that Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Asset retirement obligations an outflow of resources will be required to settle the Non-interest-bearing accruals 13 15 Assets 298 632 The asset retirement obligations at December 31, 2016 obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. amounted to EUR 34 million (2015: EUR 36 million). The main Deferred income 40 32 Non-current 298 530 assumptions of calculation for the asset retirement obligations Provisions are measured at the present value of relate to the estimated costs of removal, discount rate and management’s best estimate of the expenditure required Cash-settled share plans 6 6 Current – 102 estimated period of removal, which vary per type of asset. to settle the present obligation at the Statement of The discount rate for 2016 is 1.4% (2015: 1.4%). Financial Position date. The discount rate used to Other payables 3 12 determine the present value reflects current market Liabilities -198 -20 As defined in the Telecommunications Act, the obligation assessments of the time value of money and the risks Total 62 65 for landlords to tolerate cables, which are part of a public specific to the liability. Non-current -197 -17 electronic communications network, terminates as soon as those cables have been idle for a continuous period of 10 Termination benefits Deferred income concerns amounts received in advance Current -1 -3 years. In that situation, a public electronic communications Termination benefits are payable when employment for deferred connections fees and other revenues that will network supplier is required to remove cables on request is terminated before the normal retirement date, or be recognized in the future. by a landlord. Due to the fact that the date, when the cables whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in Total derivative financial instruments 100 612 will become idle, is uncertain and KPN is not able to predict exchange for these benefits. KPN recognizes termination of which: designated in a hedge relationwhether and when a landlord will place a request for removal, benefits when KPN is demonstrably committed either Trade and other payables (current) ship -59 349 KPN is not able to make a reliable estimate of the impact and to terminating the employment of current employees therefore no provision was recognized at December 31, 2016 according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of December 31, December 31, of which: forward exchange contracts – 1 nor at December 31, 2015. withdrawal or to providing termination benefits as a result Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 of which: other derivative financial of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. instruments not designated in a hedge 159 262 Trade payables 640 774 Other provisions Benefits falling due more than 12 months after December 31 relationship Other provisions relate to various risks and commitments, are discounted to present value. Deferred income 230 247 onerous contracts, claims and litigations, read more in Note 30. Other long-term employee obligations Accrued interest 197 278 The ineffective portion of the fair value hedges and cash flow On February 12, 2016, the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on These employee benefits include jubilee or other longhedges during 2016 recognized in the Statement of Profit or the consequences of its earlier decision that providing service benefits, long-term disability benefits and, if they Accrued expenses 502 540 Loss resulted in a loss of EUR 1 million (2015: EUR 9 million mobile handsets with a postpaid subscription ‘for free’ or at are not fully payable within 12 months after the end of loss). a reduced price may under circumstances be qualified as the period, bonuses and deferred compensation. The Social security and other taxes payable 241 228 providing ‘consumer credit’. The Supreme Court concluded expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the KPN reports its derivatives positions on the balance sheet that a consumer can in principle annul his agreement with his period of employment using an accounting method Other payables 29 23 on a gross basis. Part of the derivatives portfolio is subject mobile provider for the part of the agreement that qualifies similar to that for defined benefit pension plans, except to master netting agreements that allow netting under as consumer credit, if the conditions for providing such credit that actuarial gains and losses and past-service costs are Total 1,839 2,090 certain circumstances. If netting had been applied, the total have not been met. The number of qualifying claims submitted recognized immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss. derivatives asset position would be EUR 124 million and the to KPN to date, that fulfilled the criteria, is limited. At this point total derivatives liability position would be EUR 24 million in time, we expect limited cash outflow for which a provision Deferred income (current) mainly concerns amounts at December 31, 2016 (asset position of EUR 612 million and has been recorded. billed in advance for fixed fees and subscriptions that will liability position of zero at December 31, 2015). be recognized within 12 months. Bonds denominated in foreign currency All bonds denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with cross-currency swaps. The swaps are used to mitigate the Accounting policy: Deferred income, trade and exposure on currency risk and interest rate risk. KPN hedged other payables the currency exposure by effectively fixing the countervalue Other payables and deferred income (non-current) and in foreign currency to euro and by hedging the interest rate trade and other payables (current) classify as ‘loans exposure by swapping the fixed interest rates in foreign and borrowings’ within KPN’s financial liabilities. For the currency to fixed rates in euro. The hedges are until maturity accounting policy, read more in Note 22. of the underlying senior bonds, or until the first call date in case of the hybrid bonds. 145 146 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements For these hedges, KPN meets the criteria of, and also applies, An overview of the cross-currency swaps at December 31, 2016 Foreign exchange contracts with a fair value around nil (2015: EUR 1 million). All foreign cash flow hedge accounting. KPN determines the effectiveness and December 31, 2015 is presented below (in millions): The fair value of foreign exchange exposure hedge contracts exchange contracts had maturities shorter than one year. of the hedges at inception and on a quarterly basis. KPN uses is determined using market forward exchange rates at the the cumulative dollar offset method for its cash flow hedges balance sheet date. As of December 31, 2016, the contract For further details on derivative financial instruments, read related to cross-currency swaps. volume amounted to EUR 78 million (2015: EUR 69 million), more in Note 28. Fair value in EUR Fair value in EUR Nominal (receive) Coupon (receive) Nominal (pay) Coupon (pay) Maturity date 2016 2015 Accounting policy: Financial assets at fair value designated as effective hedge instruments under IAS 39 GBP 135 5.75%, annual EUR 158 4.89%, annual March 18, 2016 – 26 through profit or loss ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’. This category of ‘financial assets’ has two subcategories: GBP 96 6.0%, annual EUR 123 4.58%, annual May 29, 2019 -11 8 financial assets held for trading and those designated at fair Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are GBP 400 6.875%, annual EUR 460 6.78%, annual March 14, 2020 -8 71 value through profit or loss at inception. recognized in the Statement of Financial Position at their fair Financial assets held for trading are classified in this value with net changes in the fair value presented as finance USD 600 7.0%, semi-annual EUR 465 6.34%, semi-annual March 28, 2023 68 66 category when acquired principally for the purpose of costs (in case of negative net changes to the fair value) or selling in the short-term or if so designated by management. finance income (in case of positive net changes to the fair GBP 400 5.0%, annual EUR 479 4.72%, annual November 11, 2026 -58 30 Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, value) in the Statement of Profit or Loss. GBP 850 5.75%, annual EUR 971 5.43%, annual September 17, 2029 -65 103 are classified as held for trading except when they are USD 1,000 8.375%, semi-annual EUR 756 8.56%, semi-annual October 1, 2030 15 45 Total -59 349 Accounting policy: Derivative financial instruments with the gain or loss on the hedged item that is attributable 1 Negative amounts are liabilities. and hedging activities to the hedged risk, are recorded in the Statement of Profit Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized or Loss as finance cost (in case of negative changes to the Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or until maturity of the bonds. Until May 2015, KPN determined at fair value. Subsequently, KPN measures all derivative fair value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes collateral postings at pre-agreed dates (read more in Note 28). the effectiveness of these fair value hedges at inception financial instruments based on fair values derived from to the fair value). and on a quarterly basis, based on a regression method. market prices of the instruments or valuation techniques Bonds denominated in EUR The balance of the unamortized gain was EUR 108 million such as discounted cash flows. Gains and losses arising from Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, at December 31, 2016 (2015: EUR 202 million). changes in the fair value of the instruments are recognized designated as a cash flow hedge and qualifies as such, are 2020, October 4, 2021, and September 30, 2024, have been in the Statement of Profit or Loss as finance cost (in case of recorded in the Statement of OCI for the effective part, until swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor Since May 2015, KPN holds all interest rate swaps at fair value negative net changes to the fair value) or finance income the profit or loss is affected by the variability in cash flows using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. In May 2015, KPN through profit or loss. During 2016, KPN recorded a loss in (in case of positive net changes to the fair value) during the of the designated hedged item. The ineffective part of the changed the interest profile for these bonds, by swapping the Statement of Profit or Loss of EUR 28 million, excluding period in which they arise to the extent that the derivatives cash flow hedge is recognized in the Statement of Profit or the floating rate exposure to a fixed rate for the remaining amortization of discontinued fair value hedges (2015: EUR 8 have no hedging designation or they are ineffective. Loss as finance cost (in case of negative changes to the fair maturity of the relevant bond. million loss). value) or finance income (in case of positive net changes to In general, KPN designates derivatives related to loans as the fair value). KPN discontinued fair value hedge accounting for the An overview of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2016 either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. KPN applies fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps in May 2015, with the and December 31, 2015 is presented below (in millions). hedge accounting as this recognizes the offsetting effects If an underlying transaction has ceased to be an effective cumulative gain of EUR 224 million amortized to earnings on profit or loss of changes in the fair values of the hedging hedge or in case of early redemption of the hedged item, instrument and the hedged item (borrowings) and/or KPN discontinues hedge accounting prospectively which forecasted transactions. means that subsequent changes in the fair value are Fair value in EUR Fair value in EUR recognized in the Statement of Profit or Loss, under ‘finance Nominal Currency Maturity date Pay Receive 2016 2015 At the inception of transactions, KPN documents the income’ or ‘finance costs’. The cumulative amount recorded 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Floating Fixed 61 66 relationship between the derivative and hedged item (such in the Statement of OCI is released in profit or loss. as the underlying loan), as well as the objective of the risk 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Floating Fixed 57 58 management and the strategy for undertaking transactions. The full fair value of the derivatives is classified as a nonIn the documentation, it is also stated whether the hedge current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Floating Fixed 96 84 relationship is expected to be effective – at inception and on hedged item is more than 12 months and as a current asset 710 EUR September 21, 2020 Fixed Floating -15 -9 an ongoing basis – and how the effectiveness is tested. or liability if the remaining maturity is less than 12 months. 500 EUR October 4, 2021 Fixed Floating -15 -7 Changes in the fair value of an effective derivative, which is designated as a fair value hedge and qualifies as such, along 595 EUR September 30, 2024 Fixed Floating -25 -5 159 187 147 148 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Other Notes to the Consolidated Financial Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 KPN intends to pay a regular dividend per share of EUR 10ct Statements Total borrowings (carrying values, excluding derivatives) [22] 8,632 9,700 in respect of 2016. An interim dividend of EUR 3.3ct per share was paid in August 2016. The final regular dividend of EUR 6.7ct per share is expected to be paid following shareholder Bank overdraft (included in net cash and cash equivalents) [18] -1 -4 approval in April 2017. In respect of 2017, a regular dividend per [27] Net cash flow used in investing and share of EUR 11ct is intended. financing activities Accounting policy: Statement of Cash Flows Perpetual hybrid bonds 1,100 1,100 The Statement of Cash Flows is prepared using the KPN remains committed to an investment-grade credit Investing activities indirect method. Cash flows denominated in currencies 50% equity credit for hybrid bonds -1,013 -1,013 profile and expects to utilize excess cash for operational and Acquisitions of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures other than EUR are translated at average exchange rates. financial flexibility, (small) in-country M&A and/or shareholder in the Statement of Cash Flows in 2016 mainly consist of Cash flows relating to interest and taxes on profits and Cash collateral paid on derivatives [15] -24 -56 remuneration. Any additional shareholder remuneration on top the acquisition of Dekatel Nederland B.V. and in 2015 the tax deductions relating to interest on perpetual hybrid Difference between carrying value and of the regular dividend could for example be in the form of a -617 -1,061 acquisition of Internedservices Group B.V. Read more in bonds (which are classified as equity) are included in the nominal value dividend, share buyback or capital repayment. Note 29. cash flow from operating activities. Adjusted gross debt 8,077 8,666 The 15.5% stake in Telefónica Deutschland is treated as a The proceeds from the sale of BASE Company of EUR 1,193 The consideration paid in cash for acquired subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents financial investment. KPN benefits from dividend payments 1,179 1,579 million (net of cash transferred) are included in net cash flow is included in the cash flow from investing activities net (including held for sale) [18] by Telefónica Deutschland and additional financial flexibility. from investing activities from discontinued operations. of cash acquired. Cash flows resulting from the disposal -4 KPN intends to pass-through potential dividend received from Bank overdraft [18] -1 Read more in Note 19. of subsidiaries are disclosed separately, net of cash sold. Telefónica Deutschland to its shareholders. Investments in property, plant and equipment, which are Net cash and cash equivalents 1,178 1,575 During 2016, KPN reduced its position in Other current financed by financial leases, are not included in the cash KPN’s shareholder remuneration policy may change, is based financial assets by EUR 435 million. This includes the maturity flow used in investing activities. Short-term investments [17] 140 575 on a number of assumptions concerning future events and of bank deposits and tri-party repurchase agreements with is subject to uncertainties and risks that are outside KPN’s initial maturities longer than three months for a net amount Net Debt 6,759 6,516 control. For an overview of dividends and other shareholder of EUR 350 million (net investment of EUR 50 million in 2015) returns, read more in Notes 20 and 21. and the divestment of short-duration fixed income funds [28] Capital and Financial Risk Management Normalized EBITDA 2,429 2,591 for a net amount of EUR 85 million (net investment of Financial risk management EUR 225 million in 2015). Read more in Note 17. Capital management Net Debt/EBITDA 2.8x 2.5x KPN is exposed to a variety of financial risks. The overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets in 2016 consists Financing policy [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. of financial markets and seeks to minimize potential adverse of the proceeds of the sale of KPN’s stake in Jasper Wireless KPN is committed to striving for the right balance between effects on KPN’s financial position and performance. KPN and in 2015 of the proceeds of the sale of 150 million shares in a prudent financing policy, investments in the business and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk Telefónica Deutschland. Read more in Note 14. shareholder remuneration. KPN is committed to an investment KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation exposures. Read more in Note 26. grade credit profile. It is KPN’s policy to utilize its excess cash and impairments of property, plant and equipment and Financing activities for operational and financial flexibility, (small) in-country amortization and impairments of intangible assets. KPN’s The financial risks are managed by KPN’s Treasury department On September 9, 2016, KPN completed a tender offer on part mergers and acquisitions and/or shareholder remuneration. definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of under policies approved by the Board of Management. These of its outstanding bonds, which was financed by issuing two earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization policies are established to identify and analyze financial risks new Eurobonds. Scheduled bond redemptions, the bond KPN monitors its Net Debt/EBITDA ratio as one of the drivers and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute faced by KPN, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and tender and the new issue transaction resulted in net financing for its credit ratings. The table below shows the calculation for analyses of the results as reported under IFRS. In the Net to monitor adherence to those limits. Treasury manages these cash flows during 2015 and 2016. Read more in Note 22. of KPN’s Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, which is based on numbers Debt/EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal risks in close cooperation with the Group companies, business including BASE Company for 2015. A number of adjustments value of interest-bearing financial liabilities excluding operations and other corporate departments. KPN’s key In 2016, a capital repayment to holders of ordinary shares of were made to the borrowings in Note 22 in order to arrive at derivatives and related collateral, representing the net Treasury risks are the following: EUR 28ct per share was executed. This capital repayment the Net Debt for the Net Debt/EBITDA calculation. repayment obligations in EUR, taking into account 50% of the Credit and counterparty risk; was related to the cash proceeds from the sale of BASE nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net cash Liquidity risk; and Company in February 2016 and the sale of 150 million shares The difference between carrying value and nominal value and short-term investments, and defines normalized EBITDA Market risk. in Telefónica Deutschland in November 2015. Read more in includes (1) carrying value adjustments resulting from as a 12-month rolling total excluding restructuring costs, Note 20. discontinued fair value hedges and (2) in case of foreign incidentals and major changes in the composition of the Group In addition, KPN’s Treasury department provides cash currency bonds the difference between the nominal amount (acquisitions and disposals). management and funding services to the Group companies Other in 2016 consists, among other items, of changes in at the prevailing spot rate and the swapped nominal amount and business operations. non-controlling interests in GroupIT B.V. and Glasvezelnet in EUR. Shareholder remuneration Amsterdam B.V. Read more in Notes 20, 28 and 29. KPN generates Free Cash Flow (after capital expenditures), This Note provides information about the Group’s exposure which forms the basis for its policy related to regular to each of the above-mentioned risks, the Group’s objectives, dividends. KPN intends to provide a sustainable and growing policies and processes for measuring and managing risks. regular dividend in line with its Free Cash Flow growth profile. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Financial Statements. 148 149 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements The following table presents the Group’s financial assets and liabilities that were measured at fair value on December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2015. The table below summarizes the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: Total December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 December 31, 2016 Amounts in millions of EUR Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Financial assets Fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 84 − 84 Derivatives – non-current [26] 298 298 530 530 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 214 − 214 Derivatives – current [26] − − 102 102 Available-for-sale financial assets: Listed securities 1,902 − − 1,902 Loans and receivables: Unlisted securities − − 7 7 Non-current receivables from financial leases and other loans [15] 27 27 60 60 Total assets 1,902 298 7 2,207 Loans to associates and joint ventures [13] − − 20 20 Liabilities Trade receivables [15] 373 373 378 378 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) − 142 − 142 Other current receivables [15] 30 30 30 30 Derivatives (interest rate swap) − 55 − 55 Other current financial assets [17] 140 140 575 575 Other derivatives 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents [18] 1,179 1,179 1,446 1,446 Total liabilities – 198 – 198 Subtotal 2,047 2,047 3,141 3,141 Available-for-sale financial assets [14] 1,909 1,909 2,272 2,272 Total Total 3,956 3,956 5,413 5,413 Amounts in millions of EUR Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 December 31, 2015 Financial liabilities Fair value through profit or loss: Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives – non-current [26] 197 197 17 17 Derivatives (cross-currency interest rate swap) – 349 – 349 Derivatives – current [26] 1 1 3 3 Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 207 – 207 Subtotal 198 198 20 20 Other derivatives – 1 75 76 Short-duration fixed income funds 225 – – 225 Loans and borrowings: Available-for-sale financial assets: Borrowings [22] 8,632 9,548 9,700 10,525 Listed securities 2,259 – – 2,259 Trade payables [25] 640 640 774 774 Unlisted securities – – 13 13 841 841 Total assets 2,484 557 88 3,129 Other payables and accrued expenses and interest [25] 763 763 Subtotal 10,035 10,951 11,315 12,140 Liabilities Total 10,233 11,149 11,335 12,160 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Derivatives (interest rate swap) – 20 – 20 [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Total liabilities – 20 – 20 150 151 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Fair value estimation Credit and counterparty risk set criteria, payment issues have to be solved before a new transaction with these customers will be entered into. The fair value of financial instruments traded in active KPN’s financial assets are subject to credit risk and markets is based on quoted market prices. If applicable, counterparty risk. Credit risk arises from the possibility of asset Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables these instruments are included in Level 1. impairment occurring when counterparties are unable to meet are limited due to the Group’s large and unrelated customer their obligations in transactions involving financial instruments. base. An allowance for doubtful receivables is recognized. An instrument is included in Level 2 if the financial instrument Read more in Note 15 for the accounting policies regarding is not traded in an active market and if the fair value is KPN has policies with limits for the maximum exposure per trade and other receivables. determined by using valuation techniques based on maximum counterparty and investment periods, which are primarily use of observable market data for all significant inputs. For based on minimum credit ratings. These policies were Guarantees the derivatives used for hedging purposes, KPN uses the reviewed and updated in 2015. It is KPN’s policy to invest The Group’s policy is to provide financial guarantees only to estimated fair value of financial instruments determined by cash balances with counterparties with a minimum credit wholly-owned subsidiaries. As at December 31, 2016, KPN had using available market information and appropriate valuation rating equivalent to A3 at Moody’s. Cash balances used for parent guarantees (based on Article 403, Part 9, Book 2 of the methods, including relevant credit risks. The estimated fair working capital purposes can also reside at (local) banks with Dutch Civil Code) and bank guarantees outstanding to third value approximates to the price that would be received to sell lower credit ratings. KPN is allowed to invest excess cash with parties for various Dutch wholly-owned subsidiaries. an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction tenors up to 12 months, subject to certain conditions. Capital between market participants at the measurement date. preservation is the main priority when investing excess cash. On December 31, 2016, KPN’s total outstanding bank guarantees amounted to EUR 8 million (2015: EUR 15 million), If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on KPN spreads its cash and cash equivalents balances and which were issued in the ordinary course of business. observable market data, the instrument is included in Level derivatives over several counterparties. As at December 31, 3 and the fair value is estimated using models and other 2016, KPN only held cash in bank accounts, bank deposits, Maximum exposure to credit risk valuation methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions money market funds and tri-party repurchase agreements As KPN does not provide financial guarantees other than to and inputs used take into account market pricing information with maturities up to three months. The majority of the cash wholly-owned subsidiaries, the carrying amount of financial and expectations. However, such information is by its balances at year-end 2016 were invested in institutions with a assets represents the maximum credit exposure. The nature subject to uncertainty. Changes arising as new credit rating equivalent to A2 at Moody’s or stronger. maximum exposure to credit risk at reporting date amounts to information becomes available could impact income or other the total of the financial assets including cash comprehensive income. It is KPN’s policy only to enter into new derivative transactions (EUR 3,956 million at December 31, 2016 and EUR 5,413 million with counterparties with a minimum credit rating equivalent to at December 31, 2015). For other financial assets and liabilities, the following methods A2 at Moody’s. KPN has its derivative instruments outstanding and assumptions were used to determine fair value: with financial institutions that had a credit rating equivalent to Baa1 or higher with Moody’s at December 31, 2016. Eurobonds, Global Bonds and Hybrid Bonds classified as Borrowings: based on the listed price of the bonds; KPN takes into account credit risk for the valuations of its Cash, cash equivalents, other current financial assets, derivatives portfolio, based on IFRS 13. As at December 31, accounts receivable and payable, bank overdrafts: as the 2016, KPN recorded no credit valuation gain or loss in the maturity of these financial instruments is short, the carrying Statement of Profit or Loss, related to interest rate swaps value approximates to fair value. recorded as fair value hedges (2015: loss of EUR 2 million). As at December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2015, KPN Listed securities include KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica recorded no gain or loss in Other Comprehensive Income, Deutschland. Read more in Note 14. related to cross-currency swaps recorded as cash flow hedges. Other derivatives in Level 3 as at December 31, 2015, included During 2016 and 2015, KPN monitored counterparty risk on the option to acquire the remaining stake of 87.5% in GroupIT cash and derivatives on a regular basis, based on counterparty B.V. In 2016 this option was exercised and the remaining stake credit ratings and other metrics, including credit default swap was acquired (read more in Note 20). For details about the (CDS) levels of the counterparties. In addition, KPN monitors valuation of this option, read more in the Integrated Annual concentration risk on investments in money market funds Report 2015. through the percentage of the total fund size owned. The valuation of available-for-sale unlisted securities is based Credit risk on trade receivables is controlled using restrictive on a discounted cash flow model. policies for customer acceptance. Credit management is focused on mobile services as the credit risk is considered to be the highest within this part of KPN’s business. Before accepting certain new customers in this segment, KPN requests credit watchers to provide credit management reports. In addition, KPN keeps track of the payment performance of customers. In case customers fail to meet 152 153 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity risk sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under The undiscounted value of the financial lease obligations Global Medium Term Note Program both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring amounts to EUR 76 million at December 31, 2016 (2015: EUR 81 KPN updated its Global Medium Term Note (‘GMTN’) program Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group. million). The financial lease obligations primarily include lease in March 2016. The program does not contain any commitment its financial obligations associated with financial instruments obligations for buildings leased by KPN (read more in Note 12) from investors to provide funding to KPN. Funding will be as they become due. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial and handsets. Some of these lease arrangements for buildings available subject to market conditions and other factors at the liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of include an option to extend the lease term. relevant time. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure December 31, 2016. Part of KPN’s derivatives portfolio contains reset clauses or Capital Resources Covenants collateral postings at pre-agreed dates, in order to mitigate KPN’s existing capital resources contain the following Borrowings Derivatives counterparty exposure during the life of the swap. These reset covenants as at December 31, 2016, which could trigger Trade clauses will result in early Euro settlement obligations in cash additional financial obligations or early redemption of the Derivatives Derivatives and other Interest on Financial Other debt inflow outflow payables with the swap counterparty, which could lead to additional outstanding indebtedness. Bonds and bonds and lease and Cash (including (including and accrued cash inflows or outflows before maturity. During 2016, KPN Amounts in millions of EUR loans1 loans2 obligations collateral interest) interest) expenses Total paid net collateral of EUR 46 million (2015: received EUR 191 All of KPN’s senior bonds issued after January 1, 2006 (EUR 6.1 2017 720 338 11 9 -282 219 1,206 2,221 million), according to pre-agreed settlement schedules. In billion at December 31, 2016) and the EUR 50 million private order to reduce liquidity risks, the reset clauses or collateral placement issued in 2012 contain a change of control clause 2018 – 305 7 53 -280 217 – 302 postings of these derivatives are spread over different points by means of which KPN may be required to redeem such in time and are not more frequent than annually per swap, outstanding bonds early, in the event that (i) certain changes 2019 577 305 7 -9 -393 340 – 827 except for one counterparty. of control occur and (ii) within the change of control period a 2020 461 264 7 – -741 672 – 663 rating downgrade to sub-investment grade occurs in respect Available financing sources of that change of control. The change of control period ends 2021 613 246 7 – -226 177 – 817 As of December 31, 2016, KPN held a net cash and cash 90 days after the change of control event occurs. 2022–2031 4,706 1,472 37 – -4,369 3,848 – 5,694 equivalents position amounting to EUR 1,178 million and shortterm investments of EUR 140 million. In principle, net cash and KPN’s hybrid bonds contain a change of control clause 2032 and subsequent years 1,086 2 – – – – – 1,088 cash equivalents and short-term investments are at disposal to by means of which KPN has the option to repurchase the Contractual cash flows 8,163 2,932 76 53 -6,291 5,473 1,206 11,612 KPN on a group level, except for limited amounts of cash held hybrid bonds at par. A 5% interest step-up applies if a rating at local subsidiaries. downgrade occurs during the change of control period in respect of that change of control. The table below provides a maturity analysis of the financial liabilities based on the remaining contractual maturities as of In addition to the available cash and cash equivalents and December 31, 2015. short-term investments and cash flows from operations. KPN In addition, many of KPN’s capital resources contain has the following financing resources available: a covenant prohibiting KPN from entering into any Borrowings Derivatives amalgamation, demerger, merger, corporate restructuring or Trade Revolving credit facility reorganization, unless prior written consent has been given Derivatives Derivatives and other Interest on Financial inflow outflow payables On July 1, 2016, KPN signed a new syndicated Revolving Credit by a majority of the lenders or bondholders or the resulting Bonds and bonds and lease (including (including and accrued Facility for EUR 1.25 billion with 12 banks at improved terms, company assumes all of the rights and obligations with respect Amounts in millions of EUR loans1 loans2 obligations Other debt interest) interest) expenses Total with an initial 5-year term and two 1-year extension options. to the loans or bonds. 2016 829 447 11 98 -492 388 1,337 2,618 The new facility replaced the EUR 2.0 billion facility which had been in place since 2011. The EUR 2.0 billion syndicated 2017 750 394 10 – -296 221 – 1,079 Revolving Credit Facility was provided by 14 relationship banks Market risk and had a final maturity in July 2018. Both the previous and 2018 – 358 8 – -296 221 – 291 new facility are used for general corporate purposes and do KPN is exposed to various kinds of market risks in the ordinary 2019 881 358 8 – -428 344 – 1,163 not contain any financial covenants. course of business. These risks include: 2020 723 294 7 – -834 675 – 865 As of December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2015, KPN had no F oreign currency exchange rate risk; 2021–2030 4,705 1,775 37 – -4,871 4,045 – 5,691 drawings on its credit facility. I nterest rate risk; and Other market price risk. 2031 and subsequent years 1,146 4 – – – – – 1,150 Overdraft facilities Contractual cash flows 9,034 3,630 81 98 -7,217 5,894 1,337 12,857 At December 31, 2016, KPN had four uncommitted overdraft KPN has established policies that deal with the use of facilities with four banks amounting to EUR 175 million in total derivative financial instruments in order to reduce foreign (2015: EUR 175 million with four banks). The overdraft facilities currency exposure and to manage the interest rate profile. 1 The GBP and USD hybrid bonds are included with final maturities in 2073 (redemption value of EUR 1,036 million at December 31, 2016 and EUR 1,096 million may be canceled at any time and do not have a specified KPN’s centralized Treasury department matches and manages at December 31, 2015). The EUR perpetual hybrid bond is not included as it has no stated maturity date. Please read more in Note 22 for more information on maturity date. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, there were intercompany and external foreign currency exposures the hybrid bonds. 2 Interest payments on the GBP and USD hybrid bonds (EUR 72 million per year until the first call date in 2020 at December 31, 2016 and EUR 76 million at no amounts drawn under any of the overdraft facilities, except reported by the various business operations and Group December 31, 2015) are not included. KPN may, at its discretion and subject to certain conditions, elect to defer payments of interest on these hybrid bonds. for bank overdrafts under cash pool agreements. companies. Hedges are applied on a full coverage basis, if Any arrears of interest must be paid at the latest at redemption in 2073, the amount of which cannot be reliably measured because of the duration of the economically feasible. hybrid bonds. For similar reasons, interest payments on the EUR hybrid bond have been excluded as well. Read more in Note 22 on the hybrid bonds. 154 155 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements In line with these policies, derivative financial instruments are As of December 31, 2016, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis Cash flow hedges balance of the hedge reserve, which is included in equity used solely for the purpose of hedging underlying exposures with regard to changes in foreign exchange rates for entities As of December 31, 2016, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis attributable to equity holders. In a similar way, KPN calculated to foreign currency exchange rate risk and interest rate with a functional currency different from Euro. All changes in with regard to interest rate risk and currency on the cash the hypothetical impact of changes in the EUR/USD rate and risk. Contracts related to derivative financial instruments foreign exchange rates and resulting sensitivities do not have flow hedges. KPN applies cash flow hedge accounting on the EUR/GBP rate, holding all other variables constant. The are entered into for periods consistent with the underlying a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Profit or all bonds not denominated in Euro. With all other variables results of the analyses are shown in the table below, indicating exposures (if economically feasible) and do not constitute Loss, or Equity, and do not have any impact on the cash flow held constant, KPN calculated the hypothetical impact of the hypothetical impact on the balance of the hedge reserve positions independent of these exposures. statement. changes in interest rates based on various scenarios. This as at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015: would hypothetically result in a higher or lower value on the KPN’s policy is to apply hedge accounting for derivative Interest rate risk and interest rate profile financial instruments related to interest rate risk and foreign Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash exchange risk for bonds that are not denominated in Euro. flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate as a result of GBP USD Total KPN applies hedge accounting for derivative financial changes in market interest rates. Borrowings, derivatives, Amounts in millions of EUR instruments related to bonds denominated in Euro if it cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest rate risk. (before tax) Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 minimizes expected volatility in the Statement of Profit or Loss As KPN has a mix of financial instruments bearing a floating Change in interest rate +2%-point -29 38 -7 14 -36 52 provided the criteria are met regarding formal designation or a fixed interest rate, KPN is subject to risk from movements and documentation of the hedge relationship, the risk in interest rates. +1%-point -15 20 -3 8 -18 28 management objective, the strategy for undertaking the hedge and the effectiveness of the hedge. KPN tests effectiveness of Since 2011, the Eurobonds with maturities on September 21, -1%-point 17 -22 2 -11 19 -33 the hedge relationship at inception and every quarter. Read 2020, October 4, 2021 and September 30, 2024 have been -2%-point 36 -46 3 -25 39 -71 more in Note 26. swapped to a floating rate based on three-month Euribor using fixed-to-floating interest swaps. KPN initially swapped Change in FX rate +20%-point 132 136 149 145 281 281 Foreign currency exchange rate risk part of the floating rate exposure back to fixed rates. With The Euro is the Company’s functional currency, regard to interest rate risk exposure, KPN periodically +10%-point 72 75 81 79 153 154 evaluates the desired mix of fixed and floating interest rate -10%-point -85 -91 -99 -97 -184 -188 Foreign currency risks mainly result from settlement of liabilities. In May 2015, KPN changed the interest profile for the international telecommunications traffic and purchase of bonds that had been swapped to a floating rate. KPN swapped -20%-point -192 -205 -224 -218 -416 -423 goods and equipment and primarily consists of GBP and the floating rate exposure to a fixed rate for the remaining USD exposure. Foreign currency exchange rate risks related maturity of the relevant bonds. KPN discontinued fair value to bonds that are not denominated in Euro are hedged into hedge accounting as of that date, because that minimized Euro in line with KPN’s hedging policies. volatility in profit or loss. Prospective effectiveness testing indicates that all cash flow For a sensitivity analysis on interest rate risk with regard to As a result of currency fluctuations, the value of subsidiaries As of December 31, 2016, all of KPN’s interest-bearing gross hedges are expected to be highly effective. As a consequence, pensions, read more in Note 23. operating outside the Eurozone markets could fluctuate and debt excluding bank overdraft was at fixed interest rates until the expected impact on the Statement of Profit or Loss is affect KPN’s financial position and equity positions from year maturity of the instrument (2015: 100%). Any interest exposure immaterial. to year. These translation exposures are not hedged. longer than one year is considered to be fixed. With a view to the existing and forecasted debt structure, KPN’s Treasury Derivatives held at fair value Group companies and business operations are obliged department could enter into additional future derivative As of December 31, 2016, KPN carried out a sensitivity to hedge their firm commitments and highly predictable instruments to adjust the mix of fixed and floating interest rate analysis with regard to the interest rate swaps for which no anticipated transactions in non-functional currencies by liabilities. hedge accounting is applied. All changes in interest rates and forward contracts transacted with KPN’s Treasury department. resulting sensitivities have only profit or loss impact and no Accordingly, Treasury matches and manages the intercompany Other market price risk changes in cash flows on the swaps. and external exposures using forward exchange contracts. KPN does not enter into commodity contracts other than for KPN does not apply hedge accounting for these hedge its own use to meet the Group’s expected usage. KPN has instruments. entered into energy contracts for own use with a nominal Amounts in millions of EUR Change 2016 2015 amount of approximately EUR 25 million at December 31, 2016 Changes in EUR interest rates +2%-point -10 -13 Read more in Note 2 for the accounting policies on foreign (2015: EUR 26 million). Read more in Note 30. currency transactions and Note 8 for the recognized exchange +1%-point -5 -7 rate differences in the Statement of Profit or Loss. Sensitivity analysis As of December 31, 2016, KPN carried out a sensitivity analysis -1%-point 5 8 As of December 31, 2016 more than 98% of cash and cash with regard to interest rate risk on interest-bearing liabilities equivalents was denominated in the functional currency of the (excl. cash flow hedges). With all other variables held constant, -2%-point 10 15 related entities. At December 31, 2016 more than 95% of the each adverse change of 100 basis points in six-month Euribor net amount of trade receivables and more than 90% of the would hypothetically on balance not result in higher interest amount of trade payables was outstanding in the functional costs per annum (2015: none) because all interest-bearing currency of the related entities. liabilities carried a fixed interest rate. 156 157 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities For the financial assets and liabilities summarized above, each Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. agreement between KPN and the counterparty allows for net KPN had a 70% share in Glasvezelnet Amsterdam B.V. (GNA). Financial assets settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when GNA was not previously consolidated because KPN did not The following financial assets of the continuing operations are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and both parties elect to settle on a net basis. If parties choose not have control over GNA because certain decisions could only similar agreements: to settle on a net basis, the financial assets and liabilities will be made in consultation with the other shareholder. In 2016, be settled on a gross basis. due to changes in circumstances, a reassessment concluded that KPN had obtained control. Therefore, GNA has been consolidated as of January 1, 2016. Up to December 31, 2015, Net amount Gross amount of presented in the Not offset: GNA was classified as an investment in associate (read more As at December 31, 2016 financial liabilities Statement of Financial assets/ Not Offset: Accounting policy: Offsetting financial assets and in Note 13). Amounts in millions of EUR Gross amount set off Financial Position liabilities Cash collateral Net amount liabilities Cash and cash equivalents 1,179 – 1,179 -1 – 1,178 Financial assets and liabilities are offset and reported on The consolidation following obtaining control has been a net basis on KPN’s Statement of Financial Position only accounted for as a step acquisition whereby the 70% stake in Derivative financial instruments 298 – 298 – -69 229 when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the GNA was remeasured at fair value of EUR 30 million at January Trade receivables 77 -38 39 – – 39 recognized amounts and there is an intention either to 1, 2016, leading to a gain of EUR 13 million in the Statement settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the of Profit or Loss (Other financial results). Subsequently, a Accrued income 58 – 58 – – 58 liability simultaneously. purchase price allocation was done leading to the recognition Total 1,612 -38 1,574 -1 -69 1,504 of property, plant and equipment of EUR 60 million, non-current liabilities of EUR 33 million, a non-controlling interest of EUR 8 million and goodwill of EUR 11 million and As at December 31, 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR [29] Business combinations and other the derecogniton of the 70% stake in GNA. The goodwill changes in consolidation is non-deductable for tax purposes. On September 26, Cash and cash equivalents 1,446 – 1,446 -4 – 1,442 2016, KPN acquired the remaining 30% stake in GNA. This Derivative financial instruments 632 – 632 -20 -147 465 Changes in consolidation in 2016 transaction has been accounted for as a transaction between Dekatel Nederland B.V. shareholders. A deferred tax asset of EUR 3 million was Trade receivables 109 -70 39 – – 39 On June 30, 2016, KPN acquired all issued shares of recorded which relates to tax loss carry forwards. Accrued income 61 – 61 – – 61 Dekatel Nederland B.V. (Dekatel). Dekatel is a provider of telecommunication services to the business market in Other changes in consolidation in 2016 Total 2,248 -70 2,178 -24 -147 2,007 the Netherlands, with a focus on small and medium sized On March 31, 2016, KPN acquired a 100% share in Redbee B.V. businesses with a special focus on the domestic shipping and FortyTwo B.V. Redbee offers hosting services. FortyTwo sector, healthcare institutions and governmental institutions. offers consultancy, management and audit services related to Financial liabilities The acquisition of Dekatel increases KPN’s market share in network and security environments. The following financial liabilities of the continuing operations are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements SME and will realize revenue and cost synergies. and similar agreements: These acquisitions are not considered material for KPN, The preliminary purchase price allocation for Dekatel resulted therefore disclosures are limited. in the recognition of net assets of EUR 10 million (mainly customer base of EUR 11 million) and goodwill of EUR 22 Changes in consolidation in 2015 Net amount As at December 31, 2016 Gross amount of presented in the Not offset: million. The purchase price was paid in cash. Internedservices Group Amounts in millions of EUR financial assets Statement of Financial assets/ Not offset: On July 6, 2015, KPN acquired all issued shares of Gross amount set off Financial Position liabilities Cash collateral Net amount Dekatel has been integrated within KPN’s Business segment. Internedservices Group (IG). IG is one of the largest managed Derivative financial instruments 198 – 198 – -24 174 The goodwill arising from this business combination is nonhosting and cloud services providers in the Netherlands. The deductible for tax purposes. The purchase price allocation acquisition fits within KPN’s strategy to further strengthen its Trade payables 89 -32 57 – – 57 remains provisional until June 30, 2017, and may be subject to position in the Dutch cloud computing market. The acquisition Accrued expenses 83 -6 77 – – 77 alterations based on additional information about facts and of IG enables KPN to expand its managed hosting capabilities circumstances that existed at June 30, 2016. and to complement its existing proposition with cloud-based Total 370 -38 332 – -24 308 workspace solutions for smalland medium-sized enterprises. Following its consolidation as of June 30, 2016, Dekatel has As at December 31, 2015 contributed EUR 5 million to KPN’s consolidated revenues Amounts in millions of EUR and other income and EUR 1 million to KPN’s (net) profit 20 attributable to equity holders. Had KPN obtained 100% Derivative financial instruments 20 – -20 -56 -56 ownership of Dekatel before January 1, 2016, KPN’s Statement Trade payables 128 -56 72 – – 72 of Profit or Loss in 2016 would have shown pro-forma total Accrued expenses 97 -14 83 – – 83 revenues and other income of EUR 6,810 million and a proforma profit attributable to equity holders of EUR 794 million. Total 245 -70 175 -20 -56 99 158 159 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements The following table summarizes the (finalized) fair value of Changes in the earn-out obligation which are not part of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the total consideration purchase price allocation are recorded through the Statement Accounting policy: Business combinations of contingent considerations deemed to be an asset or and the goodwill at the date control over IG was obtained of Profit or Loss, which resulted in a gain of EUR 14 million in KPN uses the acquisition method of accounting to account liability are recognized in accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial (July 6, 2015) 2016. for business combinations. The consideration paid is Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ in the : measured at the fair value of the assets transferred, equity Statement of Profit or Loss. Contingent considerations All amounts in millions of EUR IG has been integrated within KPN’s Business segment. instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the classified as equity are not remeasured and subsequent Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed The goodwill arising from this business combination is date of exchange. The consideration paid includes the fair settlement is counted for within equity. Intangible assets [11]1 26 non-deductible for tax purposes. IG contributes to the net value of any contingent assets or liabilities resulting from For each business combination, KPN elects to recognize any increase of KPN’s cloud services customer base and has been the arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value Property, plant and equipment [12] 3 allocated to KPN’s cash-generating unit Business. and contingent liabilities assumed are measured at their fair or at the proportionate share in the acquiree’s net assets. values at the acquisition date. When a business combination Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. Deferred tax assets 1 Following its consolidation as of July 6, 2015, IG has is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest The excess of the consideration paid, non-controlling Net cash and cash equivalents acquired – contributed EUR 13 million to KPN’s consolidated revenues is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any interests recognized and the acquisition date fair value of and other income and a profit of less than EUR 1 million to resulting gain or loss is recognized in the Statement of Profit any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair Trade and other receivables 5 KPN’s (net) profit attributable to equity holders in 2015. Had or Loss and the equity interest is then considered in the value of KPN’s share of the net assets acquired is recorded KPN obtained 100% ownership of IG before January 1, 2015, determination of goodwill. as goodwill. If negative goodwill occurs in case of a bargain Deferred tax liabilities [9] -7 KPN’s Statement of Profit or Loss in 2015 would have shown Contingent considerations are recognized at fair value purchase, the difference is recognized directly in the pro-forma total revenues and other income of at acquisition date. Subsequent changes to the fair value Statement of Profit or Loss. Non-current borrowings (including loans from Group companies) -4 EUR 7,021 million and a pro-forma profit attributable to equity Current borrowings -5 holders of EUR 639 million. Trade and other payables and deferred income -7 Other changes in consolidation in 2015 Total identifiable net assets 12 As of April 15, 2015, BASE Company was presented as disposal [30] Commitments, contingencies and legal group held for sale and discontinued operation (read more proceedings in Note 19). The sale of BASE Company was completed on February 11, 2016. Read more in Note 32. Commitments Consideration On November 27, 2015, KPN acquired a 100% share in Net Amounts due by period Purchase consideration paid 65 Ground B.V., a provider of managed servers and services, Total December 31, Total December 31, Fair value of earn-out obligation recognized 20 domain registrations, cloud and webhosting to business Less than 1 year 1–5 years More than 5 years 2016 2015 customers. This acquisition was not considered material for Capital and purchase commitments 780 186 10 976 1,199 Total consideration 85 KPN, therefore disclosures are limited. Rental and operational lease contracts 129 360 332 821 730 Guarantees 4 2 149 155 171 Goodwill 73 Other − − − − 1 1 Includes a customer base of EUR 25 million. [..] Bracketed numbers refer to the related Notes. Total commitments 913 548 491 1,952 2,101 As part of the purchase agreement, the former shareholders of IG are entitled to an additional cash payment in 2017. This earn-out obligation depends on IG’s performance including Capital and purchase commitments the majority of contracts can be canceled by KPN only, with a acquisitions done by IG until December 31, 2016 (add-on The capital and purchase commitments mainly relate to notice period of 12 months. acquisitions), KPN initially recognized an earn-out obligation minimum contractual obligations with regard to network of EUR 5 million representing management’s best estimate of operations, mobile handsets and telco services. The minimum non-cancelable sublease amounts expected to the earn-out obligation at discounted value. be received as at December 31, 2016 amount to EUR 8 million Rental and operational lease contracts (December 31, 2015: EUR 11 million). These amounts mainly On July 6, 2016, the purchase price allocation was finalized. For buildings, the majority of contracts included rental fees relate to subleases of buildings and site sharing arrangements. The earn-out obligation was increased by EUR 15 million that are subject to a yearly indexation. Some contracts give (EUR 5 million in 2015 and EUR 10 million in 2016), with a KPN an option to buy the property when the landlord wants The total net costs of operating leases and rental contracts corresponding increase in goodwill, compared to the initial to sell that property. amounted to EUR 191 million in 2016 (2015: EUR 176 million) recognition of the earn-out obligation. The increase is based and is (mainly) included in other operating expenses in the on a revised estimate of IG’s performance mainly due to For site rentals and mobile towers, the majority of agreements Statement of Profit or Loss. The operating lease and rental acquisitions done by IG until December 31, 2016. included an option for renewal of the contract and rental fees commitments mainly relate to property, plant and equipment. that are subject to a yearly indexation percentage. In addition, 160 161 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Guarantees may lead to a legal obligation that may lead to a cash outflow, [31] Related-party transactions The total value of sales transactions by the continuing These commitments consist of financial obligations of Group and recognizes provisions in such cases/matters if and when operations of KPN with joint ventures and associated companies under certain contracts guaranteed by KPN. A total required. However, the outcome of legal proceedings can KPN enters into agreements and transactions with companies in 2016 amounted to approximately EUR 16 amount of EUR 155 million relates to parent guarantees (2015: be difficult to predict with certainty, and KPN can offer no shareholders, joint ventures and associated undertakings for million (2015: EUR 24 million) and the total value of purchase EUR 157 million). assurances in this regard. various business purposes, including providing services or transactions amounted to approximately EUR 7 million (2015: financing of operating activities. KPN also enters into such EUR 2 million). The total trade receivables and payables as of In some cases, the impact of a legal proceeding may be more transactions in the ordinary course of business with certain December 31, 2016, amounted to approximately EUR 4 million Accounting policy: Leases strategic than financial and such impact cannot properly be companies or organizations over which KPN, members of and EUR 1 million respectively (December 31, 2015: EUR 8 Leases where KPN as lessor retains a significant portion quantified. Below is a description of legal proceedings or the Supervisory Board or Board of Management may have million and EUR 1 million respectively). of the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset contingent liabilities that could have a material impact for KPN. a significant influence. These related-party transactions are are classified as operating leases. The assets remain on described below. KPN considers none of these transactions to Transactions with directors and related parties the Statement of Financial Position and are depreciated Reggefiber be material on an individual basis, except for the transactions For details of the relation between directors and the over the asset’s useful life. The lease payments received On October 31, 2014, the ACM approved the acquisition of with shareholders. Transactions between Group companies are company, read more in the ‘Remuneration Report’ on pages from the lessee are recognized as revenue on a straightsole control by KPN. Vodafone appealed the ACM decision not included in the description as these are eliminated in the 78 to 86 of this Integrated Annual Report. Directors in this line basis over the lease period. at the administrative District Court of Rotterdam. This appeal Consolidated Financial Statements. respect are defined as key management and relate to those was denied by the District Court in May 2016, following which having authority and responsibility for planning, directing, Payments made by KPN as lessee under operating Vodafone appealed to the CBb, the highest administrative Transactions with shareholders and controlling the activities of an entity, either directly or leases are charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss on court. This could result in the confirmation, amendment or América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. (‘AMX’) published on February 2, indirectly. At KPN, key management consists of the members a straight-line basis over the period of the lease (net of annulment of the license from the ACM for the acquisition of 2017, in its fourth quarter 2016 report, that it owned 21.1% of of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board. any incentives received from the lessor). If a sale-andsole control by KPN over Reggefiber. There are no precedents KPN’s ordinary share capital at December 31, 2016. The total leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, the where a license has been annulled, but this could eventually value of sales transactions by the continuing operations of In 2016 and 2015, the company was not a party to any material profit or loss is calculated using the fair value of the result in an obligation on KPN to release control over KPN in 2016 with AMX, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and transactions, or proposed transactions, in which members assets sold and recognized in the Statement of Profit or Reggefiber. KPN is no party in these legal procedures, nor associated companies amounted to approximately EUR 4 of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close Loss immediately. recognized a provision. million (2015: EUR 4 million) and the total value of purchase members of their families had a direct or indirect material transactions amounted to approximately EUR 13 million (2015: interest. Leases where KPN as lessee has assumed substantially E-Plus EUR 21 million). The total trade receivables and payables as of all risks and rewards of ownership are classified as On June 5, 2015, 1&1 Telecom GmbH and Airdata AG lodged December 31, 2016, amounted to approximately EUR 5 million and The total value of sales transactions by KPN’s continuing finance leases. KPN then recognizes the leased assets an appeal against the European Commission as regards its EUR 4 million respectively (December 31, 2015: EUR 12 million operations in 2016 with parties in which members of the on the Statement of Financial Position at the lower of merger control decision on the E-Plus transaction between and EUR 11 million respectively). Supervisory Board or Board of Management or close members the fair value and the present value of the minimum KPN and Telefónica (dated July 2, 2014) and requested the of their families had a direct or indirect material interest lease payments. The corresponding rental obligations, EU Court of Justice to annul the decision. In both appeals, Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Supervision Act (‘Wet op het amounted to approximately EUR 14 million (2015: EUR 5 net of finance charges, are included in other long-term the applicants argue that the decision contains a wrong financieel toezicht’ or ‘Wft’), legal entities as well as natural million) and the total value of purchase transactions amounted payables in the Statement of Financial Position. Property, assessment of the commitments. As KPN is no party in these persons must immediately notify the Dutch Authority for to approximately EUR 7 million (2015: EUR 5 million), all in the plant and equipment acquired under finance leases are legal procedures, nor recognized a provision. KPN relies on the the Financial Markets (AFM) when a shareholding equals or ordinary course of business. The total trade receivables and depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life available public information. exceeds 3% of the issued capital. payables as of December 31, 2016, amounted to approximately and the lease term. If a sale-and-leaseback transaction EUR 3 million and EUR 2 million respectively (December 31, 2015: results in a finance lease, any excess of sale proceeds over Indemnification On October 1, 2014, Franklin Mutual Series Fund, Inc. notified EUR 3 million and EUR 2 million respectively). the carrying amount is deferred and recognized in the In KPN’s Articles of Association and in a further decision that it held 3.63% of the shares and voting rights related to Statement of Profit or Loss over the lease term. by the Board of Management, which was approved by the KPN’s ordinary share capital. On April 30, 2015, BlackRock, Supervisory Board, KPN has indemnified the members Inc. notified that it held 5.01% of the shares and 5.87% of the In case KPN acts as lessor in a finance lease, the and former members of KPN’s Board of Management and voting rights related to KPN’s ordinary share capital. To KPN’s transaction is accounted for as a normal sale and the Supervisory Board, as well as a number of KPN’s officers and knowledge, no other shareholder owned 3% or more of KPN’s present value of the lease payments is recognized as a directors and former officers and directors, against liabilities, issued share capital as at December 31, 2016. receivable. The difference between the gross receivable claims, judgments, fines and penalties incurred by such officer and the present value of the receivable is deferred and or director as a result of any threatened, pending or completed KPN did not enter into agreements with AMX or other recognized as interest over the lease term. action, investigation or proceeding (whether civil, criminal or shareholders which could have a material impact on KPN’s administrative) brought by a third party in relation to acts or Financial Statements. omissions in or related to her capacity as officer or director. The indemnification does not apply to claims and expenses Transactions with joint ventures and associated companies Contingent liabilities reimbursed by insurers, nor to an officer or a director adjudged Associated, non-consolidated companies and joint ventures Legal and tax proceedings to be liable for willful misconduct (‘opzet’) or intentional of KPN sell goods and provide services to consolidated KPN KPN is involved in a number of legal and tax proceedings that recklessness (‘bewuste roekeloosheid’). companies. In addition, consolidated KPN companies sell have arisen in the ordinary course of its business, including goods or provide services to these associated companies and commercial, regulatory or other proceedings. Periodically KPN Read more in Note 24 for a contingent liability related to idle joint ventures. Read more in Notes 13 and 14. carefully assesses the likelihood that legal and tax proceedings cables and the accounting policy of provisions. 162 163 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements [32] Proposed appropriation of result of EUR 141 million). The Board of Management, with the [34] Subsequent events approval of the Supervisory Board, will propose to the AGM On outstanding Class B preferred shares, a dividend is paid to pay a final dividend of EUR 6.7ct per ordinary share in The company has evaluated events up to publication date of out equal to the average of the 12-month Euribor increased respect of 2016 (total amount of EUR 285 million, to be these Annual Financial Statements of this Integrated Annual by 1%. If the 12-month Euribor is no longer determined, the increased by dividend on shares issued in 2017 before the Report and determined that no subsequent event activity dividend on preference shares will be calculated based on the ex-dividend date). required disclosure. yield on State loans (article 35 sub 1, Articles of Association). Subsequently, subject to the approval of the Supervisory In addition, the received dividend over 2015 of EUR 110 million Board, the Board of Management will determine what on KPN’s shareholding in Telefónica Deutschland Holding proportion of net income remaining after payment of the AG, was distributed in May 2016, as an additional interim cash dividend on any Class B preferred shares will be appropriated dividend of EUR 2.5ct per share (total amount of EUR 106 to the reserves (article 35 sub 2, Articles of Association). million). This brings the total dividend in respect of 2016 to The part of the profit remaining after the appropriation to EUR 12.5ct per ordinary share. the reserves shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting (article 35 sub 3, Articles of Association). The Board of On April 13, 2016, the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Management, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, may of KPN approved a capital repayment to shareholders of also appropriate the complete profit to the reserves. EUR 28ct per share (read also more in Note 20). This capital repayment was related to the cash proceeds from the sale of On February 23, 2017, the Board of Management, with approval BASE Company in February 2016 and the sale of 150 million of the Supervisory Board, has allocated an amount of EUR shares in Telefónica Deutschland in November 2015. 261 million out of the profit of EUR 793 million to the Other reserves. In August 2016, an interim dividend of EUR 3.3ct per The total dividend in respect of 2015, including the additional share was paid to all holders of ordinary shares (total amount interim cash dividend amounted to EUR 11.4ct per ordinary share. [33] Legal structure Name of subsidiaries and other principal interests Country of incorporation Percentage ownership/voting interest KPN B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 KPN EuroRings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 XS4ALL Internet B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 iBasis Inc. US 100.0 Telfort Zakelijk B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Reggefiber Group B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Consulting B.V. (formerly: KPN Corporate Markets B.V.) The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Finance B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Mobile N.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 KPN Mobile International B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Getronics B.V.: The Netherlands 100.0 Getronics Finance Holdings B.V. The Netherlands 100.0 Telefónica Deutschland Holding AG Germany 15.5 164 165 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss Corporate Statement of Financial Position For the year ended December 31 Before appropriation of results Assets Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Total revenues and other income 1 – Non-current assets Financial fixed assets Personnel expenses 9 8 Investments in subsidiaries 33,335 31,566 Other operating expenses -6 -25 Derivatives 298 530 Depreciation, amortization and impairments -2 -1 Deferred taxes 1,094 1,003 Total operating expenses 1 -18 Other financial fixed assets 1,897 2,309 Operating profit 2 -18 Total non-current assets [B] 36,624 35,408 Finance income 111 147 Current assets Finance costs -625 -481 Accounts receivable from subsidiaries 173 1,325 Other financial results 71 224 Other receivables and accrued income [C] 24 250 Intercompany interest (net) -701 -696 Other current financial assets 141 602 Financial income and expenses [A] -1,144 -806 Cash and cash equivalents 1,026 1,249 Total current assets 1,364 3,426 Income from subsidiaries 1,630 1,264 Profit before income tax from continuing operations 488 440 Total assets 37,988 38,834 [..] Bracketed letters refer to the related Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements Income taxes¹ 305 198 Profit for the year 793 638 1 2016 includes EUR 16 million with respect to discontinued operations. [..] Bracketed letters refer to the related Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 166 167 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Equity and Liabilities Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Equity As per January 1, 2016, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code was [A] Financial income and expenses amended. Among other things, the exemption of Article 402, Subscribed capital stock 171 171 which allowed companies to present an abbreviated Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss was removed. The presentation of Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Additional paid-in capital 8,651 9,847 comparative information has been amended accordingly. Finance income 111 147 Treasury shares reserve -115 -132 For the principles of recognition and measurement of assets Hedge reserve -353 -268 and liabilities and determination of the result for its Corporate Interest on borrowings -395 -477 Financial Statements, Koninklijke KPN N.V. applies the option Legal reserves [D] 163 506 Interest on other provisions -1 -1 provided in Article 362 sub 8, Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Retained earnings [D] -6,798 -6,869 Code. This means that the principles for the recognition and Tender premium -222 – measurement of assets and liabilities and determination of Equity attributable to holders of perpetual capital securities 1,089 1,089 the result (hereinafter referred to as ‘Accounting policies’) Other -7 -3 of the Corporate Financial Statements of Koninklijke KPN Profit (loss) current year 793 638 N.V. are the same as those applied to the Consolidated Finance costs -625 -481 Total equity attributable to equity holders 3,601 4,982 Financial Statements under IFRS. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the Book gain sale Telefónica Deutschland shares – 184 International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Provisions European Union (IFRS). Reference is made to the Notes to the Amortizable part of hedge reserve -10 -11 Consolidated Financial Statements. Provisions for retirement benefit obligations 52 67 Amortization discontinued fair value hedges 114 41 Other provisions 25 22 Investments in consolidated subsidiaries are measured at net Derivative financial instruments not qualified for -28 -8 asset value. Net asset value is based on the measurement hedge accounting Total provisions [E] 77 89 of assets (including goodwill), provisions and liabilities and Exchange rate differences – 9 determination of profit based on the principles applied in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other -5 9 Non-current liabilities Other financial results 71 224 Loans [F] 16,362 17,048 Investments in which the company has significant influence on the financial and operational policies, but not control Derivative financial instruments 197 17 (associates), are accounted for using the equity method. Under Intercompany interest (net) -701 -696 the equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost Other long-term liabilities 123 201 and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize Total -1,144 -806 Total non-current liabilities 16,682 17,266 the company’s share of profit or loss of the investment after the date of acquisition. The company’s investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition. Current liabilities Accounts payable to subsidiaries [G] 16,579 15,269 Derivative financial instruments 1 3 Other current liabilities [H] 844 942 Accruals and deferred income 204 283 Total current liabilities 17,628 16,497 Total equity and liabilities 37,988 38,834 [..] Bracketed letters refer to the related Notes to the Corporate Financial Statements 168 169 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Finance income in 2016 included a dividend received from In 2015, KPN recorded a EUR 184 million book gain on the [C] Other receivables Telefónica Deutschland of EUR 110 million (2015: EUR 146 million). sale of part of its stake in Telefónica Deutschland. Line item Other in Other financial results in 2015 included a gain due Amounts in millions of EUR December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 In 2016, interest on borrowings decreased by EUR 82 million, to revaluation of the option to acquire the remaining stake of Accrued income 23 31 which was mainly related to a lower gross debt position. 87.5% in GroupIT B.V. Current income tax receivables – 216 In September 2016, KPN completed a tender offer, in which Intercompany interest (net) mainly includes interest of 8.5% KPN repurchased an aggregate principal amount of EUR on an intercompany loan provided by KPN Mobile N.V., part of Other receivables 1 3 1.0 billion across five eurobonds with maturities between loans payable to subsidiaries (Note F). Total 24 250 2017 and 2024. The tender premium of EUR 222 million is included in finance costs. This was partly offset by a gain of EUR 66 million from discontinued fair value hedges on the repurchased bonds, which is included in other financial results. [D] Equity attributable to equity holders For a breakdown of equity attributable to equity holders, refer to the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Group Equity and the Notes thereto. [B] Non-current assets Legal reserves Group Other financial fixed Legal reserves (net of tax) are presented below: Amounts in millions of EUR companies Derivatives Deferred taxes assets1 Total Fair value Balance as of January 1, 2015 30,170 312 1,241 2,802 34,525 Revaluation Capitalized reserve reserve Cumulative software available-forOther nonproperty, plant translation development sale financial distributable Exchange rate differences -2 – – – -2 Amounts in millions of EUR and equipment adjustments costs assets reserves Total Income from Group companies after taxes 1,264 – – – 1,264 Balance as of January 1, 2015 40 18 162 125 53 398 Capital contributions 152 – – – 152 Fair value adjustments – 218 – 362 580 Exchange rate differences – -2 – – – -2 Decrease due to sale – – – -805 -805 Addition/(release) retained earnings -9 – -16 – 1 -24 Withdrawals/redemptions – – – -46 -46 Other – – – 134 – 134 Other2 -18 – -238 -4 -260 Balance as of December 31, 2015 31 16 146 259 54 506 Total changes 1,396 218 -238 -493 883 Balance as of December 31, 2015 31,566 530 1,003 2,309 35,408 Exchange rate differences – 20 – – – 20 Addition/(release) retained earnings -7 – -59 – -48 -114 Exchange rate differences 27 – – – 27 Other – – – -249 – -249 Income from Group companies after taxes 1,630 – – – 1,630 Balance as of December 31, 2016 24 36 87 10 6 163 Capital contributions 9 – – – 9 Fair value adjustments – -232 – -382 -614 Other2 103 – 91 -30 164 Pursuant to Dutch law, limitations exist relating to the The movements in the fair value reserve available-for-sale Total changes 1,769 -232 91 -412 1,216 distribution of equity attributable to equity holders. Such financial assets mainly relates to the value of the stake in Balance as of December 31, 2016 33,335 298 1,094 1,897 36,624 limitations relate to the subscribed capital stock of EUR 171 Telefónica Deutschland (increase in 2015 and decrease in million (2015: EUR 171 million) as well as to legal reserves 2016). The remaining balance at December 31, 2016 relates to 1 The fair value adjustment relates to the stake in Telefónica Deutschland. required by Dutch law as presented above. The total the stake in Tecnocom (read more in Note 14). 2 The amount in line item Other in Deferred taxes mainly relates to the decrease in share price of the stake in Telefónica Deutschland. The deferred tax liability distributable reserves at December 31, 2016, amounted to EUR related to Telefónica Deutschland (2015: EUR 106 million) decreased to EUR 67 million. This deferred tax liability was balanced with the deferred tax assets. 3,267 million (2015: EUR 4,305 million). Dutch law also requires that in determining the amount for distribution, the company’s ability to continue to pay its debt must be taken into account, including the EUR perpetual hybrid bonds which are classified as equity under IFRS. 170 171 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Corporate Financial Statements Corporate Financial Statements Retained earnings [E] Provisions [H] Other current liabilities Movements in retained earnings were as follows: Movements in provisions were as follows: Retirement December 31, December 31, benefit Other Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Amounts in millions of EUR obligations provisions Total Current portion of loans 720 829 Balance as of January 1 -6,869 -5,803 Balance as of January 1, 2015 66 35 101 Social security and other taxes payable 124 109 Profit/loss of previous year 638 -598 Additions/releases to income 2 2 4 Bank overdrafts – 4 Coupon perpetual hybrid bond (net of tax) -51 -51 Additions/releases directly in OCI 23 – 23 Total 844 942 Dividend ordinary shares -460 -485 Usage -24 -15 -39 Actuarial gain/loss pensions and other post-57 47 employment plans (net of tax) Balance as of December 31, 2015 67 22 89 [I] Commitments and contingencies Release/addition legal reserves 114 24 Acquisitions -89 – Additions/releases to income 3 6 9 December 31, December 31, Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Fair value adjustment available-for-sale -14 – Additions/releases directly in OCI 5 – 5 financial assets Commitments by virtue of guarantees 155 157 Other -10 -3 Usage -23 -3 -26 Balance as of December 31 -6,798 -6,869 Balance as of December 31, 2016 52 25 77 KPN has issued several declarations of joint and several liabilities for various Group companies in compliance with Retained earnings can be reconciled with the Consolidated The provisions for retirement benefit obligations in 2016 and Article 403, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. These declarations Statement of Financial Position as follows: 2015 relate to early retirement plans. For details, read more in of joint and several liabilities for Group companies are included Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. in a complete list of subsidiaries and participating interests, December 31, December 31, which is available at the offices of the Chamber of Commerce Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 [F] Loans in The Hague. Loans include bonds outstanding for EUR 6,680 million (2015: Retained earnings as per Consolidated Statement of Financial Position -5,859 -6,000 EUR 7,501 million) and hybrid bonds outstanding for EUR Directors’ remuneration 1,030 million (2015: EUR 1,088 million). For details, read more in Read more in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Revaluation reserve -24 -31 Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. on employee benefits. Capitalized software development costs -87 -146 Furthermore, the loans also include loans from subsidiaries The Hague, February 23, 2017 Other non-distributable reserves -6 -54 for EUR 8,652 million (2015: EUR 8,459 million). This mainly relates to a loan payable to KPN Mobile N.V., which bears Reclassification fair value adjustment -29 – interest of 8.5% and must be repaid in full, including accrued Board of Management Supervisory Board available-for-sale financial assets interest, in 2034. The loan is subordinated to the unsecured Profit for the year -793 -638 Eelco Blok Duco W. Sickinghe and unsubordinated creditors of KPN N.V., but ranks ahead Retained earnings as per Corporate of the hybrid capital securities issued by KPN N.V. as long as Jan Kees de Jager Peter A.M. van Bommel -6,798 -6,869 by their terms these hybrid capital securities are expressed to Statement of Financial Position rank pari passu with the preference share of KPN N.V. and the Frank van der Post Carlos J. García Moreno Elizondo preference shares issued by KPN N.V. (if any). There are no Joost Farwerck Derk J. Haank loans from subsidiaries with maturity dates in 2017 (2015: EUR 483 million with maturity date in 2016). Peter F. Hartman [G] Accounts payable to subsidiaries Jolande C.M. Sap Accounts payable to subsidiaries relate to intra-group financial current accounts of EUR 16,755 million, interest to be paid Claudia J.G. Zuiderwijk to KPN Mobile N.V. of EUR 185 million and intercompany settlement of net current income tax position of EUR -361 million. The financial current accounts have indefinite duration. The interest is annually determined and based on twelve month Euribor increased by 0.15%, and a risk premium attached by the market to the specific KPN credit risk. 172 173 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Combined independent auditor’s report Other Information Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Combined independent auditor’s report on the 2016 financial statements and sustainability information in KPN’s 2016 Integrated Annual Report Dear Shareholders and members of the Supervisory Board of Koninklijke KPN N.V. (KPN), Please find below the main conclusions and main features of our audit and review. For the full text of the independent auditor’s Our conclusions Basis for our conclusions report, which includes the assurance report on sustainability, please refer to the next pages. Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence We conducted our assurance engagements in accordance obtained, we have come to the following conclusions: with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing Summary and the Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements With respect to audit procedures performed; in our opinion, relating to sustainability reports’. Dutch Standard 3810N the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and is a subject specific standard under the International Conclusions fair view of the financial position of KPN as at December Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 31, 2016 and of its result and its cash flows for 2016 ‘Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Object of audit or review Outcome of our work performed in accordance with International Financial Reporting Historical Financial Information’. Our responsibilities under Financial statements 2016 (consolidated and corporate) True and fair view Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) those standards are further described in the section: ‘Our and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; responsibilities’ in this report. Sustainability information 2016: the corporate financial statements give a true and fair CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations Reliable and adequate view (reasonable assurance) view of the financial position of KPN as at December 31, We believe the assurance evidence we have obtained in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data 2016 and of its result for 2016 in accordance with Part 9 is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our Sustainability information 2016 in selected chapters and appendices Reliable and adequate view (limited assurance) of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; conclusions. CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy Our Independence Other information, including the Reports by the No material misstatements to report data as presented in Appendix 7 of the Integrated Annual We are independent of KPN in accordance with the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board Report present, in all material respects, a reliable and ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij adequate view, in accordance with the Global Reporting assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Initiative (GRI) Standards and the supplemental KPN Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence)’ and reporting criteria as disclosed in Appendix 3, ‘Scope, other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Main features of our audit & review reporting process and materiality determination’, of the This includes that we do not perform any activities that could Integrated Annual Report. result in a conflict of interest with our independent assurance What we have done Scope of our work Materiality Key audit & assurance matters engagement. Furthermore, we have complied with the Audit of financial statements 2016 Netherlands EUR 45 million, which represents V  aluation (in)tangible assets, With respect to review procedures performed on the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, (consolidated and corporate) Belgium 2.0% of EBITDA incl. goodwill sustainability information in scope; in our opinion, Dutch Code of Ethics)’. United States of America Valuation deferred tax assets nothing has come to our attention that causes us to Sale of BASE Company believe that the sustainability information in scope, in Reliability of IT systems, including security and cybercrime all material respects, does not provide a reliable and Our scope adequate view of KPN’s policy and business operations with regard to sustainability and the thereto related Our engagements scope Audit of CO₂ emission data 2016 Netherlands 5% deviation No areas of specific focus events and achievements for the year ended December 31, The Integrated Annual Report 2016 (hereafter: the Report) (Scope 1 and 2) own NL operations 2016 in accordance with the GRI Standards and the of KPN consists of the financial statements and other and the underlying energy data supplemental KPN reporting criteria as disclosed in information, including Reports by the Board of Management Review of sustainability information Scope varies per country Specific materiality levels for C  O₂ Scope 3 estimates, energy Appendix 3, ‘Scope, reporting process and materiality and Supervisory Board, that provides altogether an overview for 2016 in selected chapters and each element of the sustainability savings by customers determination’, of the Integrated Annual Report. of the policy, activities, events and performances related to appendices information in scope RepTrak pulse score, Net both the financial position and the sustainable development of Promoter Score With respect to procedures performed based on the KPN during reporting year 2016. The following information in requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code the Report has been in scope for our assurance engagements: and the Dutch Standard 720, we conclude that the other Procedures for Other information, Full reports Similar materiality as our audit or No areas of specific focus information included in the Integrated Annual Report, The consolidated financial statements, comprising: including Reports by the Board review scopes. including the Reports by the Board of Management and The Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at of Management and Supervisory Board Supervisory Board: December 31, 2016; Is consistent with the financial statements and does not The Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss, Other contain material misstatements; Comprehensive Income, Changes in Group Equity and Contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 Cash Flows for 2016; of the Dutch Civil Code. The Notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. 174 175 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Combined independent auditor’s report Other Information The corporate financial statements, comprising: performed full-scope audit procedures on the financial Reporting criteria Financial statements: The Corporate Statement of Financial Position as at information of all above mentioned segments. For the segment For the audit of the financial statements our considerations December 31, 2016; in the United States of America, we used EY component The information in the scope of our engagements needs to regarding the materiality are as follows. The Corporate Statement of Profit or Loss for 2016; auditors who are familiar with local laws and regulations be read and understood together with the reporting criteria, The Notes comprising a summary of the accounting to perform detailed audit procedures to obtain sufficient for which KPN is solely responsible for selecting and applying, Materiality EUR 45,000,000 policies and other explanatory information. coverage for financial statement line items from a consolidated taking into account applicable law and regulations related to financial statements perspective. reporting. The criteria used for the preparation of the Report The sustainability information in scope consists of: and thus relevant for our examination are described below. We Reasonable assurance CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope Where the work was performed by component auditors, we consider the reporting criteria used relevant and suitable for Benchmark used 2.0% of earnings before interest, 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the determined the level of involvement we needed to have in our assurance engagements. tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). underlying energy data as presented in Appendix 7; the audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient Limited assurance The sustainability information in the appropriate audit evidence had been obtained, as a basis for Additional explanation The users of the financial following chapters and appendices: our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole. Consolidated Financial International Financial Reporting statements of a for-profit entity Chapters: ‘KPN at a glance’, ‘Group performance’ The group engagement team has visited the component team. Statements: Standards as adopted by the typically focus on operating performance, particularly profit (excluding paragraph ‘Compliance & Risk’), ‘Our European Union (EU-IFRS) and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. before tax. Over the past years organization and suppliers’ (excluding paragraph At other group entities we performed review procedures or KPN’s profit before tax heavily ‘Corporate Governance’); specific audit procedures. The group consolidation, financial Corporate Financial Statements, Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil fluctuated, resulting from the Appendices: Appendix 2-9. This includes the disclosures and a number of complex items were audited by Report by the Board of Code. impact of the discontinuance CO₂ scope (Scope 3) emissions in Appendix 7 the group engagement team at the company’s head office. Management and the of operations and other nonSupervisory Board: recurring transactions. Furthermore, ‘Environmental figures’. These included revenue assurance, purchase price allocation, we note that in KPN’s external taxation, fixed assets and goodwill impairment, pensions, communications, earnings before Sustainability information GRI Standards (‘comprehensive’  he other information, including the Reports by the Board of T derivative financial instruments, hedge accounting and shareincluding the CO₂ emission data option) of the Global Reporting interest, tax, depreciation and Management and Supervisory Board, included in the Report based payments. We involved several EY specialists to assist amortization (EBITDA) is commonly 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) and the Initiative (GRI), the Greenhouse used to report on financial pursuant to the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the the audit team, including specialists from our tax, valuations, underlying energy data: Gas Protocol (WRI/WBCSD) performance. Considering these Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720 concerning our sustainability, actuarial and treasury departments. and the supplemental reporting aspects, we have concluded that criteria developed by KPN as obligation to report about the management board report and disclosed in Appendix 3, ‘Scope, EBITDA is the most appropriate other information. By performing audit procedures at segment and at corporate and stable benchmark for KPN reporting process and materiality to base our materiality upon. The level as mentioned above, together with the involvement determination’ of the Report. materiality is thereby set at Limitations in our engagements scope of specialists, we have been able to obtain sufficient and EUR 45,000,000, using a The sustainability information in the Report contains appropriate audit evidence about the group’s financial percentage of 2.0%, which is at the prospective information, such as ambitions, strategy, information to provide an opinion about the Consolidated lower end of a generally accepted targets, expectations and projections. Inherent to this Financial Statements. Materiality range. Last year we used a percentage of 1.5% because it information is that actual future results may differ and are was our first year audit and we therefore uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the General: felt more comfortable using a lower achievability and feasibility of prospective information. The scope of our assurance procedures is influenced by the percentage. application of materiality. Our assurance engagements aim to Further, the references in the sustainability information in provide assurance about whether the financial statements and the Report (www.kpn.com, external websites, interviews and the sustainability information in scope are free from material movies on KPN’s website and other documents) are outside misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or the scope of our assurance engagements. They are considered to be material if, individually or in the possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. Our scope for the group audit of the financial statements the (economic) decisions of users taken on the basis of the KPN is head of a group of entities, both in the Netherlands Report. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in and abroad. The Dutch entities and segments thereby form our assurance procedures and the evaluation of the effect of the financial statements in excess of EUR 2.25 million, would the majority of the business and there are relatively smaller identified misstatements on our conclusions. be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in operations in Belgium (sold in the course of 2016) and the our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. United States of America. The financial information of all these entities has been included in the Consolidated Financial At December 31, 2016 there were no remaining audit Statements. differences to be booked. Our group audit mainly focused on the more significant Sustainability information: segments in the Netherlands, including ‘Consumer’, ‘Business’, For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability ‘Wholesale’ and ‘NOI’ as well as ‘iBasis’ (United States of information in scope as a whole and for each KPI and America). disclosure we have considered the factors that influence their relevance and accuracy for the users of the Report. Based on Due to their significance and/or risk characteristics, we our professional judgment, we determined the materiality for 176 177 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Combined independent auditor’s report Other Information the identified key performance indicators at 5% deviation. framework meets the required criteria and it allows us to Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter For CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations perform a system based audit in an effective manner. Valuation of deferred tax assets Reliability of IT systems, including security and cybercrime in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data we have determined the materiality also at 5% deviation. We compared The key audit matters addressed below are all covered by At December 31, 2016, the deferred Our audit procedures related to At KPN, processes are highly As part of our audit, we have the qualitative disclosures at overall level with the quality KPN’s internal control framework and have been audited by tax assets are valued at the deferred tax assets included, automated and KPN continuously reviewed the quality of KPN’s IT principles of the GRI Standards (‘comprehensive’ option), us with satisfactory results. For the interest of the reader, we EUR 1.1 billion, related disclosures amongst others, using EY tax invests in simplification and systems and the controls embedded are included in the summary of specialists to assist us in verifying improvement of IT systems, which therein with a purpose to express which concern aspects such as balanced representation, highlight the most important elements we focused on in 2016. significant accounting policies and and interpreting the agreement has led to several changes in 2016 an opinion on the financial timeliness and consistency of the Report. in the notes to the consolidated (‘vaststellingsovereenkomst’) that have been discussed on page statements. For this purpose, we statement of profit or loss in Note 9. reached with the Dutch tax 37. Reliability and security of IT performed our own procedures and Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter Other information, including the Reports by the Board of This item was significant to our authorities and evaluating the systems are thereby high on the reviewed and tested the work done audit because the assessment assumptions, such as expected agenda of KPN and for that purpose by KPN Risk & Compliance and KPN Management and Supervisory Board: Valuation of (in)tangible assets, including goodwill process is complex and judgmental future taxable income and KPN’s internal control framework Audit. Since this is highly specialized With respect to the materiality applied to our procedures and is based on assumptions methodologies used by the includes several controls to ensure, work, our audit team includes IT performed on the other information in our capacity as auditor Under IFRS, it is required to The impairment tests were that are affected by expected company. inter alia, proper identity, access specialists. As part of our testing, annually test the amount of important for our audit as the future market or economic and change management of its IT we reviewed change management of KPN and with the knowledge that we have as auditor goodwill and intangible assets with related asset amounts are conditions. The main element in This entailed reviewing the systems. KPN also has a security procedures, access management to conclude whether the other information would not be an indefinite life for impairment. significant and the assessment the deferred tax assets is related company’s latest approved strategic team in place focusing on policies, procedures, the continuity of IT appropriate or obviously incorrect; KPN’s disclosures about goodwill process itself is complex and to the discontinuance of the plan. We discussed the business security management and a team of systems and we reviewed the where the other information contains information that has and intangible assets are included requires judgment. The impairment German activities. Based on an plan with management and ethical hackers. This team tests the implementation of new IT systems. in Note 11. test includes assumptions that agreement with the Dutch tax determined the reasonableness of security of KPN’s IT environment In a few instances, situations were also been in scope of our assurance engagements regarding are affected by future market or authorities, the loss on the sale of the assumptions used regarding and imitates behavior of hackers to identified where controls needed the financial statements or sustainability information, similar On assets with finite lives an economic conditions. E-Plus (‘stakingsverlies’ and future the recoverability of the deferred stay continuously up to date with improvement and KPN has set-up materiality for this information has been applied; impairment test has to be Our audit procedures included, liquidation loss) can be off-set tax assets and assessed the plan’s the latest developments and helps remediation procedures that we In other cases, our assessment for materiality was based performed if indications of among others, using EY valuation against future taxable profits in the assumptions and sensitivities. See KPN in managing their own security have also reviewed and tested with impairment exist. experts to assist us in verifying the Netherlands. Note 9. risks, including cybercrime. satisfactory results. on findings that could influence the decisions of the users A triggering event was identified assumptions and methodologies dependent on our evaluation of the relevance of that regarding the valuation of the used by KPN. We compared information for these users. goodwill of iBasis that required forecasted revenue and profit an impairment test. Based on the margins for all cash generating Key audit matter How our audit addressed the matter For the assurance procedures concerning the sustainability information in test results an impairment was units with the approved KPN scope, we identified the following key assurance matter: recognized in Q1 2016. strategic plans. We also verified Sale of BASE Company NV Key audit & assurance matters In addition there were a couple the assumptions to which the of triggering events identified, for outcome of the impairment test is On April 20, 2015, KPN announced Our audit included assessing the Key assurance matter How our assurance procedures Key audit and assurance matters are those matters that, in example in the area of hardware and most sensitive and reviewed the an agreement to sell the Belgian transaction and its documentation addressed the matter software that required impairment sensitivity analysis as included in BASE Company to Telenet. EU and determining if the classification our professional judgment, were of most significance in our testing and for which minor Note 11 of the Financial Statements. approval was obtained on February as discontinued operations was Estimations and assumptions in CO₂ Scope 3 and energy savings by assurance procedures for the financial statements and the impairments were recorded. 4, 2016. The sale of BASE Company appropriate and in line with customers sustainability information in scope. We have communicated was completed on February 11, 2016. applicable accounting standards. the key audit and assurance matters to the Supervisory Board. Inherent to the nature of CO₂, scope Our review procedures focused on The key audit and assurance matters are not a comprehensive BASE Company has been eliminated In our audit procedures, we verified 3 and energy savings by customers understanding the models used, from the segment disclosures that the result for the year 2016 is that they are to a large extent assessing the reasonableness of reflection of all matters discussed. but the ‘profit for the year from of BASE Company has been based on the use of estimates and the assumptions, including by discontinued operations’ in the properly included in KPN’s result underlying assumptions. substantiation with underlying These matters were addressed in the context of our assurance consolidated statement of profit for the year and that the settlement sources and assessing the procedures for the financial statements and the sustainability or loss and ‘cash flows from at completion date has been mathematical accuracy of the information in scope as a whole and to conclude thereon, and discontinued operations’ include accounted for in accordance with calculations applied. We have also results related to BASE Company the share and purchase agreement. assessed whether the disclosure is we did not take exception to any of the key audit or assurance until February 11, 2016 amounting to adequate. matters mentioned below. EUR 367 million. Disclosure of methodology for RepTrak pulse score (reputation) and General observation: Net Promoter Score in the Netherlands (customer satisfaction) For the audit of the financial statements, we rely on KPN’s The indicators above are Our review procedures focused on internal control framework and its governance. This framework identified by KPN as part of their reviewing whether the methodology has been enhanced in 2014 and all material financial income representation of key achievements. used by the third party is suitable statement balances and balance sheet components are The indicators are measured by and assessing whether the now part of the framework. In 2016, the last revenue cycle third parties. The outcome is transparency on the methodology influenced by the methodology in the Report is sufficient for a of the Business market and corporate tax were added. The used by the third party. proper understanding by the reader. framework is maintained by the business and continuously tested by KPN Risk & Compliance and KPN Audit. The Management Board and Audit Committee are being informed of the outcome of the tests performed on a quarterly basis. For purposes of our audit, we assess the adequacy of the framework and we test the work of KPN Risk & Compliance and KPN Audit. We believe that KPN’s internal control 178 179 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Combined independent auditor’s report Other Information Annex to the Combined Independent Auditor’s Report Report on other legal and regulatory Our responsibilities Work performed requirements Our objective is to plan and perform the assurance assignment We have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the assurance engagements, in accordance with Dutch in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate Standards on Auditing and the Dutch Standard 3810N for assurance on sustainability information, ethical requirements and independence requirements. assurance evidence for our conclusions. Engagement Our audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the financial statements Our main procedures to obtain limited assurance about the sustainability We were engaged by the Supervisory Board as auditor of Our assurance procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable (consolidated and corporate) included the following: information in the selected chapters and annexes included the following: Koninklijke KPN N.V. on April 9, 2014, as of the audit for the year assurance have been performed with a high, but not absolute, Identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial Performing an external environment analysis and obtaining an statements, whether due to fraud or error, designing and performing audit understanding of the sector, relevant social themes and issues and the 2015 and have operated as statutory auditor since that date. level of assurance, which means we may not have detected procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit evidence that is characteristics of the organization. all material errors and fraud. The assurance procedures sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting policy and its consistent performed in obtaining limited assurance are aimed on the detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ Responsibilities plausibility of information which does not require exhaustive one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. dialogue and the reasonableness of management’s estimates. Evaluating the design and implementation of the systems and processes for gathering of evidence as in engagements focused on Obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order data gathering and processing of sustainability information as presented in Responsibilities of Board of Management and the reasonable assurance. The performed procedures consisted to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but the Report. Supervisory Board primarily of making inquiries of management and others within not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Interviews with management and relevant staff at corporate and local levels The Board of Management (hereafter: management) is the entity, as appropriate, applying analytical procedures and company’s internal control. responsible for the sustainability strategy, policies and performance. Evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing the sustainability responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the evaluating the evidence obtained. Consequently a review reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by information in the Report, carrying out internal control procedures on the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 engagement provides less assurance than an audit. management. data and the consolidation of the data in the Report. of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of Concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going Selected site visits to review the source data and the design and the other information, including the Report by the Board of concern basis of accounting, and based on the audit evidence obtained, implementation of controls and validation procedures at local level. Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that Evaluating internal and external documentation, in addition to interviews, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going to determine whether the sustainability information in the Report is Civil Code and the other information pursuant to Part 9 of The Hague, February 23, 2017 concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required adequately substantiated. Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the Performing analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted Ernst & Young Accountants LLP financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our for consolidation at group level. Management is also responsible for the preparation of opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to Assessing the consistency between the sustainability information and the the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may information in the Report not in scope for our assurance engagements. the sustainability information in accordance with the GRI cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern. Assessing whether the sustainability information has been prepared ‘in Standards (Comprehensive option) and the supplemental Signed by G.A.M. Aarnink Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial accordance’ with the GRI Standards (‘comprehensive’ option). reporting criteria of KPN, including the identification of statements, including the disclosures. stakeholders and the determination of material topics. Evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying In addition to the procedures mentioned above, for CO₂ emission data 2016 The choices made by management in respect of the scope transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. (Scope 1 and 2 ) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying of the Report and the reporting criteria are set out in the energy data we performed following to obtain reasonable assurance: Assessing the systems and processes for data gathering, including testing section entitled “Appendix 3, Scope, reporting process and the design, existence and the operating effectiveness of the relevant materiality determination” in the Report. internal controls during the reporting year. Conducting analytical procedures and substantive testing procedures on Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal the relevant data. control as management determines is necessary to enable Assessing the processing of other information, such as the aggregation process of data into the information as presented in the sustainability the preparation of the Report that is free from material information. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Investigating internal and external documentation to determine whether the sustainability information in the Report is reliable. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the company’s We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of reporting frameworks mentioned, management should Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed on the other information is less than the scope of those prepare the financial statements using the going concern performed in our audit of the financial statements. basis of accounting unless management either intends to We communicate with the Supervisory Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the assurance procedures and significant liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our assurance procedures. realistic alternative but to do so. Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for group entities. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the group entities or the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the operations. On this basis, we selected group entities for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. financial statements. We provide the Supervisory Board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Company’s (financial) reporting process. From the matters communicated with the Supervisory Board, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements, the review of the sustainability information in scope and the audit of the CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) of own operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data of the current period and are therefore the key audit & assurance matters. We describe these matters in our combined independent auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, not communicating the matter is in the public interest. 180 181 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 1. Alternative performance measures Appendices Appendix 1. The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted revenues for the full year. Alternative performance measures Revenues In the discussion of KPN’s financial results, a number of Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA FY 2016 FY 2016 FY 2015 FY 2015 y-on-y y-on-y alternative performance measures (non-GAAP figures) are Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA, together also (in millions of EUR) reported Incidentals adjusted reported Incidentals adjusted reported adjusted used to provide readers with additional financial information, referred to as the adjusted results, are derived from revenues that is regularly reviewed by management. These non-GAAP (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, and are Consumer 3,139 – 3,139 3,095 – 3,095 1.4% 1.4% figures should not be viewed as a substitute for KPN’s financial adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and incidentals. Business 2,303 – 2,303 2,482 -10 2,492 -7.2% -7.6% results as determined in accordance with IFRS, which are Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which are not presented in KPN’s Financial Statements. Also, the additional directly related to day-to-day operational activities over EUR Wholesale 763 26 737 730 – 730 4.5% 1.0% information presented is not uniformly defined by all 5 million unless significant for the specific reportable segment. companies, including KPN’s peers. Therefore, the non-GAAP Network, Operations & IT 17 – 17 16 – 16 6.3% 6.3% figures presented may not be comparable with similarly named Other (incl. eliminations) -170 – -170 -161 – -161 5.6% 5.6% numbers and disclosures by other companies. In addition, readers should be aware that certain information presented The Netherlands 6,052 26 6,026 6,162 -10 6,172 -1.8% -2.4% is derived from amounts determined under IFRS, but is not in itself an expressly defined GAAP measure. Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative iBasis 867 – 867 920 – 920 -5.8% -5.8% to an equivalent GAAP measure. KPN’s management considers these non-GAAP figures, combined with GAAP performance measures and in Other activities 4 – 4 35 – 35 -89% -89% conjunction with each other, most appropriate to measure the Intercompany revenues -117 – -117 -109 – -109 7.3% 7.3% performance of the Group and its Segments. The non-GAAP figures are used by management for planning, reporting KPN Group 6,806 26 6,780 7,008 -10 7,018 -2.9% -3.4% (internal and external) and incentive purposes. KPN’s main non-GAAP figures are explained below. EBITDA The following table specifies the revenue incidentals in more detail: KPN defines EBITDA as operating result before depreciation (including impairments) of PP&E and amortization (including Revenue incidentals (in millions of EUR) Segment FY 2016 FY 2015 impairments) of intangible assets. Note that KPN’s definition of EBITDA deviates from the literal definition of earnings before Revenue-related provision Business – -10 interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analyses of the Change in revenue-related provisions Wholesale 26 – results as reported under IFRS as adopted by the European KPN Group 26 -10 Union. Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Total revenues and other income 6,806 7,008 Cost of goods & services 2,131 2,209 Personnel expenses 1,175 1,260 Information Technology / 517 535 Technical Infrastructure Other operating expenses 554 680 Total operating expenses 4,377 4,684 EBITDA 2,429 2,324 182 183 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 1. Alternative performance measures Appendices The following table shows the key items between reported and adjusted EBITDA for the full year. Simplification savings or Simplification program excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major changes KPN’s Simplification program is directed at realizing in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and disposals). run-rate savings in both capital expenditures and operating The calculation of the Net Debt/EBITDA ratio is provided in EBITDA expenses (opex). The Simplification program is aimed at Note 28 of the Financial Statements. innovation Capex and the operating expense categories FY 2016 Restruc­ FY 2016 FY 2015 RestrucFY 2015 y-on-y y-on-y Personnel expenses, Information Technology / Technical (in millions of EUR) reported Incidentals turing adjusted reported Incidentals turing adjusted reported adjusted Infrastructure expenses and Other operating expenses, excluding restructuring costs and incidentals. Through Consumer (contribution margin) 1,871 -8 -13 1,892 1,797 – -12 1,809 4.1% 4.6% its nature the program will also result in a reduction of FTE’s. The base-line for measurement of the Simplification Business savings is Capex and operating expense levels at the 1,382 14 -14 1,382 1,468 -11 -36 1,515 -5.9% -8.8% (contribution margin) end of 2013. The base-line is adjusted for major changes Wholesale 536 26 – 510 495 – -3 498 8.3% 2.4% in the composition of the Group in the years 2014-2016 (contribution margin) (acquisitions and disposals). KPN finalized the first wave Network, Operations & IT of the Simplification program in Q4 2016, realizing opex -1,143 – -19 -1,124 -1,187 6 -16 -1,177 -3.7% -4.5% (cost center) and Capex run-rate savings of approximately EUR 460 million and 2,072 FTE reductions since the end of 2013. Other (incl. eliminations) -244 – 5 -249 -272 -8 -264 -10% -5.7% The Netherlands 2,402 32 -41 2,411 2,301 -5 -75 2,381 4.4% 1.3% Free Cash Flow (‘FCF’) FCF is defined as cash flow from continuing operating activities plus proceeds from disposals of PP&E, minus capital expenditures (Capex), being investments in PP&E iBasis 23 – – 23 23 – – 23 0.0% 0.0% and software. Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Other activities 4 14 -4 -6 – 10 -25 15 n.m. n.m. Net cash flow provided by operating KPN Group 2,429 46 -45 2,428 2,324 5 -100 2,419 4.5% 0.4% 1,924 1,996 activities from continuing operations Capex -1,193 -1,300 Proceeds from real estate 10 2 The following table specifies the EBITDA incidentals in more detail: Free cash flow from continuing operations 741 698 EBITDA incidentals (in millions of EUR) Segment FY 2016 FY 2015 Change of provision Consumer -8 – Operating free cash flow Operating free cash flow is defined as adjusted EBITDA minus Change of provisions Business 14 -1 Capex. Changes in revenue-related provisions Business – -10 Amounts in millions of EUR 2016 2015 Changes in revenue-related provisions Wholesale 26 – Adjusted EBITDA 2,428 2,419 Release of asset retirement obligation Network, Operations & IT – 6 Capex -1,193 -1,300 Release of pension provision Other activities 14 – Operating free cash flow 1,235 1,119 Release of provisions Other activities – 10 KPN Group 46 5 Net Debt / EBITDA ratio In the Net Debt / EBITDA ratio, KPN defines Net Debt as the nominal value of interest bearing financial liabilities excluding derivatives and related collateral, representing the net repayment obligations in Euro, taking into account 50% of the nominal value of the hybrid capital instruments, less net cash and short-term investments. The EBITDA in this context is Normalized EBITDA, a 12-month rolling total EBITDA 184 185 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 2. Overview of CSR targets and achievements Appendices Appendix 2. Overview of CSR targets and achievements Theme/KPI Target 2016 Result 2016 Result 2015 Result 2014 Target 2017 Target 2018 and beyond Related Sustainable Development Goal Transparent and reliable service provider NPS NL 8 6 3 -3 9 >15 in 2020 Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure NPS Consumer Mobile 12 10 9 2 13 Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure NPS Consumer Residential 12 10 9 2 13 Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure NPS Business 0 -3 -10 -13 0 Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure Best in class networks Weighted downtime reduction -30% +55%1 -61% n/a -30% Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure %Households with possibility for more than 100 Mb 85% 75% 68% 4 million 78-80% 85% in 2020 Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure connection The average 4G download speed n/a 51 Mbps 50 Mbps in cities n/a 40 Mbps Industry, Innovation & Infrastructure Healthcare of the Future Self-reliance for ~160.000 # of elderly facilitated to live independently 14,000 11,317 n/a n/a 15,500 end-users in 2020 with smart Good Health and Wellbeing monitoring services In 2020 significant contribution # of ill people facilitated with self-measurement to decreasing healthcare costs 14,000 12,245 n/a n/a 17,500 Good Health and Wellbeing solutions of cardiac patients by innovative ECG-measurements % of chronically ill children provided with a KPN 100% 100% 837 540 100% 100% in 2018 Good Health and Wellbeing Klasgenoot The New Way of Living & Working % of KPN employees in the Netherlands who feel they 90% 82% 80% 78% 90% 90% in 2018 Decent Work and Economic Growth can work in line with The New Way of Living & Working Growth in the Netherlands of the use of services that 25% compared with 2015 33% compared with 2015 39% compared with 2014 43% compared with 2013 40% compared with 2016 Sustainable Cities and Communities make The New Way of Living & Working possible 186 187 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 2. Overview of CSR targets and achievements Appendices Theme/KPI Target 2016 Result 2016 Result 2015 Result 2014 Target 2017 Target 2018 and beyond Related Sustainable Development Goal Energy efficient Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Group’s own 80% 54% 49% 47% 55% >80% in 2020 Climate Action use (energy reduction effect of KPN products/services for customers) 2 Circular operations and services Formulate 0-situation and Scope and targets 2017 / 2025 First steps towards circular n/a Completion of circularity manifest New equipment in networks, Climate Action define smart targets defined operations with 3 major partners / vendors offices and for KPN owned (cradle to cradle) representing substantial amount devices close to 100% circular as of spend. from 2025. For customer owned equipment a circular alternative will be available. % reduction of energy consumption KPN Group 19% 20% 18% 17% 21% 25% in 2020 Climate Action compared with 2010 55% in 2030 Climate neutral own operations stay climate neutral climate neutral for own climate neutral for own Stay climate Neutral Climate neutral until 2050: from Climate Action operations operations 2030 without compensations for car-fuels (science based target) CO2 reduction in the chain (Scope 3) n/a 12% compared with 2014 n/a n/a roadmap reducing Scope3 20% reduction emissions in 2025 Climate Action emissions compared to 2014 50% reduction scope 3 emissions in 2040 compared to 2014 (science based target) Privacy & Security % of Dutch people that believe their data is safe with KPN 71% 70% 73% 69% 70% 70% until 2020 KPN Privacystatement accessible for the blind, visually n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a May 2018 Reduced Inequalities impaired, deaf and hearing impaired and can be accessed on mobile devices Our people The year in which the 30% Overall % of women at KPN in the Netherlands 30% 24% 25% 24% 25% ambition must be reached will be Gender Equality decided in 2017, Employee survey score on Engagement and Sustainable Engagement > 75% Engagement > 77% 1) Overall engagement: 77% Engagement: 70% Engagement: 75% Engagement: >75% in 2018 Decent Work & Economic Growth employability (Fit for the Future) Sustainable employability/Fit Sustainable employability/Fit 2) Working environment: 59% Sustainable employability: 56% for the future: > 65% for the future: > 58% 3) Strategy & Leadership: 51% Sustainable employability: % of employees with a new 82% 87% 83% ~80% 82% >80% in 2018 Quality Education job < 1 year after leaving KPN Suppliers % realized improvements on corrective action plans 50% 77% 58% n/a 60% 70% in 2018 Partnerships for the Goals/Responsible Production and Consumption 1 In 2016, we had 55% more downtime than in 2015, mainly due to delays in getting our technical experts on site because of bugs in our own resource planning system. 2 In 2016, we did not meet our target of avoided energy use by customers. We improved the calculation method, using more accurate statistics for our calculation of avoided emissions and energy consumption by our customers. Read more about this on p.51  188 189 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and operations in the Netherlands and the underlying energy data In 2016, we chose to discontinue two CSR KPIs as of materiality determination as disclosed in Appendix 7 and limited assurance on other sustainability information as disclosed in KPN at a Glance, Group Performance (excluding paragraph Compliance & 2017. Those KPIs will no longer be included in our set as communicated in Appendix 2. These KPIs are: Risk), Our organization and suppliers (excluding paragraph Best-in-class networks: Corporate governance) and Appendix 2, Overview of CSR %  of the Netherlands that agree that KPN has the Scope sustainability information this report we followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) targets and achievements; Appendix 3, Scope, reporting best ICT Infra Standards Option Comprehensive. In anticipation of national process and materiality determination; Appendix 4, Glossary; Privacy & Security: The purpose of the sustainability information in our Integrated implementation of the EU Directive Non-Financial Reporting, Appendix 5, KPN Business Model; Appendix 6, Social figures; %  customers opted-in for using their traffic data for Report (including the GRI index and social and environmental we have considered the key elements of the Directive. We Appendix 7, Environmental figures (this includes CO₂ commercial, operational and customer service goals figures appendices as published on our website), covering already address most of the elements to be in compliance with emissions scope 3); Appendix 8, GRI Content Index the calendar year 2016, is to inform our stakeholders about the new Directive and are working on the other elements. and Appendix 9, Stakeholder overview. Appendices 5-9 The main reasons are changes in strategy. our role in society, in connection with our main strategic to the Integrated Annual Report are only included on objectives and targets. We regard as stakeholders all people The Option Comprehensive of the GRI Standards means www.kpn.com/annualreport. The references in the Reporting ambitions and organizations affected by our operations or with whom that KPN reports on all general standard disclosures and all sustainability information in the Integrated Annual Report K  PN adheres to several reporting benchmarks, like the Dow we maintain a relationship, such as customers, employees, specific standard disclosures related to identified material (www.kpn.com, external websites, interviews and movies on Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency shareholders, banks, suppliers, journalists, partners and social topics. The process for defining the material topics and report KPN’s website and other documents) are outside the scope Benchmark. By doing this, we keep improving our organizations. For more information on our stakeholder content, as well as the list of material topics, is described in the of the assurance engagement. performance and our way of reporting by comparing it with approach for specific stakeholder groups, see Appendix 9, materiality determination (see ‘materiality determination’ in that of peers and expectations from the industry and other Stakeholder overview. this Appendix). The results of this assessment (list of material The key social and environmental figures, which are available stakeholders. Our reporting ambitions for the following years topics for KPN, including their reporting priority) determine in the appendices 6 and 7 on www.kpn.com/annualreport, are: Keep reporting according to the IIRC framework and GRI The scope of the sustainability information in this report, GRI which GRI indicators are set out in the Integrated Report and are also part of this report. Partly, they provide more detailed standards index and social and environmental figures (appendices) which indicators are featured only on our website or in our GRI numbers on key figures that reflect on highly material topics K  eep reporting on the most material topics covers the KPN Group including subsidiaries in which KPN has index. The overview can be found in the GRI index in appendix within the report (such as CO₂-emissions and electricity R  eport more on qualitative and quantitative value creation a majority shareholding. The scope has not changed compared 8, GRI index. In addition to these GRI Standards, KPN has consumption). for society with last year’s report. Unless stated otherwise, references included the pilot version of the Telecommunications Sector M  aintain a leading position in several benchmarks like the to KPN should be read as referring to the KPN Group. In this Supplement, as published by GRI in 2003, in determining The report contains prospective information, such as Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and the Transparency report (including the GRI index and social and environmental material disclosures, resulting in five additional topics and ambitions, strategy, targets, expectations and projections. Benchmark appendices published on our website), KPN the Netherlands indicators in the GRI Index. For one highly material topic, Inherent to this information is that actual future results may refers to all the activities of the KPN Group in the Netherlands. customer loyalty, KPN uses and reports bespoke performance be different from the prospective information and therefore it Outside the Netherlands, our divisions are iBasis and Ortel indicators, as outlined in the GRI Index. may be uncertain. Therefore, the assumptions and feasibility Mobile. For our non-financial information, we include new of this prospective information is not covered by the external acquisitions in our report as of the first full year of ownership. The GRI Index specifies the aspect boundaries and omitted assurance. Non-financial information for divestments that occurred during indicators where relevant (including clarifications). In the the reporting year is excluded for the full year. The data in Integrated Report, there are no departures of any significance Changes compared to 2015 this report refers to KPN’s performance and not to that of our from the GRI standard disclosures. This report shows the In 2015, we reported on 30 material topics. During 2016 we subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. The full scope of the performance indicators applicable to the KPN Group. Where brought more focus, by assessing which topics matter most financial information is reported in the Consolidated Financial relevant, the appendices contain specified data per KPN to KPN and our stakeholders (see for more information on Statements (page 89 to 165). business unit: KPN the Netherlands and other subsidiaries the change of material topics the materiality determination of the KPN Group. Where available and relevant, the report in this Appendix). This resulted in a ‘core & more’ approach. This report specifically reviews developments and includes data for previous years. Quantitative data concerning The report is built around our nine highly material topics performance in 2016 and is based on topics identified as the workforce and financial results set out in this report has (the core), with more information about the less material highly material for KPN. Aspects of a more static nature (such been collected using our financial data management system. topics in Appendices to the report or online on the KPN as our management approaches to our CSR themes and our The remaining data set out in this report has been collected Integrated Report website. Other changes that were made stakeholders) or with less reporting priority (such as our using a standardized questionnaire that was completed compared to 2015: impact on biodiversity and the list of external memberships) by the responsible KPN business units. The Internal Audit are included in the GRI index www.kpn.com/annualreport or and Corporate Control departments used consistency and Introduction of the chapter ‘Our Purpose’ to emphasize the reported on http://corporate.kpn.com/dutch-society.htm. availability of supporting evidence as the basis for their Why of KPN assessment of the data reported at group level. Validation Next step in the SWOT analysis, focusing on more specific criteria set out in advance were also used to assess the data. trends and more information on the way we act on them Reporting process sustainability information A descriptive note on the value we create External Assurance A shorter and more condensed remuneration report The Integrated Report is published on February 23, 2017. In order to provide our stakeholders comfort over the reliability Introduction of a quantified value proposition We have prepared this report in line with the International of our reporting, we engaged EY to perform an assurance A clear connection to the Sustainable Development Goals Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Integrated Reporting engagement with the aim of obtaining reasonable assurance wherever applicable (IR) framework. For the sustainability information included in on CO₂ emission data 2016 (Scope 1 and 2) of KPNs own 190 191 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Scoping and calculation methodologies (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistiek of the Dutch government), Calculation and determination of reported emissions taken CH₄ and N₂O into consideration in our greenhouse gas environmental figures KiM2 (Kennisinstituut voor Mobiliteitsbeleid Ministery of In the Integrated Report, KPN reports the CO₂-emissions emissions information. We use the term ‘CO₂-emissions’ to Infrastructure and Environment), TNO3 (Dutch organisation for in chapter environmental performance and in Appendix refer to the greenhouse gas emissions reported on. These are Calculation methodology avoided energy consumption applied scientific research) and Telecompaper Research4. 7. Reporting is done in accordance with the guidance and stated in CO₂ equivalents. The scope 2 emissions are product by ICT services standards of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (e.g. GHG Protocol based and calculated based on the TTW (Tank to Wheel) We improved the calculation tool to calculate the estimated For some parameters there are different values available, scope 2 guidance GHG Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) CO₂-emissions factors for renewable electricity. For renewables avoided energy consumption and avoided emissions from sometimes also because of different measurement approaches. Accounting and Reporting Standard) and the ISO 14064-1 (wind, biomass, solar) the TTW-values are all zero. The CO₂using a number of our services using more accurate statistics The approach in those cases was to take the average between standard. KPN uses the operational control approach when emissions of the WTT (Well to Tank) phase are accounted for and during the update we also corrected an error in the the lowest reported value and the highest reported value reporting CO₂-emissions. Carbon dioxide (CO₂) is the most in our scope 3 emissions (category 3 – Fuel calculation. The results are presented on page 51 and in in reports and research. This was done for the following relevant greenhouse gas to KPN. Where available, we have and energy related activities). Table 8 of Appendix 7, Environmental Figures. In scope in the parameters: calculations are: Teleworking (enabled by KPN Connectivity), Number of telecommuters in 2016, the saved office space due Location / Level of Emissionfactor / KPN Audio Conferencing, KPN Colocation (Housing), KPN to teleworking and the extra energy consumption at home Scope CO₂ Standard Scope Coverage Approach Market based Assurance Green energy Hosting, KPN iTV cloud solution, KPN Workstations (KPN when working at home (rebound effect). This approach gives a Scope 1 GHG Protocol KPN Group 99% of all KPN Operational Location based NL: Reasonable www.co2emissie Werkplek), KPN Video Conferencing and Dematerialization of stable and conservative approach and a more accurate figure. scope 1 Guidance business units control approach Non.NL: Limited factoren.nl DVDs, CDs and newspapers (enabled by KPN connectivity). Therefore we also restated the values for 2014 and 2015. and subsidiaries Tank to Wheel For teleworking, audio conferencing, KPN Werkplek and video (opex/fte) Compensation: conferencing, the avoided energy consumption and carbon And at last the finally chosen parameter values were Gold standard & forest compenemissions are primarily caused by avoided travel (by car or by compared with the values other telco’s use. E.g. the values sation public transport). For colocation and hosting, the reduction is British Telecom uses are publicly available. And there are also caused by better cooling energy efficiency (PUE) of KPN data reports available by GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) Scope 2 GHG Protocol KPN Group 99% of all KPN Operational Location based NL: Reasonable www.co2emissie scope 2 business units control approach Non.NL: Limited factoren.nl centers compared with the average cooling energy efficiency with carbon abatement factors in different countries. These Guidance and subsidiaries Tank to Wheel of server rooms at customers’ premises. In all calculations, the comparisons show that our parameter values are conservative (opex/fte) 100% green rebound effects are also taken into account. For instance, when and will give credible figures of the estimated energy and electricity working at home in the case of teleworking, extra electricity carbon emission savings by Teleworking. Scope 3 Cat: 1, GHG Protocol Netherlands excl. 98%. of all KPN Spend based : Market based Limited UK DEFRA 2014 and gas for heating are used. The calculations of the estimates For the saving calculations of Audioconferencing and 2, 5, 9 scope 3 Guidance Reggefiber business units Environmentally of the avoided energy consumption and avoided emissions video conferencing the main input parameters is the and subsidiaries Extended Input are validated by Ecofys , who supports KPN in developing and number of audio/video conferences in the reporting year. (opex/fte) Output data (EEIO) approach improving the calculations. For each service, KPN volumes and And we determined the number of people attending a reference values are defined and with this data the estimated meeting (average over all meetings) with our productScope 3 Cat 3, 6, GHG Protocol Netherlands excl. 98%. of all KPN Operational Process based Limited Cat3: Well to Tank avoided energy consumption and avoided carbon emissions management department and with customer interviews. 7, 11, 13 scope 3 Guidance Reggefiber business units control approach www.co2emissie and subsidiaries factoren.nl are calculated. For videoconferencing the rebound effect of the electricity (opex/fte) consumption of the Video conferencing equipment is taken These KPN volumes and reference values are based on several into account Scope 3 Cat: 4, 8, GHG Protocol Netherlands excl. 98%. of all KPN Not applicable Process based Limited Not applicable 10, 12, 14, 15 scope 3 Guidance Reggefiber business units for KPN sources: and subsidiaries Actual measurements (by KPN, by customers or other For the saving calculations of colocation (Housing) and (opex/fte) sources) hosting services the main inputs are the EOY values of Publicly available data and statistics from governments, the service volume (in MW), the PUE of the server rooms research institutes, and sector organizations (e.g. CBS, GeSI, at customers premises and the (average) PUE of KPN’s This is only applicable for biomass. The gross emissions Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions due to: ITU, CarbonTrust) datacenters. For dematerialization of DVDs, CDs and disclosed in table 5 of Appendix 7 are location based and Emissions in our upstream value chain (during the External expertise from consultancy firms Scenario analyses newspapers (enabled by KPN connectivity) the savings are calculated with emissions factors of the Netherlands. production phase of our products, services and equipment at based on KPN’s savings calculation tool calculated by determining the amount of hard copy CDs, DVDs our suppliers) Expert judgments (KPN product management and other and newspapers that have been replaced by digital media The KPN emissions report is subdivided as follows: Emissions in our downstream value chain (during the use sources) (Spotify, Netflix, VoD, etc) and multiplying this with the energy phase including recycling and disposal of the products, consumption included in the lifecycle of these products. Scope 1 – Direct emissions due to: services and equipment). The service with the largest saving impact is Teleworking Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle fleet (employees’ enabled by KPN connectivity. This accounts for 79% of the The avoided energy consumption for iTV is the result of the passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles) Methodology Calculation scope 1 and 2 emissions total estimated avoided energy consumption in 2016 (1,817 lower electricity consumption of an iTV set-top box (STB) Heating of buildings (gas) 1. Activities PJ) and 76% of the total avoided CO₂e-emissions (146 kTon without a hard drive. The recordings are not locally stored Consumption of coolants for air conditioning and/or cooling Emissions (CO₂ and HFCs) are calculated based on all the CO₂e). See Table 8 in Appendix 7 Environmental Figures. but in the KPN Cloud. The rebound effect of the additional Fuel consumption of emergency power generators activities of the KPN Group. Most of the energy (85%) relate to The calculation is based on a large set of parameters. For electricity consumption for KPN (for storage, etc.) are taken activities that use electricity, 11% is related to the fuel for our instance: the total number of teleworkers in the Netherlands, into account. The avoided energy consumption of KPN Scope 2 – Indirect emissions due to: leased vehicles and 4% is related to gas for heating. Energy the average commuting distance in the Netherlands, the Workstations has been calculated by multiplying the number Electricity consumption of the fixed and mobile networks, and fuels used for heating and/or cooling and for emergency (average) number of days working from home and the KPN of customers using the service with the energy they can save datacenters, offices and shops power cover only a minor part of our energy consumption and marketshare in broadband connections. Most parameters are while working 10% of their time on a tablet or smartphone District heating our emissions. As virtually all the emissions are of CO₂, details based on publicly available statistics and reports from CBS1 instead of on a laptop. District cooling of this are given below. KPN reports on energy consumption, 192 193 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices energy reduction programs and energy efficiency applicable; for the remaining 10 categories, the emissions have Other calculation methodologies measure and monetize the wider environmental, social and improvement in the chapter Environmental Performance and been calculated for our operations in the Netherlands. See economic impacts of NWLW at KPN The Netherlands over in Appendix 7. for more information table 7 in Appendix 6, Environmental RepTrak 2015. The external developed, proprietary methodology used Figures. RepTrak is developed by the Reputation Institute and is used is based on calculating value created for society by identifying 2. Coverage as a method to calculate the reputation score of companies an organization’s most significant externalities. A framework 99% of all KPN business units and subsidiaries are covered Spend based calculations: worldwide. The RepTrak methodology measures also the is used to classify externalities as social or environmental and in the reported energy consumption and carbon emission Categories (Purchased goods and services (CAT1) and, Capital drivers of reputation and the consequences for supportive as either positive (bringing benefits to society) or negative figures. This is based on the yearly performed assessment goods (CAT2) Waste generated in operations (CAT5) and behaviour. Reputation Institute’s policy is to adjust all (imposing costs on society). To express externalities in in which (small) subsidiaries are assessed on basis of Downstream Transportation and Distribution (CAT9) are RepTrak scores by standardizing them against the aggregate financial terms, a range of financial modeling tools, techniques materiality (operational expenditures < 1 % of KPN total opex spend based calculated. These calculations are based on distribution of all scores obtained from the RI’s Annual Global and data sources is used. and /or number of FTEs < 1% of KPN total FTEs. In total procurement data (supplier spend) combined with emission RepTrak Pulse. Standardization has the effect of lowering the subsidiaries of which the environmental figures are not factors obtained from the Environmentally Extended Input scores in countries that tend to over-rate companies, and has 100 Mbps access reported are less than 1% of KPN’s total opex and /or total Output data (EEIO) approach. We use the most recent the effect of raising scores for companies in countries that The KPI ‘%Households with possibility for more than 100 Mb number of FTEs. available emission factors (g CO₂ per GBP spend) published by tend to rate companies more negatively. connection’ applies to households with the possibility to get DEFRA. We convert the GBP values to Euros and take inflation access to internet speeds of minimal 100 Mbit per second. The 3. Emission factors into account. We used the ISIC classification (International All RepTrak scores are culturally standardized. This means that reported percentage is calculated by dividing the number of The CO₂-emissions are calculated by multiplying the Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities) all RepTrak results are comparable across countries, industries households to whom this applies to by the total number of consumption data for each activity by the CO₂-emission for the correct mapping of specific suppliers or supplier and over time. Every month the progress on the key attributes households in the Netherlands. factors for each unit of consumption. These emission factors categories to a category in the supply chain emission factors that stimulate reputation and supportive behavior is measured. are updated annually. The source for our scope 1 and 2 CO₂list of DEFRA, when applicable. Emissions of transportation of The results are based on a minimum of 300 respondents The download speed that we measure is the speed that our calculationfactors is the Dutch website CO₂emissiefactoren. equipment , forward to customer and backward to KPN, are per company each quarter. The data collection method is an network operator is able to deliver to the service provider. The nl 5 . This website is an initiative of the Dutch Ministry of accounted in the category Downstream transportation and online interview of 20 minutes. The qualified respondents has KPI is measured monthly. In this report the results are based Infrastructure and Environment, Milieucentraal, Stichting distribution. In this category, all our activities of our Logistic to be familiar or very familiar with the company. Per January on the situation in December 2016. Klimaatvriendelijk Aanbesteden & Ondernemen (SKAO), Service Partners (LSPs) are accounted for. 1, 2011 Reputation Institute started using an updated cultural Stimular and Connekt. The website contains all necessary bias adjustment procedure whereby the cultural adjustment This KPI was introduced in 2014. In 2014 we published the actual CO₂-calculationfactors. Process based calculations: analysis was rebased based on the latest reputation scores. actual number of households, in 2015 both the number and Categories: CAT3 Fuel and energy related activities, CAT6 Because KPN was already in the midst of the process of the percentage and from 2016 we only disclose the percentage 4. Accuracy Business travel, CAT7 Employee commuting, CAT11 Use of sold setting KPIs, KPN requested Reputation Institute to report of households. The accuracy of the consumption data is a key factor in products, CAT13 Downstream leased assets. The calculations KPN’s reputation scores using the ‘old’ cultural bias adjustment the reliability of the CO₂-emissions calculations. In the data are calculated ‘process based’, so based on actual activity and analysis. Hence, this report shows ‘unrebased’ reputation This KPI is a successor of the KPI % Households with collection process, a number of factors affect the accuracy data. scores for KPN. KPN yearly reports the December score in the possibility for more than 40 Mb connections. During all the of the collected data. In general, the data originating from Integrated Report. years that we published those KPIs, we always published direct measurements and recordings, such as summaries from For fuel based emissions we use the Well-totank (WTT) December figures. energy and other suppliers and direct invoices, are the most emissions factors for the applicable sources. Per biomass Net Promoter Score (NPS) accurate. Data may also be estimated or calculated, using type we used the corresponding emission factor. Employee We use NPS as the leading indicator to measure customer assumptions and expert opinions. commuting emissions were based on own research on average loyalty. The NPS results included in this report are calculated Materiality determination commuting distance of KPN employees that are registered and provided by a leading market research company in the As electricity providers estimate our electricity consumption to participate in the new way of working. Emissions for Netherlands. for a part of our network operations, and do not in all downstream leased assets are based on total annual electricity cases perform a meter reading monthly, some uncertainty consumption of our installed equipment at the customer NPS is based on direct customer input, with the key question exists about the accuracy and completeness of our energy premises (such as modems for internet access and set-top whether a customer would recommend KPN to someone else. Comprehensive consumption. As this uncertainty cancels out over the years boxes). This equipment remains the property of KPN and KPN Depending on the score they give, the customer is classified list of subjects once actual meter readings are processed by our energy is also responsible for recollecting the equipment in the event as a ‘promoter’ or ‘critic’. The NPS is calculated by subtracting (incl. GRI, topics suppliers, we use energy consumption data from invoices as a of swaps, defects or ending of the subscription. the percentage of ‘critics’ from the percentage of ‘promoters’. identified otherwise) basis to report our energy consumption and greenhouse gas The result is displayed as an absolute number instead of a emissions. Since we are migrating to remotely readable meters For details of the individual scopes, we refer to the percentage, within a range of -100 to +100. on all sites the accuracy is improving. environmental indicators in the 2016 GRI index in Appendix 8. Step 1: In this report all NPS results refer to Q4 of the respective Determine impact For the data collection and auditing, KPN uses several internal 1 e.g. CBS reports “Onderzoek verplaatsingen in Nederland 2015” and year, based on a 3-month rolling average (Dec-16 is based on “Werkzame Beroepsbevolking 2015” Relevant topics audit measures to minimize the risk of incomplete and 2 e.g. KiM report “Mobiliteitsbalans 2013” Oct-16, Nov-16 and Dec-16). The NPS Consumer Residential, incorrect reporting of consumption data. 3 Reports NAE 2015 “Nationale Arbeidsmarkt Enquete 2015” (research of NPS Consumer Mobile and NPS Business reflect a weighted Step 2: TNO together with CBS) average based on sales. The main score, NPS NL, is the Material topics Determine priority 4 Telecompaper research report Dutch Broadband Q3 2016 Scope 3 emissions 5 http://co2emissiefactoren.nl/ average of the three segment NPS scores. Scope 3 emissions are calculated for KPN’s operations in the Netherlands and excluding Reggefiber so they cover 98% of True Value The annual materiality assessment is the basis for determining fte/opex. Of all 15 scope 3 categories six categories are not For the first time in 2016, we initiated a study to identify, the report content and is performed before the Integrated 194 195 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Appendices Report is compiled. The assessment is approved by the Board Average of outcomes and biggest differences compared with internal mechanisms, develop reporting definitions and, of Management. The process consists of three steps: 2015 taken into account for 2016 assessment where relevant, targets. Timelines are developed and new/ altered topics are included in the relevant reporting process To determine the significance for KPN of each topic in 2016, mechanisms (financial/HR data management systems or CSR Step 1: Identification of relevant aspects and other topics we used the following steps: questionnaires). The goal of the first step is to create a gross overview of Internal sessions held with employees from different sections relevant CSR topics. In this process, KPN annually updates a of KPN comprehensive list of topics based on GRI guidelines and the Rankings determined by the same employees and discussed pilot version of the Telecommunication Sector Supplement, during sessions Materiality assesment Highly material topics 1. Direct economic value as published by GRI in 2003. Where relevant, missing topics Taken into account the strategy, mission and vision of KPN 2. Privacy & Security are added, including topics identified during media scans and Average of rankings and biggest differences compared with 3. Customer loyalty stakeholder dialogues. Following the update of the list, KPN 2015 taken into account for 2016 assessment 4. Quality and reliability of network assesses the relevance of each of the topics. Relevant topics The result of this second step is an overview of all material 5. Environmental performance 6. Innovation and investments are those on which KPN has or can have an impact (inside topics for KPN, which is supported by current stakeholder 7. Impact of products and services the organization and in the value chain or society). This expectations. The materiality chart combines the two 2 1 8. Remuneration is determined based on stakeholder input and KPN’s aspects schematically. The combination of the horizontal 12 10 9 8 7 5 4 3 9. Compliance & Risk own experience. The outcome is an overview of all relevant axis (significance to KPN) and the vertical axis (significance Medium material topics topics. In 2015, we already updated the relevant topics. to stakeholders) determines the degree of influence that 6 10. Tax policy This resulted in less topics and a change in naming topics. the topic has on our reputation and therefore the reporting Significance to stakeholders 11 11. Sustainable Employment 14 13 We went from 52 to 30 topics. In 2016, we again looked at the priority. 12. Sustainable suppliers relevant topics and adjusted them by looking at significance 15 13. Digital inclusion 14. Diversity and Equal Opportunity to KPN, stakeholders or the value chain. The change resulted KPN divides the results into three categories: 18 17 16 15. Non-Discrimination in topics that are most relevant to KPN and its business. This Highly material topics: we aim to fulfill a leading role on these 16. Community investment is done in line with stakeholder expectations and the GRI as a topics and translate them into our core CSR themes and 17. Fair marketing communications basis. The most important changes are: additional themes. Our Integrated Annual report is largely 18. Electromagnetic fields/radiation From 30 to 21 relevant topics based on these topics. 21 20 19. Participation in public policy development A lot of topics are combined, because of strong links and Medium material topics: we want to demonstrate our social Low material topics 19 similar goals: responsibility regarding these topics. We report on them in our 20. Internal human rights issues Compliance, anti-corruption and anti-competitive GRI index, additional policy documents and/or on our website. 21. Biodiversity behavior: Compliance & Risk Low material topics: these are topics we monitor, but do not Sustainable employment, training & education and health report on. & safety of employees: Sustainable employment Our materiality determination is based on the complete list of Energy use operations, emissions operations, water use, general and sector-specific aspects provided by GRI. As said, Low material topics Medium material topics Highly material topics material use operations and e-waste: Environmental we translated the list into topics relevant for KPN. In order to Significance to KPN performance see where the aspect can be found and which GRI aspects are Indirect economic impact and impact of products and translated into KPN topics, please see the cross-reference on services on social and environmental issues: Impact of the next page. For our high material topics, we made a crossproducts and services reference with our strategic choices and KPIs. The topics that do not correspond with a strategic choice, are highly material Step 2: Determining reporting priority for our reporting process. The second step aims to assess the reporting priority of all relevant topics, which is presented graphically and used not only Changes in priority compared to 2015: to determine the contents of the Integrated Report but also as Sustainable Employment and Sustainable Suppliers: from input to determine our (CSR) strategy, policies and approach. high to medium Participation in public policy development: from low to KPN determines the reporting priority by reviewing all medium relevant topics on: (1) significance of the topic for KPN and Fair marketing communications: from low to medium (2) significance of the topic for key stakeholders. This review Diversity and equal opportunity: from high to medium is performed using nine criteria, which are relevant to KPN and based on GRI. The priority determination is done by the Step 3: Implementation following process: Based on the priority outcomes of the materiality To determine the significance for stakeholders of each topic in determination (approved by the BoM), we determine the 2016 we used the following steps: topics to be addressed in the report, including the scope Desk research based on several external research, media and aspect boundaries of all material topics. Business scans, and other relevant documents. units are informed on new and altered topics to be acted Comparison with peers and reported on, to prepare reporting systems, enhance 196 197 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 3. Scope, reporting process and materiality determination Where to Where to Highly material topic find in our IR Corresponding KPIs Corresponding GRI topic Medium material topic find in our IR Corresponding GRI topic Direct economic value p. 28 Economic Performance Sustainable employment p. 58 Employment Labor/Management Relations Privacy & Security p. 40 % of Dutch people that believe their data is Customer Privacy Occupational Health and Safety safe with KPN Secure use of Products and Services Training and Education KPN Privacystatement accessible for the blind, visually impaired, deaf and hearing Sustainable suppliers p. 60 Supplier Environmental Assessment impaired and can be accessed on mobile Freedom of Association and Collective devices Bargaining Child Labor Customer loyalty p. 22 NPS Consumer Mobile Marketing and Labeling Forced or Compulsory Labor NPS Consumer Residential Digital Divide Human Rights Assessment NPS Business Supplier Social Assessment NPS NL Tax policy p. 31 Economic performance Quality and reliability of network p. 24 The average 4G download speed Indirect Economic Impacts % of households with possibility for more ICT Infrastructure Investments Digital inclusion p. 23 Digital Divide than 100 Mb connection Digital divide Weighted downtime reduction (compared to Technological Applications ICT Diversity and equal opportunity p. 59 Diversity and Equal Opportunity last year YTD) Non-discrimination p. 59, p. 61 Non-discrimination Impact of products and services p. 48 # of elderly facilitated to live independently Indirect Economic Impacts # of ill people facilitated with selfCustomer Health and Safety Community investment p. 23 Economic Performance measurement solutions Technological Applications ICT Growth in products that make the New Way Digital Divide Fair marketing communications p. 52 Marketing and Labeling of Living and Working possible Energy savings by customers as % of KPN Electromagnetic fields/radiation http://corporate.kpn.com/company-kpn/csr/telephones-mastsElectromagnetic Fields Group’s own use and-health.htm Environmental performance p. 44 % Reduction of energy consumption KPN Materials Participation in public policy development Appendix Stakeholder Engagement Group compared with 2010 Energy 9, p. 1 Public Policy Circular operations and services Emissions Climate Neutral own operations Effluents and Waste CO₂ reduction in the chain (scope 3) Environmental Compliance Innovation and investments p. 26 Indirect Economic Impacts Customer Health and Safety ICT Infrastructure Investments Technological Applications ICT Remuneration p. 78 Governance Compliance and risk p. 52 Anti-corruption Anti-competitive Behavior Environmental Compliance Marketing and Labeling Socioeconomic Compliance 198 199 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 4. Glossary Appendices Appendix 4. Glossary CBb (College van Beroep voor het bedrijfsleven) The Trade and Industry Appeals Tribunal in the Netherlands. D DEFRA CDP UK Department for Environment Food & Rural Affairs. DEFRA This glossary lists the key terms and concepts included in Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) is a joint initiative published conversion factors to calculate greenhouse gas the Integrated Annual Report. Appendix 3 describes the Adjusted revenues and adjusted EBITDA are derived from of investors worldwide that questions and benchmarks listed emissions. foundations of the reporting process, including methodologies revenues (including other income) and EBITDA, respectively, companies on their approach to climate change. used. and are adjusted for the impact of restructuring costs and DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) incidentals. Incidentals are non-recurring transactions which Churn (calculated on an annual basis) The Dow Jones Sustainability Index is a collection of indices 2G are not directly related to day-to-day operational activities The number of mobile customers no longer connected to a mobile that track the performance of companies that are frontrunners Second Generation Mobile System, which is based on the GSM over EUR 5 million unless significant for the specific reportable operator’s network divided by the operator’s customer base. in terms of CSR. The DJSI is based on an analysis of corporate universal standard. segment. economic, environmental and social performance. There are Circular economy several sub-indices based on geographical parameters. 3G ARPU (Average Revenue Per User) The circular economy is a generic term for an industrial Third Generation Mobile System, which is based on the UMTS ARPU is the sum of connection fees, monthly fixed economy that is producing no waste and pollution and in Dropped call rate universal standard. subscription revenues, traffic revenues and gross service which material flows are of two types biological nutrients, The dropped call rate is the fraction of telephone calls which provider revenues less related discounts during a one-month designed to re-enter the biosphere safely, and technical are cut off unexpectedly as a result of technical issues, 4G period, divided by the average number of customers during nutrients, which are designed to circulate at high quality in the measured as a percentage of all calls. Fourth Generation Mobile System, a standard for wireless that month. Gross service provider revenues represent production system without entering the biosphere. communication delivering high-speed data for mobile phones revenues generated by third-party providers. KPN accounts for DSL (Digital Subscriber Line) and data terminals. the net part as gross service provider revenues. CISO (Chief Information Security Office) DSL is a technology for bringing high bandwidth information CISO is responsible within KPN for the security of the IT and TI to homes and small businesses over ordinary copper PSTN 4G+ architecture. Part of this office are the CISO REDteam, KPN’s lines. The widely used term xDSL refers to different variations 4G+ provides additional wireless capacity and speed than B ethical hacking team and the CERT (Computer Emergency of DSL, such as ADSL, HDSL, VDSL and SDSL. traditional 4G, by aggregating 4G’s 800 MHz frequencies Response Team) that acts in case of a (potential) cyber-attack. with other 1800 MHz frequencies. BCF (Business Control Framework) The Business Control Framework contains all corporate Climate neutral E 4G average download speed policies and guidelines that are mandatory for KPN segments For KPN, climate neutral means operating with zero net The average download speed is based on the results of a and entities. It forms the cornerstone of the governance of the CO₂-emissions. EBITDA speedtest that customers initiate on 4G with their smartphone. KPN Group. Operating result before depreciation and impairments of Robot measurements and customers that use other networks Cloud services PP&E and amortization and impairments of intangible assets. than KPN’s are excluded from the results. Bit Cloud services are standardized IT capability (services, A binary digit (bit) is the smallest unit of information. Internet software or infrastructure) delivered via internet technologies EEIO (Environmentally extended input output data) 4G coverage speeds in this report are expressed in Megabits per second in a pay-per-use, self-service way. EEIO models estimate energy use and/or GHG emissions Coverage of the 4G mobile network. The coverage depends on (Mbps). resulting from the production and upstream supply chain the subscribers situation. KPN measures its 4G coverage by CO₂ activities of different sectors and products. checking four different situations (urban, suburban, in-car and Broadband Carbon dioxide is a gas that is created when fossil fuels such The resulting EEIO emissions factors can be used to estimate outdoor) in any given location. Broadband refers to telecommunication that provides multiple as oil and coal are burned. Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. cradle-to-gate GHG emissions for a given industry or product channels of data over a single communications medium, category. EEIO models are derived by allocating national GHG typically using some form of frequency or wave division Conflict minerals emissions to groups of finished products based on economic A multiplexing. Conflict minerals are minerals mined under conditions of flows between industry sectors. armed conflicts and human rights issues. These minerals are Access lines Byte used in a variety of products, including consumer electronic Access lines are the total number of traditional voice and VoIP The byte (derived from ‘by eight’) is a unit of digital devices such as mobile phones. F connections provided to customers of KPN’s Business segment information that consists of eight bits. Data sizes in this report as of the end of the specified period. are expressed in petabytes. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) FTE (full-time equivalent) Corporate Social Responsibility, to KPN, is the integrated vision The equivalent of the number of employees with a full-time ACM of entrepreneurship, in which the company takes responsibility contract. The Netherlands Authority for Consumers and Markets (ACM) C and creates value in economic (profit), ecological (planet) and acts as a regulator in the Netherlands and is responsible for social (people) terms. We incorporate CSR into our business FttC (Fiber-to-the-Curb) monitoring compliance with anti-trust rules. Cradle-to-cradle (C2C) and by doing so, take our social responsibility and contribute FttC is defined as an access network architecture in which Production techniques, management or operations that are to societal challenges. optical fiber extents to street cabinets ‘on the curb’. ADR essentially waste free. All material inputs and outputs are The final part of the connection to the home consists of American Depository Receipt. technical or biological nutrients. Technical nutrients can be Customer base copper. recycled or reused with no loss of quality and biological Customer base is the total number of subscribers. nutrients composted or consumed. 200 201 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 4. Glossary FttH (Fiber-to-the-Home) I L New Way of Living & Working (NWLW) FttH is defined as an access network architecture in which the The New Way of Living & Working means being able to final part of the connection to the home also consists of optical ICT LoRa (Long-Range) work without the constraints of time and place with the use fiber. Information and Communication Technology. Network architecture to connect millions of low-energy and of modern technology. low-data devices to the Internet in a cost-effective way. This FttO (Fiber-to-the-Office) IDH (Sustainable Trade Initiative) opens up countless application possibilities for KPN’s Internet Normalized EBITDA FttO is fiber connection for business customers to the Organization aimed at working towards ensuring more of Things (IoT). Normalized EBITDA is defined as a 12-month rolling total customers’ offices. sustainable tin mining practices in Indonesia. EBITDA excluding restructuring costs, incidentals and major LTE (Long-Term Evolution) changes in the composition of the Group (acquisitions and Industry-adjusted ranking LTE, commonly marketed as 4G LTE, is a standard for wireless disposals). G This ranking takes into account the impact of its industry’s communication of high-speed data for mobile phones and reputation on a company’s score Internet of Things (IoT) data terminals. GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Protocol O The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative is a multi-stakeholder Internet of Things partnership of business, non-governmental organizations The Internet of Things connects objects such as garbage M OTT (NGOs), governments and others that develop internationally bins or cars via a chip with the internet. This offers a lot of In broadcasting, over-the-top content (OTT) refers to the accepted GHG accounting and reporting standards for opportunities, such as Smart City solutions. Machine-to-Machine (M2M) delivery of audio, video, and other media over the internet for organizations. M2M refers to technologies that allow both wireless and wired which no subscription to a traditional cable or satellite IPTV systems to communicate between devices of the same ability. operator is required. A famous example is WhatsApp, which is Global Goals IPTV is a system through which television services are replacing text messaging. See Sustainable Development Goals delivered using the internet protocol suite over a packetMarket share switched network such as the internet. iTV is KPN’s IPTV Market share is the percentage or proportion of the total Green electricity offering in the Netherlands. available market that is being serviced by KPN. These figures P Green electricity is electricity from renewable sources. KPN are based on externally available market data, which may not be only uses wind energy and electricity from biomass that does ISO (International Organization for Standardization) completely accurate, and may partially be based on estimates. PUE (power usage effectiveness) not compete with food production. This organization is responsible for international management An international standard for the calculation of energy standards such as ISO 14001, ISO 140064-1, ISO 27001 and ISO Mbps (Megabits per second) efficiency of data centers, which compares the total data Greenprint 22301 (mentioned in this report). Mbps is a unit of data transfer rate equal to one million bits center electricity consumption with the electricity consumption The Greenprint is a description that helps us to work towards per second. The bandwidths of broadband networks are often of equipment used for customer purposes. In the calculation, the same goal; achieving the desired Customer Experience iTV indicated in Mbps. data centers with an occupation rate less than 25% are not and in the end become the best service provider. Based on the iTV stands for interactive TV. With iTV, the customer can easily taken into account. why, who, what and how of our existence. choose when, where and what programs to watch. MHz (Megahertz) MHz is one million hertz (a unit of frequency). Petabyte GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) One petabyte (PB) is one quadrillion (10¹⁵) of the unit byte for The Global Reporting Initiative is an organization that J Multi play digital information. publishes international standards for CSR reporting. Propositions combining more than one product and/or type of JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation) service is considered a multi play proposition. Triple play and The JAC is a cooperation of 13 European telecommunication quad play propositions are types of multi-play propositions. R H operators (including KPN) focusing on the social, ethical, and environmental conditions across their supply chains. MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) RepTrak Hybrid Cloud A mobile operator that does not have its own spectrum or RepTrak, developed by the Reputation Institute, is a method to Hybrid cloud is a cloud computing environment which uses a its own network infrastructure. Instead, MVNOs have business calculate a reputation score of companies. KPN’s reputation is mix of on-premises, private cloud and third-party, public cloud K arrangements with ‘traditional’ mobile operators to buy based on three out of twelve RepTrak attributes that are kept services with orchestration between the two platforms. By minutes of use to sell to their own customers. confidential and are stable over the years. allowing workloads to move between private and public KPN Classmate clouds as computing needs and costs change, hybrid cloud Through the KlasseContact project of the KPN Mooiste RGU (Revenue Generating Unit) gives businesses greater flexibility and more data deployment Contact Fonds, chronically ill children can use an ICT-set N RGU is the total of all subscribers receiving standard cable, options. (a KPN Classmate) to take a virtual seat in the classroom. broadband internet or telephony services over KPN’s network Net adds at a given date. Thus, one subscriber who receives a bundle of KPN Mooiste Contact Fonds Net adds is defined as the difference between the total KPN’s services (telephony, internet and TV) would be counted This KPN foundation supports societal initiatives aimed number of contracts for a specific type of service from one as three RGUs. at stimulating social contact, by combining people and period compare to the previous period. technological resources to the best advantage. Roaming NPS (Net Promoter Score) Transfer of mobile traffic from one network to another, NPS is a tool for measuring customer loyalty, based on referring to the exchange of international mobile traffic. whether customers would recommend KPN to someone else. 202 203 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 4. Glossary S if the connection has been inactive for a specific time period vision is to increase sustainability awareness among (prepaid or postpaid without contract). companies and investors. Scope 1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions occurring from sources that Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) VDSL (Very-high-bitrate Digital Subscriber Line) are owned or controlled by an organization. On September 25, 2015, countries within the United Nations A new DSL technology providing faster data transmission over adopted 17 goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and a single flat untwisted or twisted pair of copper wires. These Scope 2 ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable fast speeds mean that VDSL is capable of supporting high Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of development agenda. Each goal has specific targets to be bandwidth applications such as HDTV, as well as telephony purchased electricity, heating or cooling consumed by an achieved in 2030. Also known as Global Goals. services (Voice over IP) and general internet access, over a single organization. connection. VDSL-CO refers to VDSL from the central office. Scope 3 T VoIP (Voice over IP) Other direct greenhouse gas emissions as a consequence of Voice traffic is transported over an IP-based data network. the activities of the company, but occurring from sources not Tier standards (I to IV) It enables new ways of communicating, such as combinations owned or controlled by an organization. Telecommunications Infrastructure Standard for data centers. of telephony, messaging and videoconferencing. Tier levels describe the availability of data at a location. Service revenues The higher the tier, the greater the availability. Tier IV is the VoLTE (Voice over LTE) Service revenues are defined as the aggregate of connection highest level and entails independent dual-powered cooling VoLTE allows the voice service to be delivered as data flows fees, monthly subscription fees and traffic fees. The term and expected data availability of 99.995% or higher. within the LTE data bearer. service revenues refers to wireless service revenues. Transparency Benchmark (TB) SIM card (Subscriber Identity Module card) The Transparency Benchmark is a yearly benchmark which W A chip card inserted into a mobile phone, which contains investigates the content and quality of the sustainability information such as telephone numbers and memory for reports of Dutch enterprises. Weighted downtime reduction storing a directory. The weighted downtime concerns the average monthly time Transparency International Netherlands period in which a combination of KPN platforms and systems #SMARTer2030 Transparency International Netherlands is the Dutch part is inaccessible to clients and customers. Back in 2008, GeSI launched the first report of the SMART of Transparency International (TI), a non-governmental series, the SMART2020, followed by SMARTer2020 in 2012. organization which combats corruption worldwide. Wholesale broadband access In 2015, the #SMARTer2030 report has been launched with Wholesale broadband access is the rental by broadband the aim to extend our horizon to 2030 and to look at ICTTriple play internet service providers of access to KPN’s networks to enabled sustainability from a holistic point of view. The Term used to describe the provision of telephony, internet and supply broadband internet access to their end customers. translation of the #SMARTer2030 research into opportunities television services to a household by a single provider. The broadband internet service provider charges its end for KPN and the Netherlands followed in 2016. customer for the combined wholesale broadband access it True Value purchases from KPN along with its service fees. SOC (Security Operations Center) True Value is a method to understand how the social value a The SOC monitors the high-risk systems of KPN in order to company creates but also decreases influences the profit of a quickly act in case of security risks or incidents. company and the environment. SoHo/SME TSR (Total Shareholder Return) SoHo refers to Small Office/Home Office companies. SME refers A measure of the performance of different companies’ stocks to Small and Medium Enterprises. and shares over time. The TSR is calculated by the growth in capital from purchasing a share in the company assuming that Stakeholder the dividends are reinvested each time they are paid. This Stakeholders are the people or organizations with an interest growth is expressed as a percentage as the compound annual in the company, such as employees, shareholders, suppliers, growth rate. customers, governments and media. Subscriber V A subscriber is defined as an end-user with a connection to the mobile or fixed networks and/or service platforms of KPN. VBDO (Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame The subscriber is included in the subscriber base if there is a Ontwikkeling) direct or indirect (business, wholesale) billing relationship, The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable either prepaid or postpaid, with the following exceptions: Development (VBDO) works to create a sustainable capital if the connection is owned through wholesale by full MVNOs market, a market that considers not only financial criteria but or fixed line access parties or also non-financial, social and environmental criteria. VBDO’s 204 205 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 5. KPN Business Model Appendices Appendix 5. KPN Business Model Access networks connect a device of the customer (mobile phone, or modem) with access equipment in the closest Most of these costs (4-10) are fixed, they are not impacted by revenue or customer behavior, 1-3 are driven by how many node of the KPN network. Copper and fiber cables are access customers we have and if they use a lot of traffic, content and On pages 14-15 of the report, KPN describes its business model, highlighting the key inputs, networks, and antennas in towers in combination with wireless cloud services. business activities and outputs that create value for its key stakeholders. This section describes spectrum are so as well (for Mobile and Digitenne). Access networks do not understand the data they are transporting, The output of running the infrastructure is the functioning of KPN’s activities to convert inputs into outputs and outcomes. they just reproduce the electrical signals over a distance. the core-services of KPN towards its customers: Core networks transport the data received by the access equipment over the access networks towards the destination. 1. Mobile voice, SMS and data / Internet access, using 2G, KPN’s business model describes how KPN earns money Running the network delivers the core connectivity service to The destination is determined by an address (telephone 3G/UMTS or 4G/LTE mobile networks from implementing this mission as set out on pages 10-13 end-users, being people or devices. Running it means making number, IP address/ URL or UserID.) The destination can be 2. Fixed Internet access, Telephony, and IP TV, using the and fulfilling the needs of customers by taking inputs and sure KPN it continues to correctly routes calls, data packets a service of KPN (like telephony or IPTV) but also somewhere VDSL fiber to the curb copper network, or all fiber, or converting those into outputs. and streams between the users of our networks. on the Internet, outside the KPN network. The core network plain old PSTN is a combination of fiber networks between all the nodes 3. Data networks for connecting sites of companies At the most basic level, KPN’s business model is simple. Before the users can use the connectivity services they need and routers who decide based on the IP number to which 4. Internet of Things, security and cloud services, the latter We invest in and build a network infrastructure, and then to sign up, which means to the network to get their address connection to route an IP packet to get the data closer to its often in a resell model from others one-by-one sign up customers to use those networks to and billing information in place. Signing up is the start of the destination. A router is just a specific type of computer with 5. Datacenters to house business customer’s computers or fulfil their communication needs. We spend an up-front customer journey, which includes all interaction between dedicated software. Platforms deliver the services of KPN rental of processing power or applications cost (subscriber acquisition cost, SAC) per new customer the customer and KPN about the core service itself, until the (except Internet access). Each service has its platform, and 6. Workspace management for businesses and then receive a monthly fee that allows us to earn back contract is terminated. a platform is again one or more computers with dedicated 7. Consultancy, to help business customers with how to put the SAC and the investments and maintenance cost of the software for that specific service. KPN’s services to best use Network infrastructure. Most services are variations on this Few employees of KPN work in running the infrastructure, 8. Tailored services, mostly for large business customers model. Sometimes the SAC is small or a service requires less many more in servicing the customer journey, but by far Apart from all the previous networks that are needed to investments, but the basic elements stay the same. the most in building the infrastructure. KPN builds the deliver the primary services, KPN also needs to know which infrastructure in a continuous, iterative process with help from customers it has, how much they use and how much capacity 3-8 are mostly used by businesses only, 1 and 2 by consumers To get more specific, we will break down the business model suppliers, to keep up with demand in bandwidth and changing should be build. Additionally, new customers join in, or leave and businesses. Services for business have many variants, of KPN into three main building blocks: customer needs. and they change their specific service package. To support the business can choose to do much himself, using only these changes, several things need to be adapted in multiple copper or fiber cables of KPN, or outsource his whole telco We will now delve deeper into each of these three business parts of access networks, access equipment, core networks and IT solution to KPN or anything in between. The telco and 1. Run the network model building blocks. and platforms. This is all maintained and managed from IT IT infrastructure and needs of business are of course often a systems. There are IT systems to control the primary services lot more complex than from consumers, requiring many more 2. Service the customer journey Run the Network but also to support Corporate company functions, like financial variants from KPN, diverging in service levels, guaranteed The slide below shows the main architecture of KPN’s systems. The computers on which the IT is running is located bandwidth, protocols and software versions. Also, different 3. Build the infrastructure Infrastructure: at data centers (centralized technical buildings with energy sectors can have specific needs. supply) by KPN itself. Services can also be used in wholesale model, KPN runs The inputs needed for this infrastructure to run also determine (part off) the network, but the customer journey is serviced by the running cost: another service provider, often also adding his own services. Access networks 1. Traffic from or towards customers on other networks It’s in the monthly fees for these core-services that earns KPN (from other Telcos) most of its revenue. Most of it is now in flat fees, and less by Fixed FttH Fixed FttO network 2. TV Channels and on demand video or audio content usage fees. The margin on this revenue, if we deduct the cost network Wi-Fi 2G 3G 4G 3. Recurring license fees for use of external cloud services for running the infrastructure, may be large, but this is because 4. The internet most of the costs for KPN are in servicing the customer journey Access 5. Green electricity for all the equipment and cooling of and building the infrastructure. equipment datacenters 6. Rental of buildings to house all the equipment 7. Rental of sites for antennas for the mobile network (2G, Core The internet 3G, 4G, Digitenne and LoRa) network 8. Skilled KPN employees /engineers to monitor the network and solve malfunctions 9. Maintenance contracts with suppliers to keep the equipment in good state Service 10. Recurring license fees for use of software platforms IP TV IT Voice Other telcos 206 207 KPN Annual Report 2016 Mission KPN at a glance Group performance Our organization Report by the Financial Statements Appendices Supervisory Board Appendix 5. KPN Business Model Appendices Servicing the customer journey customers and solving problems at customer locations Building the infrastructure may be invisible to customers, market share the greater the value creation, additional market While the output of running the infrastructure may be what 4. Specific equipment or devices (mobiles, routers and set it fully determines how well KPN can run its infrastructure and share will cost increasingly more SAC/SRC or lower ARPU. it’s finally all about for end-users, how they value KPN will be top-boxes) depending on the service service the customer journey. Consequently, by far the most There is an optimum in moist value creating market shares, the heavily determined by the contacts they have with KPN or its 5. IT systems that store all the data of (interaction with) cost of KPN are in the inputs to building the infrastructure: share level depending on the market situation. employees in their customer journey: customers across all the channels, the configuration of the customer and the infrastructure, the KPN service 1. Data on customer needs and behavior The output of building the infrastructure is twofold: 1. Get information about KPN services portfolio and process steps to make changes on behalf of 2. Skilled employees who understand customer needs, 2. Signing up the customer in the infrastructure. These IT systems are the competitive landscape, and technological and 1. A new, updated version of the Network able to keep up 3. Ask questions about using the service and solve problems used by KPN employees in the interaction with Customer, organizational possibilities with future capacity increase and changes in customer 4. Get a bill and pay should offer consistency across the channels and control 3. Equipment from suppliers needs 5. Change service aspects (speed, additional services) the changes in the infrastructure to implement the wishes 4. Sub-contractors for equipment installation and digging 2. Changes to the IT systems and processes used in 6. Resigning of the customer. cables the customer journey, matching the changes in the 6. Office buildings and shops 5. Software and software developers infrastructure and more closely able to fulfill customer The customer can choose from many channels to interact with 7. Market communication costs ‘above the line’ using 6. The current version of the infrastructure needs KPN: media (TV, Internet) and ‘below the line’ using mail and outbound calls The investments in the network depend on customers This however does in itself not generate any revenue, which is 1. Call, chat, or mail with a customer service center (or get 8. Billing cost for collecting and bad debt and usage. Fixed access network investments depend on reasonable, since building the infrastructure should be invisible called by a KPN employee) the number of Households and business location in the to customers. 2. Visit a shop Most of these costs are fixed, but are influenced by the Netherlands, but it does not matter if that household or 3. Visit a website or use the Mijn KPN app number of customers of KPN and especially new customers business is a Customer of KPN or not. For mobile networks Before KPN can decide what to build exactly (and thus offer to 4. Talk with a sales person or consultant for KPN. New customers require more interaction and thus most of the investments are in getting national coverage customers), many questions must be answered: 5. Use an external channel (which have service centers, time from KPN employees and are often, depending on market and implementing new, faster technologies (i.e. 4G/LTE). shops, websites, and sales persons as well) circumstances, given discounts or ‘free’ equipment (mobiles, The number of customers has no impact. The amount of 1. What will customers need in the future? routers, set-top boxes). This is, for a large part, called SAC/SRC. data customers use does have an impact, mostly on the 2. What will KPN offer customers? While the core mobile and fixed network services are mostly investments in core networks which has to transport all 3. Why should customers choose KPN instead of competitors? the same between consumer and business services, the The output of the customer journey is basically just one thing: the data. On-demand video data is then by far the most 4. Which technologies will become available? services that KPN offers for the customer journey are very loyal customers who are able to find a match between their data-hungry application. Investments in platforms depend 5. Which skills and resources do we need? different between consumers and businesses. Differing needs and the services of KPN. on the functionality offers and the capacity. IT systems and 6. What is the roadmap for services and technologies? in channels, service levels and sometimes specific for a process development investments depend on the complexity 7. How do we migrate from old to new? specific customer or segment. Especially sales is different. In The revenue from the customer journey is limited, in of the infrastructure. Which is driven by the complexity of 8. How should we service the customer journey? consumer markets customers are attracted using large media Consumer and SME markets the service of the customer the portfolio and how many generations of services and 9. Which IT systems and processes do we need? campaign and mail and outbound campaigns targeted at journey is included in the monthly fee for using the coresystems KPN must support. Due to the large technological 10. What technologies and suppliers should KPN choose? specific customer groups or profiles. Important is to retain the service. Only under some market conditions, customers development in the recent years, mainly the migration of old 11. How can we do so at a minimum cost level? customers, an existing customer is of course much cheaper pay for a service engineer or a device. Large business do telco technology towards all IP based networks, there is still than a new one. In the business market, SME is mostly the pay for projects for their tailored services. a lot of legacy and thus a large need for simplification of the Answers to these questions give strategic, tactical and same as consumers, but the larger the business is, the more portfolio, networks, IT and processes within KPN, which would operational plans to execute. Swift and relentless executing of the sales shifts to personal sales using account managers Building the Infrastructure allow for much lower cost levels. these plans will allow KPN to keep up with customer needs, and a process of request for proposals and tailored offers. The current KPN Network, IT systems processes for the fence of competitors, give employees a satisfying work life, In Consumer and small business segments there is the clear customer journey may match the current customer needs, By far the most costs for nearly all KPN’s services are for efficient, sustainable and environmental friendly operations, trend to one package (KPN Compleet and KPN EEN) offering they won’t for the future: building the infrastructure, and also, KPN has to spend this and, if all this is in place, create value for shareholders. a complete solution for the customer. In all segments, the main upfront. Although KPN is increasingly also offering IT services, differentiator for competitors is, apart from a better network 1. Customer needs change for most IT services of KPN (security, cloud services and quality is the higher quality level of the customer journey at 2. As KPN’s services, and Internet services in general, datacenters) this is the same. Only workspace services and KPN. Apart from that happy customers are the most important increase in importance in the life and work of customers, consultancy are much more employee intensive services. asset for a service provider, allowing higher ARPU’s, lower usage and thus required capacity will increase as well This makes the KPN business a very capital intensive business. churn and SAC, high quality customer journey processes also 3. New technologies become available The large investments, and mostly fixed costs of service the often allow for lower costs, due to less errors and rework. 4. Old technology and services become obsolete customer journey and running the infrastructure, are earned 5. Competitive pressure, sustainable operations and value back by, one by one, attracting customers to use the network Inputs for Servicing the customer journey, and driving costs, creating for shareholders require lower costs and earn a monthly fee. are: This implies that KPN is in a constant process to upgrade its infrastructure, developing new services, migrating old If and when you have attracted enough customers to reach 1. Skilled and customer focused employees in customer services to new generations, increasing capacity and lowering enough scale, it will not be easy for competitors to copy service centers, sales and billing costs by continued simplification. The process of Building the your competitive advantages and so it should be possible 2. Back office employees to change configurations for Infrastructure is complicated because all the components have for a market leader to reach a return on investments that customers in the infrastructure to work together, and between many generations of networks, outperform the cost of capital, and thus create value for 3. Service engineers installing equipment, connecting IT and processes. shareholders. However, this does not imply that the higher the 208 209 KPN Annual Report 2016 Notes 210 211 Introduction KPN at a glance Our organization Group performance Notes Colophon For additional Information please contact Forward-looking statements and management estimates KPN Investor Relations Certain of the statements we have made in this IntegratTel: +31 (0) 704460986 ed Annual Report are ‘forward-looking statements’. These Fax: +31 (0) 704460593 statements are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on www.kpn.com/ir information currently available to us. They include information ir@kpn.com concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, Published by potential growth opportunities, potential operating perforKoninklijke KPN N.V. mance or expense improvements and the effects of future P.O. Box 30000 legislation or regulation. 2500 GA The Hague The Netherlands Forward-looking statements include all statements that Chamber of Commerce The Hague, are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of registration number 02045200 forward-looking terminology such as the words ‘believe’, ‘expect’, ‘plan’, ‘intend’, ‘anticipate’, ‘estimate’, ‘predict’, ‘potential’, Content and organization ‘continue’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘could’, ‘shall’, or the negative of Koninklijke KPN N.V. these terms or similar expressions. Royal HaskoningDHV Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and www.royalhaskoningdhv.com assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. No undue RRED Communications reliance should be put on any forward-looking statements. www.rred.nl Unless required by applicable law or applicable rules of the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, we have neiStampa Communications ther the intention nor an obligation to update forward-looking www.stampacommunications.com statements after distribution of this Integrated Annual Report. All market share information in this financial report is based on De Designpolitie management estimates based on externally available informawww.designpolitie.nl tion, unless indicated otherwise. Online The terms ‘we’, ‘our’ and ‘us’ are used to describe the company; We would like to thank everyone who participated in the where they are used in the chapter ‘Segment performance’, videos, that can be viewed on our Integrated Annual Report they refer to the business concerned. website: www.kpn.com/annualreport We always aim to further improve our CSR activities and reporting. Therefore, we highly appreciate your feedback, PAPER & BOARD MADE OF questions and comments on our Integrated Annual Report AGRI-WASTE and CSR activities. Please contact mvo@kpn.com. WWW.PAPERWISE.EU The inside pages of this publication have been printed on PaperWise, a new generation of paper and board with a very low environmental impact. The cover has been printed on wood-free white offset paper (FSC). 1 213 Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 CK Den Haag Nederland Postbus 30000 2500 GA Den Haag Nederland www.kpn.com
