Global Compact Veritas Report on Progress www.veritas.com UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2016 was full of exciting Corporate Responsibility initiatives and I’m confident that we’ve set up a strong program. I’m excited for us to build upon, develop, and grow this program throughout 2017 to make Veritas a leader in Corporate Responsibility. Veritas continues to support the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We maintain active membership in the UN Global Compact Network USA and have also begun to explore how to integrate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our business. We are committed to promoting sustainable business practices for the benefit of our employees, our clients and the communities where we operate. We see our investments in these efforts as good business and the right thing to do. Bill Coleman CEO Veritas Technologies GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com Veritas enables organizations to harness the power of their information by committing to ethical and responsible global corporate citizenship, promoting a talented, diverse and inclusive workforce, engaging in sound environmental practices, and investing in positive social impact around the globe. Human Rights and Labor Human Rights Principles Labor Principles Principle 1: businesses should support and respect Principle 3: businesses should uphold the the protection of internationally proclaimed human freedom of association and the effective rights; and recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced human rights abuses. and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Veritas respects and supports human rights, including fair labor practices, throughout our global operations and in our sphere of influence. Our Employees At Veritas, we believe that all our employees deserve respect and equal treatment. We support human rights and fair labor practices, including through the promotion of diversity and inclusion; by supporting the professional growth and development of our people; and through policies that promote dignity and safety in our workplaces. Our employee Code of Conduct backs our approach. Diversity and Inclusion With operations in over 30 countries, Veritas is a global company, with a diverse workforce and customer base. Veritas promotes and supports a diverse workforce at all levels of the Company. It is our belief that creating a work environment that enables us to attract, retain, and fully engage diverse talents leads to enhanced innovation and creativity in our products and services. Our employee resource groups (ERGs) play an important role in GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com supporting our diversity and inclusion strategy. They help develop awareness and build a sense of belonging for our employees. They organize volunteering activities and are proactive advocates on diversity challenges. We have 7 different ERGs with over 38 chapters across the company. This FY17, Veritas participated in the following programs furthering Diversity and Inclusion globally: Over 100 Veritas women from our US based offices headed to the Grace Hopper conference that took place in in Texas in October. Over 75 Veritas women from our India office attended India’s 2016 Grace Hopper conference held in Bangalore in December. Veritas participated in the Hour of Code where 25 volunteers headed to three schools around our Florida, US office in December. The Hour of Code started as a one-hour introduction to computer science, designed to demystify code” and broaden participation in the field of computer science. It has since become a worldwide effort to celebrate computer science, starting with one hour coding activities, and expanding to all sorts of community efforts. This grassroots campaign is supported by over 400 partners and 200,000 educators worldwide. Seven Veritas offices held events celebrating International Women’s Day in March 2016. In addition to Veritas employees in Dublin, guest speaker Aisling Hassell, head of Airbnb’s Dublin office, and 67 teenage girls from a local school attended the event. The headquarter Mountain View International Women’s Day event featured employees – both female and male – who spoke out for equality in the workplace. The event also had a photo booth on site where employees could take pictures and post them to their social networks in support of the #Pledge for Parity campaign. Six female technical employees were selected as mentors for Veritas’ participation in TechWomen, an initiative of the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, which took place in September and October at our Mountain View headquarters. The program is designed to support a global commitment toward advancing the rights and participation of women and girls by enabling them to reach their full potential in the technology industry. Three emerging technical women, from Jordan, Kenya and Kyrgyzstan, spent four weeks with the Veritas mentors, learning about the company and enhancing their skills so that they have additional opportunities to succeed upon returning home to their countries. Veritas’ participation in the TechWomen program supports the company’s commitment to empowering women and fostering their growth and success. Our Communities Global citizenship is a commitment made by Veritas to strive to do business in a manner that upholds local and international standards and values everywhere it invests and operates. Global citizenship impacts every business group within Veritas. Veritas has a responsibility to operate as a good corporate citizen and to make a positive contribution to the customers, communities, shareholders, and stakeholders that we serve. GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com Our Anti-Human Trafficking Policy is consistent with the Veritas Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and core values to protect and advance human dignity and human rights in our global business practices. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct addresses our expectations toward our suppliers regarding labor, health and safety, environmental impact and ethics. All new suppliers receive this document. Supplier Diversity is important to Veritas and we recognize the value and importance of diversity as a distinct business advantage. As such, we are in the process of establishing a Supplier Diversity program that aims to support a diverse network of suppliers. We are committed to continually enhancing our methods of outreach to existing and potential new diverse suppliers and to identifying opportunities for their continued growth. Goal FY17 Progress on Goal Complete a Global Diversity footprint. Completed. Launch a Diversity and Inclusion Strategic Launched and now the Committee is in the Working Committee. process of developing and implementing a comprehensive diversity strategy. Launch Diversity and Inclusion Employee Launch complete. 7 ERGs were launched in 2016, Resource Groups (ERGs). with 5 ERGs focusing specifically on diversity and inclusion: BLEVE (Black at Veritas Empowered), HOLA (Hispanic Outreach Leadership Affinity), PAVE (Pride at Veritas Empowered), REVIV (Remembering and Empowering Veterans in Veritas) and WAVE (Women at Veritas Empowered). GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com Environment Environment Principles Principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Approach to Environmental Sustainability We aim to integrate an environmental sustainability approach into our operational, product, and supply chain strategies. Addressing environmental sustainability challenges enables us to reduce cost and risk while increasing our impact as a corporate citizen. Improvements to our environmental performance not only support our business objectives, but also contribute to the global efforts towards tackling climate change. We are finding ways to reduce our energy, water, waste, and materials use across our global operations and are partnering with different departments within Veritas to identify and implement concrete actions. We also encourage employees to join the Veritas Sustainability journey and have launched over 10 SAVE (Sustainability at Veritas Empowered) Employees Resource Groups (ERGs) worldwide. We created a 5 Rs at Veritas campaign for Veritas employees to feel empowered to adopt the 5 Rs – refuse, reduce, reuse, repurpose, and recycle – every day at work. Veritas also joined forces with over 630 other companies and signed the Business Backs Low-Carbon USA statement calling on the Trump administration and the new Congress to support policies to accelerate a low-carbon future that will help curb climate change. Goal FY17 Progress on Goal Finalize our first GHG Inventory for FY17. On track for completion by May 2017. Report under CDP Climate Change. On track for completion by June 2017. Launch Veritas SAVE (Sustainability at Veritas Launch complete. We have over 11 sites Empowered) Employee Resource Groups. represented and will continue our efforts to expand the list. GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com Certify 100 percent of our hardware products as 100% of products are Energy Star certified. We Energy Star by the end of FY17. have set up a process to ensure all new products scheduled to launch will meet Energy Star requirements. Validate all products manufactured for Veritas as Veritas’ efforts related to conflict minerals are conflict-free across all four minerals (tantalum, aligned to the work of the Conflict-Free Sourcing tin, tungsten and gold) by 2020. Initiative (CFSI), an initiative of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition and the Global eSustainability Initiative. We are currently gathering CMRT from all our suppliers and expect to publish a conflict minerals report in FY18. Implement the EICC code of conduct with our Approximately 80% of our supply chain suppliers Tier 1 suppliers by the end of FY17. have signed the EICC code of conduct. For those, we have included EICC requirements to their contracts. GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com Anti-Corruption Anti-Corruption Principle Principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Veritas conducts its business fairly, legally, and with integrity. While working for the best interests of Veritas, we have a duty to be ethical and lawful in our dealings with customers, channel partners, suppliers, other business partners, and competitors, as well as our Veritas colleagues. Although laws and customs vary from country to country, Veritas expects that all employees comply with local laws, regulations, and standards of honesty and fairness in carrying out their duties on behalf of Veritas. We developed an Anti-Corruption section in our Veritas Code of Conduct that touches on: Contracting Practices: When Veritas is selling or buying products and services, or entering into other commitments, Veritas must embody the rights and obligations of each party in appropriate written contracts. Antitrust and Competition: As a global business, we conduct our business in compliance with laws and regulations designed to promote fair competition and encourage ethical and legal behavior among competitors. Anti-Corruption: No one acting on Veritas’ behalf may directly or indirectly use bribes or other corrupt practices in conducting Veritas business to influence any employee of federal, state, or local government or state owned entity in any country. Veritas employees wherever located in the world, must also comply with all elements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act. We have included an Anti-Corruption training module to our annual Code of Conduct training, which will be rolled out in Q4 of FY17. All employees at the company will be required to complete this training. Office of Ethics and Compliance Veritas has instituted an Office of Ethics and Compliance under the direction of the Office of the General Counsel. The Office of Ethics & Compliance has direct access to Veritas’ Chief Executive Officer and Veritas’ Audit Committee. The Office of Ethics & Compliance has been assigned overall responsibility to oversee compliance with the Code of Conduct, and will be supported by Veritas’ Finance, Human Resources, Internal Audit, Information Systems and Technology, Legal and other functional departments as needed. Goal FY17 Progress on Goal Implement Code of Conduct annual training. Implementation complete companywide. Trade and Compliance and Anti-corruption modules to GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com be added in Q4 FY17. Launch Ethics and Compliance Steering Committee launched and will be tasked to review Committee. high risk investigations and escalations. Investigations are rated by risk and all high risk matters are reported to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. While the Audit Committee is advised of all investigations, high risk matters receive additional attention. Create and rollout Third Party Due Diligence In progress and on track for launch in Q1 of FY18. Program. Goal is to ensure standardized vetting of Veritas partners/distributors. GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com For more information, please contact: Melynnie Rizvi, Senior Director of Corporate Responsibility +1 (650) 9331500 Melynnie.rizvi@veritas.com www.veritas.com GLOBAL COMPACT VERITAS REPORT ON PROGRESS | www.veritas.com
