2016 可持续发展报告 北京鹏远新和国际物流有限公司 Sustainable Development Report 2016 Pioneer Logistics Co. Ltd. 0 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 北京鹏远新和国际物流有限公司（以下简称 “鹏远新和”、“公司”或“我们”）主动向社会公众 报告公司的可持续发展状况，让全社会了解并 监督鹏远的可持续发展工作。自 2012 年起， 鹏远每年向社会发布可持续发展报告以披露 鹏远的可持续发展理念和实践，促进鹏远与利 关于报告 ABOUT THE REPORT 益相关方以及社会公众之间的了解、沟通与互 动，实现企业的可持续发展。 Pioneer Logistics Co. Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as the CPL , the company , “us” or we ) actively releases the sustainable development report to the public, and welcomes the whole society to understand and supervise the work of the sustainable development of CPL. Since 2012, the sustainable development report was published annually, to disclose the social concept and practice of CPL, promotes the understanding, communication and interaction between CPL and our parties with interests, to realize the sustainable development of enterprises. 本报告以北京鹏远新和国际物流有限公司为 主体，涵盖总公司及所有分支机构；本报告描 述报告期间内（2016 年 1 月 1 日至 2016 年 12 月 31 日）鹏远在人权、劳工、环境、反腐败 等方面的可持续发展情况。 This report covers the practice of sustainable development of Pioneer Logistics Co. Ltd. (including the headquarter and all branches) from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016. This report covers topics concerning the sustainable responsibility of Pioneer Logistics on human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. 1 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 本 报 告 参 照 全 球 报 告 倡 议 组 织 （ Global Reporting Initiative, GRI）《可持续发展指南 4.0 版本》（G4）核心“符合”方案、联合国全球契 约十项原则及联合国全球契约年度进展报告 实践指南等标准要求编写。 This report is formed in accordance with GRI 4.0, The UN Global Compact's ten principles, and COP formation guidance. 作为独立的可持续发展报告，本报告于 2017 年 10 月以中英文混合版本发布。在对两种文 本理解上发生歧义时，请以中文文本为准。 This report is released on October 2017 with combined version of Chinese and English. In the event of any dispute or misunderstanding as to the interpretation of the language or terms, the Chinese version shall take control. 2 / 21 总经理致辞 GM’S STATEMENT 我们坚持创新发展，企业“双创”成果丰硕。贯 彻全国科技创新大会精神，落实创新驱动发展 战略，把创新摆在公司发展全局的核心位置， 全面推进技术创新、业务创新、管理创新，激 发基层“双创”活力，组建职工技术创新团队， 大数据、云计算、物联网、移动互联网等新技 术在企业发展和物流服务中广泛应用。 We insist on innovation and development of the enterprise, and achieve fruitful result of innovation and entrepreneurship. We carried out the spirit of the National Science and Technology Innovation Conference, implement the strategy of innovation driven development, and place innovation at the heart of the overall development of the company, promoting technological innovation, service innovation, management innovation, stimulate the vitality of the innovation and entrepreneurship strategy, set up the technology innovation team of 刚刚过去的 2016 年，鹏远新和坚决贯彻党中 workers, using new technology of big data, cloud 央、国务院决策部署，围绕国家“四个全面”战 computing, IOT, mobile Internet and other 略布局，坚持创新、协调、绿色、开放、共享 applications in the enterprise development and 五大发展理念，主动适应经济发展新常态，全 logistics services. 面履行政治责任、经济责任、社会责任，实现 了“十三五”良好开局。 我们坚持以人为本，全心全意依靠职工办企业。 在全公司大力弘扬劳模精神和工匠精神，尊重 In the past year, Pioneer Logistics resolutely 职工首创精神，坚持一切从实际出发，广泛听 implement the policies deployed by the Central 取基层意见和声音，激发全体职工的积极性、 Committee and State Council, follows around the 主动性、创造性，使鹏远新和成为广大职工的 national four comprehensive strategic layout 共 同 家 园 和 创 新 沃 土 。 We adhere to the which adhere to the five development ideas of people-oriented enterprises and vigorously innovation, harmony, green, open, and sharing, promote the spirit of model workers and and actively adapt to the economic development craftmanship in the whole company, respect the of the new normal, fully implement the political pioneering spirit, be realistic in every aspect and responsibility, economic responsibility and social listen to the views of our frontline staff and responsibility to achieve a good start in 13th stimulate their enthusiasm, initiative and Five-Year plan. creativity, to have CPL as their common homeland and fertile ground for innovation. 3 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 创新永无止境，发展永不停步。2016 年是公司 实施“十三五”规划的关键一年，也是鹏远新和 改革的攻坚之年。宏观经济发展面临新形势， 第三方服务市场面临新格局，科技进步日新月 异。巴黎协定的正式生效和联合国可持续发展 目标的提出，成为企业积极应对世界可持续发 展挑战全新的平台。我们将与时俱进，继往开 来，以市场为导向，以客户为中心，担当尽责、 奋发有为，努力超越、追求卓越，强化本质安 全，确保优质服务，在改革创新中实现新突破， 在效率效益上实现新提升，努力做强做优做大， 坚持推动经济、社会、环境可持续发展和综合 价值最大化，为中国梦作出新的更大贡献！ Innovation never stops with endless development. 2016 is a crucial year for the company's implementation of the 13th Five-Year plan. Macroeconomic development is reforming, and the third-party service market is facing new pattern with non-stopping progress of science and technology. The formal entry into force of the Paris agreement and the initiatives of the United Nations' sustainable development have become the new platform for enterprises to respond positively to the challenges of world sustainable development. We will keep up with the times, the future, to be market-oriented and customer-centric, and strive to go beyond the pursuit of excellence, make greater contribution 公司总经理：朱明奇 to the Chinese dream! General Manager of CPL 4 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 可 持 续 发 展 管 理 Sustainable Development 目录 Management...................................................... 6 关于鹏远新和 About Our Company ........ 6 关于报告 About the Report ............................. 1 可持续发展责任 Sustainable Development 总经理致辞 GM’s Statement ............................ 3 Responsibility ........................................... 12 管理团队 Management Team ................. 13 利益相关方参与 Parties of Interest Involvement ............................................. 14 可持续的运营 Sustainable Operation............ 16 合规经营 Compliance Management ...... 16 人 性 化 管 理 Human-Based Management ................................................................. 17 实 行 绿 色 物 流 管 理 Implement Green Logistics Management ............................. 20 展望 OUTLOOK ................................................ 21 5 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 可持续发展管理 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MANAGEMENT 北京鹏远新和国际物流有限公司（以下简称鹏远新和）致力于采取负责任的经营方式，为可持续 发展做出贡献。我们将在科学发展观的指引下，以更大的决心、下更大力气、采取更加有效的措 施推进可持续发展进程，为全球可持续发展做出更新的、更大的贡献。 Pioneer Logistics (CPL) are committed to contribute to sustainable development through a responsible management approach. Under the guidance of Scientific Outlook on Development, we will make greater efforts with greater determination, and adopt more effective measures to promote the sustainable development process, to make updated and greater contribution to the sustainable development of the world. 鹏远坚持诚信合规经营，聚焦与利益相关方的合作，营造良好的商业环境，回报客户和社会。 CPL uphold the integrity of compliance management, focus on the cooperation with stakeholders to create a favorable business environment to return to our customers and the society. 关于鹏远新和 ABOUT OUR COMPANY 鹏远新和成立于 1993 年，是一家创新型、综合性专业第三方物流企业，致力于为客户提供新型 供应链一体化解决方案，整合采购、进出口代理和报关、仓储、包装、配送与售后等服务，形成 一站式的供应链管理，与多家著名企业建立长期战略合作关系。人才专业化、管理系统化、服务 规范化、物流网络化，使鹏远新和倍受国内外客户的信赖，并且多次获得各合作航空公司及物流 业界的奖项和好评，在中国物流行业享有较高声誉。 6 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 Pioneer Logistics was founded in 1993 and is an innovative and professional third-party logistics enterprise. CPL is committed to provide advanced integrated supply chain solutions such as integrated procurement, import and export, customs clearance, warehousing, packaging, distribution, customer service and more for its customers. Specialized employees, systemized management, standardized service and well-networked logistics enable CPL to be a reliable partner and have helped CPL receive a good reputation from customers in and outside China. 资质 Qualification 鹏远新和是由商务部批准的国际货物运输代 理企业，也是首批经中国民用航空总局和民航 华北管理局批准的兼有航空运输一类客、货和 二类客、货销售代理业务资质的航空运输销售 代理人。而在国内综合物流方面，鹏远新和拥 有完善的道路运输资质以及独立运输车队，并 且长期与铁路运输部门保持紧密的合作关系。 公司利用完善的第三方物流和仓储管理信息 系统以及 GPS 定位跟踪系统，针对中国物流企 业务领域 Business Profile 业的实际运作特点不断开发、创新。 公司主营业务有国内综合物流、国际货运代理 Pioneer Logistics is an international forwarding 及其它航空咨询、国际包机与旅游服务等。 company approved by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MFTEC), and The business profile of Pioneer Logistics covers an air transportation sales agent, one of the first domestic integrated logistics, international agents with Class-A passenger and cargo sales freight forwarding and charters, aviation certificate by CAAC. PL has grown into a leading consulting and other related services. provider in the domestic logistics industry. Its 除了公司的主营业务以外，鹏远新和还提供电 truck fleet equipped with GPS, warehouses, 气工程与安装服务、供应链综合管理咨询、以 distribution centers and state-of –the –art IT 及酒店票务服务等物流相关增值服务与配套 system, that enhance productivity and ensure 产品，凸显了鹏远新和如下几方面优势： we continue to be a leading company. Furthermore, we keep close partnership with ❖ 增加了公司各产品之间的融合性和弹性。 railway operations, which are advantageous ❖ 完善的配套支持服务，可满足相关附加服 additions to our business category. 务要求，给客户提供一揽子服务与一站式 鹏远新和拥有以下主要会员资质： 解决方案。 Pioneer Logistics obtained membership in the ❖ 强大的综合物流平台可迅速响应客户的 following organizations: 需求和变化，灵活调配服务团队和硬件/ 软件资源，定制高效节能的优质服务。 In addition to the company’s primary logistics services, we provide services such as 7 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 transportation and accommodation bookings, 凭借完善的运输网络和多年的操作经验，鹏远 packaging services as well as electrical 新和可为客户提供全国范围内的门到门限时 engineering and installation services. Which 运输服务、区域性及城市配送业务、仓储管理 highlights the following advantages of CPL: 及供应商库存管理业务、展览运输业务、供应 链综合管理和咨询业务等。 ❖ Integrated product packages Pioneer Logistics has a strong capacity in the land ❖ Supportive resources to fulfill additional transportation market in China. Through service requirements of our customers and integration of a variety of transportation provide one-stop solutions resources our logistics network contains a ❖ Strong integrated logistics platform capable nationwide coverage about 3600 nodes and of quickly respond to customer's needs and regions, and operates approximately 19,000 changes, flexible deployment of service square meters of indoor cargo operating team and hardware / software resources, platform. We provide our customers with doorcustomized efficient and quality services. to-door time-efficient transportation, regional and urban distribution, warehousing 国内综合物流业务 Integrated Logistics management and vendor managed inventory 鹏远新和通过整合多种运输资源形成了覆盖 services. Our extensive operation services 全国约 3,600 个节点和地区的物流网络，并在 include transportation business, supply chain 全国范围内拥有约 19,000 平米的集货室内操 management and consulting based on our well作平台。 developed transportation networks. 8 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 国际代理业务 International Freight Forwarding Depending on the support of powerful Business international networks, the profound understanding of airfreight market in China and 鹏远新和凭借强大的国际网络支持和对中国 the its professional operation capacity, PL has 航空货运市场的精通以及国内专业的操作能 earned an excellent reputation and customer 力，在国际进出口运输行业、报关清关领域以 loyalty in the industry of international and 及海陆空多种方式联运领域赢得了良好的口 domestic import & export transportation as well 碑和美誉，并维持了较高的客户满意度和广阔 as in the fields of custom clearance and 的客户群。 multimodal transportation. As a professional logistics company subordinate to CAAC, PL posses’ unique advantages in developing chartered business in the international and domestic market. 9 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 主要航线 Main Flight Lanes 包机租船业务 Air and Ocean Charters 鹏远新和多次承接国家重要的政治性客包机 项目的运输服务，目的地远至非洲和中东，并 As a subordinate of CAAC, CPL runs as a 且具有丰富的商业性包机运作经验，与多家国 professional logistics companies in the 内外航空公司建立了良好的关系，可在最短的 international and domestic market and has the 时间内根据客户需求拟定最安全经济的包机 advantage richly endowed by nature. 航班计划，并可提供点对点客包机业务。作为 航空售票业务 Flight Ticket Business 中国民航下属的专业物流公司，鹏远新和在国 际、国内市场上发展包机租船业务具有得天独 鹏远新和是经民航总局和民航华北地区管理 厚的优势。 局批 准 的 一类 航 空 客票 代 理， 是 民 航总 局 （CAAC）指定的航空票务代理机构，是国际航 Pioneer Logistics has taken multiple tasks of 空运输协会（IATA）和航空运输销售代理人协 important governmental passenger charters, 会注册会员，是专门从事国际、国内机票代理 with the destination ranging from Africa to the 销售业务及旅行、酒店预订及相关经济信息咨 Middle East; we have sufficient commercial 询服务的专业服务公司，在北京拥有正式销售 charters operation experience and maintain 代理机构。 good relationships with many airlines. We are capable of designing the most safe and Pioneer Logistics is the class-A ticket agency economical charter flight solutions and provide approved by CAAC, the appointed air ticket point to point charter flights in the shortest agency by CAAC and the member of IATA and possible time, according to the customer needs. Aviation Transportation Sales Agency Association. We specialized in international and domestic tickets sales agencies business, hotel reservation and economy information consulting services. We also own our formal sales agencies institution in Beijing. 10 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 服务客户 Customers 鹏远致力于为客户量身打造定制化服务，并为客户需求做出持续创新，提供高效、安全、可靠的 一站式服务。我们的主要客户分布在电力、汽配、化工、电子、会展等领域。 We are dedicated to the communication and cooperation with global companies. We provide service to companies in the fields of electronics, electrics, power, petroleum, automobile, exhibitions etc. CPL could tailor-make viable and effective logistics management for every kind of customers and may most closely meet their logistic needs. 11 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 可持续发展责任 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT RESPONSIBILITY 可持续发展是人类社会的共同责任，我们是可持续发展的坚定支持者和实践者。我们将在科学发 展观的指引下，以更大的决心、下更大力气、采取更加有效的措施推进可持续发展进程，为全球 可持续发展做出更新的、更大的贡献。 Sustainable development is the common responsibility of human society, and we are a firm supporter and practitioner of it. We will be guided by the Scientific Development Concept with greater determination, greater efforts, to take more effective measures to promote the sustainable development process, to make new and greater contribution to the global sustainable development. 实现营业额的稳步增长，将净利润、纳税额作为企业经济责任的重要测量 经济责任 维度，通过知识创新和人才优势，发展核心业务，助力行业发展，推动经 济，实现固有资产保值增值。 Economic Responsibility To achieve turnover robust growth and make the total net profit and tax a priority when calculating dimensions of enterprise economic responsibility. It is to recognize the value of fixed assets, innovation, HR advantages, developing core business, to make sense of industry development and promote the growth of the national economy. 关注用水量、用电量、耗油量等关键指标，规范节能减排的标准和管理， 环境责任 加大监督力度，做好废旧包装、产品、污水、饮食垃圾等废弃物分类管理 及处理与再利用工作。 Environmental Responsibility In relation to water consumption, electricity use, fuel consumption per kilometer etc., as key targets of our environmental responsibility goals. To standardize the energy conservation and emissions reduction, strengthen the supervision, manage well of the packaging of the waste, such as sewage waste classification management and processing and recycling work. 促进就业，保障人权、关注女员工、残疾人以及农民工的权利，提供平等 社会责任 沟通的工作环境，实现利益相关者间的相互协作，共建和谐；遵守商业伦 理，反对商业贿赂，创造公平竞争的市场环境。 Social Responsibility We promote stable employment, protect human rights, and are aware of the rights of female employees, disabled persons and migrant workers. We provide equal communication environment to promote collaboration, harmony and learning among community and parties of interest. We comply with business ethics, fight against commercial bribery in order to create a fair competitive market environment. 12 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 subordinate departments for the highest 管理团队 MANAGEMENT TEAM leadership, they are responsible for the supervision of the company as a whole 鹏远新和建立跨职能团队，依靠高水平的责任 enterprise social responsibility and sustainable 治理，对整个公司的企业社会责任事务进行高 development, and to penetrate the concept of 效管理。企业社会责任管理委员会组成人员为 corporate social responsibility to the 总经理及各下属部门的最高领导层，负责监管 departments related strategy, 公司整体的企业社会责任和可持续发展工作， 将企业社会责任的理念渗透到各部门相关战 implementation and management. 略、执行、管理等工作中，传达至每个员工， Communicating to each employee and 鼓励员工积极参与社会责任事项，促进责任理 encouraging staff to actively participate in social 念与每个员工的日常工作相结合，将社会责任 responsibility issues and promote the 管理工作真正落到实处。 understanding of responsibilities of each employee's daily work, combined with the social Pioneer Logistics establishes the cross-functional responsibility management exemptions. team, relying on a high level of responsibility management, to manage the company's corporate social responsibility affairs efficiently. The members of corporate social responsibility management committee are general manager and the 13 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 利益相关方参与 PARTIES OF INTEREST INVOLVEMENT 我们根据利益相关方对企业可持续发展的影 development and the influence degree of the 响程度和风险大小进行识别和选择，并且注意 magnitude of risk, and pay attention to the 与多元化的利益相关方建立常态的沟通机制， interests of the diversification and establish 倾听他们的需求，学习他们的长处，认真对待 related normal communication mechanism, and 他们的反馈，以责任未双方带来巨大的价值。 listen to their needs, learn their strengths, treat their feedback, and bring great value for both We identify and select the parties of interest parties by the responsibility. according to the enterprise sustainable 利益相关方 沟通形式及表现 ✓ 响应国家政策 政府 ✓ 依法合规 ✓ 诚信经营 ✓ 员工关怀与改善薪酬激励 员工 ✓ 增强员工参与管理度 ✓ 建立全方位培训体系 ✓ 打造良好企业文化 ✓ 建立通畅、透明的内部沟通渠道 ✓ 推进行业自律 行业 ✓ 培养行业人才 ✓ 积极参与国内外同业交流 ✓ 加强客户关系管理 客户 ✓ 及时更新产品信息 ✓ 提高客户满意度 ✓ 业务交流 商业伙伴 ✓ 定期走访 ✓ 建立长期合作关系 ✓ 参加公益活动 公众 ✓ 搭建公众平台 ✓ 增添多样化公众沟通渠道 ✓ 定期组织“公众参观日”活动 ✓ 积极参加有关会议及活动 非政府组织 ✓ 支持机构能力建设 ✓ 开展志愿服务 ✓ 节能经营 环境 ✓ 广泛使用电子流程，深化无纸办公 ✓ 关注生态保护 ✓ 实现环境友好 14 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 Parties of Interest Communication and Performance ✓ Responsive to government policies Government ✓ Regulatory compliance ✓ Integrity management ✓ Staff care and welfare improvement Employees ✓ Establish a full range of training programs ✓ Develop better corporate culture ✓ Enhance employee participation in the degree of management ✓ Establishment of transparent internal communication channel ✓ Strengthen customer relation management Customer ✓ Up to date product information ✓ Improve customer satisfaction ✓ Business communication Business Partner ✓ Regular visits ✓ Build long term cooperation relationship ✓ Involve in public welfare undertakings Publics ✓ Establish public platforms ✓ Multiple public communication channels ✓ Organize ‘public visit day’ on regular basis ✓ Active participation in meetings and activities NGO ✓ Support for institutional development ✓ Carry out volunteer service ✓ Energy saving operation Environment ✓ Extended use of electronic process, work towards paperless office 15 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 可持续的运营 SUSTAINABLE OPERATION discontinuity across the macro environment. Excellent compliance system can bring 合规经营 COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT differentiated competitive advantage for the enterprise, so that the enterprises can walk in 恪守商业道德，遵守法律法规，是鹏远合规运 front of competitors in this complex business 营的基石，也是鹏远一直秉承的核心理念。鹏 environment. 远倡导公平竞争，保障贸易遵从并反对任何形 式的腐败和商业贿赂。鹏远于 2014 年起将合 规要求嵌入公司的政策、制度与流程，并适配 反腐败和反商业贿赂 Anti-Corruption 专业团队执行运作。 and Anti-Commercial-Bribery Adhere to business ethics and abide by the laws 鹏远坚持诚信经营，对贿赂和腐败行为持“零 and regulations, is the cornerstone and core idea 容忍”的态度。鹏远对内加强对员工的道德和 of CPL’s compliance operations. CPL promotes 法律遵从意识宣传教育，要求所有员工学习并 fair competition, ensure trade compliance and 签署《鹏远员工商业行为准则》，且每年通过 oppose any form of corruption and bribery. Since 在线考试的方式进一步强化员工的反腐败反 2014 CPL has embedded the compliance 商业贿赂意识。对外，鹏远注重施加对供应商 requirements into the company policies and 的影响，将相关要求纳入供应商合同，并要求 adapting professional team to perform the 所有供应商签订反商业贿赂条款。同时，鹏远 operation. 对供应商公布举报电话等反腐联系方式及投 诉渠道，鼓励知情举报道德与法律违规行为。 合规经营不仅是企业生存的保障，更是企业长 期健康发展的基础，能为企业带来长远的经济 CPL uphold business integrity and zero 效益。面对错综复杂的商业环境，我们要用法 tolerance attitude to bribery and corruption. In 律遵从的确定性，来应对国内外政治的不确定 2016 we strengthen the internal education of the 性，以及跨越宏观环境的不连续性风险。优秀 awareness of moral and legal compliance, all 的合规制度能为企业带来差异化竞争优势，使 staff are required to learn and signed the code 企业在复杂的经营环境中走在竞争对手的前 of conduct , and complete the annual online test 面。 to further strengthen the anti-corruption and anti-commercial-bribery awareness. Externally, Compliance management is not only the CPL emphasis on exerting our influence on guarantee of enterprise survival, but also the suppliers, and embedded the relevant basis of long-term and healthy development of requirements into our supplier contract, and the enterprises, and can bring sustainable require all suppliers to sign the anti-bribery term. economic benefits for the enterprise. Facing the At the same time, CPL published anti-bribery complicated business environment, we should hotlines and other complaint channels to our use the certainty of legal compliance to cope suppliers, encourage the reporting of violations with the uncertainty of both domestic and to morality and law. international politics, and the risk of 16 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 人性化管理 HUMAN-BASED MANAGEMENT 多元化与包容性 Diversity and Cultural Inclusiveness 鹏远有着包容的文化，重视每位员工的才能， 这也可以让我们更好地实现多元化的力量。每 天我们都努力让每位鹏远员工感到被重视、被 包容，使其在工作中有最佳表现。当每个人在 工作的时候可以展示自己独特的一面，当每个 人挖掘出自己最大潜能，当每个人都能发挥自 己的才能、当每个声音都能被聆听，我们才能 成功。这就是多元化与包容性的力量。 CPL with inclusive culture pays attention to each employee’s talent, which also allows us to better realize the power of diversification. Every day we are trying to make every employee feel been valued, been inclusive, which lead to the best performance in the work. When everyone can show their uniqueness at work, when everyone tap their own potential, when everyone can play to their talents, when each voice can be heard, we will succeed. This is the power of diversity and inclusiveness. 17 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 CPL pays attention to the personal development 能力建设与职业发展 Capacity Building of employees, encourage employees to learn and and Career Development grow according to their ability and personal interests, and provide both management and 鹏远为员工提供充分且平等的培训和晋升机 technical promotion channels. CPL effectively 会，帮助员工成长和实现自身价值。2016 年， established and implemented strong 鹏远现场及网络培训课程累计完成 84 班次， performance management mechanism which 覆盖 2,520 人次，人均培训学时 22.56。 continuously draw attentions of all levels of CPL provide our employees with full and equal management to employee growth and opportunity of training and promotion development, improving the effectiveness of opportunities, to help employees grow and performance management, to achieve the discover their value. In 2016, CPL conducted 84 common development of enterprises and on-site and online training courses in total, employees. In 2016, all employees received covering 2520 people, with average training performance appraisal and career development hours of 22.56 per capita. assessment. Excellent employees will be promoted in time according to the company's policies and demands, to help employees develop their careers. 鹏远注重员工的个人发展，鼓励员工根据自身 能力和个人兴趣自由成长，并为员工提供管理 与技术晋升双通道。鹏远建立了完善的绩效管 理机制并有效实施，持续牵引各级管理者关注 员工成长与发展，提升绩效管理的有效性，实 现员工与企业的共同发展。2016 年，全部员工 都接受了绩效考核与职业发展评估。优秀的员 工会依据公司的规定和需要得到及时晋升，助 力员工职业发展。 18 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 职业健康安 全管 理体系 强 化 Strengthen OHSAS18001 鹏 远 已 经 建 立 了 ISO9001 、 ISO14001 以 及 OHSAS18001 等管理体系，并基于 OHSAS18001 全面优化了职业健康安全管理体系，制定了覆 盖所有的业务领域的安全管理政策和流程，从 而帮助我们更加系统地策划、实施、监控和改 进安全管理工作，让员工安全得到全面的保障。 CPL established ISO9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS18001 management mechanisms internally and formulated occupational health and safety management policies and process covering all business areas based on OHSAS18001, to fully protect the safety of staff. 19 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 实行绿色物流管理 IMPLEMENT GREEN LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT 为响应和推动国家可持续发展战略，倡导低碳 low-carbon life theme of environmental 生活态度，鹏远紧紧围绕“绿色物流 低碳生活” protection and improve the resources utilization 的环保主题，不断提升自身的资源利用率，通 rate continuously. Through optimizing the 过优化运输路线、优先选择绿色运输车辆和节 transportation routes, select the green 能型仓库等方案，在货物运输和仓储过程中降 transportation vehicles and energy-saving 低破坏环境的二氧化碳排放和其他环境危害， storage scheme, CPL reduce the damage to the 降低碳排放和能源消耗，促进社会可持续发展。 environment of carbon dioxide emissions and other environmental hazards in cargo To respond and promote the national transportation and storage process, reduce sustainable development strategy, initiate lowcarbon emissions and energy consumption, and carbon life attitude, CPL focus on green logistics, promote the sustainable development of society. 优化包装材料、场地节能改造、推行节电办公。 对内 Optimize Packaging material, On-site energy saving transformation, implementing Energy Saving at Work Internally 优化物流管理系统、推广电子运单及报表、提供碳排放报告、开发废 对外 弃物管理等环保产品。 Optimize logistics management system, promote electronic bill and report, Externally provide carbon emission report, develop waste management and other environmental protection products. Through the optimization of independent 优化物流管理系统，促进可持续发展 logistics management system, CPL is working Optimizing logistics management system hard to achieve system integration with our to promote sustainable development customers and suppliers to protect the confidentiality of information and reduce the 鹏远通过优化现有的自主物流管理系统，实现 demand for paper. Both energy conservation and 与上游客户以及下游供应商的管理系统的直 improvement of the operation efficiency are 接对接，在对面单信息进行保密的同时节省了 achieved by the integration of vehicle 大量用纸需求，既节能环保又提高了物流公司 management systems, through the vehicle 的运转效率。通过与企业物流车辆管理系统的 identification devices, the accuracy in the 对接，实现节能减排、高效便捷，并通过车辆 process of scheduling and recognition of the 识别装置，提高车辆在调度过程中的准确度以 vehicle are improved, which uplifts the overall 及在识别过程中的精准度，提高整体的运输效 efficiency of transportation. 率。 20 / 21 Sustainable Development Report 2016 展望 OUTLOOK 鹏远新和的总体发展目标：在保持快速发展、 We will obey the developmental principles of 优化结构、降低能耗、尊重环境的基础上，实 people first, green logistics, economic innovation, 现服务质量的不断提高。我们将继续秉承“以 and sustainable development and improve on 人为本、绿色物流、创新经济、持续发展”的发 our logistics technologies and resources to 展原则，发挥物流技术与物流资源的优势，逐 strengthen our company’s industrial chain. We 步完善和强化公司现有的产业链，实现企业、 will constantly work to create innovative 社会、员工共同发展的愿景，不断创新技术及 technologies and plans promoting effective and 管理模式，提升物流资源利用率及客户服务水 efficient utilization of logistics resources, and 平，积极参加与其他企业的国际化合作与竞争， participate in international cooperation and 继续保持行业领先，努力打造世界一流的物流 competition with global and domestic 企业。 enterprises to maintain an industry-leading level and build a world-class reputation as a credible Pioneer Logistics’ overall development goal is to logistics enterprise. continually improve our quality of service, fast development, structure optimization, and respect for the environment through the reduction of energy consumption and carbon emissions. 21 / 21
