UN GLOBAL COMPAC T Communication on Progress 2016/ 2017 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 3 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT 4 UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 6 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 LABOUR 9 ENVIRONMENT 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION 16 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In Skagerak, we believe doing good for others is the best thing you can do for yourself. We see responsibility, sustainability and economic growth as each other’s prerequisites – not opposites – and it has long been our vision to give more back than we take. That is why we have become a certified B Corporation in 2017, joining a global movement of corporations that seeks to revolutionize business economy and redefine the notion of success. B Corporations are companies certified by the nonprofitorganization B Lab to meet rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. Being part of the B-Corp community, we strive to prove that it pays off to make an effort and take a proper responsibility. Thus, rather than competing to be the best in the world, we should help each other becoming the best FOR the world. Using business as a force of good to solve some of the social and environmental challenges we are facing. In this matter, we see it crucial to continuously support the work and the ambitions of the UN Global Compact. Yours sincerely // Jesper Panduro, Owner and CEO in Skagerak OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Contributing to Skagerak’s goal of upholding a sustainable business is its Code of Conduct (CoC), which aims to ensure efficient and responsible production throughout the whole supply chain. The CoC is an agreement between Skagerak and its suppliers, consisting of a multitude of requirements to be met by the suppliers, their employees and sub-suppliers. Different from last period of reporting, Skagerak has now become a member of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – a supply chain management system helping companies to tackle environmental and labour related challenges through one common Code of Conduct approved by the Foreign Trade Association (FTA). Moving from an individual to a common Code of Conduct – shared by more than 2000 European companies – Skagerak is adhering to a single implementation system that allows members to address challenges and improve them collectively. BSCI’s Code of Conduct was renewed in 2014 and contains 11 principles – all based on international standards and conventions formed by the UN, ILO and OECD amongst others. THE 11 COC PRINCIPLES THE 11 PRINCIPLES – ALL HANDLED To make sure that suppliers meet the A ZERO TOLERANCE POLICY WITH ZERO TOLERANCE – ARE AS requirements of the CoC, they are being Violations of principles and legislations FOLLOWS: audited at regular intervals and are furthershould always be taken seriously – never more required to perform self-assessments. tolerated. But the response to a violation 1) The Rights of Freedom of Association Audit procedures are performed by indemight not always be the same. In most and Collective Bargaining pendent, local auditors recommended by cases, if Skagerak finds that a supplier is BSCI and assessed by Skagerak itself or a violating the principles, collaboration will 2) Fair Remuneration third-party organization with experience in be terminated immediately. However, the the industry and geographical area. aim with the CoC is partly to help suppliers 3) Occupational Health and Safety improve social and environmental standSkagerak estimates that the transition to ards. Therefore, some cases of non-compli4) Special Protection for Young Workers BSCI’s CoC will take up to a year to fully ance are approached by creating an indiimplement. vidual development plan in cooperation 5) No Bonded Labour with the supplier in order to bring things up to standard and achieve full compliance 6) Ethical Business Behaviour with the violated principle(s). 7) No Discrimination 8) Decent Working Hours 9) No Child Labour 10) No Precarious Employment 11) Protection of the Environment UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Out of the 17 SDG’s formulated in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Skagerak works actively with the following goals: Goal 01: No Poverty Goal 08: Decent Work and Economic Growth Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production Goal 13: Climate Action Goal 15: Life on Land In the coming chapters on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption, this COP will seek to highlight how exactly Skagerak has implemented these goals in its business strategy and everyday activities. HUMAN RIGHTS AIM ACTION AND RESULTS In an era of rapid globalization, the Since Skagerak’s operations are bound by Skagerak has never been complicit in any relation between businesses and human both Danish and International legislation, human rights violations and will continue rights has become increasingly evident Human Rights are respected at all times to make an effort in regard to avoiding – for good and for worse. As an interand at all levels. To make sure this is also such violations. Moreover, the company is nationally operating design company, the case throughout the entire supply chain, fully committed to continuously stand up Skagerak recognizes its responsibility Human Rights are included in the company’s for rights and equal treatment of all human to not just actively prevent complicity Code of Conduct. beings – with absolutely no exemptions in human rights violations – but also to hereof. promote the Universal Declaration of Through BSCI and the common CoC, Human Rights and encourage a change Skagerak thus conducts regular due in the communities it operates in. diligences to identify, prevent and address human rights issues detected in the supply Over the last decade, the regime of chain. Any violations of Human Rights are Business and Human Rights has matured handled with zero tolerance. significantly. Skagerak endorses this development and wish to proliferate the awareness of the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights from 2011. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses — We respect and value all human beings and their rights as such. That’s why we stand by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights fully, and we make no difference in treatment regardless of race, gender, religion, age, political orientation or economic status. / Jesper Panduro, CEO LABOUR AIM ACTION CHARITY WORK Skagerak respects and endorses all By joining the B-Corp community and Recently, Skagerak has given its employees labour rights implemented on national now adhering to BSCI’s rigorous standards the opportunity to carry out three days of and international levels – in Denmark as and commonly shared Code of Conduct, volunteer work with full pay each year. The well as in all other countries the company Skagerak does not just meet local criteria work must be done locally and reported is currently doing business in. More than and industry norms – it leads the way back internally to the rest of the company. that – in order to realize several of the forward towards a more responsible If all employees take advantage of this newly coined UN SDGs – it is Skagerak’s production and better working conditions. opportunity, Skagerak will be devoting clear intention to ensure a sustainable, more than 100 days of local charity work healthy and safe working environment at a year – taking its responsibility as a all levels of its supply chain. Not just doing middle-sized company seriously. what is required at a minimum but trying to raise the bar for how we think responsibility and success. Lastly, Skagerak is continuously working towards lowering the number of non-conformance reports – with zero cases of non-compliance being the ultimate goal. LABOUR LET’S TALK ABOUT LIVING WAGES FSC TM AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY UNREGISTERED MIGRANT WORKERS Skagerak acknowledges its capacity to Skagerak also supports the empowerIn 2017, Skagerak has seen it necessary to infuse social change via its supply chain ment and protection of workers’ and act against challenges with unregistered and finds it important to raise awareness Indigenous’ rights in the forestry industry migrant workers in its supply chain. By on human and labour rights whenever by procuring a majority of its wooden taking the consequence and determining suitable. materials FSC TM -certified1. This is a clear hitherto important business ties – strategy supporting SDG 8 and 12 conalthough it caused a 20% set-back in From the beginning of 2018, Skagerak cerning decent working conditions and terms of capacity – Skagerak hopes to thus intends to engage in dialogue on responsible production. Through FSC TM, set an example and send a clear message; “living wages” with its suppliers. The forest owners are obliged to hire local that it does not tolerate the exploitation of concept of “living wages” emanates from workers and provide them with proper undocumented migrant workers anywhere the realization that a standardized minieducation, equipment and salary. In some in the world. mum wage may not always cover the basic cases, they also commit themselves to needs of workers in certain areas or seasons. support local communities – for example By moving towards a locally adapted living through development of schools. wage, the ultimate goal is to end poverty – as stated in SDG 1. 1 Skagerak’s FSCTM certification number: NC-COC-012993, license number: FSCTMC004462 LABOUR AND RESULTS In general, Skagerak experiences a conAmongst Skagerak’s employees, four persistency in its suppliers’ labour force from sons have taken the opportunity to make a year to year which is a sign of a healthy difference locally. Several of the employees working environment. This tendency envolunteered to help during the National ables a more constructive dialogue and DGI Sport and Culture Festival 2017 which working relation with the suppliers, where took place in Aalborg, Denmark. challenges and opportunities are disAs the next section will account for more cussed openly and honestly. The transition thoroughly, Skagerak’s share of FSC TM to BSCI’s Code of Conduct is still at an certified wood has increased consistently implementation level, and the company over the last 4 years. The company will acknowledges that results of this are yet continue its advocacy for decent working to really manifest themselves. conditions through this action and in general by keeping it as an important benchmark in its business strategy and vision. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation — Happy, healthy and safe employees are crucial our business. That’s why we year after year invest time and energy in making sure that we and our suppliers are maintaining a sustainable working environment, treating employees with the respect and dignity they all have the right to enjoy / Sanne Rubæk, Partner and Supply Chain Manager ENVIRONMENT AIM ACTION WASTE SORTING & PRODUCT RECYCLING Environmentalism and economic growth Although the global population and The company has thus started a thorough are not necessarily each other’s oppomiddle-class are rapidly growing and process of waste sorting at its warehouse sites, au contraire. To Skagerak, ensuring our resources are becoming increasingly in Denmark and are seeking to implement a sustainable environment is equal to scarce – we continue to throw out or a similar policy at its headquarter soon. ensuring a stable and profitable business. burn valuable materials which could have More than that, Skagerak has recently Hence, the company strives to minimize its been reor upcycled again and again. launched a recycling platform at its environmental footprint by optimizing its Skagerak wants to change this pattern – show-room in Copenhagen, buying and procurement, handling, transportation and making sure we get the most out of each selling used furniture and accessories. disposal of resources. This goes in line and every resource available. The long-term vision is to establish a with Skagerak’s clear support for SDG take-back scheme for all new products, 13 – climate action. Furthermore, it is conmotiving customers to take good care tinuously the Company’s goal to only use of their items, and motivating Skagerak FSC TM -certified wood by the year of 2020 to continue designing long-lasting and – to secure and expand responsible wood recyclable products from the start. To sourcing in the world’s forests. Skagerak, the shift from a linear to a circular economy is inevitable if we are to succeed with SGD 12 – sustainable consumption and production. ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE WOOD SOURCING CHALLENGES AND CHANGES AND RESULTS Another important step related to at least In general, the limited availability of Since last year’s report, Skagerak has taken a handful of the global SDGs is to prevent certified wood with a high quality is still a great step closer to its goal of using only illegal logging and the preservation of posing a challenge to Skagerak in its goal FSCTM-certified wood in its production. forest areas all over the world. That is why of becoming 100% relying on FSC TM -certiCompared to 2012/2013, the share of Skagerak supports the Forest Stewardship fied materials. Especially, the procurement FSCTM-certified wood has almost doubled, Council by increasing the total share of of certified Oak has proven difficult – both moving from 29% of the total wood supply FSC TM -certified wood in its production. in terms of quantity, quality and price. to 55% today. A 6% increase alone from Doing so, the company helps making Therefore, the company is constantly on last year is a huge progress and serves as a sure that no more trees are felled than the look for new suppliers who live up to great motivation for Skagerak to maintain its the forest can reproduce – and that local Skagerak’s requirements of quality and endeavor for using high quality and certified communities, biodiversity and, as earlier certification. Using its leverage in the inwood. The development is illustrated in mentioned, forest workers are treated with dustry, Skagerak is also trying to influence figure 1. respect. Just to mention one, the SDG 15 non-certified suppliers to take the neces– life on land – is hereby supported. Since sary precautionary measures to become the FSC TM certification is covering some FSC TM -certified. areas of the world more thoroughly than others, Skagerak has found it helpful to also take in PEFC-certified wooden materials from f Canada and the like. Furthermore, Skagerak adhere to EU’s Timber Regulation from 2013. This means that the company performs due diligences on all shipments covered by the EUTR, to ensure that the wood comes from legal sources. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies — Mitigating climate change while accommodating the rising demand from a growing world population and middle class might be the biggest challenge of today. We need to do far more with way less, making sure that what pass down a healthier environment to the future generations to come / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager ANTI-CORRUPTION AIM ACTION AND RESULTS Corruption, extortion and embezzlement Skagerak has its roots in Denmark, one of Skagerak is in no way involved in any form are often linked to economic underperthe countries in the world with the lowest of corruptive activities and distances itself formance, inequality and violation of level of corruption. Hence corruption is in from such behavior. The company finds it human rights. At all times, Skagerak will no way part of the business culture in important to acknowledge the prevalence back away from and speak against corrupgeneral nor is it in any way part of how of corruption, as debating the issue may tion in all its forms. By setting an example, Skagerak chooses to conduct its business be the best way to start the fight against Skagerak wish to urge anybody to do operations. Skagerak will never demonit. In this way, Skagerak promotes an the same in order to establish a business strate any form of corruptive behavior in environment where business can take place environment where anti-corruption is the order to better its own situation nor is it under honest, fair and safe conditions for norm, no matter which country is in queswilling to receive any form of bribery or all parts. Skagerak’s efforts have resulted in tion. succumb to others’ attempts to exert some of the suppliers incorporating an anticorruption. This standpoint has lately corruption clause in their business policies. resulted in the destruction of a shipment This is a vital step in the right direction of samples from Southeast Asia, as the towards preventing corruption. delivery of the goods was distorted. Skagerak would like for its suppliers to include an anti-corruption clause within their respective business policies. Thus, Skagerak is doing whatever possible to encourage such actions towards preventing corruption. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery — We need to break down the longtime taboo of corruption by engaging in open, constructive dialogue across industries and regions. Only by discussing the issue and acknowledging its existence we can come up with a solution needed. / Hans Lindekilde, Quality Manager 80% 70% 60% 2010-2011 50% 2011-2012 2012-2013 40% 2013-2014 30% 2014-2015 2015-2016 20% 2016-2017 10% 0% FSC Wood None FSC wood Fig. 1
