Statement Nicholas Andrews continues to support the Global Compact and Sandbar AP Ltd is committed to the initiative and its principles. Sandbar AP Ltd is a trading entity using a small number of preferred suppliers within the EU, 3 specific suppliers in China. Our principal product is glassware from EU , we also use stainless steel products from China. As such we have little direct impact except to ensure our suppliers continue to improve all aspects of their obligations relating to Global Compact. Human Rights and Labour Principles. We have 13 UK based staff who enjoy higher standards than the minimums required by UK & EU regulations. We have a very low staff turnover rate. We have had no incidences of labour issues, legal or otherwise. Our gender split is 7/6 female/male, 10 UK citizens, 3 non-UK nationals. They all have direct access to senior management. Our staff are invited to take any opportunities to improve their skills at the company expense. All of our suppliers have been made aware that we are signatures to the UN Global Compact and what that entails. They have all been asked to confirm in writing that they comply with the principles. All of our EU suppliers comply fully with EU health and safety regulations and human rights and to those set down within their own country. We have asked our 3 Chinese suppliers to carry out and supply audits of their human rights obligations and report back to us by July1st 2017. Furthermore, we regularly visit and continue to visit all our suppliers so are aware of their working conditions. We also have our own company standards and do not and would not work with suppliers who do not meet them. We are in the process of setting up our code of conduct based on the UN Compact. This will be completed and published on our web site www.urbanbar.com in April 2017. Our own customer base is international publicly quoted companies who have their own strict and high standards on all matters covered by the Global Compact. We are obliged as suppliers to commit to their standards. Environmental Principles. The glassware industry is a heavy user of power. It is within the interests of all glass manufacturers to be as efficient as possible to reduce power costs. We have 2 key suppliers in Portugal and Poland. Both factories have to comply with strict local environment laws and regulations. Within the past 2 years both factories have installed new more efficient ‘scrubbers’ to clean and further reduce emissions into the atmosphere. Both factories have recently installed more efficient furnaces to reduce power useage. These represent considerable investments to be recouped by savings in power costs. 100% of glass waste from production is recycled. In 2016 we visited our Chinese steel product suppliers to view a new plant at which they had made significant improvements in the outlet of emissions and chemical waste both of which are a part of the process. Anti-corruption To our knowledge no member of our company has ever been offered a bribe. None of our employees are in a position to offer bribes or for an offered bribe to affect any decision within the business. We factor our invoices, have independent financial auditors and handle no cash transactions, all of which help to negate financial anomalies. Consequently, we believe we are 100% free from any form of bribery. Measurement of Outcome Driven by market demands we have reduced our sales of crystal containing lead to virtually nil. We demand that all decorating enamels used on our products are heavy metal free. We have declined the opportunity to quote for business on currently fashionable items as we know their production involves the use of toxic emissions. All lighting in our office and warehouse has been changed to low energy consumption. When possible we now ship glass in open trays, as opposed to closed cartons, this reduces card use by approx. 30%. All card cartons delivered to our clients is recyclable at their request. All card waste generated at our warehouse is recycled. Reject/broken glass from our warehouse is accumulated and sent for recycling
