2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This sustainability report was prepared with the full support and commitment of the Aponte family. It was an internal and collective project realised through strong teamwork and collaboration with several departments of MSC’s ­international headquarters in ­Geneva, Switzerland, with our agencies worldwide and with MSC Shipmanagement colleagues in Cyprus and Italy. We are extremely grateful to all our employees who invested their time and efforts for the development of this report. 06 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP 10 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO 14 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 20 GOVERNANCE TABLE OF CONTENTS 22 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY 38 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT REPORT 64 HEALTH AND SAFETY 72 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 84 ABOUT THIS REPORT INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP OUR STABILITY COMES FROM OUR PEOPLE Headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, and privately-owned, the MSC Group is a global business engaged in the transport and logistics sector. The Group encompasses a Cargo Division, MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), a Passenger Division, MSC Cruises, a Terminal Division, Terminal Investment Limited (TiL) and a Logistics Division, MEDLOG. MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company is the second largest container shipping company in the world, carrying more than 16 million Twenty Foot Equivalent Units (TEUs) annually. MSC offers 200 trade routes, calling at 315 ports around the globe, and operates a modern cargo fleet of 460 vessels, with a total intake capacity of 2.8 million TEUs. Through its cargo operations, the MSC Group literally connects the world. MSC Cruises is the world’s largest privately-owned cruise company. Following a EUR 5.7 billion investment endeavour between 2003 and 2013 for the construction of their first 12 modern cruise ships, MSC Cruises launched in 2014 a second EUR 9 billion investment plan to build another 11 next-generation cruise ships, coming into service between 2017 and 2026. MSC Cruises holidays are offered globally through a distribution network in 67 countries. The division employs over 25,000 people around the world. 6 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 7 ECONOMIC GROWTH As a privately held company, MSC operates without any obligation to publicly disclose its financial earnings or undertakings. In recent years, MSC has expanded its business activities to provide ­additional services to its customers and partners. Its subsidiary, Terminal Many companies in the Investment Limited (TiL), is one of the largest and most geographically transportation industry, diversified terminal investors, handling over 40 million moves per year. particularly container shipping TiL has highly strategic assets located in key gateways for global trade. companies, faced difficult and The company plays a crucial role in developing essential infrastructure to challenging market conditions foster international trade and sustainable development. in 2016. While MSC was not In addition to its investments in terminals, MSC has developed an inland immune to such conditions, logistics arm, MEDLOG, offering transport solutions by truck, rail and barge Despite its global the company performed well, recording a positive EBIT as well as depot and warehousing services in 48 countries worldwide. MSC generates an annual turnover of approximately USD 24 billion and presence and large margin on its full-year results. employs, in its headquarters and country offices worldwide, a workforce scale operations, To achieve such results, MSC focused on cost-saving of more than 60,000 motivated and highly skilled people. Despite its global presence and large scale operations, MSC is, above all, MSC is, above all, initia­tives throughout the year a family business, guided by the ambitious vision of its founder, Captain a family business, and we are proud to confirm that we did so without ­ Gianluigi Aponte, who has always placed employees and his passion for the sea at the heart of his development strategy. Captain Aponte’s guided by the reducing our human capital. innovative, flexible and unique approach to shipping has allowed MSC ambitious vision of MSC’s management commits to grow significantly over the last 46 years, transforming a one vessel operation in 1970 into a successful and sustainable global business. its founder, Captain to appraise the business in a thorough and systematic manner, Today, MSC’s wide range of operations covers 155 countries across 5 Gianluigi Aponte, both internally and externally, to meet the expectations of continents, where MSC provides timely delivery of goods and services to local communities, customers and international business partners. MSC who has always financial institutions and other is proud to offer to populations and countries all around the world its placed employees affected or interested stakeholders. MSC carries out robust auditing long-standing and globally recognised expertise in the maritime sector, as well as its local knowledge of the business through its local agencies. and his passion for at frequent p ­ eriods, to ensure its MSC’s day-to-day operations and long-term public-private partnerships the sea at the heart compliance and e ­ ffectiveness. (PPPs) are in line with countries’ national strategies and its business practices promote the respect of cultural diversity as well as equal of his development In 2016, the company continued to invest in the global supply opportunities for all. MSC supports governments, especially those of lowstrategy chain and the sustainability of income, emerging and developing countries, Least Developed Countries its operations. Such investments (LDCs) and Small Island Developing States (SIDS), in their efforts to reduce should be viewed as a positive poverty and increase inclusive economic and social growth, through job sign of the financial health of creation, vocational training, diversification of economies, transfer of the company. know-how and massive investments in world-class infrastructure. MSC is also committed to promote sustainable use of the sea and marine MSC continuously assesses and ­reviews its investment plans in resources, while extensively investing in the latest generation green terms of sea and inland logistics. technologies to minimise the environmental impact of its business activities on lands, oceans and populations. 8 INTRODUCTION TO THE MSC GROUP MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 9 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO WE NOT ONLY TRANSPORT GOODS, WE CONNECT PEOPLE AND CONTINENTS In 2016, the global container shipping industry has all our stakeholders, as well as to invest in corporate experienced ongoing overcapacity, while continuing citizenship that goes far beyond charity. to be affected by a dramatic slowing of the world We not only transport goods, we connect people and trade growth. This resulted in significant losses for continents, remaining committed and loyal to our most shipping lines. To face these challenging market customers and partners despite natural disasters, conditions, during the last few years, MSC has invested political instabilities and wars. We do not simply generate in several unprecedented cost-saving initiatives, such jobs, we create opportunities and career paths, as operational strategic alliances, and has further especially in developing and least developed countries, diversified its business-related activities. This was providing our employees with safe working conditions necessary to defend our global market share, ensure as well as the means to improve their living standards. the continuation of a sustainable business and protect Our spirit is to create dignity and pride through the our main strength: our workforce. Despite unfavourable continuous improvement of our workforce’s profeseconomic trends and shortfalls, we decided not to cut sional skills. We do not just comply with environmental jobs and not to reduce salaries. Instead, we sought regulations but we genuinely care for the environment innovative solutions, re-directed investments and and it is a constant priority in our strategic planning. re-thought our business plans. These measures were As such, our current business plans and practices taken to guarantee a future to our people, based all consider social and environmental values and the Ten around the world, who work tirelessly and proudly for Principles of the United Nations already guide us in our family. all aspects of our activities. Some of the ­Sustainable In all our strategies, we have chosen not to compromise ­Development Goals (SDGs), such as no poverty, decent our core family values, which are based, above all, on work, quality education, gender equality and those the respect of human dignity. This is also the main reason related to climate change and marine wildlife protection, that motivates us, in our day-to-day o ­ perations, to constitute the foundations of our strategic vision. have fair business practices and expect the same from Therefore, we thought that joining the United Nations 10 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 11 Global ­Compact and further contribute to the realisation of the SDGs was we provide an overview of the fundamental areas that make us successful simply the right thing to do. and our business sustainable today, namely our care for the environment In this regard, we believe that it is imperative that all relevant stake­ and our commitment to inclusive social responsibility, health and safety, holders, throughout the supply chain and the international community business ethics and the protection of human rights. join forces to provide the private sector with an enabling environment to Our long-term vision will remain centred on these areas, as their promotion operate and prosper. Sustainable development and the ambitions set up is in our DNA. One of our main priorities will be to continuously improve by the ­Agenda 2030 and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change can only our environmental performance and make all possible efforts to comply be achieved through concerted actions and win-win partnerships. with new regulations, such as the IMO’s requirement for a much more “Shipping is indispensable to the world,” as the Secretary-General of the restrictive fuel sulphur cap to enter into force in 2020. International Maritime Organization (IMO), Mr. Kitack Lim said on World As we continue to expand our activities and our global presence, we have Maritime Day in 2016. He stressed that “It is thanks to this global fleet and “It is thanks to this launched an assessment of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) global workforce of over one million seafarers that the import and export of goods on the scale necessary to sustain the modern world can take place.” global fleet and activities around the world to better translate our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact into concrete actions. Further steps will also Secretary-General Lim also highlighted that ships have “never been safer global workforce be taken to ensure the integration of the SDGs agenda into the MSC’s and never been so environment-friendly as they are today” and that “sustainable economic growth, employment, prosperity and stability can all be of over one million strategy. We will also establish a Global Maritime Policy and Government Affairs Department to be proactively involved in the international policy enhanced through developing maritime trade, improving port infrastructure seafarers that the dialogue and further enhance our collaboration within the broad United and efficiency, and promoting seafaring as a career – especially within the developing world.” MSC fully embraces the IMO Secretary-General’s import and export Nations system, especially the IMO, International Labour Organization (ILO), and other relevant bodies. views and we believe that companies like ours have a key role to play. Yet, of goods on the We look forward to working with all our stakeholders and the international to ensure such positive returns on the international trade, the lands, the populations and the environment, global efforts should be strengthened. scale necessary to development community to explore ways to establish new innovative partnerships, improve our business models and leverage our ongoing The collaboration between the public and private sectors can have a catalytic sustain the modern efforts to foster sustainable development. and transformative impact only if the right conditions are put in place and only if we all share responsibilities. Filling the current environmental world can take and social gaps will require tremendous financial efforts that cannot be place.” afforded by individual companies on their own, especially after a decade during which the market suffered and still suffers considerably. Geopolitical Mr. Kitack Lim Secretary-General of the International Diego Aponte uncertainties also affect and will continue to affect our business every Maritime Organization (IMO) President and CEO day. Therefore, we hope the international community will consider real economic concerns and challenges, the emerging unpredictable global threats and the increased costs of environmental regulations. Being a commercial enterprise, MSC needs to remain competitive to ­attract volumes; we need to preserve our reliability with our customers, business partners, financial institutions and all other stakeholders to maintain long-lasting and trustful partnerships. We need peace and stability for our workers to ensure no disruption in our productivity and to contribute further towards inclusive growth and social inclusion. In our first report on sustainability for the United Nations Global Compact, 12 A WORD FROM OUR PRESIDENT & CEO MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 13 MEMBERSHIPS In 2016, MSC continued to nurture strong relationships as part of significant global and localised membership organisations, which MATERIALITY align with our CSR commitments. MSC has always undertaken ASSESSMENT membership activity with great commitment, and therefore only engages with organisations where its level of obligation is fully understood, and where the body’s wider objectives and activities are transparent and wholly respected. The Executive Chairman of MSC MSC is a family company led by strong corporate requirements as well as the different needs and Cruises, Mr. Pierfrancesco Vago, ­values and by its own philosophy, built up from over expectations of the local communities where we operate, has served as the chair of the four decades of our owner and founder’s expertise in by liaising with national authorities and other relevant Cruise Lines International Associthe shipping sector, as well as his care for people and stakeholders. These insights are regularly shared with ation (CLIA), Europe, until the end the environment. Our long-term vision is to foster our senior management at the headquarters in Geneva, of 2016. He also serves on CLIA’s economic and social development by connecting popuwho ensure the incorporation of the sustainability Global Executive Committee and lations and countries as the Masters of the Seas. To do dimension into MSC’s business models and plans. Global Board of Directors. CLIA serves as the unified voice for so, the promotion of sustainable policies and practices, The involvement and participation of our internal stakethe cruise industry and MSC fully within our sphere of influence, has always been an holders in the decision-making process is promoted by supports their efforts to do so in a integral part of our strategic planning and remains an the Aponte family also through employees’ surveys. responsible manner that upholds important consideration in our materiality assessment. The latest survey was organised in 2016 with a view to the highest standards for this Being a global company with interests all around the identify potential areas of improvement and received a important maritime sector. world, we are fully aware that our activities and operacompletion rate of 96%. It revealed, among other issues, In 2016, MSC’s Chief Operating tions may impact a wide range of external stakeholders. an increased interest for MSC activities related to CSR. Officer, Mr. Claudio Bozzo, was Therefore, both at the headquarters and at country level, Partly in response to this feedback from employees, MSC appointed to the board of the we constantly interact and engage in discussions with has established and implemented several initiatives World Shipping Council (WSC). customers, business partners, port authorities, private to raise awareness on our sustainability activities and The goal of the WSC is to provide financial institutions, regional and development banks, strengthen the coordination between the headquarters a coordinated voice for the liner governments, local communities, NGOs and other and the country offices on this matter. This includes shipping industry. As such, MSC relevant stakeholders. This is extremely important for the “Managing Directors talks,” convened at the headis honoured to have Mr. Bozzo us, as all our partnerships are based on mutual trust quarters where our executives based in our local agenrepresenting its voice at the table and seek to lead to common beneficial outcomes. cies share information on the impact of MSC business of this organisation. Although our core values remain our framework of activities around the world and provide briefings about MSC’s membership commitments reference, our strategies may differ, as they are adapted to country-specific issues related to economic, social and and engagement within the reledifferent local contexts. Our holistic approach motivates political developments. We have also established a vant organisations are constantly us to identify and address social challenges and Green Committee, responsible to suggest charitable reviewed by MSC’s senior leaderdevelopment gaps that may interfere with our operations activities on environmental issues and further ship, to ensure they continue to with a view to turn them into new business opportunities. investments in trainings on sustainability for our be appropriate for MSC’s current For instance, our 480 country offices located worldpeople. These initiatives are expected to be further business activities and wider wide play an important role in assessing national enhanced over the coming years. objectives. 14 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 15 OUR MATERIAL ISSUES THE WAY FORWARD REPORTING ON SUSTAINABILITY The protection of the environment has always been, and PERFORMANCE will continue to be, one of our main concerns as it is a cornerstone of our core values. This is also an important With the signing of the United Nations Global Compact material issue for our customers, our employees by Mr. Diego Aponte, our President and CEO, in April and our external stakeholders. Therefore, MSC has 2016, we responded to the call of the international comdecided to further publish information on its enmunity to foster development through the promotion vironmental performance, as well as to continue and the realisation of the SDGs. As a family-owned investing in environment-friendly technologies and in company, we feel extremely proud to further contribute the promotion of green transportation solutions. to the global efforts aimed to realise inclusive growth MSC’s investments encompass our contribution in the long term and explore innovative opportunities towards a healthier planet. For instance, we transport to maximise the positive social and environmental goods in a responsible manner and we constantly seek impacts of our business activities. to provide our workers with a safe working environWe have recently started a global assessment on our ment, both on board and ashore, in line with the IMO economic, social and environmental performance to and ILO standards as set out in MSC’s Health, Safe, fulfil our commitment towards the United Nations Global Security and Environment (HSSE) guidelines. Compact and provide comprehensive information not A few of our strategic decisions do not have an eco­ only to our customers and business partners, but also nomic impact per se. Sometimes, social considerations to the international development community. may prevail, as MSC places its employees, their wellDue to the variety of our activities as well as the flexible being and their progression at the heart of its business and complex nature of the shipping sector, our mapping strategy. The Aponte family believes that a motivated exercise is still ongoing. Yet, our preliminary findings and loyal workforce, strongly committed to their core allowed us to identify which SDGs are already incorvalues, is the key to MSC’s success and therefore an porated in our business strategy and in our existing essential component of a sustainable business. In this corporate citizenship efforts. The Sustainability Reportrespect, a constant fundamental material issue will ing Standards (GRI standards) have been an extremely remain our investments in our workforce. We will useful tool for our assessment. Some SDGs are intercontinue offering to our staff long-term career opporturelated and are promoted directly or indirectly by our nities and provide them with a wide range of vocational activities and operations. Our report shows MSC’s comtraining as well as personal development courses. The mitment to promote those relating to climate change promotion of social inclusion through the recruitment and marine conservation. It also offers an overview of local workforce all over the world will also remain a on how we encourage innovation and we promote the critical aspect of our business strategy. leapfrogging of technologies as well as of world-class At MSC, we are proud to facilitate global trade with infrastructures, especially in developing countries. integrity. In this respect, the promotion of fair business We also explain our contribution to alleviate poverty, practices and due diligence remains a fundamental through the promotion of decent work and our constant material issue for us. MSC has a dedicated team of efforts to provide quality education by investing in experts covering anti-bribery issues, the reporting vocational training and local CSR activities, targeting channel and internal investigations. Through the MSC the most vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. Code of Business Conduct, we promote non-discrimination, equality for all and condemn child labour along with any type of harassment. In the next years, our extensive network of compliance officers worldwide will further support the implementation of MSC’s strategy in this area throughout the MSC Group, raising awareness and managing ethical business-related issues. 16 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 17 OUR CORE VALUES AND THE SDGS MSC is continuously expanding and diversifying its common language throughout our Group to ensure the activities at the global level, while adapting to emerging continuation of our success and enable our employees economic, social and political developments that are to meet ongoing and future challenges. impacting the whole shipping industry and transforming Several consultations were also held at the manageits supply chain. Thus, the Aponte family decided to ment level to link the new values to current efforts ensure that their vision and current strategic directions towards sustainability and the corresponding core were well understood and implemented throughout SDGs promoted by MSC. While the “We are a family the MSC Group’s value chain. In this respect, in 2015, company” value remains central to our vision and an external consultancy was requested to assess the mission, the other ones reflect MSC’s commitment to WE HAVE traditional core set of MSC values and to suggest new find the most innovative solutions to embrace changes PASSION ones to reflect the internal and external changes affecting while respecting the environment, populations and the the Group. marine environment. Through the value “We believe in The global assessment, started in 2015, was conducted equal opportunities” we stress our strong engagement through interviews and questionnaires, involving to promote non-discrimination practices in our employees of all nationalities, backgrounds, functions, recruitment procedures and career paths for all our staff positions and gender, on board and ashore, who were around the world. The value “We have passion” correrequested to describe the behaviours and the compesponds to our employees’ motivation to work together WE ARE IN WE ARE A WE ARE IN CONTINUOUS FAMILY CARE FOR tencies that correspond the most to the “MSC family with enthusiasm, strive for excellence and deliver high EVOLUTION COMPANY PEOPLE model”. The Aponte family and senior management performance results. have also been interviewed and provided their contriWe look forward to communicating with all our stakebution to this project. holders in the near future about our new core values The new set of values were approved in 2016 and will be and about our most recent initiatives with regard to officially launched in 2017. They will be used to create a sustainability and the SDGs. WE BELIEVE IN EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES We are a family company Our core values We support the UN Sustainable The engagement of the founding Our core values shape our Development Goals family is at the heart of MSC’s culture and define the character We believe our approach to core values, providing a sense of our company. They guide the business and our values of belonging to all employees. how we behave and make will help us contribute to Sharing the family’s entrepredecisions, they influence a more sustainable supply neurial spirit leads our staff to recruitment of employees chain. act proactively, courage­ously and and are fundamental to responsibly in the best interest our operations. of MSC’s stakeholders. 18 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 19 GOVERNANCE MSC has established a Committee for Corporate Social The Committee is to ensure that updates concerning Responsibility, led by the members of the Aponte family specific accomplishments, certifications and sustainalong with key executives and operated from MSC’s ability commitments continue to be conveyed on a international headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. global scale, utilising the company’s various internal communications channels. Where relevant, it will also The Committee is made up of: share this information with external stakeholders. • President and CEO, MSC Mediterranean MSC’s subsidiaries and branch offices across the globe Shipping Company have several smaller committees and teams working • Chief Operating Officer, MSC on localised Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Mediterranean Shipping Company strategies and engaging with country or region-specific • Chief Sustainability Officer, MSC initiatives where deemed appropriate. These local Mediterranean Shipping Company committees are accountable to the Committee for • Group Chief Financial Officer, MSC Corporate Social Responsibility and are to be fully Mediterranean Shipping Company apprised of MSC’s objectives and strategy around CSR • Executive Chairman, MSC Cruises matters. • President and CEO, MSC Cruises • MSC Shipmanagement • TiL • Other Senior Leadership within MSC ISO CERTIFICATIONS The Committee, reporting to the Board of Directors, MSC’s excellent performance within is responsible for setting and implementing the the internationally recognised ISO framework is a matter of great company’s overall sustainability strategy. This strategy significance. Successful audits and is regarded as a critical aspect of the organisation’s receipt of certifications include operational planning, and is to be reviewed on an the following: ongoing basis to ensure it continues to be aligned with Cargo Container Ocean Transport MSC’s values, responsibilities and priorities. ISO 9001: 2015 Quality Management MSC focuses on the continuous improvement of its System including Risk Management standards and core requirements, with the ambition of ISO 14001 Environmental Management achieving various certifications in accordance with the ISO 26000 CSR Management formal standards set out by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). 20 GOVERNANCE MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 21 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS NO POVERTY QUALITY CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE EDUCATION SOCIAL GENDER EQUALITY INCLUSIVE APPROACH DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 22 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 23 SOCIAL IMPACT OF MSC’S OPERATIONS services. We continuously change our routes and create in transhipment operations, while supporting the AND ACTIVITIES WORLDWIDE We pride ourselves new lines to serve people on all continents. Despite our impressive growth, we remain consistent with our modernisation of ports and terminals. We also offer ad hoc intermodal solutions to connect remote areas The arrival of the container during the 1960s has in having a unique philosophy, which considers our customers, partners and expand inland networks. By doing so, we are profoundly transformed the way goods are transported, approach to shipping, and employees as part of our success. What we call the “MSC Difference” is our true understanding honoured to partner with national authorities, financial institutions and other stakeholders to contribute contributing to create the highly connected world that we know today. Containerisation is usually referred to where the social of shipping, our passion and our commitment to toward increasing countries’ competitiveness at the as one of the most important revolutions of the 20th dimension plays constantly adapt to meet our customers’ needs, while constantly investing in our staff development. international level and to support their growing position in the global trade. century, as it led to exceptional growth in world trade, by drastically reducing transportation costs and guara crucial role in our This explains our investments in emerging, developing MSC also provides cargo-related businesses, including anteeing just-in-time delivery with competitive transit business strategies and Least Developed Countries (LDCs), along with Small Island Developing States (SIDS), although depots and logistics services such as warehouses and maintenance & repair of containers (M&R), contributing times, improving efficiency as well as increasing safety in handling cargo. It also allowed emerging countries and ethical practices trade volumes and GDPs may be lower than in other to the development of shipping-related industries to export their own products all around the world and are promoted locations. There, we bring our long-standing expertise in Africa, Latin America and Asia and generating thousands of job opportunities for local communities. sell them to households at affordable prices. This contributed, inter alia, to global welfare and the increase of people’s wealth, to the growth of local industries and to fast inclusive development. The shipping lines had to quickly adapt to these changes by expanding their routes and by investing heavily in new equipment to respond to a growing demand for their services. Container shipping has tremendously evolved over the last fifty years, becoming a highlysophisticated business. Founded in 1970, MSC was part of this revolution, growing from a single vessel operation to positioning itself as a world leader in global container shipping. Since the beginning of our operations, we have provided our contribution to global economic growth and to the development of international trade. Yet, we are fully aware that bringing economic growth per se is not enough to alleviate poverty. We are also aware that globalisation may create inequalities, if the right policies are not in place and if business is not conducted in a fair and responsible manner. Thus, we pride ourselves in having a unique approach to shipping, where the social dimension plays a crucial role in our business strategies and ethical practices are promoted. Our own interpretation of shipping operations is to bring our vessels where there is a need for our 24 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 25 we offer stable, decent working conditions and a safe working environment, while encouraging work-family balance through a wide range of activities and initiatives adapted to geographical and cultural contexts. In all countries where we are based, we promote gender equality and equal employment opportunities for all, especially for young people. We also support the recruitment of people facing high risk of poverty and social exclusion, such as vulnerable groups and people with disabilities. Today, our workforce counts almost all nationalities, comes from very different social and economic backgrounds, and has a highly diverse level of education. Poverty reduction and promotion of health are interrelated. For instance, in some countries, our employees’ productivity may be affected by existing development and social gaps, such as the lack of access to health facilities preventing them to carry out a healthy active life and compromising their ability to work. MSC’s actions in this regard do not have the ambition to replace local governments’ development strategies and the international community’s efforts, yet, whenever necessary and within our sphere of influence, we seek to complement those actions by improving nutrition and hygiene practices among our local staff and their families through food security and health training. Recently, one of MSC’s subsidiaries with operations in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, approved in its business plan to build health facilities and a nursery for its local workforce and families, providing health check-ups to prevent illnesses and limit the spreading of diseases. We offer the possibility to all our employees, without ALLEVIATING POVERTY discrimination of any kind, to have an enhanced THROUGH SOCIAL INCLUSION We strongly promote human existence, contributing to improving their living MSC believes that sustained economic growth can be developed and developing countries, offering life-long social inclusion through conditions and being recognised by the global labour market as highly-skilled professionals. For achieved through a holistic approach promoting social progress, human dignity and pro-poor business models. employment opportunities and career paths. Our primary responsibility is to have the whole of MSC grow as a the recruitment of us, this is the only effective way to alleviate poverty. Thus, all our strategies aim to realise productivity in team for our company to become stronger and capable local workforce in Providing a participatory and inclusive access to quality education, health facilities as well as to stable financial the long term, while at the same time also providing a long-term positive impact on the local communities to face ongoing and future challenges. We value motivation and passion and we are proud to support both developed and revenues means providing people with the right where we operate. This includes our efforts to incorporate the development of our employees’ professional skills, developing countries, tools to lift themselves out from poverty, combating the cycle of poverty as well as reducing the risk of poverty reduction considerations and non-economic dimensions in our business plans. enabling all our staff to contribute to their maximum potential and attain the highest standards of know-how, offering life-long transmitting poverty to the next generations. In this respect, we strongly promote social inclusion expertise and professionalism that we require for our employment This can only be progressively realised by empowering human beings, increasing their sense of ownership through the recruitment of local workforce in both operations and activities worldwide. To our workforce, opportunities and and improving their access to basic needs and to career paths the enjoyment of their fundamental rights. 26 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 27 Santos, Brazil CASE STUDY BRAZIL MSC’S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMME SINCE 2000 Teenagers 250 Hired as full-time employees 105 MSC’S APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMME needed to work in a wide range of MSC’s departments, through training provided by our managers. Since 2000, more than 250 teenagers, including those coming from poor contexts like “favelas”, have been trained and 105 of them are presently hired as full-time employees by MSC. This is the case, for example, of Mr. Claudio Oliveira, who has been tasked, among other responsibilities, to work on MSC Brazil’s CSR activities in collaboration with both the Management and the Marketing departments. His experience and extensive knowledge of the local reality contribute immensely to the success of MSC’s initiatives. Some other former apprentices have become M ­ anagers, Coordinators and even Managing Directors, such as One of the most successful examples of our social Mr. Marcos Nascimento, presently Managing Director of inclusive initiatives is the Apprenticeship Programme MSC Costa Rica. In 2016, MSC Brazil accepted 30 addipromoted by MSC Brazil, implemented in partnership tional apprentices offering them working opportunities with CAMPS (Centro de Aprendizagem e Mobilização in several departments such as Documentation, ­Finance, Profissional e Social), a local NGO with 50 years of Logistics, Administration and Human ­Resources. existence based in Santos. This project, which complies Recently, MSC Brazil has also further expanded its with Brazilian national law 10.097/2000 and is regulated project by partnering with Santos Municipality via by the Decree n° 5598 of December 1st, 2005, gives the ­PROMIFAE, a tax incentive programme from the city, opportunity to young adults to gain theoretical and supporting sport activities and other projects for young practical understanding of MSC’s daily operations. It adults. Some of these projects are directly dedicated to also focuses on the development of a core set of skills, local people with disabilities. 28 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 29 CASE STUDY container carrier to believe in San Pedro to become a on the West African coast, creating new opportunities IVORY COAST major maritime transhipment hub. In this respect, going for the region. For instance, transhipment activities forward, MSC will support the development and and operations will further grow the possibility to modernisation of the terminal of San Pedro, enabling develop industries in the neighbourhood of the terminal, the deployment of ultra large vessels through massive as the San Pedro area will be connected to both the investments in world-class infrastructure and equipEuropean and Asian trade routes through direct ment, including the latest IT technologies. This project, services from the largest shipping lines. It will also in line with the National Development Plan for result in lower transportation costs and therefore 2016-2020, and in partnership with local authorities permit the local population to have access to local and the Port of San Pedro, aims to support Ivory products at affordable prices. MSC’s operations and Coast’s development ambitions and ongoing efforts to activities will have a significant positive impact on reduce poverty, contributing, inter alia, to the growth San Pedro and its population, generating several of the export commodities through better and more thousands of direct and indirect jobs. Committed to MSC’S INCLUSIVE reliable services to the rest of the world. Transhipalways developing its human capital, MSC also plans BUSINESS MODEL ment will become a new industry in San Pedro and its progressive development will position the terminal as to provide its local workforce with vocational technical training and entrepreneurship skills development one of the most modern deep sea terminal facilities courses. MSC has been investing in Africa since 1970. Today, MSC is present in over 40 countries across the African Continent, employing over 8,000 people (including MEDLOG and TiL) and operates 50 weekly services connecting Africa to the rest of the world. MSC opened its own agency in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, in May 2002 and since then has continuously extended its activities and trade services in the region. In 2008, MSC opened its second agency in San Pedro. Thanks to a long and successful experience in agricultural products’ transportation across the world, MSC has become in only few years a key player in this highly strategic industry of the Ivorian economy. MSC, through its subsidiary company MEDLOG, has also developed hinterland traffic, offering off-docks and modern warehouses dedicated to cocoa, cotton, cashew and import commodities for local consignees and those based in neighbouring countries such as Mali and Burkina Faso. Yet, since its initial agency presence in 2008, MSC has positioned itself as the first international 30 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 31 MSC: A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES The promotion of career opportunities in the maritime young generations in developing countries. In Madaindustry, at the local and international levels, as well gascar, MSC prides itself on having established a local as MSC’s focus on crew professional development, workforce of over 2,000 Malagasy seafarers, who are are at the heart of MSC’s strategy. For instance, MSC now employed on its cargo and cruises vessels. MSC partners in Italy with the largest naval academy based Madagascar also plans to establish in the near future a in Sorrento, offering its young students a wide range maritime training centre in Tamatave for its local workof apprenticeships on board MSC’s vessels. In 2016, force. Yet, a career in the maritime sector is not limited we joined the IMO international campaign “At Sea to a career at sea. MSC also offers other opportunities to for All” promoted on the International Day of the its former captains and seafarers in key departments in Seafarer, which aims at honouring seafarers’ valuable its agencies worldwide. This is particularly important, contributionto the development of international trade as they can share and transmit their extensive expertise and to people’s welfare all around the world. and knowledge of vessels and life on board to other In some countries, such as India and Ukraine, MSC employees who do not have the same experience, has invested heavily in promoting the recruitment of providing them with training and support for situation nationals as crew members, generating, in the latest management in a very effective way. 7 years, over 10,000 employment opportunities for 32 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 33 CASE STUDY MSC SHIPMANAGEMENT CREW MANAGEMENT AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING MSC office in Limassol, MSC office in Sorrento, MSC office in Piano di Sorrento, Cyprus Italy (Villa Lauro) Italy MSC’s core business is to facilitate global trade by has developed its own “MSC family Crewing Concept”, Key facts and figures on MSC ship management moving containers, both by land and by sea, on as well as ad hoc training for its crew members and MSC’s ship management is a two-centre business vessels that must be maintained to the highest clear career paths. MSC’s main crew training centres AWARDS ­activity located in both Cyprus (190 ships) and Italy technical standards in order to deliver cargo to are located in the Far East, in India, Ukraine, Croatia, (120 ships): MSC Shipmanagement Limited is an customers safely, in the best condition and on time. Montenegro and Russia and are managed by MSC • The office in Limassol, Cyprus, manages 10,000 employer of choice and has received MSC has two cargo division shipmanagement offices Shipmanagement. employees on the ships and 275 on shore. ­numerous awards from both responsible for crew management and technical Some of the mandatory training courses include, • The office in Sorrento, Italy. manages almost 4,000 governmental and non-governmental vessel management, located in Limassol, Cyprus, and but are not limited to, simulators training, such as a employees on the cargo ships and 121 on shore. organisations over the years including: Sorrento, Italy. The technical management of the ships large vessel handling course, ship handling simulator, • 5 years in a row, Best Ship Manager includes the provision of spare parts, vessel mainbridge resource management, engine resource ISO certifications award in India tenance, evaluations, classification and regulatory management, all conducted in either Sorrento or MSC Shipmanagement Limited Cyprus is one of • 2 years in a row Best Ship Manager compliance, as well as vessel research and design. Mumbai. Specific training courses on the latest the few companies whose entire operated fleet and award in Ukraine Both teams, in Cyprus and Italy, also proactively equipment are arranged for all crew. Officers and shore office is accredited with ISO 9001 (Quality • Twice Best Foreign Employer of engage with various maritime industry organisations, crew seminars are conducted at periodic intervals ­Management), ISO 14001 (Environment Management the Indian seafarer from the share their expertise in the maritime sector and around the year and include modules on soft skills Certification), ISO 50001 (Energy Management Government of India suggest innovative technical solutions to tackle development and team building to prepare for the ­ System Certification), ISO 26000 (Corporate Social • Best Cadet Training Program ongoing and future challenges. challenges that may be faced at sea. Responsibility) and OSHAS 18001 accreditation. in Ukraine Yet, the most critical part of the operation is our ­people. • Award for Shipping Sector in Cyprus Life at sea in the merchant trade can be extremely for the largest owned ship challenging, especially for people having families, and management company and for crew motivation levels can vary. In this respect, MSC creating a large number of local jobs 34 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 35 HUMANITARIAN AID Expressing solidarity towards populations and countries shortage, saving lives and protecting human dignity. MSC’s partnership with UNICEF Project in Malawi – Nutrition emergency relief affected by famine, war and epidemics as well as Since July 2009, MSC has joined efforts with UNICEF MSC Cruises has been partnering with UNICEF In 2015, Malawi experienced a devastating flooding, towards victims of natural disasters represents a to achieve positive changes at the field level for thouthrough the “Get on Board for Children” initiative, which was considered as one of the worst food fundamental moral engagement for MSC. sands of children and their families across the world. collecting donations from guests, selling UNICEF insecurity crisis in over a decade in Southern Africa, In this respect, MSC is proud to actively contribute The projects supported by MSC range from educational products on board MSC Cruises’ vessels, providing with 3.5 million Malawian children being affected in to several emergency and disaster relief initiatives initiatives for the vulnerable children of Brazilian logisticfacilities and increasing awareness of UNICEF’s the country’s 28 districts. both through independent actions and through “favela” shanty towns to projects combatting malaria work worldwide, through advocacy campaigns and UNICEF’s response to help reducing child ­ mortality strategic partnerships with specialised international across ­Africa and programmes treating severe acute integrated initiatives, such as the “edutainment rates resulting from severe acute malnutrition and actors, such as the International Committee of the Red child malnutrition in crisis and emergency situations in activities” specifically designed for children and combat the food crisis in that region included the Cross (ICRC) and United Nations Specialized Agencies, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Somalia and Malawi. families. In 2016, more than 250,000 youngsters, aged supply of life-saving therapeutic milk and Ready-toProgrammes and Funds, including the World Food Some of these initiatives are promoted on board of between 5 and 17, took part in UNICEF activities, Use Therapeutic Foods (RUTF). The severe acute malProgramme (WFP) and the United Nations Children’s MSC Cruises’ vessels and are generously supported becoming junior UNICEF goodwill ambassadors. nutrition is treated using therapeutic milk and RUTF Fund (UNICEF). by their guests through spontaneous donations. The partnership has its own motivational message since ordinary foods can be ineffective or carry risks. MSC supports rapid humanitarian response, in line An MSC for UNICEF field visit, led by Mr. Pierfrancesco “Together we can make a difference” and its own MSC joined forces with UNICEF in Malawi, providing with international humanitarian laws, by transporting Vago, Executive Chairman MSC Cruises, was song “I Can Believe – MSC for UNICEF”, by an Italian logistics assistance and playing a strategic role in emergency humanitarian aid cargoes such as medical conducted in April 2016 to assess the impact of children’s choir. The song provides a soundtrack to delivering these vital products to the affected equipment and food supplies, effectively contributing MSC’s actions in the field. all UNICEF awareness-raising efforts on MSC Cruises population. MSC plans to renew its commitment to to alleviate poverty in the short term, addressing food vessels, including the MSC for UNICEF kids parade UNICEF in M ­ alawi in 2017 and continue the treatment during the UNICEF Day, that forms part of every cruise. and the ­rehabilitation of children affected by severe Since the beginning of its partnership, MSC Cruises’ acute malnutrition throughout the country. guests have contributed to a total of EUR 6,250,897. Mr. Pierfrancesco Vago, Executive ­Chairman MSC Cruises, visited the UNICEF facilities MSC’s partnership with Mercy Ships in Malawi in March 2016 Since 2011, MSC supports the work of Mercy Ships, a MSC IMPACT non-profit medical organisation, which uses hospital Since 2015, more than 6,000 children vessels to deliver free world-class health services to have been treated in Somalia, vulnerable populations living in the developing world. over 9,000 respectively in South Sudan MSC’s contribution involves the provision of free and Ethiopia. transportation of medical equipment, which helps The lives of nearly 41,543 children and Mercy Ships to re-allocate a significant component of their families in Malawi have been its logistics budget to other important life-changing positively impacted between 2015 and undertakings. MSC’s commitment to Mercy Ship will 2016. Between 2015 and 2016, some be further enhanced in the next years. 2,037 million sachets of Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Foods and around 72,000 sachets of F-75 Therapeutic milk were delivered to children in Malawi. 36 SOCIAL INCLUSIVE APPROACH MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 37 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS GOOD HEALTH AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE MSC’S INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMITMENT RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION TO THE ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE ACTION LIFE BELOW WATER LIFE ON LAND 38 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 39 BREAKDOWN OF CARBON EMISSIONS Source : Energiewende Outlook : BY MODE OF TRANSPORT Transportation sector, PWC, 2015 MSC’S RESPONSE TO SHIPPING INDUSTRY CHALLENGES Maritime transport is responsible for moving around 90% of the world’s goods in trade, playing a crucial role towards achieving global economic 0.4 % 1.5 % 4.5 % 15.0 % 23.3 % 55.3 % development and prosperity. It is also internationally recognised as the most environmentally-friendly and efficient means of transportation. Shipping Local public Rail transport Aviation Road freight Private motorised road transport transport World seaborne trade1 has reached over 10 billion tons and, based on the 2014 IMO GHG study, the shipping sector’s share of global emissions is only 2.2%. Global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions have doubled since the early 1970s due to economic growth and increasing fossil-energy use in developing countries. According to the OECD Environmental Outlook to 2050, energy and industry-related emissions are projected to more than double by 2050 compared to 1990 levels. CO2 emissions are projected to remain the largest contributor to global GHG emissions based on fossil fuel use in the energy and industrial sectors. In order to face these increased environmental challenges and achieve the ambitions set up by the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, new regulations, with substantial financial implications, have been established. The shipping industry is also responding to these challenges, while facing difficulties in the areas of freight rates and maritime transport costs. The container shipping industry is also in the midst of a profound transformation with regards to its supply chain and in an ongoing re-organisation, through the creation of new alliances between shipping lines and significant consolidations. Alliances such as the 2M alliance between Maersk and MSC enabled to offer an increased call frequency to customers while maintaining the quality in service. By optimising the use and capacity of vessels, shipping lines reduce their fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. Some of the additional solutions needed are in the infrastructure serving the industry. In 2015, an important number of infrastructure development projects were launched or completed. These included improvements to the Panama and Suez canals to handle growing volumes. MSC is investing extensively in the modernisation of ports and terminals’ infrastructure, in finding innovative greener transportation solutions and further expanding its hinterland services, to become even more cost-­ efficient and environmentally sound. Both the increased environmental regulations and the self-initiated efforts made by MSC come at heavy financial costs. However, MSC sees the benefits of its substantial investments starting to emerge and will remain committed to continuously improving its environmental performance. 1 Source: UNCTAD, http://unctadstat.unctad.org 40 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 41 MSC ENVIRONMENTAL STRATEGY 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE MSC is committed to the environmental principles air emissions, including GHG (Greenhouse Gases). 2016 has seen significant strides in MSC’s environmental MSC has been recognised for its environmental efforts set forth by the Rio Declaration on Environment and For cleaner land, MSC renovates and modernises its performance. The company’s total fuel consumption in several international forums, such as the Interna­Development of 1992 and implements all applicable terminals, usually implemented through public-private was 8.3 million tons, of which 1.02 million tons was tional Green Shipping Awards in October 2016, where environmental regulations to reduce its footprint partnerships (PPPs) with port authorities and local low sulphur fuel for use in regulated areas. MSC is it was awarded Greenest Ship of the Year. More than wherever it operates. MSC’s long-term environmental governments, in line with national strategic plans and meticulous about its environmental planning and is 200 key leaders of the international shipping industry strategy is defined under three pillars: cleaner seas, priorities. The last pillar, cleaner cargo, is demonstrated continuously scrutinising what impact it may have attended the event held in Rotterdam, in the Nethcleaner land and cleaner cargo. through MSC’s efforts to improve vessel capacity and on land, sea and populations. Capacity utilisation, erlands. The award aims to recognise the efforts of MSC is advancing its commitment for cleaner seas efficient operations leading to reduced emissions per network optimisation and efficiency are an integral the leaders in the maritime industry, who have sucensuring it is operating a modern fleet with reduced ton of cargo carried. part of MSC’s daily work. This has resulted in a 6.6% cessfully implemented sustainability practices withdecrease in CO2 emissions per cargo-ton/miles (Energy in their businesses. MSC earned the ISO 14001:2015 Efficiency Operational Indicator, EEOI) compared to the status, which relates to environmental management previous year 2015. systems, biodiversity, climate challenges and ecosystem services. 42 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 43 CLEANER SEAS The youngest container fleet in the world Responsible ship recycling MSC operates one of the youngest fleets in the Almost half of MSC’s fleet is less than 10 years world. It represents a massive financial investment in old and two thirds are less than 15 years old. With modern, efficient and environmentally-­friendly ­vessels. regards to its vessels near the end of their service life, MSC is strongly committed to only recycling ships MSC Oscar in a safe and responsible manner in accordance with MSC invests in new technologies, systems and established internal practices. Accordingly, we fully processes with the aim of continuously improving the support the principles within the Hong Kong environmental performance and energy efficiency of its International C ­ onvention for the Safe and Environmenfleet. In January 2015, MSC launched the MSC Oscar, tally Sound Recycling of Ships, 2009. We also highly the world’s largest containership at that time. Due to encourage all governments to ratify that convention its eco-design, MSC Oscar produces considerably less and effectively implement its provisions upon its CO2 emissions per shipped container than previous entry into force. MSC’s principles, and those within the generations of comparable ships. As an illustration, Hong Kong Convention, are important foundations to MSC Oscar has an average Energy Efficiency ensure that social responsibility and environmental Operational Indicator (EEOI) of 7, which compared to stewardship aspects are fully considered when ships an older vessel can be translated into 70% emission are recycled at the end of their service life. reduction to carry the same amount of cargo. MSC is permanently engaged in efforts to optimise its fleet’s fuel consumption. Over one third of MSC’s operated fleet is built in accordance with the new Energy Efficiency Design Index (EEDI) standards. The EEDI is a criterion set by a new legally binding IMO MSC invests in regulation from early 2013 to reduce GHG emissions. new technologies, It aims to ensure that the new ships built by 2030 will be 30% more efficient than in 2013. systems and processes with the “G” type engines MSC has also introduced “G” type engines in its aim of continuously new building programme. “G” engines, with their improving the ultra-long stroke, efficiently operate at lower speeds. Vessels with “G” engines have therefore large environmental diameter propellers, which create approximatively performance and 6% savings in fuel consumption in comparison with a normal size propeller, along with the consequent energy efficiency savings in CO2 and other air emissions. of its fleet 44 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 45 MSC’s green initiative Shore Power Supply Older container vessels were designed to operate at Since 2005, MSC has heavily invested in Shore Power higher speeds than those they generally operate at Supply (SPS) systems, which is sometimes also called ­today. They are now typically operated at lower speeds, Alternative Means of Power Supply (AMP). A vessel making the existing hull and propeller design less with an SPS installed, while at berth, is capable to efficient. Consequently, MSC launched its green initiative shut down its own auxiliary generators, which run on nearly five years ago to reduce the fuel consumption marine fuel oil and switch to the electrical shore grid. of its fleet. The associated retrofitting programme was This means that, in port, the vessel reduces its GHG by aimed at equipping and modernising older vessels more than 80%. In addition, it helps to improve the air to achieve significant fuel reductions. It consists quality around the port by reducing other emissions. of replacing the bow of the ship while the vessel As of today, 136 vessels of the MSC’s fleet, which is in dry dock. The new bulb design reduces fuel constitute almost 30% of the total number of managed consumption and therefore reduces CO2 and other air vessels, constitute the biggest SPS-equipped fleet emissions. To date, over 200 vessels have been retroin world. The use of these systems relies on the fitted with an optimised bulbous bow. The vessels are capability of the terminal to offer electricity. MSC is also retrofitted with more efficient propellers having deeply engaged in the implementation of the SPS reduced weight, propeller boss caps with fins, which at the terminal and leads the way for wider SPS’s reduces the losses through hub vortex and rudder availability around the world. MSC is currently bulb along with new rudder designs that reduce drag. cooperating with the major Northern European ports MSC’s own ship management centres in Cyprus and to offer assistance for implementing the technology. Italy are also implementing retrofit installations on the main propulsion engines to make them more efficient. MSC has reduced its CO2 emissions by over 1.5 million tons per year on its retrofitted vessels, since initiating this programme. MSC plans to retrofit over 256 vessels with an estimated reduction in CO2 emissions of more than 2 million tons per year. MSC has also worked with leading engine makers to develop controllable pitch propeller modifications with attached boss fin caps that have resulted in approximatively 12 to 15% fuel savings on fast feeder vessels. This technology, the first of its kind, was subsequently installed on six vessels. 46 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 47 Advanced antifouling coating systems MSC has committed to proper hull treatment of its vessels during each dry-docking and uses advanced anti-fouling paints to reduce the frictional resistance of the vessels. This leads to reduced GHG emissions. MSC has also opted for the antifouling coatings based on silicon technology, which is recognised as the gold standard for reducing carbon footprint and improving energy efficiency, while effectively minimising the risk of introduction and spread of invasive species. Several vessels have already undergone this transformation. MSC has further extended its experience and has very successfully tested long-term fouling free operation of propellers coated with silicon paints. Today, during scheduled dry-dockings, MSC owns and manages vessels’ propeller blades and hub with boss cap fins that are coated with silicon paint. This ensures optimum performance until the next scheduled docking, without a need of any underwater cleaning. It also replaces the old practice of underwater cleaning of the propeller blades while at berth. This practice was not always allowed by the relevant ports and the quality of the result was inconsistent. 48 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 49 Latest generation software systems MSC has also extensively invested in a state-of-the-art automatic data acquisition and monitoring system to better evaluate the optimisation of energy consumption of its fleet. An analytical software tool has been developed internally for the management of propulsion and hull efficiency, trim optimisation, voyage and fuel management, refrigeration efficiency, and overall energy management. This system is helping to ensure optimised fuel consumption and minimised air emissions of MSC’s vessels during each voyage. 114 MSC-owned Ballast water Optimum ballast water management reduces GHG emissions during the vessels are already voyage, whether by means of minimum ballast or adjusting ballast to fitted with this maintain a certain trim of the vessel for reducing fuel consumption. Tanks within the hull of a container ship are filled with water to manage the ballast water trim and stability of the vessel during its voyage for safety and efficiency treatment system reasons. This ballast water is transported over great distances. It can sometimes be released far away from where the water was originally collected. and the remaining The consequence is the possibility to release invasive marine species in vessels are planned foreign waters, which can negatively alter the natural habitat of other native marine species. Proper ballast water management can also minimise to be fitted by the risks of transmission of communicable diseases to communities. the end of next year. To counter these potential risks to the environment and populations, MSC has worked with its ship builders, classification societies, design firms and other stakeholders to ensure that the new building ships’ designs allow carriage of minimum ballast. MSC has also partnered with the International Finance Corporation to install ballast water treatment systems onboard its vessels. It shows MSC’s commitment to position itself ahead of regulatory requirements entering into force in September 2017 and being phased in over the next seven years. Currently, 114 MSCowned vessels are already fitted with this ballast water treatment system and the remaining vessels are planned to be fitted by the end of next year. 50 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 51 MARINE AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION MSC’s longstanding commitment to marine and wildlife conservation is demonstrated both by unilateral measures to minimise our environmental impact and carbon footprint and through active partnerships. Wildlife protection – United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce The protection of the environment and wildlife is a priority for MSC. Among other initiatives, MSC has become a signatory of the Buckingham Palace Declaration of the United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce, committing to combat the illegal wildlife trade. V­ alued at up to USD 23 billion per year and one of the five most lucrative global crimes, wildlife trafficking is more than a crime against wildlife, with 1,000 rangers killed in the past ten years. The initiative aims to help dismantle this illegal trade by breaking the transportation link between suppliers and buyers, protecting iconic species such as the elephant, rhino and pangolin from extinction. United for Wildlife (www.unitedforwildlife.org) was created by The Royal Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry in the ­United Kingdom. Led by The Duke of Cambridge, United for Wildlife brings the world’s foremost wildlife charities together under a common purpose: to create a ­global movement for change. Its work is promoted by ambassadors from around the world including David ­Beckham, Andy Murray and Chris Froome. Marevivo Since 2015, MSC has joined forces with Marevivo (www.marevivo.it), an Italian marine conservation ­association founded in 1985 that works worldwide for biodiversity conservation, sustainable development and the enhancement and promotion of marine protected areas, combatting pollution and illegal fishing while promoting environmental education. MSC and Marevivo work together to inspire young people with a passion for the sea and to disseminate a culture of sustainability inside and outside the classroom. 52 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 53 JULY 2012 JUNE 2017 Brasil Terminal Portuario Brasil Terminal Portuario CLEANER LANDS As a world leader in global transport, MSC r­ ecognises million were invested in environmental remediation is carried by rail. That percentage continues to rise the impact that its operations could have on the natural and waste management. In addition, 1.14 million tons steeply as the international rail network of corridors landscape and populations around the world. Therefore, of contaminated soil were subsequently removed from improves every year. MSC has also invested it is continuously working to implement and maintain the terminal. Consequently, 340 million m2 of land was extensively in logistics by becoming a rail operator initiatives designed to preserve the environment recovered. in Europe, the reby showing its confidence in and reduce negative externalities on ­populations. In all circumstances, MSC is trying to use the most the rail transportation sector, which drastically MSC invests heavily in the modernisation of terminals environmentally-efficient way of transport. Through reduces the CO2 emissions and negative externalities, and ports, considering in its strategies ways to our affiliate companies, MSC is providing its customers compared with road trucks. MSC plans to further invest reduce the negative impact of the infrastructure on the with land transportation and actively promoting in the railway sector in Europe and across the globe. environment. As an example, Brasil Terminal ­Portuario the use of rail as an inland access mode. Out of our underwent major transformations. Over USD 80 total volume of controlled intermodal traffic, over 40% 54 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 55 CASE STUDY PORTUGAL CARBON EMISSIONS (KG CO2/KM) FULL TRAIN VS. CORRESPONDING INVESTING IN TRUCKS TO CARRY 500 TONS OF CARGO RAIL SERVICES Train with diesel locomotive 13.30 Train with electric locomotive 5.30 In January 2016, following a privatisation process in Indeed, trucks cause substantial congestion at the (equivalent of 12.4 KWh/km) Portugal, MSC acquired a 95% stakes of the national marine and inland terminals’ gates. It can be reduced rail operator company, which has then been renamed using rail transport. Trucks 20.37 as MEDWAY. The total investment amounted to EUR As an illustration, to travel the exact same distance 77.4 million and owns. of one kilometre, a train produces 3.5 times less CO2 MEDWAY’s services are mainly used by MSC, thereby emissions than the corresponding appropriate number preferring the use of the railway network rather than of trucks. In addition to the important reduction in CO2 the trucking network. The railway network provides emissions, for the same distance, a train carries on great advantages in terms of service offering, costaverage 500 tons of goods. In comparison, one truck effectiveness, environmental impact as well as carries only 24 tons of goods. It means that MSC would productivity. need approximately 20 trucks to carry the same quantity of goods for the exact same distance travelled by train. Another advantage using trains is to relieve the roads from important traffic congestion, which also contributes to CO2 emissions. The costs associated with road congestion are projected to increase by about 50% by 2050 to nearly EUR 200 billion annually. Trains represent a more environmentally-friendly and more efficient way of transporting goods compared to trucks. MEDWAY’s fleet is composed of both diesel and electric locomotives, in equal parts. Electric locomotives are the preferred option and, whenever possible, we aim to invest and renew the existing fleet with electric locomotives. MEDWAY is certified ISO 14001. In conclusion, preferring rail as a means of transporMEDWAY tation also dramatically reduces fatalities on the road. Workers over 500 For instance, as per the European Court of Auditors’ Total locomotives 59 report on Rail freight transport in the EU: still not on Electric locomotives 29 the right track (2016), there were 28,126 road fatalities in the EU, in 2012. In comparison, there were only 36 Wagons 2,917 fatalities associated with rail transport. 56 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 57 CASE STUDY THAILAND SUPPORTING THE REDUCTION OF ROAD AND TRAFFIC CONGESTION In June 2016, MEDLOG invested in a barge of 240 TEUs capacity. The investment represented USD 1.45 million. The barge is operated between Laem Chabang and Bangkok ports. It employs 14 seafarers. MEDLOG hired local crew to operate the barge. The aim of this important investment was to improve the service to its customers, reduce road and traffic congestion in the country, and increase overall productivity. Thanks to this important investment, MSC stopped using over 100 trucking suppliers. This investment contributed to greatly reducing negative impacts on the environment. Indeed, the trucking suppliers previously used were part of the problem of road congestion in Thailand, negatively affecting the environment and population’s health. 58 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 59 CASE STUDY CHILE BRINGING INNOVATION INTO LOGISTICS MEDLOG operates a logistics centre in Santiago, Chile, where container storage, maintenance and repair and warehousing services are provided. This logistics centre is comprised of 60,000 m2 of land. It employs 97 people and handles approximately 3,000 containers per month. MEDLOG plans to significantly invest in innovative technologies and hybrid lifting equipment for its containers at its terminals. In parallel with its investment in state-of-the-art technologies, MEDLOG makes sure to train employees at its terminals. Among the investments towards more environmentally sound business activities, MEDLOG purchased the latest generation of engines for its lifting equipment, thereby reducing important CO2 emissions and tremendously improving fuel consumption. MEDLOG also invested in water recycling tools for the cleaning of containers. MEDLOG is also constantly renewing its trucking fleet for short distance haulage to equip them with the latest technologies and with engines of the highest standards, wherever road infrastructure allows it. In addition to reducing CO2 emissions, the newer engines on trucks provide important fuel consumption and cost savings. 60 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 61 CLEANER CARGO efficiently the fleet deployment and capacity, MSC created a new department in 2009: Fleet, Network, MSC’s efforts for cleaner cargo are shown by our Efficiency (FNE). The focus of the department is to willingness to improve cargo management through utilise the ships’ c­ apacity and the entire MSC network several initiatives, such as alliances with other major to their maximum potential and bring stability on the shipping lines. This promotes a highly efficient use of operational front to improve customer satisfaction, vessel space and reduces fuel consumption. while reducing losses and inefficiency. At the international level, MSC is actively involved in Capacity management is run on three levels: fleet, many important initiatives promoted by the maritime trade and ship, meaning that where there is a shift industry, such as the Clean Cargo Working Group in demand from the market, the department has the (CCWG). It is a business-to-business leadership tools and executional know-how to adapt accordinitiative involving major cargo carriers, which is dedingly. This results in changing deployment schemes icated to improving the environmental performance of when ­patterns also change on certain services (due to marine container transport and promoting responsible the seasonality of certain commodities, for instance) shipping. CCWG, among other measures, reports as well as maintaining the fleet typology in line with and evaluates performance data in marine container operational requirements. transport. CCWG’s annual emissions factors report Amongst the other assets managed together with the indicates that carriers have reduced CO2 emissions fleet are the live operations in the terminals around the per TEU-km by more than 8% from 2014 to 2015 and world and the combination of the two. For example, by 35% since 2009. running the ships efficiently in and between the ports. Over the next coming years, MSC will further strengthBy constantly monitoring the operational efficiency en its involvement with the International Maritime of the resources on the ground, MSC further reduces ­Organization (IMO) and increase its participation in the idling of resources, both human and equipment. the international policy dialogue related to environConsequently, this task force ensures that, by providing mental issues. the most efficient operational programme in a port, each ship spends the least possible time alongside, thus giving it more steaming time at lower speeds FLEET NETWORK AND than planned and therefore the lowest possible fuel TERMINAL EFFICIENCY consumption. FNE is highly proficient in adapting to the constantly MSC has heavily invested, throughout its tonnage changing market, combining the available assets in growth, in economies of scale with a favourable direct the best possible way to balance cost savings and impact on carbon emissions’ reduction. MSC has been customer satisfaction. The stability of the network able to increase organically the capacity per ship from relies on this flexibility to counter any unforeseen 3,200 TEUs in 2006 to an impressive average capacity shifts of one of the components (i.e. port congestion, per ship of 6,100 TEUs at the end of 2016. While the weather issues, vessel incidents and other factors). top ten carriers average was around 5,200 TEUs per MSC’s network is constantly analysed to explore any ship, MSC has positioned itself as a clear leader in the opportunities for economies of scale, speed reduction container shipping industry over the past decade. and better capacity utilisation, which all directly However, economies of scale on their own are influence carbon and other air emissions. These not s­ufficient if the network is not maximised and factors can all enhance the company’s efforts towards each ship’s capacity is not fully utilised. To manage the protection of the marine environment. 62 MSC’S COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 63 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE GOALS GOOD HEALTH HEALTH AND RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION SAFETY CLIMATE ACTION 64 HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 65 A SAFE AND HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT Each incident is entirely supervised by MSC’s senior and sensitive cargo to avoid major incidents on MSC’s management, using their extensive experience to fleet and staff, avoid major issues and potential damage MSC seeks to provide employees with a safe and properly manage every potential crisis. MSC’s leaders to the environment, and secure container contents healthy environment both ashore in its offices and at were at the origin of the initiative to create and impleand loading on vessels. Crisis management at MSC sea on board its vessels. As such, MSC complies with all ment the DSCM. MSC understood ahead of the indusis handled by experts in their field with the latest applicable health and safety laws, which are respected try the necessity to automatically manage dangerous generation of technological and IT tools at their service. by all the various subsidiaries of the MSC Group. Considering the recent surge in demand from customers handling dangerous goods cargoes and related increasingly complex rules, MSC had to address the best way to manage these cargoes. This led MSC to redesign its Health, Safety, Security and Environmental (HSSE) policy, which is under the constant and personal review and scrutiny of MSC senior leadership. MSC’s high level of customer care is demonstrated through our safety and efficiency in the transport of hazardous cargoes and chemicals. All dangerous cargo shipped by MSC is verified against all relevant international HSSE standards. MSC’s agents have first-hand experience with local requirements and regulations regarding the handling of chemicals and dangerous goods in ports across the globe. In addition to the full commitment of the Aponte ­family, MSC implemented successful tools to mitigate risks from potential hazards. This is illustrated by development and implementation of the Dangerous & Sensitive Cargo Management System (DSCM). THE APONTE FAMILY AT THE HEART OF MSC’S MARITIME INCIDENT RESPONSE MANAGEMENT MSC’s owner and founder, Captain Gianluigi Aponte and MSC’s President and CEO, Mr. Diego Aponte, are personally engaged in the management of any significant vessel incident, including its control and monitoring from the very beginning of each situation until the issue is fully resolved. They both remain fully available day and night to be directly involved, whenever needed. 66 HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 67 DANGEROUS & SENSITIVE CARGO MANAGEMENT In early 2015, the Dangerous & Sensitive Cargo delivery of the goods to their ultimate receiver. OverManagement System (DSCM) project was initiated via all, it delivers correct cargo segregation, improved conthe ­creation of a steering committee comprised of the trol of ports, terminals and vessels restrictions, more ­experts of the relevant divisions. It was sponsored by efficient weight control, and complete control of the MSC’s Chief Operating Officer. The committee includes technical and chemical data. The entire process was the head of the Information Technology Department, automated to avoid human error. The system is superthe leading expert in Hazardous Cargoes and the Legal vised by a team of five experts representing an extra and Claims Department. With the support of MSC’s level of safety, to avoid systemic failures. senior management as well as the efforts and strong MSC is also proud to count within its organisation, collaboration of the relevant departments, the first phase a highly specialised chemical support department of the DSCM was successfully implemented in 2016. based in Antwerp, Belgium. This department ensures MSC thoroughly analyses all incidents and continu­ously that MSC’s shipments meet the stringent compliance adapts its loss prevention programmes by ­accepting requirements of the IMO International Maritime Dangeror rejecting certain cargoes posing inappropriate ous Goods (IMDG) Code. MSC’s experts are fully comdirect or indirect risks to people and assets. This effort petent and able to deal with any type of contingency. made MSC compliant to the ISO 9001:2015 standard With this specialised team of chemists constantly related to the requirements of risk assessment and available, MSC ensures that every chemical cargo on management. MSC is managing all significant board our vessels, as well as all the other containers, incidents directly, resulting in a direct and fast are properly stowed and shipped as per all applicable approach, reducing risks to people and the environment. safety requirements. MSC has deep expertise in delivThis technology, developed internally, allows MSC to ering containerised chemical cargoes swiftly and safely. analyse and handle bookings of dangerous cargo per In 2016, MSC invested in a new Dangerous Cargo applicable regulations in less than two minutes. There training platform for agencies on dangerous cargo is no other shipping line with a shorter response time. handling, taking this opportunity to raise awareness This system allows MSC to control and monitor 100% across the company. The second phase of the DSCM of dangerous goods cargoes from the acceptance of the system is planned for September 2017 and will ­address booking through the loading at the terminal and until the sensitive cargoes. 68 HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 69 EN COURS WEATHER ROUTING MANAGEMENT MSC has created a dedicated Weather Routing team consumption. It provides advice to the master on board of professionals responsible for enhancing the safety the vessel on when to speed up or slow down, depending of the navigation, cargo and crew on board its vessels. on the current or the weather. The team considers It consists of highly qualified seafarers, some of whom the weather to achieve the safest and most efficient have served as Captains on board MSC’s vessels, located transit for MSC’s customers. They track the weather, in the headquarters. The team evaluates 24/7 how the the wind and current constantly and relay the informaweather will impact, daily, MSC’s operations. They give tion to the master of each ship to discuss alternative this information to MSC’s vessels to ensure maximum routes, as appropriate. Thanks to the innovative and safety and efficiency. The technology used can plan 100 sophisticated technologies at their disposal, the Weather routes at the same time. It shows the hourly position of Routing team can save lives, minimise our environmental the ship, the weather on the passage and the bunker footprint, and protect cargoes. 70 HEALTH AND SAFETY MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 71 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS NO POVERTY CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BUSINESS GOOD HEALTH ETHICS AND QUALITY EDUCATION PROTECTION OF HUMAN GENDER EQUALITY RIGHTS DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 72 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 73 THE MSC CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT’S TEN PRINCIPLES Over the years, MSC has earned the trust of its the MSC Code of Business Conduct was held in the MSC fully supports the Ten Principles of the United Human Rights customers and business partners by conducting its headquarters for the first time in September 2015. ­Nations Global Compact. MSC reiterates its commit1 Businesses should support business with integrity, in a fair and responsible manner. Since then, it has become mandatory for all newcomers ment in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environand ­respect the protection of MSC relies therefore on its employees to act the same as part of their onboarding programme to properly ment and Anti-Corruption. MSC is dedicated to the internationally ­proclaimed way in their daily work. The MSC Code of Business transmit MSC’s family values. respect and the implementation of corporate ethical human rights; and Conduct reflects the principles by which MSC does A dedicated team of compliance experts within MSC’s practices within its business activities, relationships 2 make sure that they are not business and is a strong top-to-bottom message from headquarters, the Compliance department, provides with its partners, internal and external stakeholders as complicit in human rights abuses. MSC’s senior management to all employees. The MSC regular training to all MSC agencies on the MSC Code well as within its supply chain. Labour Code of Business Conduct communicates to employees of Business Conduct. Employees are made aware of MSC respects internationally recognised human rights 3 Businesses should uphold the the correct way of doing business and empowers human rights issues. They are required to exercise defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, freedom of association and the managers with a role model responsibility. It sets forth care and control, especially over MSC’s suppliers and ILO conventions, including the ILO Maritime Labour effective recognition of the right the common standards of approved behaviours that to escalate any suspicious or non-compliant situations. Convention, 2006, domestic laws, as well as internato collective bargaining; should lead MSC’s conduct in all its business dealings An e-learning programme specially dedicated to the tional humanitarian laws such as the Geneva Conven4 the elimination of all forms of forced worldwide and that should guide employees when MSC Code of Business Conduct is currently being tions of 1949 and their additional protocols of 1977. and compulsory labour; interacting with each other or with MSC’s stakeholders developed to facilitate a better reach globally. It will be MSC’s commitment towards the protection and the 5 the effective abolition of child in the area of human rights, environment and business made available during 2017. promotion of human rights is endorsed by the ­Aponte labour; and ethics. In many countries where MSC operates, such Within each MSC agency, one employee was appointed family, who has incorporated the Ten Principles of 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupastandards may go well beyond compliance with laws as the Code of Business Conduct Coordinator. This the UN Global Compact into MSC’s core values. tion. and regulations. MSC aims at preventing misconperson is responsible to make sure that all the MSC ­Accordingly, MSC is re-assessing the Group’s strategy ducts and behaviours which are not in line with MSC’s agency’s employees have read, understood and have and there is an ongoing centralisation process within Environment values from happening and at protecting the employees been trained on the MSC Code of Business Conduct. MSC’s headquarters. This aims to enhance the trans7 Businesses should support a and communities’ rights. This person is also responsible for monitoring the parency of the actions that have already been taken precautionary approach to environmental challenges; The MSC Code of Business Conduct was introduced in observance of the MSC Code of Business Conduct worldwide on these topics. The global harmonisation 8 undertake initiatives to promote January 2015 with the strong support of MSC’s senior locally and reports to the Compliance department. The process is presently being led by MSC’s senior mangreater environmental management, who made its implementation one of Code of Business Conduct Coordinator has the full agement at the headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. responsibility; and the company’s main priorities. The MSC Code of Busisupport of the Agencies’ Management, the Regional MSC’s strategy includes, but it is not limited to, 9 encourage the development and ness Conduct is available on MSC’s public website Management and the Compliance department. In the global implementation of the MSC Code of Busidiffusion of environmentally (https://www.msc.com/che/sustainability/governance) 2016, there were 141 Code of Business Conduct ness Conduct, the insertion of specific contractual friendly technologies. and Intranet. It constitutes a framework to help all emCoordinators worldwide. These coordinators represent requirements imposed upon MSC’s business partners, Anti-Corruption ployees maintain the highest business ethics ­standards. a robust global network reporting to the headquarthe creation of a reporting channel and strong collab10 Businesses should work against MSC expects all employees to fully adhere to and abide ters in Geneva, safeguarding and promoting the MSC oration with the Corporate Internal Audit department. corruption in all its forms, including by the MSC Code of Business Conduct. It has been cirvalues around the world. The aim for 2017 is to focus In the coming years, MSC plans to further improve and extortion and bribery. culated throughout the company and translated into on MSC’s external stakeholders with the creation of an promote the integration of the Ten Principles into its 20 languages, to facilitate a better understanding and MSC Supplier Code of Conduct for the MSC’s supply business strategies and policies. Source: www.unglobalcompact.org a global implementation. chain. To enhance employees’ awareness, MSC invests in training and e-learning processes. Specific training on 74 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 75 LABOUR RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL MSC strives to provide a good working environment to its employees. Being a strong advocate for the fundamental dignity of all employees, MSC does not tolerate any form of harassment or abusive conduct. The MSC Code of Business Conduct explicitly requires respect for human rights and labour standards. It strictly prohibits any discrimination based on sex, race, religion, language, gender, national origin, age, disability, political or ideological beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation or family responsibilities. MSC strongly opposes the use of forced labour and any form of exploitation. This is reflected by MSC’s involvement in childhood development programmes and other local actions throughout the world. MSC is firmly committed to support equal employment opportunity and diversity. For instance, in 2016, 35 different nationalities were represented within the headquarters. MSC is proud to count within its workforce people with very different social and economic backgrounds, as well as different levels of education. 76 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 77 FOSTERING FAIR BUSINESS SUPPLY CHAIN DUE DILIGENCE MSC is committed to undertaking business fairly, and MSC strives to implement within its agreements with MSC performs due diligence in selecting business to uphold all applicable anti-bribery and corruption customers and business partners, anti-corruption partners. MSC expects the same level of due diligence laws when conducting business anywhere in the clauses to impose strict requirements and obligations from its agencies. Due diligence must be carried out world. MSC strictly prohibits all corruption, as well throughout its supply chain. MSC anti-­ corruption before engaging with a business partner to identify as active and passive bribery. MSC employees must clauses impose to MSC counterparties and their share­existing problems and potential risks. comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, including holders, subcontractors and affiliates the highest The Compliance department is working in close the Swiss Penal Code and where applicable the U.S. standards in strict application of anti-corruption laws. collaboration with the Contract Review team to Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act As such, MSC counterparties must perform anti-­ implement specific compliance clauses within contracts. 2010. corruption due diligence to ensure compliance with Thanks to strong cross-transversal team efforts, MSC’s MSC has created a dedicated team of experts in its applicable ­anti-­corruption laws. business partners are required, through specific comheadquarters, which has successfully implemented Any employee must report on an anonymous basis pliance obligations in contracts to comply with all the MSC Anti-Bribery policy with the strong support all events that he perceives as being a potentially applicable laws, statutes and regulations, such as the of the senior leadership. This policy provides a framecorrupt activity. The management shall take appropriate UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. MSC also expects its work for employees worldwide on how to conduct remedial and corrective actions if necessary. business partners not to have been convicted or been themselves when dealing with external third parties There is a training for employees focusing on subject of an investigation for any offence involving such as customers, government officials and business anti-­ corruption, on how to fight corrupt practices a human rights violation. MSC also encourages its partners. Agencies and employees shall never offer, in their daily activities. A mandatory e-learning business partners to commit to similar principles to give, solicit, accept or receive, an undue advantage in course raising awareness on anti-corruption will be those set out in the MSC Code of Business Conduct. return for favourable treatment, influencing a person implemented during the year 2017 for a better and or decision, or gaining or retaining business. stronger reach globally. It is of paramount importance that MSC always conducts its business legally, responsibly and with integrity. There is a zero-tolerance policy on any form of corrupt activity and facilitation payments. MSC will not tolerate wilful ignorance in relation to corrupt activities. The failure to comply with the policy may lead to disciplinary action and up to the termination of employment. The MSC Anti-Bribery policy was translated in 11 different languages for a better reach and understanding by employees, globally. As a general principle, giving or accepting luxurious, unduly lavish or extravagant goods, as well as cash or cash equivalents such as gift cards and vouchers, is forbidden. As a rule, corporate hospitality expenditures unrelated to business activities are prohibited, as well as expenditures that are primarily for personal purposes. Charitable contributions or sponsorships cannot be used to funnel bribes. 78 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 79 EMPLOYEES REPORTING CHANNEL INTERNAL AUDIT A reporting channel was made available to all employees The objective for 2017 is to enhance the use of the The purpose of the Corporate Audit department is to evaluating risks and potential signs of human rights who are free to report any alleged infringements of the MSC reporting channel by raising awareness among continuously, independently and objectively evaluate and labour rights issues within MSC agencies. FurtherMSC Code of Business Conduct, as well as any misall employees worldwide. In this regard, MSC plans to and report to the senior leadership the effectivemore, the Corporate Audit department is in the process conduct or violation of any kind. MSC takes potential strengthen the cooperation and collaboration of the ness of internal controls put in place, as well as the of educating and raising awareness of MSC agencies’ violations very seriously. MSC will fairly investigate relevant departments at the headquarters. The aim compliance of MSC agencies’ procedures with MSC’s management concerning human rights issues. each allegation with care, discretion and confidentiality. is to create a formal process to strengthen the instructions. The department ensures the appropriate The Corporate Audit department benefits from the There shall be no retaliation against any employee centralisation of the reporting channel at the headconduct of the agencies. strong support of MSC’s senior leadership in the promaking a report in good faith. Once received, quarters and to consolidate the existing data. The Corporate Audit department communicates motion of human rights and labour rights. The decomplaints are carefully evaluated. Depending on and reports important information about the areas partment observes the overall well-being of employthe seriousness of the allegation, the MSC Audit of improvements to various stakeholders. It allows ees. It ensures MSC agencies have the appropriate department is put on notice and may investigate the the implementation of prompt remedial actions. procedures to comply with local laws including local allegations on-site. On a­ verage, 20 MSC agencies are audited every year. labour laws and market standards. Moreover, whenever The internal audit methodology has been reviewed deemed necessary, MSC appoints external auditors to to enhance due diligence and increase awareness in perform on-site external audits. 80 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 81 Recruitment and training of local MSC’s involvement and investments contributed to women at King Abdullah Port address the major reasons for girls dropping out of schools, In King Abdullah Port, Saudi Arabia, MSC’s terminal opnamely the lack of proper hygienic, separated sanitation erating arm partners with National Ports Services, which facilities and poor access to safe drinking water. MSC suphas become in recent years, one of the main employers plied electric generators, strengthening the existing power WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT AND of women in the country. The company has hired and and electricity system in the school. MSC also created GENDER EQUALITY trained over 200 women coming from neighbouring playgrounds, constructed boundary walls for the school communities to work in the control centre and the opand built secure and safe pathways enhancing children’ s As the traditional shipping sector has mainly promoted erations departments. In line with the strategic national overall well-being while attending school. MSC contribseafarer as a male career option, it is not a surprise plan Saudi Vision 2030 as well as national laws, a specific uted and started a programme of skills development and that the number of women employed within the maristrategy has been put in place to offer facilities to women training with the NGO ETASHA to provide education to time industry is still very low and that women are not to facilitate their work. This included dedicated transpormore than 300 local women and men to develop their equally represented as men in leadership positions. tation facilities from and to their home to enable them English language skills, their computer abilities and to In recent years, MSC has further incorporated gender to work on different shifts. MSC is proud to report that provide career orientation and counselling. Some of the considerations in its business plans and strategy. In the project had a successful outcome and it allowed our trainees managed to get fully employed in the logistics this respect, MSC proactively supports the recruitment female staff to focus on their performance, showing high parks nearby, with consequent improvement of their of women on board and ashore, offering equal career level of professionalism and motivation. living standards. paths for both women and men. For us, the promotion of Other projects undertaken included the upgrade of the gender equality through the empowerment of women Managers within various departments. Encouraging Supporting women’s rights in India infrastructure of the railway crossing, construction of is a critical prerequisite for a sustainable social and the participation of the female workforce in the decisionMSC is a a key player in India’s export and import trade irrigation channels and the upgrade of facilities at economic development as well as a fundamental goal making process is a daily practice at MSC, as the comwith a strong position in in North India. Government Boys School, which has benefited the entire to be achieved in inclusive poverty reduction strategies. pany noticed it supports the development of their MSC’s activities in the Palwal District, near New Delhi, village and 30 rural farm holders in that area. In this respect, MSC invests extensively in awareness self-confidence and facilitates their career growth. India, started in 2016. Local management was first MSC was very proud to receive the formal appreciation campaigns at country level, providing career advice to According to 2016 data, MSC employs in its offices involved in a Community Policing Initiative, implemented from the local government administration for its CSR the young generation of women, while offering them in Saudi Arabia 28% of women, which is a high rate in cooperation with the local police and a local NGO, activities as well as for its contribution to the inclusive a wide range of work opportunities in its offices worldcomparing to the 7-8% average reached by other DVinity Serves, “APKI SANGINI” (“Your Friend”). This growth of the region. wide and on board MSC’s vessels. shipping lines in the region. campaign focused on building trust between the police and citizens, especially women and girls. The aim was MSC Saudi Arabia promoting MSC’s female workforce in Saudi Arabia is employed to spread awareness within various schools, educational recruitment of local women in the following departments: institutions and villages about the rights of women, the In 2006, MSC decided to innovate its employment • Exports: one of the first departments employing legal provisions made in the Indian Penal Code to protect methods in Saudi Arabia by promoting the recruitment women; women in case of crime, sexual harassment as well as of local women, who at that time represented 44% of • Customer service and dedicated customer desks for to impart techniques of self-defence to girls and women. the total population. each of our major customers are managed by women. This initiative was applauded by the local administration In June 2006, MSC Saudi Arabia hired the first four These desks are responsible for any customer and the Inspector General of Police of the State. female workers, who were in charge of logistics. This enquiries until their containers are delivered to their Through another project, focused on empowerment move from MSC encouraged other shipping lines in final destination. MSC prides itself being the only and safety of women, MSC has contributed to develop Saudi Arabia to promote the recruitment of women shipping line in Saudi Arabia offering this service. and improve the infrastructure at the Government Girls within the country, which has become today a • Collection for both freight and demurrage; School by providing clean drinking water, toilets, sanitation common practice. • Documentation; and healthcare facilities for girls. It also helped increase Over the past 10 years in Saudi Arabia, MSC has • TMS and other related tasks; access to education as well as generate local employestablished and developed a full career path for its • General market knowledge and strategic planning. ment opportunities for both women and men. This female employees, offering specific training to promote project was implemented in the Janauli village, located their career advancement. Today, the company counts In 2017, MSC plans to recruit additional female staff in the Palwal district, Haryana, in conformity with the several female Managers and a few female Senior in the Human Resources and Accounting Departments. Indian government’s laws and CSR guidelines. 82 BUSINESS ETHICS AND PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS MSC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 83 ABOUT THIS REPORT EXTERNAL ASSURANCE The MSC Sustainability Report 2016 has not been externally assured. CONTACTS For further information about this report and MSC’s approach to sustainability, please feel free to contact us: media@msc.com MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company 12-14, Chemin Rieu 1208 Geneva, Switzerland www.msc.com 84 85 msc.com © MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company S.A, Sep 2017
