United Nations Global Compact Report on Communication of Progress for Brand ID Technologies (EA) Ltd. Brand ID Technologies (EA) Ltd P.O. BOX 01650 – 00101, Kenya Sales Reg. No. CPR/2015/187448 NAIROBI, KENYA sales@brandid.technology www.brandid.technology +254 (0) 732 188447 Statement of continued support of the United Nations Global Compact Brand ID Technologies EA Limited continues to be a strong supporter of the United Nations Global Compact principles of upholding high standards of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environmental practices and Anti-corruption. Our daily operations, principles and policies are strongly aligned to all the ten principles of the UNGC. Through this report, we are able to transparently communicate with all our stakeholders on various levels of engagement with them which reaffirms our commitment to the Global Compact Network COP policy. As we submit our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Allan Thomson CEO, Brand ID Technologies EA Ltd. 1|P AG E Brief description of Brand ID Technologies nature and business. Name: Brand ID Technologies EA Limited Sector: Software & Computer Services Number of employees: 7 UN Global Compact Signatory since: October, 2016 Contact Person: Lucky Bizimana Address: P. O Box 101650 – 00101, Nairobi, Kenya Email: luckyb@brandid.technology Phone: +254 (0)732 188 447 Brand ID Technologies EA Ltd is an IT technology and service provider that conceives, designs, develops and operates solutions; employing a unique system architecture combined with leading-edge hardware and software components sourced worldwide. Our lean and flexible approach to architecture and programming results in ultra-high performance and feature-rich real-time systems, which support a range of innovative business applications. These include brand authentication and asset tracking services, instant-win competitions, loyalty programmes and voucher management services for entitlements to TV content, Internet bandwidth, charitable grants, prizes, and many other services. All of these applications require very comprehensive and secure real-time voucher creation, management, tracking and reporting capabilities and need to be accessible to the widest variety of “developed world” and “developing world” users, on a onceoff or repeat basis, via ordinary cell-phone SMS text messaging, Smart phones, USSD or an ordinary web browser. Such services rely on robust and reliable operations on a continuous 24/7/365 days basis with running upgrade capability, and capacity to cope with 10s of thousands of transactions per second. We deliver to the East and Central African market complete, trusted business solutions derived from combinations of the specialist products and services offered by its sister companies. Sales, marketing, implementation and local logistics are completed in East Africa by staff permanently located in Nairobi. It is also a centre of excellence and innovation providing unique robust solutions to the growing problem of brand loyalty, big data analytic services, and brand protection needs facing the EAC Region; with reseller branches in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Zambia. Our people are uniquely experienced and highly qualified. Their reach across Southern, Central and East Africa provide ‘local’ service with ‘continental wide’ reach. Our people are driven by being: • Conscientious: We are not just dedicated to hard work, we believe in doing the right thing in the right way through perseverance. Whenever a task is put in front of us, we put all our effort in an intense, single-minded focus to get it done. • Team Spirit: we work with our clients in synergy and focus on building a long-term relationship based on mutual trust. • Trustworthiness: we understand the needs of our clients when it comes to confidentiality and conflict of interest. We hold ourselves to high standards of internal governance when it comes to our clients’ confidential information. • Responsiveness: We always strive to understand our clients’ industries in order to develop plans that address their needs both in the short and long-term. We harness technology effectively and efficiently to ensure that our clients’ concerns are addressed quickly in the right way. • Passionate: We really love what we do – seeing our clients succeed is what drives us. Scope of the CoP All the activities, initiatives and measures put in place to ensure full compliance and implementation of the UNGC principles in the last one year are discussed in this report. 2|P AG E In the different areas of the principles, Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited’s management also has mechanisms of measurement of the results against the set goals in line with UNGC’s Human Rights, Labour, and Environment and Anti-corruption policies. 1. Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally Proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Current Commitment Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited as a company is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our Processes or System The company has an able HR team which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the company’s handbook. • We have 30 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective manager, up to 10 days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family or other immediate family members’ matters. Also, our employees are entitled to sick leave with full pay on production of a certificate of incapacity to work signed by a duly qualified Medical Practitioner or a person acting on the Practitioner’s behalf from an acceptable Medical Centre. • Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave • The employees have access to tea and safe drinking water. Those based in the field are paid a separate pantry allowance to enable them to buy good quality drinking water. • Similarly but unrelated, we host all our clients data with a reputable service provider – Amazon Web Services. We also use secure encryption mechanisms to ensure that client data is not breached so that individual and personal data is not revealed. We believe this is an important issue given that millions have suffered harm and risk due to poor data security measures. Measurement of outcomes We measure this indicator through the number of leave days with paid leave. In the past year, 1 male staff member has proceeded to paternity leave. Sources of this information Whilst we do not have a Human resource management system in place, we keep manual records and are guided by our own HR manual. 3|P AG E 2. Labour Rights UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Current Commitment The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions and other International Standards, thereby, eliminating all forms of Labour malpractices and also enforcing a culture of Brand ID being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. A brief description of our Processes or System The company has an able HR team which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none • The Company does not treat an employee or job applicant less favorably for any reason relating to their disability, gender, race or tribe. We are an equal opportunity employer and aspire to grow based on this principles. • Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited does not utilize or promote forced or child Labour of any kind. The company adheres strictly to country laws governing Labour standards; all our employees are over 18years. • Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited aims to attract and retain skilled employees and enhance the life/work balance of each individual. The group offers its staff a range of benefits including a pension Scheme, health insurance as well as maternity and paternity leave amongst others. • Employees are frequently offered personal development and training programs designed to enhance their skills. • Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited regards direct or in direct discrimination, victimization and harassment. All Breaches of this principle are regarded as a serious disciplinary matter and are subject To Company’s Disciplinary procedure outlined in the HR Manual. • We ensure that people living with HIV or AIDS are given the same rights, benefits and Opportunities as people living with other life – threatening conditions. We have thus put in place a HIV/AID Policy to ensure it is clear and observed. Labour Rights Future Activities planned for next year • Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited plans to add more employees into its workforce with a projected significant expansion in its business operations. • The company plans to put into full implementation more employee wellness weeks that take them through health checks and financial guidance. • Brand ID plans a full impactful incorporation of a working and operational industrial training calendar Measurement of outcomes Presently, 1 out of 4 Board of Directors is a lady and we also have 1 of 3 in management (the ICT Manager) is a lady. The other metrics are outlined in the bullet points above. We have also held quarterly trainings where our different teams can be taught about how the other roles function. Sources of this information Internally, these records are also manually maintained and rules/procedures occur in our HR Manual. 4|P AG E From the data security perspective, we know that Amazon services are Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program, or FedRAMP1certified. This is a US government-wide program that provides a standardized approach to security assessment, authorization, and continuous monitoring for cloud products and services. This approach uses a “do once, use many times” framework that saves an estimated 30-40% of government costs, as well as both time and staff required to conduct redundant agency security assessments. 3. Environment Rights UN Global Compact Principles covered: Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Current Commitment Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited understands as a company, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. Being primarily an IT services company, important to us are three main factors: the number of servers running, the total energy required to power each server, and the carbon intensity of energy sources used to power these servers which all impact carbon emissions. We also understand that Amazon web services are run by solar farms and wind farms. Environment –Future Activities planned for next year • We plan to participate in more tree planting activities in an effort to help conserve the environment. • We plan to contribute in country’s fight against the use of plastic bags by campaigning and engaging with manufacturers of paper bags that promotes our environment standards through the use of technology to implement a take back mechanism for bags. We have already initiated this with one of the clients working in the Agrobusiness sector and will soon pilot a program (at the start of the 2017/2018 planting season) that will enable them obtain a National Environmental Management Agency Clearance Certificate Measurement of outcomes • Plastic bag ban: o At the end of the pilot program, we shall have primary data of how many plastic bags have been recovered back will be available since each and every bag is serialized. • Hosting: o A typical large-scale cloud provider achieves approximately 65% server utilization rates versus 15% onpremises, which means when companies move to the cloud, they typically provision fewer than ¼ of the servers than they would on-premises o In addition, a typical on-premises data center is 29% less efficient in their use of power compared to a typical large-scale cloud provider that uses world-class facility designs, cooling systems, and workloadoptimized equipment. Sources of this information This information is available on the Amazon web site. 1 https://www.fedramp.gov. FedRAMP is the result of close collaboration with cybersecurity and cloud experts from the General Services Administration (GSA), National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Department of Homeland Security (DHS), Department of Defense (DOD), National Security Agency (NSA), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Federal Chief Information Officer (CIO) Council and its working groups, as well as private industry. 5|P AG E 4. Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Current Commitment: We remain committed to implementing the10th principle of anti‐corruption and ensuring its total elimination in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • We have clearly demarcated governance structures that all employees are aware of and that have the full backing of the management. • We have guidelines and policies on anti-corruption. Corruption remains an offence in Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited and the offence is punishable by termination and prosecution. For example: o To maintain business and personal ethics, cumulative annual value of all gifts or entertainment an employee may receive from any one gift giver cannot exceed 5000/=. If it does, or for some reason they HAVE to accept it, they have to disclose this to the management. o Altogether, as a rule we encourage employees (and in some cases enforce) to decline gifts, entertainment, etc. from companies who are competitors or whom we are doing business with. • We also have a policy in place to curb any conflict of interest and to ensure that all tenders are analyzed and opened before a panel to ensure transparency and accountability. • Our products and services promote transparency and accountability to stamp out counterfeits and monies accruing out of illicit trade. Activities planned for next year: • A proper remuneration plan is in place and will provide employees with the necessary and sufficient resources to match their needs. This way, there will be elimination of conflict of interests in the company’s operations. • Brand ID Technologies East Africa Limited plans to make public its code of ethics which, together with education and awareness, will enhance transparency among all staff hence averting any possible cases of corruption. Measurement of outcomes • We have not paid any facilitation payments in the last year. In fact, where it has been demanded or implied, we have chosen not to do business. Our clients entrust us a big responsibility to protect brands they have taken years and years to nurture. Thus, all our employees have to hold themselves to high standards to keep the entire authentication systems secure for our clients. Sources of this information This information can be verified independently from our existing clients. 6|P AG E 5. How do we intend to make this CoP available to our stakeholders? This Communication on Progress will be shared internally every quarter via email, the Global Compact Website, as well as regular briefings made with all levels of. Important excerpts of it will be shared with the relevant and necessary for the sake of implementation of a number of policies mentioned. 7|P AG E
